18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harsimrat Kaur quits Cabinet in protest against two agri Bills||Terming the two agriculture marketing reform Bills passed by the Lok Sabha on Thursday as “anti-farmer” legislation, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP and Food Processing Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from the Union Cabinet in protest. The SAD is one of the oldest allies of the BJP, and Ms. Badal was its sole representative in the Narendra Modi government. Ms. Badal tweeted that she had resigned “in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter and sister”. In a four-page letter of resignation to the Prime Minister, she wrote, “My decision symbolises my party’s vision, its glorious legacy and its commitment to go to any extent to safeguard the interests of the farmers.” Farmers groups, especially in Punjab and Haryana, have risen in protest against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, which replace the Ordinances promulgated in June. The proposed legislations seek to promote barrier-free trade of farm produce by facilitating contract farming as well as agricultural marketing outside notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandi s. Farmers are worried about the dilution of the existing Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime, as well as the entry of corporates with greater bargaining power than small farmers.
18 September 2020||Yadgir,||‘Govt. committed to taking progress to backward area’||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that the State government was committed to taking development works to the backward Kalyana Karnataka area. The works involved infrastructure, health and other civic projects to ensure the overall development of the region. He was speaking at a function to mark Kalyana Karnataka Utsav, after hoisting the national flag in Raichur on Thursday. Mr. Savadi, who is also Raichur district in-charge, said that it was a remarkable decision of the BJP government led by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to rename Hyderabad Karnataka as Kalyana Karnataka as this land was renowned for a revolution by 12th Century social reformer Sri Basaveshwara and other Sharanas. Kalyana Karnataka became independent on September 17, 1948 through police action against the Nizams of Hyderabad. Before that, thousands of youths of that period had sacrificed their valuable lives in a struggle against the brutality of the Nizams, he said, recalling the freedom movement. Kalyan Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) has been given Rs. 1,039 crore so far and 2,910 projects have been taken up. Of these, 2,290 projects have been completed and 447 projects are under way. A sum of Rs. 673 crore has been spent for the purpose, he said
18 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 24,619 new cases||Maharashtra reported 24,619 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, its second-highest single-day surge yet, taking its total case tally to 11,45,840. As many as 468 deaths, of which 398 were reported on Thursday and 70 from an earlier period, pushed the total death toll to 31,351. The number of active cases has risen to 3,01,752 and total recoveries have surged to 8,12,354, with 19,522 patients being discharged. “The State’s recovery rate stands at 70.90%, while its case fatality rate is 2.75%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. Pune reported nearly 5,000 cases, taking its case load to 2,49,513. The district reported 53 deaths, pushing its toll to 5,059. As per the Pune district administration, the active cases have risen to nearly 41,500. 2,411 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported a surge of 2,411 cases to take its tally to 1,78,385, of which 31,766 are active. With 43 fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 8,323. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported nine deaths as its toll rose to 1,717. As many as 894 new cases saw its total case tally cross the 59,000 mark. Raigad recorded seven deaths and 522 cases, taking its toll to 631 and tally to 26,861. Nagpur reported a spike of more than 2,100 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 58,003, of which 21,273 are active. With 37 new deaths, the district’s toll has climbed to 1,522. In western Maharashtra, Sangli reported a surge of over 1,000 cases and 43 deaths, pushing its total case tally to 28,657, of which 10,683 are active, while the toll has risen to 883. Satara reported 18 fatalities to take its death toll to 663. As many as 774 fresh cases saw its case load rise to 27,616, of which 9,151 are active. Kolhapur reported 21 deaths as its toll rose to 1,057. As many as 791 new cases pushed its tally to 35,273, of which 9,680 are active. Huge spike in Nashik In north Maharashtra, Nashik reported a spike of nearly 1,900 cases as its total tally reached 59,866, of which 12,869 are active. With 14 deaths, the district’s toll has climbed to 1,108. Jalgaon reported 800 cases and 25 new deaths, taking the district’s tally to 40,409, of which 8,716 are active, while the toll has climbed to 1,090. Ahmednagar recorded 1,000 new cases as its total case tally rose to 32,895, of which 8,463 are active. With 17 deaths, the toll has climbed to 521. 98,000 samples tested “Of a total of 56,04,890 laboratory samples tested so far, 11,45,840 (20.44%) have returned positive. Over 98,000 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” Dr. Awate said. A total of 17,70,748 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 36,827 are in institutional quarantine.
18 September 2020||Kolkata,||TMC takes Mahalaya pledge of serving COVID-19 affected||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said while COVID-19 has restricted how festivals are celebrated, “We shall not allow it to dampen the spirit of this Durga Puja.” Ms. Banerjee and other leaders of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), including president of the youth wing Abhishek Banerjee, took a pledge on the occasion of ‘Mahalaya Protishruti’ to serve the community by bringing the joys of the Puja to those who have had to battle the twin crises of COVID-19 and Amphan. “As part of this pledge, I vow to ensure that this Durga Pujo, no one is devoid of the festivities. I urge everyone to come forward, extend a helping hand to those in need & spread joy everywhere. Shubho Mahalaya to everyone!” Ms. Banerjee said on social media. The pledge which resonated among the entire party leadership is also a confirmation that the Puja celebrations will be held this year even as infections and deaths continue to surge. Durga Pujas are not only a social and religious carnival but also an opportunity for political parties to connect with people. Mahalaya, which marks the beginning of the festival season, was observed during the day. The week-long festival is likely to begin from October 22 and a meeting with the club organisers will be held on September 25. With the Assembly elections likely next year, no political party is willing to let go of the opportunity of connecting with the people during the festival. In the next few weeks, the State is likely to see a competition in the inauguration of Durga Pujas by the leaders of the TMC and the BJP. The BJP went ahead with ‘tarpan’ on the second day. Party leaders performed the ritual in Darjeeling and Bankura respectively for the workers killed in political violence. TMC leader Shyamal Santra held a similar event in south Bengal for the party leaders killed in political violence.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||COVID-19 tally breaches six-lakh mark in State||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed the six-lakh mark with the registration of 8,702 more infections and 72 deaths in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning. Andhra Pradesh is the only State after Maharashtra to witness over six lakh infections. The State also accounts for 11.75% of the country’s 51.18 lakh infections. Dip in active cases The State’s tally jumped from 5.06 lakh to 6.01 lakh in 10 days. During the period, 71.8 lakh samples were tested, and the positivity rate was 13.21%, which was less than the positivity rate of tests conducted to detect the fifth lakh of infections. The State’s tally now stands at 6,01,462. With the discharge of 10,712 persons, the recovery rate has further increased to 84.48% and pushed its total to 5,08,088. The number of active cases has come down to 88,197. In the last 10 days, 1,04,014 patients have recovered. In the last 24 hours, the State tested 77,492 samples, the highest conducted in a day so far. Over 48.84 lakh samples were tested till date and their positivity rate was 12.31%. At 0.86%, the State’s death rate (5,177 toll) continues to be lowest among the States with bigger tallies. The mortality rate in Maharashtra is 2.75% and that of Tamil Nadu is 1.65%. East Godavari reported 1,383 new cases, the highest single-day tally, and five deaths in the last 24 hours. It was followed by West Godavari (1,064 & 4 deaths), Chittoor (905 & 12), Prakasam (705 & 10), Kadapa (637 & 7), Nellore (610 & 6), Srikakulam (567 & 2), Guntur (550 & 6), Anantapur (545 & 4), Vizianagaram (526 & 1), Visakhpatnam (449 & 4), Kurnool (394 & 6) and Krishna (367 & 5). Vizianagaram’s infection tally crossed the 30,000 mark and Prakasam’s count is close to 40,000. The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (82,447), West Godavari (54,635), Kurnool (53,098), Chittoor (52,421), Anantapur (51,358), Guntur (47,880), Nellore (46,122), Visakhapatnam (45,686), Prakasam (39,443), Kadapa (38,325), Srikakulam (34,487), Vizianagaram (30,029) and Krishna (22,636). The recovery rate is above 90% in three districts — Anantapur (92.2%), Kurnool (91.6%) and Nellore (90.1%). Prakasam has the lowest recovery rate of 65.22%.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Three militants, woman killed in Srinagar encounter||Three militants and a woman were killed, while a CRPF officer sustained injuries in an encounter in the heart of Srinagar on Thursday. “All the three militants killed in the Batamaloo area of Srinagar were locals from south Kashmir,” Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh said at a press conference in Srinagar. Protests break out Violent protests broke out in Batamaloo over the killing of the woman, Kounsar Jan, 45. Residents took to the streets, throwing stones at security forces who fired tear gas to bring the situation under control. “The killing of the woman in cross firing is unfortunate. I express my sympathies to the bereaved family,” Mr. Singh said. The encounter broke out around 2.30 a.m. when a joint team of the police and the CRPF zeroed in on a house, following a tip-off, in the congested locality of Batamaloo. “They were offered [the option] to surrender but they refused,” Mr. Singh said. A CRPF spokesperson said Deputy Commandant Rahul Mathur, who showed exemplary courage, also sustained two bullet injuries. “He has been taken to the 92 Base Hospital and is being treated,” the spokesman said. “Efforts are always put in to ensure zero collateral damage. Today’s operation was the seventh in Srinagar this year,” Mr. Singh said.
18 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Resignation too little, too late: Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday said the decision of Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal to quit the Cabinet was another in the long chain of theatrics being enacted by the Shiromani Akali Dal. Questioning the Akali Dal’s decision to continue being a part of the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance at the Centre, the Chief Minister said Ms. Harsimrat’s resignation was nothing more than a gimmick to fool the farmers of Punjab. “But they [the Akalis] will not succeed in misleading farmer organisations,” he said, calling the resignation a case of “too little, too late”. “Had the Akali Dal taken a stand earlier and supported the [State] government against the ordinances, the Centre might have thought 10 times before introducing the ordinances and pushing the anti-farmer legislations in Parliament,” he said. Leader of the Opposition and Aam Aadmi Party MLA Harpal Cheema said Ms. Harsimrat’s resignation was a victory for Punjab’s farmers. “The Akali Dal has been forced to take this decision after watching farmers’ protests against the Bills across the State. The greed of the Badal family for power at the Centre has been exposed. They were left with no choice but to oppose the Bills to protect their vote bank,” he said. Senior Akali Dal leader and former Minister Daljeet Singh Cheema said the interest of the farmers is foremost for the party. “Without taking farmers into confidence, no final decision should be taken,” said Mr. Cheema.
18 September 2020||Kolkata,||3,197 new cases take State tally to 2.15 lakh||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 3,197 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 2,15,580. The State also recorded 60 more deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing its cumulative death toll to 4,183. Of the latest deaths, 17 were recorded in Kolkata, taking the death toll in the city to 1,537. 475 cases in Kolkata In terms of daily infections, Kolkata recorded 475 new cases, taking its cumulative tally to 48,577. North 24 Parganas district recorded a spike of 507, pushing its total case load to 43,682. While the number of active cases in the State has climbed to 24,336, the recovery rate is at 86.77%. Meanwhile, the Calcutta High Court has directed that the body of a COVID-19 patient be handed over to the family for cremation after completion of hospital formalities. Right to dignity A Division Bench of Chief Justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee observed that the right to dignity and fair treatment under Article 21 of the Constitution is not only available to a living person but also to his body. “It makes no difference if the deceased person was infected with COVID-19. Of course, all requisite safety and precautionary measures must be taken by the persons who carry out the funeral,” the order on Wednesday said.
18 September 2020||Vijayawada,||Naval facility likely in Prakasam||The Indian Navy is likely to set up an advanced system for communicating with its fleet of submarines, including those propelled by nuclear reactors, at Donakonda in Prakasam district. The State government offered about 2,600 acres for this high-security facility, for which soil testing is currently under way, according to Minister for Industries M. Goutham Reddy, who held parleys on it with top administrators in the Navy during his recent visit to New Delhi. Mr. Reddy told The Hindu that it is an ultra low-frequency communication system the Navy is looking at.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Pandemic pushes up demand for shots to keep seasonal flu at bay||While the wait for COVID-19 vaccine continues, several people in the city are opting to take the seasonal flu shot to protect themselves from other respiratory illnesses. The shots are available at private hospitals and clinics, and doctors are advising people to take them so that they do not catch seasonal flu as the healthcare system is burdened owing to the pandemic. Some clinics are also providing vaccination camps in societies, workplaces, and homes. There are discounts and special offers on group bookings too. Parimala V. Thirumalesh, Sr. consultant, Neonatology and Paediatrics, Aster CMI Hospital, said  more people were taking flu shots, roughly 30% more than the usual. “Some wrongly believe that since coronavirus causes respiratory illness, a flu shot might protect them against it. Some are taking it because they are afraid thatif they catch a fever or cough, they might be suspected to have COVID-19 and home quarantined,” she said. Prateek R., a software engineer, decided that his entire family would take the flu shot to avoid panic that might be caused if they develop a regular flu. “Due to the change in the weather, we might develop cold or fever, and do not want that to be mistaken for COVID-19,” he said. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, a seasonal flu shot would provide protection against three or four influenza viruses that research suggests may be most common during the season. “Getting a flu vaccine is more important than ever during 2020–21 to protect yourself and the people around you from flu, and to help reduce the strain on healthcare systems responding to the COVID-19 pandemic,” states its website. Arvind Balakrishna Kasaragod, director – Medical Services, Cloudnine Group of Hospitals, said they had seen an increase in demand for the flu shots this year as against last year. “As we head into influenza season with the novel coronavirus pandemic still raging, we have observed that customers are worried and they are keen to take flu shots as a preventive measure. Although influenza’s disease burden varies from year to year, evidence clearly shows that vaccination can reduce flu severity and prevent hospitalisations. Those who are at a higher risk for the infection, or have pre-existing co-morbidities, including expectant mothers, should not hesitate in taking a good flu shot as it can cut down the risk of a respiratory illness that can lead to confusion with symptoms of COVID-19, leading to anxiety and unnecessary interventions,” he said. S. Sachidanand, Vice-Chancellor of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, said the shots were recommended to people as it would build immunity against other infectious diseases.
18 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalyana Karnataka Utsav celebrated in pleasant weather||With incessant rainfall taking a break for a day, Kalyana Karnataka Utsav (Liberation Day) was celebrated in pleasant weather at DAR Grounds in Kalaburagi on Thursday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who arrived by a special flight from Bengaluru along with his Cabinet colleague and Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, participated in the event as the chief guest. The celebrations were kept low key owing to the COVID-19 situation and the public and schoolchildren were restricting from attending the event. However, the district administration had made arrangements for live streaming of the event to facilitate the public to watch it from their homes online. Arrangements were made in 1200 gram panchayats across the district for people to watch the event live on big screens. The celebrations began with Mr. Yediyurappa and other dignitaries garlanding the statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in the morning. The Chief Minister then proceeded to DAR Grounds and hoisted the national flag which was followed by the National Anthem, Naada Geethe and Raitha Geethe. After inspecting the parade in which several contingents of civil police, District Armed Reserve force, forest guards and fire fighters participated, Mr. Yediyurappa laid foundation stones for several development projects, including the construction of a hospital building for housing a branch of the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research in Kalaburagi. In his message, Mr. Yediyurappa recalled the freedom movement and the action of the armed forces under the guidance of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel that forced the Nizam of Hyderabad to amalgamate the princely state of Hyderabad, of which Kalyana Karnataka region (earlier called Hyderabad Karnataka) was a part, with the Indian Union. He also elaborated in length the initiatives of his government for the development of the backward region and made several promises for the purpose. The Chief Minister then felicitated freedom fighters on the occasion. Mr. Karjol, Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board chairman Dattatreya Patil Revoor, Lok Sabha member from Kalaburagi Umesh Jadhav, Kalyana Karnataka Human Resources, Agriculture and Cultural Association chairman Basavaraj Patil Sedam and legislators Ajay Singh, Rajkumar Patil Telkur, Basavaraj Mattimud, B.G. Patil and Avinash Jadhav were among the dignitaries who participated in the event.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||34,994 sit for EAMCET on day one||Students seeking admission in undergraduate engineering courses appeared for EAMCET-2020, which started on Thursday. It is being conducted by JNTUK on behalf of the A.P. State Council of Higher Education. While JNTUK Vice-Chancellor Ramalinga Raju is its chairman, V. Ravindra, a professor, is its convener. The examination is being conducted for seven days (up to September 25) in 14 sessions at 118 centres across 47 cities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Of them, 114 centres are in the 13 districts of the State and four in Hyderabad. On the first day, 34,994 of the total 41,444 registered candidates wrote the test (84.43% attendance). After being postponed thrice on account of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, the government could finally conduct the Common Entrance Tests (CETs) amidst strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines from September 10. Initially planned in April this year, the examinations had to be deferred due to a sharp spike in positive cases across the State. ‘Biggest challenge’ “Convincing the students and parents in these difficult times has been the biggest challenge,” admits M. Sudheer Reddy, Special Officer, AP CETs. Explaining the elaborate arrangements made at the examination centres, he said the three-hour gap between the morning (9 a.m. to 12 noon) and afternoon (3 p.m. to 6 p.m.) sessions was being utilised to sanitise the centres. The CETs in the State started with ICET.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No force can stop our troops from patrolling’||No force on earth can stop Indian soldiers from patrolling along the normal routes, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh asserted in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday in response to questions about Chinese troops blocking Indian Army patrols along the disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said that at the recent meetings between the Foreign Ministers and the Defence Ministers of the two countries in Moscow, there was consensus that “there should be quick and complete disengagement of troops from all friction areas along the LAC [Line of Actual Control].” To a question from former Defence Minister A.K. Antony, Mr. Singh said, “Patrolling patterns are traditional and well-defined. No force on earth can stop our soldiers from patrolling and our soldiers have sacrificed their lives for that. There will be no change in the patrolling pattern.” Face-offs happened because patrols were interrupted, he said. “Starting a war is within one’s reach, but its outcome cannot be predicted. India has always sent out a message of peace. However, it was amazed that efforts are being made to disturb that peace,” he said. At the weekly briefing, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said both sides should focus on easing tensions in the friction areas by refraining from any actions that may lead to an escalation in the situation.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Temple complains of theft of 3 silver lion idols||Following a complaint lodged by Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam Assistant Executive Officer N. Ramesh Babu, the One Town police on Thursday registered a case of theft of three silver lion idols attached to the temple chariot. “The gold appraiser of the devasthanam and other officials have confirmed that the silver idols have been stolen. The police are trying to find out when they were stolen,” West Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) K. Sudhakar said. As per the inventory documents, the temple management got the silver chariot built in April 2002 and had arranged four silver lion idols, each weighing about 3.3 kg. “The temple authorities noticed the theft a couple of days ago. The chariot was parked at the Mahamandapam,” Mr. Ramesh Babu said. “We are questioning the in-charge of the temple and stores on when the ‘ratham’ was last taken out,” One Town CI P. Venkateshwarlu said. “We will go through the photographs and videos of the chariot during various festivals,” he said. “We are trying for recent CCTV footage, if any,” Mr. Venkateswarlu added.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Perumal Murugan’s novel makes the cut||Writer Perumal Murugan’s novel, The Story of a Goat , is a contender for this year’s National Book Award for Translated Literature, set up by The New Yorker . “Of the ten authors on the longlist for this year’s award, Murugan is the only one who has been nominated previously,” reports the magazine. In 2018, his novel One Part Woman (translated from Madhorubagan ) was on the longlist. It had then sparked a controversy that forced him to declare, “The writer Perumal Murugan is dead.” The Story of a Goat was written by Perumal Murugan after he resumed his literary pursuit. It was translated by N. Kalyan Raman and published by Grove Atlantic. “The book follows a black goat named Poonachi as she witnesses the indignities suffered by animals and humans on a farm in South India,” says The New Yorker . Expressing happiness and attributing its popularity to the groundwork done by Tamil publisher Kannan Sundaram of Kalachuvadu , Mr. Murugan told The Hindu he chose to populate his novel with animals as writing about human beings had landed him in trouble. “I am fearful of writing about humans; even more of writing about gods. I can write about demons, perhaps. I am even used to a demonic life. I could make it an accompaniment here,” Mr. Murugan had said in his preface to the Tamil edition of the nominated book Poonachi . This fear is reflected in the novel. He even identifies the old man, who rears the goat Poonachi, as “a farmer who belonged to the community of asuras ”. Even after deciding to write about animals, he zeroed in on goats as “they are problem-free, harmless and, above all, energetic”. “There are only five species of animals with which I am deeply familiar. Of them, dogs and cats are meant for poetry. It is forbidden to write about cows or pigs. That leaves only goats and sheep,” he explained. The animals, especially sheep, come in handy to portray the herd mentality of human beings. “It is not a novel meant for children. In fact, it may be the first Tamil novel about animals written for adult readers,” says Mr. Kalyan Raman in his translator’s note. “As we track the destiny of this orphan goat, shaped by a force-field of humans and animals, we realise that the author’s real theme is our own fears and longings, primordial urges and survival tactics,” he adds.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Ashok Gasti, BJP Rajya Sabha member, dies of COVID-19||Ashok Gasti, BJP Rajya Sabha member from Raichur, succumbed to COVID-19 at a private hospital in Bengaluru on Thursday night. The 55-year-old leader had taken oath as an RS member on July 22. Mr. Gasti was admitted to Manipal Hospitals on September 2 after testing positive for COVID-19. Hospital director Manish Rai said Mr. Gasti was diagnosed with severe COVID-19 pneumonia. He was critically ill with multi-organ failure and was on life support system in the intensive care unit. A low-profile leader who rose through the ranks by his work in the RSS, Mr. Gasti is credited with organising the BJP in Raichur district in north Karnataka. His choice for the Rajya Sabha nomination, which came as a surprise to many, was regarded a recognition of his dedicated work of decades. He was the president of youth morcha of the BJP in Raichur when he was 18. He handled many positions in the party, including general secretary of the party’s OBC cell, district unit president, and in charge of Raichur, Ballari, and Koppal during the last Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. Mr. Gasti is survived by wife and two daughters.
18 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Sitharaman has agreed to retain IT office in Mangaluru: Kateel||MP Nalin Kumar Kateel on Thursday said that Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has agreed to retain the office of the Principal Commissioner of Income Tax in Mangaluru and promised to rescind the order merging it with the one in Panaji, Goa. Taking to Twitter, Mr. Kateel said that he had represented to Ms. Sitharaman the need to retain the IT office in Mangaluru that has a very large tax payer base. He thanked Union Ministers D.V. Sadananda Gowda and Pralhad Joshi for their support. Meanwhile, the Mangaluru branch of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India in a statement here said that Mr. Sadananda Gowda met Ms. Sitharaman in New Delhi on Thursday and impressed upon her the need to retain the IT office in Mangaluru. He also urged her to withdraw the order merging it with the one in Goa. The statement said that it was an achievement for the coastal districts as Ms. Sitharaman agreed to the representations made by various forums, including the Mangaluru and Udupi branches of ICAI, Kanara Chamber of Commerce of Commerce and Industry and others. She has promised to withdraw the merger order, the statement said.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Perumal Murugan’s novel makes the cut||Perumal Murugan’s novel, The Story of a Goat , is a contender for this year’s National Book Award for Translated Literature, set up by The New Yorker . “Of the ten authors on the longlist for this year’s award, Murugan is the only one who has been nominated previously,” reports the magazine. In 2018, his novel One Part Woman (translated from Madhorubagan ) was on longlist. It had sparked a controversy and he declared, “The writer Perumal Murugan is dead.” The Story of a Goat was penned after he resumed writing.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Demand for probe into police role in Delhi riots||Opposition leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday and demanded an independent probe by a commission headed by a retired or sitting judge into the role of the Delhi police in the February riots and the ongoing probe into them. Congress treasurer and MP Ahmed Patel, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja, DMK leader and MP Kanimozhi and RJD leader and MP Manoj K. Jha were part of the delegation. The Delhi police have set up special investigation teams and their Special Cell is probing the aspect of conspiracy behind the riots. ‘Premeditated theory’ In a memorandum, the leaders voiced their concern over the probe being conducted by the police. “The entire investigation appears to be aimed at arriving at a premeditated theory about a conspiracy propounded by the Home Minister in the Lok Sabha in March 2020, before any investigation had even begun into the riots,” it said. The memorandum said that the probe by the police did not inspire confidence as there were serious questions about its “impartiality”. “The investigation cannot be allowed to become a fishing and roving expedition aimed at causing a chilling effect on dissent and protest in the country. We, therefore, urge you to call upon the Government of India to institute an inquiry into this investigation under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, headed by sitting/retired judge(s),” the memorandum said. It criticised the police for the reference made to Mr. Yechury in a supplementary chargesheet, citing disclosure statements made by the accused. “This is a disturbing trend,” it said. The leaders said there were publicly documented accounts and videos of the police being “complicit in the violence, directing mobs pelting stones or looking the other way when mobs were indulging in violence”. The leaders also criticised the police for being a mute spectator to the alleged hate speech of BJP leaders. The probe appeared to be pursuing a line of inquiry “criminalising the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and portraying them as a conspiracy which resulted in the riots in Delhi”, they said.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||2,159 new COVID cases in TS||Telangana recorded 2,159 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 1,65,003. On Wednesday, 53,094 people underwent tests and results of 1,032 were awaited. With death of nine more patients, the toll crossed 1,000. It now stands at 1,005. According to the details in the media bulletin issued by the State Health department, the Case Fatality Rate is 0.60%. Of the total 1,65,003 cases, 30,443 were active cases, 1,33,555 have recovered. A total of 23,29,316 samples were tested till September 17. In the 41 State government hospitals, 3,836 oxygen beds and 425 ICU beds were vacant on Wednesday. In 225 private hospitals 3,014 oxygen beds and 1,384 ICU beds were available.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||First regulate digital media, govt. tells SC||The Union government on Thursday said the Supreme Court should frame guidelines drawing the line between journalistic freedom and responsible journalism for digital media first rather than mainstream electronic and print media. The government was responding to a proposal by the court to frame guidelines against communal and derogatory content in mainstream media. The court had mooted the idea while staying the broadcast of the show, Bindas Bol, on Sudarshan TV on September 15. The show is accused of “vilifying” members of the Muslim community who join the civil services. Senior advocate Anup Chaudhuri, for petitioner Firoz Iqbal Khan, urged the court to initiate contempt against Suresh Chavhanke, the show’s anchor and the channel’s Editor-in-Chief, for his tweets published after the stay order. “Mr. Chaudhuri, if he [Chavhanke] has said something, we will ignore,” Justice Chandrachud responded, before adjourning the case to Friday. It was only recently that the top court had punished civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for contempt because of his tweets.
18 September 2020||Belagavi,||Earthquake rumours dismissed||Vijayapura Deputy Commissioner P. Sunil Kumar has clarified that there was no earthquake either in Alamatti dam or anywhere in Vijayapura district, in the wake of rumours on social media. Seismic data recording centres in Alamatti dam or in Vijayapura did not record any such activity, he said in a press release.
18 September 2020||Mumbai,||Prohibitory orders in city extended till September 30||The Mumbai Police have extended prohibitory orders restricting movement of people in the city from Thursday midnight till September 30 in view of the rising cases of COVID-19. The restrictions under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure were imposed on Wednesday as per the Maharashtra government’s Mission Begin Again guidelines issued on August 31. The Mumbai Police have not imposed any new restrictions. In a note, Shahaji Umap, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations), said “It is considered expedient to issue prohibitory orders for restricting any presence or movement of one or more persons in public places or gathering of any sort anywhere, including religious places, to prevent spread of the virus.” The police said the movement of one or more persons in ‘containment zone’ is prohibited except for essential activities, supply of essential goods and medical emergencies. Deputy Commissioner of Police N. Ambika, PRO, Mumbai Police, told The Hindu , “This is a routine order as per the regular guidelines of the State.”
18 September 2020||Vijayawada,||‘Talks on with Apple vendors’||The Andhra Pradesh government is negotiating with the major sub-contractors and vendors of the products of technology major Apple for setting up a manufacturing unit in the State. It has also offered to develop the Kadapa airport as a cargo hub with automatic customs clearances.
18 September 2020||Kolkata,||3 Bangladeshis caught after crossing border in Bengal||Border Security Force (BSF) personnel on Thursday apprehended three Bangladeshis, including two women, after they illegally crossed the international boundary in West Bengal’s Nadia district. Acting on a tip-off, the border guards were keeping a watch near Kumari village in the district. They found five people crossing over from Bangladesh to the Indian side and challenged them, the BSF said in a statement. They ran towards the border but three of them were nabbed while two others managed to flee to the neighbouring country. The three included a couple who wanted to go to Bangalore, while the other woman sought to travel to Mumbai, the statement said. They were handed over to the police.PTI
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 5,560 new cases and 59 fatalities||Tamil Nadu on Thursday reported 5,560 COVID-19 cases and 59 fatalities. Of them, Chennai accounted for 992 cases and 12 deaths, followed by Coimbatore with 530 cases.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Railway Board transfers Train 18 pioneer||The Greater Chennai Corpor- ation will conduct a second serosurvey in the city in the last week of September. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said Chennai would be the first city to conduct a study of T cells in patients.
18 September 2020||Belagavi,||1,935 discharged in North Karnataka||As many as 1,935 persons were discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and Covid care centres in North Karnataka districts, while 1,420 persons tested positive on Thursday. The region recorded a total of 24 deaths, according to a State-level health bulletin.
18 September 2020||Pune,||Quota issue: Maratha leaders hit the streets||Despite Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray attempting to present a united front over the Maratha reservation issue, protests erupted across the State on Thursday as pro-Maratha outfits and community leaders censured the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for its lacklustre efforts in defending the quota law in the Supreme Court. Several community leaders questioned the timing and the logic behind the government’s mega recruitment drive to fill 12,500-odd police posts.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees 2nd biggest spike in new COVID cases||The Capital witnessed the second biggest spike in fresh COVID-19 cases with 4,432 patients testing positive in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases stood at 2,34,701.
18 September 2020||Bhopal,||Madhya Pradesh govt. to rethink milling policy||The M.P. government is planning to overhaul its milling policy with greater emphasis on quality control and inspections, a graded approach to incentives and mobile phone-based solutions in view of thousands of metric tonnes of rice stocks being found to be non-issuable during an ongoing inspection.
18 September 2020||Guwahati,||NHRC orders solatium for man thrashed by mob||The National Human Rights Commission has ordered the Assam government to pay Rs. 1 lakh to a man who was thrashed more than a year ago in Biswanath district for selling cooked beef at his tea stall. The order was issued on a complaint filed by Congress MLA Debabrata Saikia.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala’s 4,351 cases in one day set a new record||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph soared on Thursday with 4,351 new cases. As the epidemic scaled a new peak, experts predicted a further rise. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 45,730. Cases being treated in hospitals stood at 34,314, of whom 299 persons were critically ill, and 75 were on ventilator support. Ten more deaths were added to the official death list. Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam reported three deaths each, Thrissur two, and Malappuram and Kozhikode one death each . The rise in active cases was a major concern as health system capacity may not be able to keep up with the surge. Even with the districts launching home care of asymptomatic and mild patients, Thiruvananthapuram had over 6,000 active cases, while Kozhikode, Malappuram and Ernakulam had over 3,000 active cases. Of the new cases, 95% were locally acquired infections. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that disease transmission in the capital was a matter of concern. The district on Thursday reported 820 cases, of which all except one were locally transmitted infections. In the past week, Thiruvananthapuram reported 4,184 cases. Telangana’s reported incidence was flat at 2,159 cases on Wednesday. Around 60,000 samples were tested during weekdays, but only around 55,000 per day from September 14-16. On Wednesday, 53,094 tests were done. The death of nine more patients was reported. The new cases included 318 from Greater Hyderabad, 176 in Rangareddy, 141 in Nalgonda, 132 in Siddipet, 127 in Karimnagar, 121 in Medchal Malkajgiri, and 98 in Warangal Urban. With 8,702 infections and 72 deaths on Thursday, Andhra Pradesh was the only State after Maharashtra to witness over six lakh infections. Over ten days, 71.8 lakh samples were tested, and the positivity rate was 13.21%. Active cases were down to 88,197. In 24 hours, the State tested 77,492 samples, its highest level yet. East Godavari reported 1,383 new cases, the highest tally, and five deaths in 24 hours; West Godavari (1,064 & 4 deaths), Chittoor (905 & 12), Prakasam (705 & 10), Kadapa (637 & 7), Nellore (610 & 6), Srikakulam (567 & 2), Guntur (550 & 6), Anantapur (545 & 4), Vizianagaram (526 & 1), Visakhapatnam (449 & 4), Kurnool (394 & 6) and Krishna (367 & 5). Tamil Nadu reported 5,560 fresh positive cases of coronavirus disease on Thursday, and recorded the death of 59 people. The fresh cases took the State’s overall tally to 5,25,420 - 46,610 active cases, 4,70,192 persons discharged and 8,618 deaths. Chennai accounted for 992 new cases of COVID-19 and 12 deaths. This was followed by Coimbatore with 530 cases. Of the 59 fatalities (36 in government and 23 in private hospitals), 52 persons had co-morbidities.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||8 regional parties protest over GST dues||Eight regional parties held a joint protest at Parliament House on Thursday demanding that the Centre pay GST dues it owes to the States at the earliest. The principal Opposition party, Congress, which is ruling in four States, was not invited for the protest.  MPs from the Trinamool Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Samajwadi Party (SP), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Shiv Sena participated. The move comes ahead of a scheduled debate on the GST in the Rajya Sabha that the government had agreed upon on the insistence of the Opposition parties at an informal meeting chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday. At a meeting of the GST Council on August 27, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had acknowledged that the States were likely to face a GST revenue gap of Rs. 3 lakh crore this year, as the economy may contract due to COVID-19, which she termed an “Act of God”. The States were asked to borrow to meet the shortfall. So far, five Statess have rejected the Centre’s suggestion. TRS Lok Sabha floor leader Nama Nageshwar Rao told The Hindu that the Centre owed Rs. 9,000 crore to the Telangana government. “States have suffered a severe financial setback because of the pandemic and at such a time, the Centre’s failure to provide even the bare minimum support hurts,” Mr. Rao said. He said he had asked for a debate on the issue in the Lok Sabha moving an adjournment motion. AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh said all those who participated in the protest will have more joint meetings in the next few days to scale it up. DMK MP Tiruchi Siva asked, the States are only asking for their dues “The government cited COVID-19 pandemic as an excuse. Can they explain, if everything was fine, then why were the GST payouts delayed pre-COVID also?” RJD MP Manoj K. Jha said the government was merely using excuses. “Who are they fooling? They have more than Rs. 800 crores to build a new Parliament building but no money for the States. What they do not realise is that if the State finances fail, then there will be grave implications and the situation could go beyond their control,” he said. ‘Not deliberate’ Asked why the Congress was not invited, sources said many political parties like the TRS and the AAP were not comfortable sharing the stage with it. Delhi CM and AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal and Telangana CM and TRS leader K. Chandrashekar Rao were not invited to a Chief Ministers’ meeting organised by Congress president Sonia Gandhi recently. “‘They do and we follow’ is no longer acceptable. It is now ‘we do and if you want, you may follow’,” said Trinamool Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien. However, Mr. Jha said the exclusion of the Congress was not deliberate.
18 September 2020||New Delhi/Colombo,||India, Pakistan to attend SAARC meet||Days after India-Pakistan tensions spilled over into a meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi are expected to meet via a videoconference at the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) meeting on September 24. “All member countries have confirmed participation in the meeting, to be chaired by Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Nepal. The respective Foreign Ministers will take part,” sources familiar with preparations for the meeting told The Hindu , referring to the eight members of SAARC, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. A senior Indian official also confirmed that Mr. Jaishankar will attend despite the incident at the SCO virtual meeting of National Security Advisors on Tuesday. During that meeting, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval stormed out after he saw that the Pakistan Special Advisor on National Security Moeed Yusuf had used a map of Pakistan that claimed Indian territory. “This was in blatant disregard to the advisory by the host [Russia] against it and in violation of the norms of the meeting. After consultation with the host, the Indian side left the meeting in protest at that juncture,” the MEA had said about the incident. When asked, the sources said that no specific guidelines on background or maps have been issued by the SAARC Secretariat in Kathmandu that is also the Chair of the SAARC at present, but they hope it would go “smoothly”. A meeting of SAARC Finance Ministers, where an Additional Secretary represented India instead of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and Pakistan was represented by its Special Advisor on Finance, took place on Wednesday without incident. Revival of ties An official also pointed to the revival of SAARC cooperation due to the COVID-19 pandemic crisis, including the creation of an India-led SAARC COVID-19 Emergency Fund, and exchanges between regional health professionals this year. Speaking at the SAARC Finance Ministers’ meet on Wednesday, Nepal’s Foreign Minister Gyawali said that the COVID-19 crisis has meant the region will experience a contraction of at least 2.7% this year, and will “experience the worst economic performance in the last 40 years”, which adds to the need for SAARC cooperation. The SAARC Foreign Ministers meeting scheduled for next Thursday is part of an old practice of holding an informal lunch meeting on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in New York. Last year, both Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Qureshi attended the meeting, but skipped each other’s speeches. Mr. Jaishankar left early, while Mr. Qureshi entered only after he left. The meeting’s agenda includes opening remarks by Mr. Gyawali followed by a brief overview by the current SAARC Secretary General, Sri Lankan diplomat Esala R. Weerakoon. Following that, country statements will be made by participating Foreign Ministers, in alphabetical order.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition leaders meet President||Opposition leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday and demanded an independent probe by a commission headed by a retired or sitting judge into the role of the Delhi police in the February riots and the ongoing probe into the incident. Congress treasurer and MP Ahmed Patel, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja, DMK leader and MP Kanimozhi and RJD leader and MP Manoj K. Jha were part of the delegation. The Delhi police have set up special investigation teams and its special cell is probing the aspect of conspiracy behind the riots, in which 53 people lost their lives. In a memorandum, the leaders voiced concern over the probe being conducted by the police. “The entire investigation appears to be aimed at arriving at a premeditated theory about a conspiracy propounded by the Home Minister in the Lok Sabha in March 2020, before any investigation had even begun into the riots,” it said. The memorandum said that the investigation by the police did not inspire confidence as there were serious questions about its “impartiality”. ‘Chilling effect’ “A credible and unbiased probe is crucial to restore public trust in the law and order machinery of the State. The investigation cannot be allowed to become a fishing and roving expedition aimed at causing a chilling effect on dissent and protest in the country. We, therefore, urge you to call upon the Government of India to institute an inquiry into this investigation under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, headed by sitting/retired judge(s),” the memorandum said. It criticised the police for the reference made to Mr. Yechury in a supplementary chargesheet, citing disclosure statements made by the accused. “This is a disturbing trend that raises serious questions over the manner of such investigations,” it said. The leaders said there were several publicly documented accounts and videos of the police being “complicit in the violence, directing mobs pelting stones or looking the other way when mobs were indulging in violence”. “During the violence, a disturbing video emerged showing uniformed policemen assaulting young men lying injured on the road and forcing them to sing the national anthem while repeatedly beating them with lathis. One of the men, Faizan, succumbed to his injuries a few days later,” the memorandum said. It also highlighted other such instances, including the one in which the “DCP stood quietly next to a BJP leader who was instigating violence against the protestors, warning that if they did not vacate the road, he would do it himself”. The memorandum said that despite several complaints about the involvement of police officials, no action had been taken. The leaders also criticised the police for being a mute spectator to the alleged hate speech of BJP leaders and turning a blind eye to the role of its own personnel in the violence. The probe appeared to be pursuing a line of inquiry “criminalising the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and portraying them as a conspiracy which resulted in the riots in Delhi,” they said.
18 September 2020||Washington,||‘U.S. to strengthen relationship with India’||China’s recent actions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) have caused the U.S. to develop its partnership with India to counter Chinese aggression, a top Trump administration National Security Council (NSC) official said. China’s recent actions on the LAC have “further reinforced the importance of the U.S.-India strategic partnership and it has strengthened the U.S. resolve to work towards building that relationship as a bulwark against Chinese aggression,” NSC Director for South and Central Lisa Curtis said. The U.S. had provided India with “strong and unambiguous support” throughout the crisis and the two countries’ cooperation had “certainly” grown closer, according to Ms. Curtis. Her comments were made during a webinar organised by the Carnegie Endowment, a think tank. Policy differences Ms. Curtis said India and the U.S. should focus on the issues where there are converging interests, and operationalise their cooperation around those specific issues, and accept that there will be policy differences between them on other issues. Responding to a question on burden sharing in the Indo-Pacific and whether India would be comfortable making contributions to aid U.S. objectives, Ms. Curtis said, “When it comes to the South Asia region, we have seen India reluctant, I think, for the U.S. to become more involved, but I think you will see that changing because of the situation that we are finding ourselves in.” She referred to China becoming more involved in the political dynamics of South Asian countries. Last week, India had welcomed the decision of the Maldives to sign a military agreement with the U.S. Ms. Curtis said countries would have to become more comfortable with cooperating and burden sharing towards similar goals. “We are starting to see more openness from India in particular in discussing these issues,” she said. India had started helping countries — such as the Maldives, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh — with their economic issues, as per the White House adviser. Ms. Curtis said cooperation and burden sharing was becoming inevitable not only in the military and maritime areas but also in terms of the economies, countering the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and so forth.
18 September 2020||KOCHI/ thiruvananthapuram,||NIA questions Minister in gold smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday questioned Kerala Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel in connection with its probe into the smuggling of gold via air cargo shipments addressed to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in Thiruvananthapuram. The police had barricaded the road leading to the agency’s office by 4 a.m., anticipating protests throughout the day by the Opposition parties. The Minister was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) here last week in connection with the consignments of the Koran that he had received from the UAE consulate. It was transported to various places in the State in government vehicles. The NIA team held a meeting with senior ED officials on Wednesday. It is learnt that the agency had asked the Minister about his links with Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the gold smuggling case.  Protests continue Meanwhile, anti-government protests buffeted the Statefor the sixth consecutive day on Thursday. The arrival of Mr. Jaleel at the NIA office in Kochi for questioning appeared to have catalysed the protests led by Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party workers who demanded the Minister’s resignation. Roads leading up to the NIA’s office at Kadavanthra turned riotous as waves after waves of protesters clashed with a heavy police contingent through the good part of the day. The Kochi City police arrested nearly 100 protesters of the Congress, Youth Congress and Mahila Morcha on charges of rioting and unlawful assembly besides violation of the COVID-19 protocol under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. MLA injured Protesters broke COVID-19 protocol and grappled with the police in Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, and Kannur, resulting in injuries on both sides. They damaged the office of Mr. Jaleel in Malappuram. A Youth Congress march to the Palakkad Collectorate turned violent, leading to a police lathicharge and stone throwing. Over two dozen protesters, including V.T. Balram, MLA, were injured in the police action. Ten police personnel too were injured in stone throwing.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Search on for main accused in drug racket case||After completing the first round of investigation into the drug racket with alleged links to the Kannada film industry, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) police have intensified the search for prime suspects who are absconding. They include film producer Shiva Prakash and Sheikh Faazil, who allegedly hosted parties in India and Sri Lanka where drugs were sold. According to the police, Shiva Prakash was at one time a close friend of actor Ragini Dwivedi, who is in judicial custody, and would organise parties for her. “The accused are well known in the drug peddling circle and were regular visitors to the farmhouse of Aditya Alva where parties were organised on weekends,” said a senior police official. Aditya is the son of the late minister Jeevaraj Alva and the brother-in-law of Bollywood star Vivek Oberoi. “He is absconding. Efforts are on to track him down,” said the police official. CCB officials are banking on the arrest of local drug dealers and African nationals to lead them to bigger players in the racket. Meanwhile, on Thursday the CCB arrested three persons and seized 90 kg of marijuana worth Rs. 50 lakh at Doddabanahalli. Acting on a tip-off, a police team raided an apartment in Doddabanahalli and arrested Azam Pasha, 25, the owner of the flat, along with two of his associates Masthan Vali, 25, and Mohammed Abbas, 27. Another accused managed to escape and efforts are on to track him down. According to the police, the gang sourced marijuana from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. “Shipments were smuggled into the city concealed in goods vehicles. The accused would store the ganja in the flat and sell it to smaller peddlers in the city as well as college students,” said a police officer. Brown sugar seized The Bengaluru City Market police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly dealing in drugs and recovered 90 grams of brown sugar from him. The accused, Vikram Khileri, is a resident of Giri Nagar. The drugs were concealed under the cover of his helmet. Vikram claimed that the contraband was smuggled into the city via private transport and courier services under the guise of prasad.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Not all convalescent plasma may have protective effect||Not all plasma from those who have recovered from COVID-19 in India may contain enough protective antibodies, says a multi-institutional study led by researchers in the country and the U.S. When scientists checked the antibodies from 42 persons who had mild to moderate infection and had recovered, 38 of them expressed IgG (Immunoglobulin G) responses — the antibodies that are produced a week or two of the infection. However, only “half of them had appreciable neutralising antibody titres”, say the scientists in a paper uploaded on BioArxiv , an online repository of scientific papers. Plasma therapy, the administration of filtered serum from the blood of those who had recovered from the infection to those who are battling it, is among the permitted off-label interventions recommended by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in patients with moderate disease but whose oxygen saturation levels are not improving in spite of the use of steroids. However, in the PLACID trial, among the largest studies of its kind and spread across 39 hospitals and 464 participants, the ICMR concluded that plasma therapy neither helped reduce mortality nor prevented moderately ill patients from manifesting severe COVID-19. ‘No peer review’ ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said on Wednesday that the PLACID results had not been “peer-reviewed” and only after that would the organisation consider changes to recommendations in plasma use as therapy. Several hospitals in India continue to advise caregivers — frequently through their own means — to procure plasma for ailing patients. The latest study underscored that only those IgG antibodies that bind to the receptor binding region of the coronavirus spike protein, which attaches itself to the body’s healthy cells and infiltrates, had a “neutralising response”. Antibodies that bind to other parts of the virus did not succeed in provoking such a response. Thus, doctors, when assessing plasma therapy, would be well served to evaluate the quality of the plasma via an assay, or a chemical test, that specifically evaluates the levels of RBD (receptor-binding domain)-specific IgG titres and not just crude IgG levels. There are at least three kinds of antibodies produced in an infection: IgG, IgA, IgB but the neutralising effect was most visible only in the case of the IgGs, the authors noted. “It’s important to note that many Indian government agencies and institutions are already making efforts to bring these RBD-based IgG assays more widely available, and thus this study is very relevant and timely to scientifically validate these efforts,” the ICGEB-Emory said in a statement. The ICMR-funded study is led by Anmol Chandele and Kaja Murali Krishna of the ICGEB-Emory Vaccine Center at the International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology.
18 September 2020||COIMBATORE,||The epitome of kindness, generosity||Outpourings of grief and reminiscences about the kindness and generosity that characterised P.R. Krishnakumar, educationist and Ayurvedic specialist, marked the day after his death due to COVID-19. Friends and colleagues recalled instances of his care and concern for the poor and students, and his abiding interest in spirituality. His colleague K.G. Raveendran recalled how, once having met a hungry old man waiting for prasadam from the Dhanwanthari Temple on his Ayurveda hospital campus in Coimbatore, Krishnakumar ensured that he was fed immediately. And since then, he also arranged for free annadanam even in the evenings, apart from the lunch that was already being served. Among educationists, industrialists, and doctors in his circle, Krishnakumar, who was also the founder of the AVP Research Foundation and Chancellor of the Avinashilingam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women, is remembered as a person who was always helpful and was focused on values. Under his leadership, the Arya Vaidya Pharmacy (Coimbatore) Limited, expanded to new terrains of research, Ayurveda and allied services. While the AVP hospital campus in Coimbatore and the manufacturing facility at Kanjikode in Kerala were started by his father P.V. Rama Varier, Krishnakumar started an Ayurvedic college at Patanjalipuri at Mangarai in Coimbatore rural in 1978. Seven batches of students got trained in Ayurveda free of cost at the centre which functioned as per the gurukula model. To give more focus on research in Ayurveda, the AVP Research Foundation was started in 2003. He has borne the tuition fees of so many needy students, says Premavathy Vijayan, Vice-Chancellor of the University. Krishnakumar’s personal helper K. Gunasekaran, who has been with him over the last 30 years, recounts: “On his visits to Kerala, he used to ask the driver to halt in front of a petty shop where he used to order food. Seeing how the shop struggled with minimal facilities and utensils, he bought them a whole set of items.” Phenomenal memory Ramkumar Kutty, Krishnakumar’s nephew, recollects him as a man who barely made enemies. His memory was phenomenal as he could remember people whom he even met once. When the number of books he read grew beyond the size he could accommodate at home, they were moved to the library of the campus. Ravi Sam, managing director of Adwaith Lakshmi Industries and Head of the CII southern region sub-committee for CSR, says: “He was such a helpful person and we saw him take AVP to new heights. Spiritual and political leaders would flock there for treatment.”
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways to ‘rationalise’ fares||The Indian Railways is working on a plan to gradually “rationalise” fares for both passenger and freight trains, Railways Board Chairman and CEO V.K. Yadav said on Thursday. Speaking at a virtual press conference, he said the Ministry will soon notify “a very small” user fee, which will be levied on travellers to aid development of select railway stations. “...We need to look at how the fares can be rationalised for both passenger and freight ... We have made a plan for this, and we are slowly working towards it,” Mr. Yadav said. Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant, who was also part of the conference, added that passenger rail fares in India are highly subsidised. As a result, freight train rates had to be increased, leading to a situation where freight has moved from the railways to roads. “...70% of India’s freight moves through the road. So there has to be a balance,” Mr. Kant said. For passenger trains, the Railways had revised the basic passenger fare, increasing it by up to 4 paise per kilometre from January 2020 onwards. This was the first fare revision since 2014-15. Mr. Yadav stressed that while private operators, who are expected to begin operations by 2023, will be free to set the ticket fare, they will need to compete with airways and highways. Hence, the fares will not be high. Mr. Kant said, “Overall, I think this [private train operators] is a win-win,” adding that with ‘new technology and new players’, there will be a greater play of competition, thereby reducing fares.
18 September 2020||Bhopal,||Dhrupad Sansthan students divided||Students of the Dhrupad Sansthan, an international music school here, are divided over the composition of the new internal complaints committee (ICC), which has been set up to inquire into allegations of sexual harassment against teacher Akhilesh Gundecha. While a group of 70 students has welcomed the new composition after the previous ICC was dissolved following objections that its members were close to the Gundecha family, another 25 students, who claim to include at least 10 survivors, have termed the recent composition hasty and the process exclusionary. The new ICC was declared on September 16 by Anant Gundecha, secretary of the organisation which promotes the ancient style of Hindustani classical music. Its members are Raka Arya, Professor at the National Law Institute University, Bhopal; Gagan Sethi, former member at the National Human Rights Commission; Anu Gupta, social activist at the Eklavya Foundation; and a female and a male student of the school. An anonymous statement issued on behalf of 70 students, who included at least three survivors according to a signatory, expressed happiness the organisation had responded to their concerns. “Through a fair, transparent and dialogic process, we, the students, have selected and endorsed all members of the reconstituted ICC,” the statement said. A few survivors sent a notice to the organisation through their lawyers demanding a stay on the commencement of the inquiry while flagging concerns about the committee’s “fair, just and impartial” nature. In addition, a student, requesting anonymity while claiming to represent the 25 dissenting students, said they had no idea of the statement as there had been virtually no communication between the groups and nor were they fully involved in the composition. “The trust deficit has increased now. The survivors won’t partake in the ICC’s proceedings,” he claimed. The student said, “The ICC has been formed hastily despite our demand for a few more days time to understand the law better. Further, we believe one of the members has prejudices and may not be able to function independently.” (Women in distress can dial 011-24373736/24373737)  Many among the dissenting students attended the first few meetings to understand the process Anant Gundecha Dhrupad Sansthan secretary
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Five Metro rail corporations suffered Rs. 2,000 crore losses’||Five Metro rail corporations — in Delhi, Bangalore, Lucknow, Chennai and Kochi — have reported combined losses of almost Rs. 2,000 crore due to the COVID-19-induced suspension of services, according to a reply given to the Lok Sabha on Thursday. In a written reply to Kerala Congress MP Benny Behanan’s question, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri informed the House that the Delhi Metro had suffered a loss of Rs. 1,609 crore, while the Bangalore Metro, the Lucknow Metro, the Chennai Metro and the Kochi Metro lost Rs. 170 crore, Rs. 90 crore, Rs. 80 crore and Rs. 34.18 crore respectively due to “halting of Metro rail services during the COVID-19 period.” Loan repayment Asked if there had been any impact on loan repayments by any of the Metro services due to the lockdown since March, the Minister replied in the negative. State subject To a question on steps taken by the government to address the situation since Metro networks have substantial international investment, the Minister replied: “Urban transport is an integral part of urban development, which is a State subject. As per the Metro Rail Policy 2017, financial sustainability during operations of the metro rail system, which also includes debt servicing, is the responsibility of the State government.” Metro services, which had been suspended since March, resumed on September 7 across the country, apart from Maharashtra.
18 September 2020||Srinagar,||Top PDP leader released from house arrest||Top Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leader Naeem Akhtar was released from house detention on Thursday — the first time since August 5 last year. “After 407 days of detention I am informed that I am free to move about. Thank you rulers for small mercies while you inflict larger tragedies on our land,” former Minister Akhtar said in a tweet. Mr. Akhtar was arrested on August 5 last year and lodged in two sub-jails before being shifted to his house earlier this year. His release comes after the government told Parliament that no leader was under house arrest in Kashmir any more. First meeting The Jammu and Kashmir administration also allowed the PDP to hold a meeting in Srinagar on Wednesday where senior leaders were allowed to participate. It was the party’s first meeting since the Centre revoked Jammu and Kashmir’s special status last year. “Even after more than nine months of my release from illegal and arbitrary detention, the only thing I could realise is that outside the cage the curbs are more absolute. I welcome my party colleagues to this open prison,” said ex-legislator Firdous Tak. Most of the PDP and the National Conference leaders have been released so far. However, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti remains in custody. A Hurriyat spokesman contested the statement made in Parliament by the government. “The statement of the government that no one is under house arrest is strange and surprising. Hurriyat chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq has been under house detention since August 5 last year. On that day, police vehicles were parked at both the gates of his house compound and since then he is not allowed to move out,” the Hurriyat spokesman said. The Mirwaiz, also a head priest who leads prayers at the historic Jama masjid, is not even allowed to deliver the traditional Friday sermons.  Thank you rulers for small mercies while you inflict larger tragedies on our land Naeem Akhtar PDP leader
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon session to go on as scheduled||The monsoon session of Parliament will go on as scheduled despite Ministers Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Patel testing positive for COVID-19 after two or three days of attending the session. Mr. Gadkari announced his positive status on Wednesday evening, while Mr. Patel announced it on Thursday morning. Both first tested negative ahead of the session. A later test after symptoms appeared turned out to be positive. Sources in the Lok Sabha told The Hindu that the monsoon session would continue on schedule. “The session will run and a 24-hour welfare office is set up to take care of Members of Parliament who feel they need to be tested again or require medical help,” the sources said. Mediapersons covering the Parliament proceedings as well as staffers could undertake the Rapid Antigen Test on a daily basis if need be at the reception of the Parliament House, the sources said. The facility would be available from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. At least 30 MPs had tested positive before the session commenced. Vasanthkumar and Balli Durga Prasad Rao died of COVID-19 this month.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||States have to share crisis cost: BJP MP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that there was growing evidence that SARS-Cov-2, the novel coronavirus, had originated from a laboratory of China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) and that States would have to share the economic cost of the crisis unless China accepted its responsibility and agree to reparations. Mr. Chandrasekhar was speaking during a discussion on the COVID-19 pandemic and the government’s response to it. Lab origin “This virus originated in China of which there is no doubt. The bizarre conduct of the Chinese government for most of 2020 confirms that. The Chinese government response is that it originated from a wet market in Wuhan from some bats, but there are other reports that contradict that. There is growing evidence that this COVID-19 virus may have been a deliberate man-made laboratory creation in one of the Chinese PLA labs, a revelation, most recently, by Dr. Li-Meng Yan, who has recently fled to the U.S,” he said. Later in his speech, he responded to the Opposition’s criticism that the government had not acted quickly enough. While honouring those fighting against the coronavirus, he termed it the “China virus”. Mr. Chandrasekhar responded to Opposition MPs’ demand that the Centre give States financial help to tide over the crisis by suggesting that the cost should be borne by the whole country. “The difference is this, when States have losses due to floods and droughts, the Centre steps in. But, this loss is for the entire country and the whole country needs to bear this. There is no one else to forward these losses to. There is nobody else. Unless, maybe China accepts their responsibility and there is a case for reparation,” he said.
18 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi denies bid to muzzle media||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday said the State government had not attempted to muzzle media. He said the government had formed a panel headed by Additional Director General of Police Manoj Abraham to detect and flag online misinformation and not to mind or police news organisations. The mainstream media had an obligation to fact-check before they broadcast or published news. In case misleading content got disseminated as factual information, then established news organisations had a moral obligation to own up and rectify the mistake publicly. However, some sections of the media sidestepped the ethical responsibility. He cited the case of a social worker at Cherthala. The person had collected Rs. 70 from the public to pay rickshaw fare for a needy family. However, a particular news channel portrayed the individual as an extortionist. Other news outlets cleared the air and apologised. But the television news channel did not withdraw the fake report or express regret, he said. The Chief Minister said Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel was not a suspect in any criminal inquiry. The Enforcement Directorate and the National Investigation Agency had questioned him to get clarity in some matters. There was no ground for him to resign. Mr. Vijayan said Dr. Jaleel had struck a role profile to prevent law and order issues from breaking out and not because he “was afraid.”
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S. keen on finalising BECA at 2+2 dialogue||The U.S. is keen that India sign the last foundational agreement, Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geo-Spatial cooperation (BECA), at the next India-U.S. 2+2 ministerial dialogue likely to held in October end, a defence source said on Thursday. A meeting of the Quad Foreign Ministers is scheduled to take place in Tokyo in October, the source said. Earlier, the meeting was expected to be held in New Delhi. “The U.S. wants BECA to be signed at the ministerial 2+2 in October. Indian draft with our suggestions has been sent to them,” the source said stating negotiations are far from over and it is unlikely to be signed by October. The timing of the 2+2 comes just before the U.S. elections in November and there is still no clarity on the dates. A maritime information agreement is also under active deliberation between India and the U.S., the source said. Once concluded, India will have such arrangements with all Quad countries — Australia, Japan and the U.S. Beginning 2016, India has signed three foundational agreements: the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA), the Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement (COMCASA) while the General Security of Military Information Agreement (GSOMIA) was signed a long time ago. An extension to the GSOMIA, the Industrial Security Annex (ISA), was signed at the last 2+2 dialogue. There has been a sharp increase in India’s maritime interactions with the Quad countries on a bilateral basis centred around information sharing for improved Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) in the Indian Ocean Region and Indo-Pacific.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||A-G says no to contempt action against Sardesai||Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal on Thursday declined to grant permission to initiate contempt action against senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai for his tweets. In a one-page letter addressed to complainant, advocate Omprakash Parihar, Mr. Venugopal reasoned that “trifling remarks and mere passing criticism, though perhaps distasteful, are unlikely to tarnish the image of the institution.” The contempt plea was over Mr. Sardesai’s tweets in connection with the Supreme Court verdict in a suo motu contempt case against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan, punishing the latter with a Rs. 1 fine for “scandalising the court” with his tweets. “I have given careful consideration to the tweets. I find the statements made by Mr. Sardesai are not of so serious nature as to undermine the majesty of the Supreme Court or lower its stature in the minds of the public ... The reputation of the Supreme Court as one of the great pillars of our democracy has been built assiduously over the last 70 years,” Mr. Venugopal wrote. The Attorney-General has to give permission to initiate contempt of court action.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||First regulate digital media, govt. tells SC||The government said web-based news portals, YouTube channels as well as Over The Top (OTT) platforms had huge potential to become viral. Unlike mainstream publication and telecast, digital media was perpetually widening its viewership, like in a loop, through multiple web and social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook. Hence, what was written or shown in digital media had “serious impact and potential”, the government said. In a separate affidavit, Mr. Chavhanke justified the content of his programme. He maintained that “there is no statement or message in the four episodes broadcast that members of a particular community should not join UPSC”. The Centre’s 33-page affidavit is not limited to Sudarshan TV. It focuses on the larger aspect of framing of media guidelines. It said digital media should not be overlooked at any cost. The government reasoned, “While in a mainstream media [whether electronic or print], the publication / telecast is a one-time act, the digital media has faster reach.” On September 15, the court underlined that “journalistic freedom is not absolute”.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Special Benches to hear cases against legislators||The Supreme Court has asked the Chief Justices of High Courts to head Special Benches and immediately hear long-pending criminal cases against sitting and former legislators. Over 4,400 criminal trials have been held up, some for decades, because the powerful MPs and MLAs had approached the High Courts and got an interim stay. Some date back nearly 40 years. Most are stuck at the stage of framing of criminal charges. There are over 2,500 criminal cases against sitting legislators alone. In a significant order published on Thursday against criminalisation of politics, a three-judge Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana requested the Chief Justices to take up these cases which have been in the backburner indefinitely just because the courts had granted an interim stay of trial at some point of time in the distant past. The Supreme Court asked the Chief Justices to list such cases immediately before their own respective Special Benches and review if the stay on the criminal trial needs to continue at all. The 18-page order asked the Chief Justices to come up with an action plan. It ordered the case to be listed again in two weeks.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Harsimrat Kaur quits in protest against agri Bills||During the Lok Sabha’s debate on the Bills, which extended its session by almost three hours, the Opposition parties also slammed the Centre for overstepping its Constitutional jurisdiction, as agriculture is a subject on the States’ list. States will also be deprived of the much-needed revenue as transactions outside the APMC mandi s could not be taxed, said Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury. “MSP was, is, and will continue to remain in future,” said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, not responding to the Opposition demands to include MSP as a legal entitlement for all farmers in the legislation. Responding to the debate, he said the Bills would give farmers more choice, with competition for their produce leading to remunerative prices, and improved infrastructure and services. He said States’ APMC Acts would continue to remain in force, and farmers were free to sell in the mandi s as well. SAD chief and MP Sukhbir Singh Badal also emphasised that the Congress had included abolition of APMCs in its own election manifesto. “It is Congress that is doing a U-turn, not the Shiromani Akali Dal,” he said. At the conclusion of his speech, he announced that his wife and Union Minister Ms. Badal would quit over the party’s opposition to these Bills and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that was cleared by the Lok Sabha on Wednesday.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No force can stop our troops from patrolling’||“This requires strict adherence to the bilateral agreements and protocols and not making unilateral attempts to change the status quo,” he said. As several political parties expressed support to the government in the ongoing stand-off with China, Mr. Singh stated that the country had fought many wars and “however big the challenge, we stand united.” He added that he could not say more due to sensitivities around operational requirements. The morale and motivation of the armed forces were very high. “This time also, our soldiers have chosen patience and courage over aggression.” Since early May, the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops have made ingresses into the Indian side of the LAC, undertaken massive build-ups at several locations and blocked Indian Army patrols from going further. For instance, on the north bank of Pangong Tso (lake), the Indian Army has always held till Finger 4, the mountain spur, while it patrols till Finger 8 up to the Indian claim. Since May, PLA troops have moved in 8 km till Finger 4, blocking India’s movement. Similarly, there is a heavy Chinese presence in the strategic Depsang plains, at a crucial area called the Bulge, and PLA troops have also been blocking Indian Army patrols from reaching the Patrolling Points (PP) 10 to 13 on the Limit of Patrolling (LOP). The Chinese ingress into this area threatens the Indian positions at Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) by bringing Chinese troops closer to the 255-km-long crucial Darbuk-Shyok-DBO road. Depsang is also close to the Karakoram pass overlooking the strategic Saltoro ridge and the Siachen glacier.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sushant case: medical board to meet soon||The medical board constituted in the Sushant Singh Rajput death case will meet later this week to discuss the findings before giving its final opinion on the circumstances in which he died. The board will soon be briefed about the findings of the Central Forensic Sciences Laboratory and the CBI, which will also be taken into consideration while giving the opinion. The agencies involved in the probe have examined the post-mortem report and surveyed the Mumbai residence of Sushant. Statements of the doctors, who he had consulted in the recent past, have been taken and analysed with respect to the statements of other witnesses in the case.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Three militants, woman killed in J&K encounter||The encounter broke out around 2.30 a.m. when a joint team of the police and the CRPF zeroed in on a house, following a tip-off, in the congested locality of Batamaloo. “They were offered [the option] to surrender but they refused,” Mr. Singh said. A CRPF spokesperson said Deputy Commandant Rahul Mathur, who showed exemplary courage, also sustained two bullet injuries. “He has been taken to the 92 Base Hospital and is being treated,” the spokesman said.  Seventh operation “Efforts are always put in to ensure zero collateral damage. Today’s operation was the seventh in Srinagar this year,” Mr. Singh said. The deceased woman’s son, Sofi Aqib, said the car he and his mother were travelling in was fired upon from behind during the operation. “Bullets hit my mother in the head. She was seated next to me and died on the spot,” Mr. Aqib said. One house was also damaged in the encounter. The slain militants were identified as Zakir Ahmad Paul from Shopian and Ubair Mushtaq Bhat from Kulgam, both associated with the Hizbul Mujahideen, and Adil Hussain Bhat from Awantipora, associated with the Al-Badr. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the death of a youth from Sopore, who was allegedly found dead the day he escaped from the custody of the police on Wednesday in Baramulla district.
18 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Chandy celebrates 50 years of legislatorship||During his five-decade tenure as MLA, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy has always remained a source of inspiration, whose statesmanship, wise counsel and experience have been a guide to the party, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has said. In a message read out on the occasion of the celebration marking 50 years of Mr. Chandy as legislator here on Thursday, Ms. Gandhi described Mr. Chandy the ‘most cherished member of the Congress party, a true patriot and a great son of Kerala.’ “Mr. Chandy has been a dynamic student leader, a visionary Chief Minister, an effective Leader of the Opposition, a greatly valued general secretary of the All India Congress Committee. During his tenure as MLA, he has brought great distinctions, ability and integrity, never compromising on his principles and belief in secularism, social justice and democratic values.’’ said the message read out by Congress leader K.C. Joseph. Ms. Gandhi, who was originally scheduled to inaugurate the event through videoconferencing, could not join the event due to medical emergencies.  An accessible leader: Rahul Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said Mr. Chandy had always been an accessible leader of Kerala. “He is a true leader of the people of Kerala, because he feels the pain of the people. Apart from being an accessible leader, he also listens to the people,” Mr. Gandhi said. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran presided over the event held at Mamman Mappilai Hall. Fifty personalities from the various spheres of life were present. Senior Congress A.K. Antony, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, K.C. Venugopal and Mukul Wasnik spoke on the occasion. The event witnessed a huge turnout with people from all walks of life gathering at the venue. According to the organisers, several lakhs of people witnessed the live streaming of the event. Mr. Chandy was felicitated across Puthupally, earlier.
18 September 2020||Guwahati,||NHRC orders solatium for man thrashed by mob||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has ordered the Assam government to pay Rs. 1 lakh to a 48-year-old man who was thrashed more than a year ago in Biswanath district for selling cooked beef at his tea stall at a weekly market. The order was issued on the basis of a complaint filed by Congress MLA Debabrata Saikia, also the Leader of the Opposition in the 126-member Assembly, on April 12, 2019, five days after incident. In its directive on September 16, the NHRC noted that neither had the Chief Secretary replied to a show-cause notice nor had the Director-General of Police of Assam submitted the action-taken report against the police officials at fault. A mob had beaten up Shaukat Ali and allegedly forced him to eat pork in front of a few policemen for selling beef at the Madhupur weekly market in Biswanath Chariali town on April 7, 2019. The mob, which included a local Bharatiya Janata Party leader, also thrashed the contractor of the market for letting Mr. Ali sell the meat. Consumption of beef is legal in Assam but cattle can be slaughtered only if a veterinary officer certifies that the animal is above 14 years of age.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS to invite bids for new secretariat||Stage is set for inviting tenders for construction of the new secretariat complex. The government has finalised the tentative schedule for inviting bids. Tender notification for the new complex is likely to be made on Friday and the last date for the submission of tenders is October 1.Pre-bid meeting of the prospective bidders would be held on September 26 at the office of the Engineer-in-Chief of the Roads and Buildings department and the technical bids would be opened on October 1. The development follows submission of the estimates by Chennai-based Oscar and Ponni Architects which involved the costs relating to the virus and bacteria-free material that would be used in the construction.
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||GST evasion: one held||The GST Intelligence Wing Kozhikode has arrested the main accused in the Rs. 850-crore illegal areca nut business based in Wayanad, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, New Delhi and Maharashtra. Ali Akbar of Kerala Spices, Panamaram, was nabbed by the GST Department and he has confessed that Rs. 850 crore business was done after the GST was rolled out. The department had detected Rs. 42-crore tax evasion in the preliminary inquiry. According to the department, the accused obtained registrations in Tamil Nadu and New Delhi under the guise of selling areca nut to his units in Kerala by forging documents. Using these documents, the accused took input tax credit for GST evasion. This is the first arrest by the department after GST came into being.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books six firms for fake pop-up warning scam||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked six private companies which allegedly transmitted pop-ups to personal computers with bogus warnings about serious technical issues, prompting users to install unwanted programmes and pay online for resolving the fictitious problems. On Thursday, the agency conducted searches in this connection in 10 locations in Delhi, Noida, Mainpuri (Uttar Pradesh), Gurugram, Faridabad and Jaipur. The CBI identified the companies as Softwill Infotech Private Ltd., InnovanaThinklabs Ltd., Benovellient Technologies Private Ltd., Systweak Software Private Ltd., Saburi TLC Worldwide Services and Saburi Global Services. The accused companies were targeting the Microsoft Windows operating systems of computers rthrough the fake messages about malware infection.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pak. told to allow Queen’s Counsel||Pakistan should consider appointing a Queen’s Counsel for the Kulbhushan Jadhav case to ensure a free and fair trial, the External Affairs Ministry said on Thursday. “[Pakistan] has not yet addressed the basic issues, which includes provision of all documents related to the case and unconditional and unimpeded consular access to Shri Kulbhushan Jadhav and appointment of an Indian lawyer or a Queen’s Counsel to ensure a free and fair trial,” Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. India’s suggestion comes against the backdrop of negotiations between the two sides to ensure a free and fair trial. The International Court of Justice had asked Pakistan to ensure a fair review of the death sentence, but India says Pakistan has not provided “unimpeded” access to him till now.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Do we have 2 govts. or one under Modi?’||Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram, in a series of tweets on Thursday, flagged divergent statements from different functionaries of the government and wondered whether there were two governments or one under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Chief Economic Advisor (CEA) Krishnamurthy Subramanian had claimed recently that the economy had reported a V-shaped recovery, while RBI Governor Shaktikant Das on Wednesday said the country would see a gradual recovery. “RBI Governor squashes hopes of a V-shaped recovery and says recovery will be prolonged and gradual...” Mr. Chidambaram said. Different ministers have said different things about the situation in Ladakh too, he noted. “Makes you wonder whether we have two governments or one under PM Modi,” Mr. Chidambaram said.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 40% new COVID-19 deaths from Maharashtra||Maharashtra accounts for more than 40% (474) of the new COVID-19 deaths in the country in 24 hours, while Uttar Pradesh (86), Punjab (78), Andhra Pradesh (64) and West Bengal (61) contributed 25.5%, show data released by the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The total fatalities comes to 1,132 in 24 hours, the Ministry said. Close to half (48.45%) of the active cases were concentrated in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Together with Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, the five States contributed nearly 60% of the total active cases, it noted. The Ministry however, said over 82,000 patients had recovered and been discharged in the past two days and 82,961 active cases were found free of COVID-19 in 24 hours. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh together accounted for 57.1% of total new recoveries. “More than 40 lakh patients have recovered so far. Recovered cases have exceeded the active cases today by more than 30 lakh [30,15,103] and are four times the latter,” it stated.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘NLSIU has not exited CLAT consortium’||Joining the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) consortium does not necessarily mean a complete surrender of autonomy, the National Law School India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, argued in the Supreme Court on Thursday. Appearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate Arvind Datar for the NLSIU defended the premier law institutes’s decision to conduct its own separate entrance exam: the National Law Admission Test (NLAT) 2020. The court is hearing a challenge against the NLAT. It has stopped the NLSIU from declaring the results till further orders. The Bench reserved the case for judgment to be pronounced on September 21. “Joining CLAT did not mean I surrendered my autonomy. The bylaws [of CLAT consortium] are in the nature of a contract. Left to choose between bylaws and my Executive Council, I have to choose to obey my Executive Council under supervening circumstances,” Mr. Datar said. He was responding to Justice R. Subhash Reddy’s observation that the NLSIU, being part of the consortium, should have adhered to the bylaws. The senior advocate said it was wrong to say that the NLSIU had exited the consortium. The university cannot be ousted from the consortium. Justice M.R. Shah pointed out that the NLSIU had itself admitted malpractices during the exam. Mr. Datar said an FIR has already been registered.
18 September 2020||Jodhpur,||Court orders FIR against Shourie in hotel case||A special court here has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file cases against former Union Minister Arun Shourie and the then disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal over the sale of an ITDC hotel, allegedly at a loss of Rs. 244 crore to the exchequer. The CBI court also directed the filing of cases against three others associated with the sale, two decades ago, of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur, during the term of the Vajpayee-led NDA government at the Centre. Mr. Shourie, was the Minister incharge of divestment when the property, owned by the public sector India Tourism Development Corporation, was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd, a private company. In Wednesday’s order, special judge Puran Kumar Sharma rejected the closure report submitted in the case by the CBI in August 2019, and asked the agency to reinvestigate it.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Vaccine by early 2021: Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that there was a possibility that a vaccine against COVID-19 would be out by early 2021 and that the government was aiming to bring down India’s mortality rate from the novel coronavirus to less than 1% from the current 1.64%. The Minister said that the Science and Technology Ministry, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and drug companies were working together to find a solution. “Vaccines can come in future. Extensive planning is under way to execute how to manage the scenario,” Dr. Vardhan said. He said three vaccine candidates had reached Phase 1, 2 or 3 trial levels. Global coordination “Under the Prime Minister, an expert group is studying this. We expect by the beginning of next year, we can have a vaccine in the country. In this regard, we are also coordinating with the WHO (World Health Organization) and global organisations,” he said. India was among the few countries globally that had succeeded in isolating the virus, he added. Rebutting the Opposition criticism as the number of COVID-19 positive cases crossed 50 million, the Minister said active cases were less than 20%. Lauding the government, he said the country’s recovery rate of 78% was one of the highest in the world. Deaths in India due to the pandemic were fewer than in many nations in Europe, he said. Citing the examples of Spain and Brazil, the Minister said the mortality rate in those countries was over 11 times that of India. “We want to bring the mortality rate to less than 1%. We have 50 lakh cases right now, but out of these, only 10 lakh are active cases in the country right now,” Dr. Vardhan said. Currently, India is only second to the U.S. in the world in testing rate, which the government plans to improve, he said. To a query from Congress leader Anand Sharma on the basis of the government’s claims that the lockdown had reduced the number of cases by 14-29 lakh, Dr. Vardhan said the government had derived the figures from the findings of five scientific bodies, including the Boston Consulting Group and the Public Health Foundation of India, and the Statistics and Programme Implementation Ministry. “These bodies did five studies and based on that we prepared this data,” Dr. Vardhan said. Replying to another query on the use of the BCG vaccine for COVID-19 treatment, he said six clinical trials had been registered and the ICMR was part of this study.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Raichur BJP MP Ashok Gasti critical||BJP Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti from Raichur in Karnataka, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Bengaluru for COVID-19, passed away on Thursday. He was admitted to Manipal Hospitals 15 days ago. He took oath as a Rajya Sabha member on July 22. A low-profile leader who rose in the ranks through his work in the RSS, Mr. Gasti is credited with organising the BJP in Raichur district.
18 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||5 platoons for Bhubaneswar to enforce COVID-19 norms||A day after Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik expressed displeasure over non-adherence of COVID-19 guidelines in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack, the city police announced that five platoons of armed police will be deployed to enhance enforcement. The COVID-19 situation continues to worsen in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Khordha district, of which Bhubaneswar is a part, now leads the COVID-19 tally with 28,794 cases. Ganjam district is now at the second spot with 19,444 cases.
18 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Low-key celebrations mark Hyd. Liberation Day||The Hyderabad Liberation Day celebrations were a subdued affair on Thursday due to fear of coronavirus but all the mainstream political parties observed the event at their respective offices. TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao hoisted the national flag at TRS office amidst party leaders and activists. Telangana Congress committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, former BJP State president K. Laxman and Telangana Telugu Desam Party president L. Ramana also completed the formalities at their respective offices. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy appealed to the party cadre to gear up for Dubbaka Assembly by-election. The celebrations were generally a special occasion for Left parties as they observe the day to mark the success of Telangana Armed Struggle against feudal lords in Nizam rule. But even these parties kept the occasion a low-key affair. CPI State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy hoisted the Tricolour at Makhdoom Bhavan, the party office. The CPI(M) organised the valedictory function of a week-long celebrations at Sundaraiah Vignana Kendram which was addressed electronically from New Delhi by the party Polit Bureau member Brindra Karat. State secretary of CPI(M) Tammineni Veerabhadram was present. Ms. Karat accused the BJP and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh of trying to distort the armed struggle to drive a wedge between Hindus and Muslims.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Amit Shah discharged||Home Minister Amit Shah was discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Thursday at 5 p.m., confirmed hospital sources. He was admitted here four days ago for what the hospital authorities said was a routine check-up before the monsoon session. The Minister had been suffering from post-COVID medical complication. He was previously admitted to AIIMS on August 18 after his recovery. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on August 2 and received treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram.
18 September 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||New buildings for veterinary hospital||Eight animal husbandry dispensaries and a veterinary hospital in Ariyalur district will get new buildings with the financial assistance of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). A sum of Rs. 54 lakh has been sanctioned for the veterinary hospital in Ariyalur and Rs. 35 lakh has been released for the dispensaries at Vikkiramangalam, R. S. Mathur, Thirumanur, Guruvadi, T. Palur, Meensuriti, Irumbulikurichi, Andimadam and Sendurai. Though they had been functioning in their own buildings, many of them have become old. M. Hameed Ali, Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry, Ariyalur, told The Hindu that the buildings, where the dispensaries and veterinary hospital had been functioning, were demolished to construct the new buildings. Out of the eight dispensaries and a hospital, construction was almost complete in five dispensaries. All out patient facilities including treatment of cattle and artificial insemination sheds, storage of medicine, rooms for veterinary assistant surgeon, livestock inspector and animal husbandry assistants had been completed at Vikkiramangalam, Guruvadi, T. Palur, Meensuriti and Irumbulikurichi. A. Selvaraj, Assistant Director of Animal Husbandry, Ariyalur, said that construction of new buildings at R.S. Mathur, Thirumanur and Sendurai had started. Dr. Hameed added that the veterinary hospital at Ariyalur would have both in-patient and outpatient wards. Provisions have been made for the owners of cattle to stay with them when the animals were admitted as inpatients. The hospital would have an intensive care unit to treat badly affected pet animals and livestock. In addition to Rs. 54 lakh, a sum of Rs. 10 lakh has been sanctioned to set up an operation theatre at Ariyalur hospital. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was likely to inaugurate the new buildings when he is expected to visit the town in the last week of September.
18 September 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||No annadhanams, temporary shops near Kaliyuga Varadharaja Perumal Temple||Annadhanams and establishment of temporary shops have been prohibited in the vicinity of Kaliyuga Varadharaja Perumal Temple, which draws a large number of devotees especially on Saturdays during the Tamil month of Purattasi, at Kallankurichi in the district. Inspecting the arrangements being made to regulate the crowd at the temple during the month, Collector D. Rathna said that it had been decided to permit 300 devotees an hour. Devotees would be allowed to visit the temple between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. They had to follow physical distancing norms strictly. No one would be permitted to visit the temple without wearing face masks. They should maintain a distance of 6 feet between each other while standing in queues. To check the spread of COVID-19, it has been decided to prohibit the distribution of annadhanam to devotees. Similarly, no one would be allowed to set up temporary shops and sale of flowers, puja items and tea and coffee have been prohibited. The Collector said that devotees, who visited the temple from Ariyalur, should park their vehicles at the parking lot established at Arasu Cement ground and vehicles from Kadugur should park at Manakkudi parking lot. Vehicles from Srinivasapuram should park at the lot set up opposite to the Primary Health Centre. Ms. Rathna said that devotees below the age of 10 and above 65 should avoid visiting the temple. Action would be taken against those violating the standard operating procedure.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,560 more persons contract infection||A total of 5,560 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. While 5,524 persons were discharged from hospitals after treatment, 59 persons succumbed to the infection. The fresh cases took the State’s tally to 5,25,420 — 46,610 active cases, 4,70,192 persons discharged and 8,618 deceased. Chennai accounted for 992 new cases and 12 deaths, followed by Coimbatore with 530 cases. Four districts recorded 200-plus cases — Salem 291; Chengalpattu 283; Tiruvallur 239 and Cuddalore 206. While Tiruppur reported 191 fresh cases of COVID-19, Kancheepuram recorded 187. Among other districts, Tiruvannamalai reported 167 cases, Thanjavur 155 and Dharmapuri 124. Of the 59 deceased (36 deaths in government hospitals and 23 in private facilities), 52 had co-morbidities. Of them, nine were in their 40s. This included a 40-year-old woman who had diabetes. She was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate on September 12. She died on September 16 due to acute respiratory failure, sepsis and COVID-19 pneumonia. According to the Health Department, 20 of the 59 persons who died were in their 60s. In the last 24 hours, 84,524 samples were tested in the State, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 62,17,923. The total number of individuals tested in the State so far stands at 60,23,627. Labs approved One more government laboratory and three more private laboratories — Government Headquarters Hospital in Mayiladuthurai; Sree Mookambika Institute of Medical Science in Kanniyakumari; Microbiological Laboratory in Lakshmi Commercial Bazaar, Tirunelveli; and Vijaya Medical and Educational Trust in Chennai — were approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, the State has a total of 174 testing facilities — 66 in the government sector and 108 private facilities.  Four districts had 200-plus cases — Salem 291; Chengalpattu 283; Tiruvallur 239; and Cuddalore 206
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vandalur flyover opened for traffic||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday laid the foundation stone for the construction of two “U” shaped flyovers on Rajiv Gandhi Salai. The Rs. 108.13-crore flyovers will allow motorists to avoid Tidel Park junction signal. The Chief Minister inaugurated two flyovers built on the G.S.T. Road at Kelambakkam-Vandalur Road and at Pallavaram junctions, built at a cost of Rs. 55 crore and Rs. 80.74 crore respectively. A bridge on ECR near Kalpakkam and bridges in Dindigul and Cuddalore districts were inaugurated through video conferencing. Mr. Palaniswami said that the demand for a flyover at Vandalur came from the public when he was the Minister for Highways. He said the government immediately sanctioned it. “With Amma’s blessings it has been inaugurated today,” he said. The government would take steps to ensure smooth movement of vehicles in the city and elsewhere. Major works The Chief Minister listed the works carried out by various wings of the Highways Department in and around the city. He said that the Korattur subway, being built at a cost of Rs. 21.96 crore, would be completed by this month end; the Rs. 93.50-crore flyover at Koyambedu and the Rs. 146.41-crore flyover at Medavakkam would be completed by December. Minister for Industries P. Benjamin, Secretary Highways and Minor Ports A. Karthik, Chengalpattu Collector John Louis, Chief Engineers N. Shanthi, M.K. Selvan and and S. Sumathi were present. AMMK’s charge Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Thursday took exception to Mr. Palaniswami’s participation in public events where physical distancing was not followed. Citing the inauguration of a flyover to substantiate his point, the AMMK leader wondered how others would respect the government’s rules on COVID-19 when the Chief Minister himself had “disregarded” them.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin vows to cancel NEET if voted to power||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday reiterated that once his party was voted to office, it would get exemption from the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical aspirants in the manner Tamil Nadu was allowed to follow the two-language policy and conduct jallikattu. “The DMK government will make use of legal means, the power of the Assembly and the support of courts to get the NEET cancelled. The DMK always fulfilled what it had promised,” he said in a statement. Denying the allegation that the NEET was introduced when the Congress was in power in 2010 and the DMK was part of the government, Mr. Stalin said the NEET could not enter Tamil Nadu so long as the DMK was in power.  Stay in SC “When he was the Chief Minister, our leader Kalaignar [M. Karunanidhi] obtained a stay on the decision of the Medical Council of India in the Supreme Court. If he has the courage, let Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami come out with the evidence to support his allegation that NEET was introduced [in Tamil Nadu] during the DMK regime,” he said. Mr. Stalin also wanted to know why the AIADMK MPs in the Rajya Sabha and in the Lok Sabha staged a walkout when the Bill for the NEET was introduced. “Why didn’t they vote against the Bill? The AIADMK surrendered its right to vote on a major issue and paved the way for the entry of the NEET into Tamil Nadu. Now it is shedding crocodile tears,” he said. Mr. Stalin also rejected the AIADMK’s claim that the Supreme Court had stayed the NEET in 2010 on a petition filed by its leader and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. “The order was delivered in 2013 on a petition filed by the DMK. It was the DMK that had obtained a stay in 2010. Mr. Palaniswami is diverting the attention by referring to a wrong year,” he said. Reiterating his allegation that the BJP-led government at the Centre was responsible for introducing the NEET in 2017-18, he said Mr. Palaniswami was the Chief Minister then.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State PSUs’ overall loss widens to Rs. 17,423.56 crore in 2017-18||The 55 State public sector understandings (PSUs) in Tamil Nadu posted an overall net loss of Rs. 17,423.56 crore during 2017-18, compared with a loss of Rs. 8,699.81 crore in 2016-17, according to a report tabled in the recently concluded Assembly session. The aggregate cash loss has increased to Rs. 14,043.03 crore during 2017-18 from Rs. 5,670.36 crore in 2016-17, according to a review of the performance of the public sector understandings for 2017-18 prepared by the Finance Department’s Bureau of Public Enterprises. The total turnover of the 55 PSUs increased 3.19% to Rs. 1,11,460.19 crore in 2017-18 from Rs. 1,08,010.55 crore in 2016-17. The aggregate net profit earned by 32 public sector understandings was Rs. 569.32 crore in 2017-18, compared with the aggregate net profit of Rs. 830.77 crore earned by 35 public sector understandings during 2016-17. The aggregate loss incurred by 23 public sector understandings during 2017-18 was Rs. 17,992.88 crore, as against the aggregate loss of Rs. 9,530.59 crore suffered by 20 PSUs during 2016-17. Of the 11 sectors, except the agri and allied, manufacturing, passenger transport and energy sectors, the others earned a profit during 2017-18, the report said. The aggregate amount of investment made by the State government, including the share capital and the loan plus accrued interest in the PSUs stood at Rs. 53,986.96 crore as on March 31, 2018, compared with Rs. 54,904.08 crore as on March 31, 2017. In terms of overall turnover, the energy sector contributed 52.69%, followed by Trading Group 30.33% (which includes the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited or TASMAC), while passenger transport accounted for 7.98%. The TASMAC’s profit declined to Rs. 18.20 crore in 2017-18, from Rs. 68.80 crore in 2016-17. Its turnover stood at Rs. 31,757.71 crore in 2017-18, marginally higher from Rs. 31,262.43 crore in 2016-17. Employees The total number of employees in the public sector understandings was 2,44,333 as on March 31, 2018, against 2,47,556 as on March 31, 2017. Of this headcount, the transport and electricity sectors accounted for 1,34,520 and 87,730 respectively as of March 31, 2018. The manpower cost to turnover has increased to 17.43% during 2017-18 from 13.73% in 2016-17. The aggregate loss of eight Statutory Boards (including Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board, Tamil Nadu Housing Board, Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board and Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board) increased to Rs. 588.39 crore in 2017-18 from Rs. 446.24 crore in 2016-17. Their overall turnover increased to Rs. 3,330.83 crore in 2017-18 from Rs. 2,258.63 crore in the previous year. Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board posted a loss of Rs. 294.93 crore in 2017-18, compared with a loss of Rs. 205.56 crore in 2016-17. The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority posted a surplus of Rs. 175.10 crore in 2017-18, up from Rs. 147.94 crore in 2016-17.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||63 doctors died after testing positive for COVID-19 in T.N.: IMA (HQ) data||Sixty-three doctors have died after contracting COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, according to data released by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) headquarters on Wednesday. The association has published a list of 382 doctors who have died after testing positive for COVID-19 in the country. Of this, 63 doctors — a majority of them aged over 50 — have died in the State. Many of them were general practitioners. However, IMA-Tamil Nadu State Branch said it was in the process of collecting data on the number of doctors who have died of COVID-19 in the State till now. “The State government has asked the association for a detailed list of doctors who died of COVID-19 from the branch level, and has asked the joint directors of health services to verify the data. We have circulated this among all IMA branches in the State. This is for claiming the Rs. 50 lakh insurance of the Central government,” C.N. Raja, president of IMA-T.N., said. In a release, Rajan Sharma, national president, IMA, and R.V. Asokan, honorary secretary general, IMA, said families of the doctors deserved solace and solatium from the Central government. ‘Faithfully concealed’ Referring to the statement of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in Parliament on the contribution of healthcare workers during the pandemic, the association said “it faithfully concealed the morbidity and mortality of doctors, nurses and healthcare workers”. “No nation has lost as many doctors and healthcare workers as India,” it said. “If the government does not maintain data on the number of doctors and healthcare staff infected by COVID-19 and how many of them lost their lives due to the infection, it loses the moral authority to administer the Epidemic Act, 1897, and Disaster Management Act,” it said. Last month, when IMA (headquarters) said 43 doctors had died of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, it was denied by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and IMA-T.N. Later, IMA-T.N. said 32 doctors had died after testing positive for COVID-19 and another 15, who died, had symptoms, but had tested negative.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Architect of Train18 shifted to less prominent post by Railway Board||A day after initiating afresh vigilance enquiryagainst Shubhranshu, Chief Administrative Officer, Railway Wheel Factory, Bela, the Railway Board, POP late on Wednesday issued orders transferring him to a less prominent post in East Central Railway. Mr. Shubhranshu is the architect of Train18, which was later flagged off as Vande Bharat Express by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in February, 2019. Soon after allegations of compromise on safety and favouring one firm in the purchase of propulsion equipment surfaced, vigilance enquiries were initiated against him and a few other senior officials who were part of Team Train18. Mr. Shubhranshu was moved out of the Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, where he led a specialised team of engineers that designed and developed the country’s first semi-high speed train in a record 18-month time in 2018. Though the Central Vigilance Commission dropped action in the vigilance case against him and a few others, the Vigilance Directorate of the Railway Board launched a fresh case on Tuesday. New posting The next day, the officer, belonging to the 1983-batch of the Indian Railway Service of Mechanical Engineers (IRSME), was posted as Chief Mechanical Engineer, Planning, East Central Railway, Hajipur. According to railway sources, Mr. Shubhranshu would have to report to an officer much junior to him in the new assignment. When contacted over phone, the officer refused to comment on his transfer. However, sources said that Mr. Shubhranshu had appealed to the Cabinet Secretary against the dropping of his name from the panel of officers cleared by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet for posting as General Manager in Zonal Railways.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only around 21% rural households in T.N. has tap water connections||About one-fifth of households in rural Tamil Nadu has tap water connections. An estimated 27 lakh households, accounting for 21.28% of the total rural households in the State, have the connections, according to a reply given by Rattan Lal Kataria, Union Minister of State for Jal Shakti, to an unstarred question raised by S. Jothimani (Congress) of Karur in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The Ministers’ reply was in the context of the status of implementation of Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), a programme being executed by the Central government along with States to enable every household in villages to have functional tap connection by 2025. As for the position in Karur district, the Union Minister stated that as on September 14, about 48,000 rural households, representing 22.4% of the total 2.13 lakh rural households had tap water connection. Asked about the overall status of the State, C.N. Mahesvaran, Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board’s Managing Director and Mission Director for JJM, told The Hindu that the State had 1.26 crore rural households, of which 21 lakh had tap connections as on April 1, 2020. The remaining 1.05 crore households would be covered under the JJM and convergence of various schemes. “During the current year, we have planned to cover 40 lakh rural households, of which 20 lakh will be under the Mission and the rest through convergence of various schemes,” he said.  Functional connections When pointed out that one of the findings during the Census 2011 was that about 79% of rural Tamil Nadu had tap water connections, the official replied that there might have been connections but the critical element was that “the connection should be functional.” This was why a survey was carried out, bringing to light the factual position. For the Mission, the State was allotted Rs. 2,374 crore this year, of which the Central government’s share was Rs. 921.99 crore. As for tap connections to be provided through the convergence, funds devolved by the 15th Finance Commission to rural local bodies and amount lying with the mines and mineral fund could be utilised.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No relief for special children, they have to appear for board exams||Parents of children with disabilities are worried about their wards contracting COVID-19 infection when they appear for exams. While Class 10 students in mainstream schools were exempted from writing the board exams and declared ‘passed’, children from special schools have not been given that concession. Despite repeated representation by groups of activists and parents, there has been no reprieve. According to Sathish Kumar, an activist with Disability Rights Alliance, around 1,000 children will be taking the exams, that are scheduled from Monday. On Thursday, a group of people, including parents of children with special needs, met with the Commissioner for the Welfare of Differently Abled persons. The meeting lasted several hours where the parents voiced their concerns. Kavithaa, a parent of a child with autism from Coimbatore, said she was concerned that her son could contract the infection. “If it happens it would be difficult to manage him,” she said. “We requested the officials to stagger the exams, instead of holding them in a week. But we were told that the exam schedule would be easy for students to handle,” a parent said. The officials explained that the exams could not be cancelled as the assessment for students with special needs was different from that of mainstream school students, one of the attendees said. Activists are now awaiting the verdict of a petition filed in the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, the School Education Department, through a circular on Wednesday, has reiterated the need to follow the Standard Operating Procedures to prevent spread of COVID-19 through schools when textbooks, uniforms and dry rations are distributed. The circular has pointed out that the physical distancing norms were not observed in the government school in Pennagaram in Dharmapuri district while distributing free textbooks.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take technology to farmers: NABARD chief||NABARD Chairman G.R. Chintala on Thursday underlined the need for governments and institutions to take technology to farmers. He said that a national-level platform integrating all aspects of farming should be developed. Addressing representatives of farmer producers organisations at the National Agro Foundation (NAF) Centre here, he said a study in consumption patterns and consumer preferences was needed to ensure that the right produce reached the public. S.S. Rajsekar, Managing Trustee, NAF, recalled the days of Green Revolution spearheaded by NAF founder and former Union Minister C. Subramaniam. S. Selvaraj, Chief General Manager, NABARD, Chennai, spoke. Visits MSSRF Earlier, Mr. Chintala visited the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) and was shown around the model garden on campus. Eminent agriculture scientist MSSRF founder M.S. Swaminathan said that NABARD was the most powerful financial instrument to help small farmers. Foundation Chairperson Madhura Swaminathan and its Executive Director K.S. Murali spoke.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner reassures families of deceased police personnel||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Thursday said the department would take care of the families of deceased personnel. Mr. Aggarwal was distributing financial assistance to 96 children of deceased police personnel at Rajarathinam Stadium here. The financial assistance of Rs. 10.75 lakh was extended by Jain International Trade Organisation (JITO) which has businessmen, industrialists, knowledge workers and professionals as its members. Mr. Aggarwal said: “The families of deceased police personnel are part of us. We will be always with you and willing to help you.” He said several initiatives had been taken to ensure welfare of police personnel and their families and pointed out that 123 wards of police personnel were admitted into courses and colleges on their choice at the initiative of police officers recently. He added that two community halls were built in the city. Senior officers regularly visited police quarters and committees had been formed to ensure that all facilities were provided and hygiene was maintained, Mr. Aggarwal said. The Commissioner told presspersons that efforts were on to reform the juveniles and first-time offenders and all deputy commissioners were preparing a list. He said they had been conducting meetings with juveniles and first-time offenders to study the requirement to change their lives.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kidnapped child rescued after 10 days||The Royapuram police rescued a three-year-old girl who was kidnapped by a migrant worker from Royapuram railway station 10 days ago. The police said the victim was daughter of a construction worker from West Bengal. The migrant worker lives at a makeshift quarters inside Royapuram railway station complex with his wife and four children as he is employed at the site. On September 6, the construction worker met Sunil, a native of Assam, near the railway station. Sunil sought the former’s help in getting a job in the city. The two went to a Tasmac shop and consumed alcohol. They later went to Royapuram railway station complex. After a brief chat, Sunil took three children, including the victim, to a nearby shop on the pretext of buying them food. While two children returned home, Sunil and the victim did not. The father of the child immediately lodged a complaint with the Royapuram police. While analysing the CCTV footage in the locality, the police spotted the abductor and the child boarding an autorickshaw. The police found a cellphone number on a piece of paper in the clothes left behind by Sunil. The number was being used by a worker at a construction site in Navalur, Chengalpattu district where many others from Assam are working. The suspect took the child to the work place. When other migrant workers enquired, Sunil abandoned the child and fled the spot. The police restored the child to her parents.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||South Korea donates 1 lakh masks||Social Welfare Corporation Anguk Zen Center in South Korea, headed by the Venerable Abbot, Subul Sunim, donated one lakh masks for free distribution, to aid India’s fight against COVID-19. The donation was coordinated by K-Art International Exchange Association in Korea and InKo Centre in India. The consignment was handed over to Venu Srinivasan, chairman, TVS Motor Company, for free distribution through the Srinivasan Services Trust, the social service arm of TVS Motor Company, according to a release. “We welcome what is indeed a timely and valuable donation in these challenging times, when wearing masks, following strict rules of sanitation and hygiene, and maintaining physical distancing is the new normal,” Mr. Srinivasan said. “The global pandemic is by far one of the most serious challenges humanity has ever faced. We can overcome this by staying strong and working together. This cooperation, at the civil society level, clearly shows how much ordinary Koreans and Indians care for each other and that we can overcome the challenge by standing together,” said Young-seup Kwon, Consul General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Second serosurvey in Chennai by Sept. end||The Greater Chennai Corporation will conduct a second serosurvey in the city in the last week of September. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said Chennai would be the first city to conduct a study of T cells in recovered COVID-19 patients, in addition to the serosurvey. “The T-cell study will be for academic purposes. T cells play a role in immune response in COVID-19 patients, in addition to the antibodies,” said an official. Seroprevalence in the city is expected to be around 40%, said Mr. Prakash. According to the earlier survey, seroprevalence of the infection was higher among women in the city, with 23.7% of the 6,493 women exposed to COVID-19. It also pointed out that 19.3% of men were exposed to the infection in the city. The survey will assess seroprevalence of COVID-19 among residents aged over 10, in the city’s 15 zones. Corporation officials at the zonal level said that the number of cases had not increased after relaxation in lockdown norms, pointing to a development of herd immunity among the city residents. The number of cases, however, has been high in Kodambakkam zone. Anna Nagar too has reported a high number of COVID-19 cases. The case fatality rate has come down to 1.99% in the city. Tiruvottiyur zone has registered the highest case fatality rate in the city. The Corporation has directed officials to start taking initiatives to protect the livelihood of street vendors and traders. More than 12,000 street vendors are yet to get financial assistance from the government. The major reason behind the delay is that civic officials do not have bank account details of the vendors. Many of their accounts have not been active due to the stringent regulations in banks, pertaining to minimum balance. Meanwhile, conservancy workers staged a protest in Ambattur on Thursday after several workers were punished for participating in a protest, demanding better wages, a few days ago.
18 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||SICCI gets new president||Ar. Rm. Arun, Chairman of Valingro Group, and Honorary Consul of the Czech Republic in Chennai, was elected as president of the Southern India Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SICCI) during the 110th annual general meeting of the chamber.  Facing the challenge “While COVID-19 has caused significant hardships worldwide, we have to collect ourselves and ensure progress with the available resources at hand. Within SICCI, we have started the planning and a good amount of our way forward has been identified,” he said in a statement issued by the chamber. Mr. Arun further added, “We firmly believe that our chamber will be contributing to growth, be a significant bridge between the industry and government and deliver value by making tangible contributions; all this, in spite of these challenging times.” V. N. Shiva Sankar, founder of VNS Legal was elected as the vice-president of SICCI.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘E-courts site to be available in 22 languages’||Justice D.Y. Chandrachud of the Supreme Court on Thursday said the court’s e-committee, chaired by him, was in the process of translating the e-courts website in 22 languages. He requested the Madras High Court too to publicise the work being done by it not only in English but also in Tamil for the benefit of the people. The judge made the request after inaugurating, virtually, five digital projects in Tamil Nadu. He inaugurated the service of court notices and summons using smartphones, an e-seva centre at Yercaud, provision of e-court services through State government’s e-seva centres, biometric attendance for district court staff and an e-way finder at the High Court. The judge commended Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice T.S. Sivagnanam, the chairman of the High Court’s e-committee, for the rapidity with which e-court projects were being implemented in Tamil Nadu. He said the State was leading the way for the rest of the country.
18 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM orders release of water from Amaravathi||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday announced that 8,709 mcft of water be released from Amaravathi dam in Tiruppur after farmers in Tiruppur and Karur requested that water be released for old and new ayacuts. The water would be released from September 20. “The 16 Amaravathi old ayacut will get 6,048 mcft for kuruvai crop and new irrigated lands in the two districts will get 2,661 mcft. In total, 8,709 mcft will be released between September 20 and February 2, 2021,” he said.
18 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM orders release of water from Amaravathi dam||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday announced that he has directed that not less 8,709 mcft of water be released from Amaravathi dam in Tiruppur after farmers in Tiruppur and Karur requested that water be released for ayacuts. The water would be released from September 20. “The 16 Amaravathi old ayacut for kuruvai crops will get 6,048 mcft and new irrigated lands in the two districts will get 2,661 mcft. In total, 8,709 mcft will be released between September 20 and February 2, 2021,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami said that a total of 51, 803 acres will benefit and urged the farmers to use the water judiciously.
18 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||PM, leaders condole Krishnakumar’s death||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Ministers and leaders paid tributes on social media to P.R. Krishnakumar, chairman and managing director of the Arya Vaidya Pharmacy (Coimbatore) Limited, who died here on Wednesday after testing positive for COVID-19. Mr. Modi, who had previously visited his pharmacy and recently sought his opinion on Ayurveda’s prospects in COVID-19 management, took to Twitter to offer his condolences. “P.R. Krishna Kumar’s persistent, enterprising and mission-mode efforts contributed to Ayurveda’s global popularity. He was an extremely humble and knowledgeable person. Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family. Om Shanti,” the Prime Minister tweeted. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted “Shocked to hear that Krishna Kumar ji is no more. His life was dedicated to Āyurveda. Affable & gentle, have received his blessings each time he visited Shri Guruvayur. Grateful for the times I’ve spent at @avp_ayurveda. Always returned rejuvenated. Thank you Krishnakumar ji”. “Sad to hear demise of Shri P.R. Krishna Kumar who contributed in field of Ayurveda immensely and gave a global exposure. My Condolences to his family. Om Shanti”, tweeted Shripad Y. Naik, Union Minister of State for AYUSH (independent charge) and Defence. BJP national president J.P. Nadda remembered Krishnakumar in a tweet saying that his deep knowledge of Ayurveda, innate sincerity, humility and capacity for untiring hardwork won for him the deep affection and trust of all. Sashi Tharoor, Congress MP from Thiruvananthapuram, said he was “Saddened by the passing of my old family friend Dr. P.R. KrishnaKumar, MD of Arya Vaidya Pharmacy, Coimbatore, a pioneer of Ayurveda who did so much to professionalize this essential science. He had such knowledge & insight into India’s traditional healthcare practices. A real loss.” Former Railway Minister Suresh Prabhu said he was “Extremely Saddened about passing away of renowned#Ayurvedachampion, noted social worker, supporter of many noble causes, educationist, leading personality#TamilNadu#Keralahead of AVP, Coimbatore, Dr. Krishnakumar ji real loss to me as a dear friend. Condolence will miss him. Om Shanti”. S.P. Velumani, Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development, tweeted that Krishnakumar was known nationally and internationally for his efforts to promote research in Ayurveda. Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said Krishnakumar’s foresight and pioneering efforts to introduce the science of Ayurveda to the modern world brought recognition to the Science and well-being to millions. Krishnakumar’s body was cremated in the presence of a limited number of people as per COVID-19 protocol here on Thursday. The staff at the Arya Vaidya Pharmacy (Coimbatore) Ltd paid respects to Krishnakumar by offering a silent prayer on the campus adhering to restrictions in place due to COVID-19. Avinashiligam Institute for Home Science and Higher Education for Women, for which Krishnakumar was the Chancellor, organised a condolence meeting on Thursday.
18 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murdering relative||The Alandurai police on Wednesday arrested a 24-year-old man on charges of murdering his relative, a 50-year-old man. According to police, while returning home after attending a funeral at Karunya Nagar on Tuesday, K. Karuppusamy alias Ravi of Vadivelampalayam met R. Dharman of Moolapalayam and the two consumed liquor at Muthipalayam. The two quarrelled over some issues and Ravi hit Dharman on the head many times with a torch and fled the place. On being informed of the incident, a police patrol team went to the spot and found Dharman dead. The police arrested Ravi based on a complaint lodged by Dharman’s older brother. He was produced before a court and remanded in judicial custody.
18 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Flyover work: Highways dept. to use void formers||The National Highways division of the State Highways Department will use void formers in construction of the flyover on Trichy Road. An official of the Department said this is the first time that void formers are used in a flyover project in Coimbatore, though its use is quite common in other cities and towns. The void formers are steel structures and six of these will be used in each concrete slab that will be laid for the "S" bend of the flyover at Sungam junction. The void formers, procured from Hyderabad, are hollow and will help reduce the weight of the slabs. These are best suitable for curves in a flyover and are economical. In the 3.1 km flyover, nearly nine slabs will come in the "S" bend at the junction. Each slab will be 25 metres long. The slab concrete will come on top of the void formers. These will not be visible when the flyover is constructed, the official explained.
18 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Bank loans for MSMEs should not be affected, says TACT||The Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) has appealed to the Governments, Reserve Bank of India and the banks to ensure that MSMEs in the region are not affected by recent announcements related to priority sector lending. Guidelines President of the association J. James said in a press release that the guidelines announced to address regional disparities in priority sector lending should not affect districts such as Coimbatore. The strength of MSMEs are high in the district and they need bank loans to sustain operations, he said. According to the district lead bank manager, P. Kousalya Devi, in Coimbatore district, MSMEs are major part of the priority sector lending. Lending to these units will not be affected.
18 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Injured elephant found dead||A male elephant, aged around 25, that has been roaming with multiple wounds, within the limits of Mettupalayam forest range, was found dead on Thursday evening. Forest Department staff found the elephant lying immobile in an interior part of the forest range on the lower slopes of the Nilgirs. The Forest Department suspect that the elephant could have died of a fall from the slippery and sloppy terrain. Apart from an injury on one of its forelegs, the elephant had piercing wounds on abdomen and shoulder, possibly suffered in the fight with another tusker.
18 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Suriya will change stance on NEET after results’||BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai on Thursday claimed that actor Suriya, who issued a statement condemning the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), will change his stance once the results of the test are declared. He participated in the 70th birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi organised here. Speaking to the mediapersons, he said that the results of NEET will be the answer for Mr. Suriya as the questions this year were largely covered by the State board textbooks. He termed the recent suicides of NEET aspirants in different parts of the State as “unfortunate” and alleged that a “false image” of the test was constructed. Mr. Annamalai condemned the DMK and other Opposition parties for allegedly politicising this issue. On a question regarding the 142nd birth anniversary of Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar E.V. Ramasamy, Mr. Annamalai said that although Periyar was “a leader who cannot be ignored,” the BJP cannot agree with all his views. Regarding the AIADMK-BJP alliance, he said that differences within an alliance are “natural.” The people of Tamil Nadu are in favour of the three-language formula proposed in the National Education Policy (NEP 2020) despite Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami asserting that only the two-language formula will continue to be implemented in the State, Mr. Annamalai claimed. ‘Stalin can’t stop NEET’ BJP State vice-president V.P. Duraisamy said that DMK leader M.K. Stalin will not be able to stop National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). Speaking to reporters after taking part in the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Namakkal, Mr. Duraisamy said, “NEET is conducted so that qualified candidates are selected for medical education.” He said that the party would contest the byelection to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency
18 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Virtual fitness event||Rotary Club of Coimbatore Green City will conduct a virtual fitness event in association with Datri Blood Stem Cell Donor Registry throughout September to create awareness on blood cancer treatment. Titled ‘Get Sporty, Gift a Life’, the proceeds from this event will be utilised for identifying and testing blood stem cell donors to be incorporated into Datri’s registry, where a database of donors can be accessed by any patient in need of a blood stem cell transplant, according to the release.
18 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Cauvery Calling’: 7,200 saplings planted||Farmers in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts planted 7,200 tree saplings as part of the ‘Cauvery Calling’ agroforestry initiative by the Isha Foundation on Wednesday. A release said that about 4,000 saplings were planted near Periyanaickenpalayam, 1,200 near Karumathampatti in Coimbatore district and 2,000 near Thekkalur in Tiruppur district. The saplings were planted to commemorate the second death anniversary of ‘Maram’ Thangasamy, an environmentalist, who died on September 16, 2018.
18 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||World Ozone Day observed||The ENVIS Resource Partner on Forest Genetic Resources and Tree Improvement at the Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB), Coimbatore, observed the World Ozone Day-2020 digitally by organizing an online awareness programme through Facebook live on Wednesday. A release issued by ENVIS said that an online awareness quiz on ozone was also organized for students and people from all walks of life which was participated by nearly 1,000 individuals.
18 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Application for UG courses invited||Krishnagiri Government Arts College for Men has invited applications for undergraduate courses for the academic year 2020-21. According to a release, the College has invited applications from those, who were yet to join colleges to fill up vacancies. The last date for submitting the applications in September 24.
18 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown has taken the sheen off Othakadai vessel units||The usual buzz on Suthanthira Nagar First Street of Othakadai, a place known for its stainless steel industry, is missing for the past six months owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Though the business has slightly improved after relaxation of lockdown norms, disruption in supply of raw materials from Mumbai, Delhi and Jodhpur and a slack demand for the products have crippled this cottage industry. Unique industry There are separate units for tinkering, welding and polishing utensils, employing around 3,000 people. The tinkering units procure stainless steel utensils with manufacturing defects from factories in Mumbai and Jodhpur, rectify the defects and sell them throughout the State and in Karnataka. “This process of rectifying damage in utensils and reselling them is unique to Othakadai,” says N. Pandi, president of Yanamalaiyaan Eversilver Re-Manufacturers Association. But, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the units in Mumbai are yet to resume operation as many migrant labourers who have gone home are yet to return, he says. Before the pandemic, the Othakadai units used to procure utensils with damage for up to Rs. 1 crore every fortnight, says B. Sridevi, another manufacturer. “But, now, we are able to get only 25% of it,” she says. In the absence of suburban railway services due to the pandemic, dealers are unable to reach the manufacturing units to collect the faulty utensils, says Mr. Pandi. There is also a sizeable number of units in Othakadai which procure stainless steel sheets from Delhi and manufacture utensils. They also face difficulty in procuring the sheets from Delhi owing to the pandemic, says G. Gopu, another manufacturer. Moreover, there is not much of a demand for stainless steel utensils now. “One of the main reasons is cancellation of temple festivals. Also, the number of utensils bought for wedding ‘seer varisai’ has drastically come down as people do not have money to splurge as before,” he adds. Jobless and struggling With fewer orders, hundreds of labourers are out of work and have lost the only source of income for the past six months, says S. Malai Kannan, president of a labourers’ association. “Many small units have shut down and the jobless labourers are struggling to pay house rent and meet day-to-day expenses,” Mr. Malai Kannan says. Though the government has announced that bank loans would be given to industries, none of the units in Othakadai are able to get them, says Ms. Sridevi. “Many have accumulated debts and only banks can help revive the business,” she adds. Lead District Manager K. Arivalagan says he would hold discussions with the banks in Othakadai in this regard.
18 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||20-year-old youth found dead, villagers allege torture by police||Villagers of Anaikaraipatti staged a protest alleging “police torture” caused the death of a 20-year-old youth, K. Ramesh, who was found dead in nearby Vazhaithoppu under Saptur police station limits on Thursday morning. The villagers squatted on the road and alleged that the youth, belonging to a Scheduled Caste community, had died due to torture by Saptur police who had been enquiring him in connection with a girl missing case for the past one month. Police said that elder brother of Ramesh, Idhayakani, 25, had reportedly eloped with a relative girl on August 23. “Since the girl was a minor, her father has been putting pressure on the police to trace her. The police have been conducting enquiry with the family members,” Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar said. “The youth had gone to the police station on Wednesday evening for inquiry, but did not return home. He was found hanging from a tree in the early hours of Thursday,” said Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front functionary T. Chellakannu. Around 300 villagers sat around the body that was found on the foothills of Western Ghats and sought action against a Sub-Inspector of Police for harassment. CCTV footage However, Mr. Sujit said he police team had gone to the house and enquired the woman and son on Wednesday evening. “Since, the other brother, Santosh, was not present at home, our men asked all three of them to appear in the station on Thursday morning and left for the station leaving behind both the mother and son at home. We have confirmed this with a CCTV footage that showed that only the three police personnel had returned and the youth was not with them on their bikes,” he added. Besides, except for an old wound, the body had no fresh injuries, he said. After Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) S. Rajendiran and Superintendent of Police held talks with the protesters, the body was taken to Usilampatti Government Hospital in the afternoon. While the protesters sought registration of first information report against the police personnel, a case of suspicious death under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been registered. After an inquest by the Revenue Divisional Officer, the post-mortem was conducted. “Based on the RDO enquiry and post-mortem reports, further course of investigation will be decided,” Mr. Sujit Kumar said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.  He went to the police station for enquiry and did not return home. He was found hanging from a tree  T. Chellakannu Functionary, Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front
18 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bail plea of Sattankulam case accused dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed the bail petition of suspended Inspector of Police S. Sridhar, one of the accused in the case of custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks in Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. Taking into account the fact that the investigation in the case is in progress and at a crucial stage, Justice V. Bharathidasan dismissed the bail petition. The CBI, which is probing the case, opposed grant of bail to the accused. The court observed that there were prima facie materials available on record to believe that the petitioner had committed the offence. The materials showed that it was at his instigation that his subordinates beat up the traders and caused serious injuries to them. Considering the gravity of the offence and the position of the petitioner, there was reasonable apprehension that witnesses were likely to be influenced, as some of them were police personnel working in the same police station, the judge observed. Earlier, the CBI submitted that false cases were registered against the traders. The post-mortem reports revealed multiple injuries on their bodies and the deaths were due to the blunt injuries sustained by them. In her intervening petition, Selvarani, wife of Jayaraj, also opposed grant of bail to the accused. She apprehended that if the accused was let out on bail, key witnesses could be influenced and evidence could be tampered with.
18 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC sets aside punishment awarded to policeman||Setting aside the departmental punishment awarded to a policeman on the charge of bigamy, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has held that a plea of customary divorce was a valid defence in departmental proceedings. The court was hearing the petition filed by Sudalaimani, who sought to set aside the punishment imposed on him on the charge of bigamy. He was awarded the punishment of reduction in the rank from Head Constable to Grade I constable for two years. Departmental proceedings were initiated against the petitioner after he married a woman Sub-Inspector, while his first wife, a staff nurse, was living with their two children. The petitioner said he had obtained a customary divorce from his first wife. Justice RMT Teekaa Raman took cognisance of the fact that due to misunderstanding, the petitioner and his first wife obtained a customary divorce as per the custom prevailing in their community and it was reduced into writing. Only after the dissolution of the first marriage, he contracted the second marriage. The plea raised by the delinquent about the prevalence of the customary divorce in their community was also accepted by the first wife. The court said the disciplinary proceedings could be initiated even if the second marriage was contracted with the knowledge of the first wife, so also even if the first wife did not prosecute the husband for the same. Valid defence A plea of customary divorce was a valid defence in a departmental proceedings initiated for misconduct of bigamy under the Service Rules/Conduct Rules, and to substantiate the plea of customary divorce a specific plea had to be raised in the statement of defence by the delinquent officer and had to be proved on up to the decree of preponderance of probability and execution of the customary divorce as projected by the delinquent, the court said.
18 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Central govt. employee asked to approach CAT||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed a Central government employee to approach the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) to resolve a service dispute. The court said when a forum was earmarked to address the issue it could not be bypassed. Stating that the petitioner should have approached the CAT first, Justice R. Suresh Kumar said the petition was not maintainable. The court was hearing the plea filed by A. Maheswari, an employee of Zirconium Complex of Nuclear Fuel Complex in Thoothukudi, against whom disciplinary proceedings were initiated. The petitioner sought to quash the proceedings. The Nuclear Fuel Complex comes under the Department of Atomic Energy, especially under the Atomic Energy Regulatory Board, one of the organisations included in the list of government organisations or departments for the purpose of jurisdiction to be conferred on the CAT under the provisions of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985, the court said. The petitioner could argue the issue on merits before the CAT, the judge said.
18 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||UGC gives approval for B. Voc. and M. Voc. courses||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has given approval to The American College Community College to offer four Bachelor of Vocation (B. Voc.) courses and four Masters of Vocation (M. Voc.) programmes. The college was granted permission to establish a community college in 2015, according to a press release from Principal M. Davamani Christober. The new courses The new B.Voc courses that are given approval are Horticulture, Industrial Biotechnology, Data Science, and Health and Sanitation. The M. Voc. courses that are given approval are Aquaculture, Medical Lab Technology, Food Processing and Preservation and Media Technology. A professor of the college said anyone who had cleared Class 12 examinations can apply for the B. Voc. courses. “On completion of first year of B. Voc., they will be given diploma certificates. If they complete the second year, they will get advanced diploma certificates. This is an additional benefit,” he said. These courses, which give importance to entrepreneurship, will be highly beneficial for the students. There is no age limit for these courses, said a press release issued here on Thursday.
18 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Truck driver robbed at knifepoint||A truck driver from Perambalur, S. Chinnadurai, 25, was robbed of Rs. 5,500 at knifepoint on Madurai-Tiruchi highway near Melur in the early hours of Wednesday. Police said the driver had parked the truck along the highway at Soorakundu and dozed off. Around 4.30 a.m. three youths arrived there and woke him up. After brandishing a knife, the trio threatened him to part with the money and fled away from the scene. Melur police are investigating.     A 49-year-old woman, C. Rajeswari, was robbed of her six-sovereign gold chain at Nagamalai Pudukottai on Wednesday afternoon. Police said that the woman was walking on Omanthar Street in NGO Colony when two unidentified persons came there on a motorbike and yanked her chain around noon and sped away. Nagamalai Pudukottai police are investigating.     M. Murugan of Samayanallur was robbed of his motorbike by two persons on Samayanallur four-lane highway on Wednesday morning. Police said the man had parked the motorbike along the highway to relieve himself around 7 a.m. Two persons arrived on the scene, shoved him to the ground and fled with his motorbike. Murugan immediately alerted Samayanallur police, who nabbed the two, identified as L. Sarath Kumar, 24, and S. Sanjay, 20, of Melakkal. Samayanallur Inspector of Police said the two were plumbers and alcoholics. They had tried their hands in robbery to meet their expenses for liquor. However, they were intercepted during a vehicle check, he said.
18 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||State BJP vice-president defends NEET||BJP vice-president V.P. Duraisamy on Thursday defended the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and said that DMK leader M.K. Stalin would not be able to stop the conduct of NEET in Tamil Nadu. Mr.Duraisamy took part in the birthday celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Namakkal. “The NEET is being conducted so that qualified candidates are selected for medical education in accordance with the Supreme Court order.” Mr.Duraisamy claimed that only those who pay heed to the BJP will be able to come to power in the State.
18 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry fatality rate crosses 2%||The Union Territory’s COVID-19 case fatality rate, which has been on a steady climb, crossed 2% for the first time on Thursday as the administration warned of prosecuting patients and kin who delay seeking treatment at a designated hospital. With the capital reporting 10 deaths and Karaikal three in the last 24 hours, raising the cumulative toll to 431, the UT’s CFR of 2.01% is well above national average of 1.64. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy had held a review of the COVID-19 mortalities with him, especially on the fatalities of patients below 60 years of age in Puducherry, where it emerged that a majority of the deaths occurred due to the delay in reporting to a COVID-designated hospital. “Health teams have been undertaking household visits to screen for symptoms and in several cases it appears that patients had not heeded advice to go to hospital. As a result, many patients are reaching hospital in an advanced state of coronavirus infection and failing to survive,” Mr. Rao said. Meanwhile, in a briefing with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, A. Anbarasu, Relief & Rehabilitation Commissioner and T. Arun, Health Secretary, said orders would be issued under Section 188 of IPC/144 of Cr.PC for the patients to report immediately after they develop symptoms. Violators will be prosecuted under law and responsibility fixed on the family members. Wide publicity will be given for the Home Quarantine/Home Isolation persons to be made aware of the penal provisions. On Thursday, the UT logged 323 new cases from testing 4,867 samples reflecting a case detection rate of 6.63%. The tally is 431 deaths, 4,744 active cases, a cumulative total of 21,248 cases and 16,253 patients discharged.
18 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||CM launches cycle sharing stations||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Wednesday launched bicycle sharing stations at 41 vantage locations across the capital as part of the Smart City project. The bicycle docking points are being set up on an estimated cost of Rs. 5.50 crore. Mr. Narayanasamy and Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy pedalled bicycles to open the public bicycle system at the Gandhi Thidal. The Smart City Project is being implemented at an estimated cost overlay of Rs. 1,828 crore.
18 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister’s pat for healthcare workers||Giving credit to the ground level healthcare workers for bringing down COVID-19 positivity rate in the Union Territory, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao on Thursday said if there was public cooperation, the government would be able to contain the spread even more effectively. “The Health Department has been working for the last six months at the ground level. It is a combined effort.”
18 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||No communal angle in murder: police||Previous enmity and ego clash between two groups of men had claimed the life of Arun prakash (24) of Vasantha Nagar here on August 31, the police said on Thursday. BJP and Hindu Munnani functionaries here termed the murder of Arun prakash as a communal attack. The State government shifted the Superintendent of Police V Varun Kumar without any new posting soon after the murder. E Karthik Deputy Commissioner from Flower Bazaar, Chennai, was posted in his place. The new SP, who held a review meeting, was informed about the circumstances which led to the murder. Profiles of each suspect were examined at the meeting. Even as the police were on the lookout for suspects, four among them surrendered before the Lalgudi Judicial Magistrate Court on September 2. Another two persons surrendered before the Aruppukottai JM Court on September 8. The police arrested another accused, seized a two-wheeler and a mobile phone after taking him into custody. A senior police officer said Arun Prakash was active in the conduct of Vinayaka Chaturthi but there was no motive to murder him by anybody. Investigations revealed that Kamatchi, a friend of Arun Prakash, picked up a quarrel with another group and the wordy duel irked the group. In a bid to settle score, the rivals wanted to kill Kamatchi on August 31. He escaped but Arun prakash and his friend Yogeswaran were attacked. The names of the accused included Saddam Hussein (21), Sheik alias Left Sheik (24), Mohamed Ajis (21), Kasim Rahman (24), Rasik Ali (23), Saravanan (24), Vijay (22) and Haran alias Hariharan (23). The police were in the process of securing a few more suspects, who had knowledge about the clash and the special teams would arrest them soon, the officer said.
18 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||CM to launch 11 new projects||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will visit this district on September 22 to review anti-COVID-19 operations. He is expected to lay foundation stone for 11 new projects including construction of commercial complex at Chidambara Nagar, City Centre near VVD overhead tank, five indoor badminton courts, science park at Sundaravelpuram, renovation of parks and laying of 7 smart roads etc., all costing about Rs. 189.16 crore, to be executed in Thoothukudi Corporation under the Smart City programme. He will also inaugurate the renovated MGR Park on the Palayamkottai Highway at a cost of Rs. 3.05 crore, informed Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan. On being selected for the ‘Smart City’ programme, Thoothukudi Corporation, after completing schemes worth Rs. 40 crore, was executing new schemes like reconstruction of old bus-stand at a cost of Rs. 600 crore. Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju reviewed the preparations along with Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Thursday. After the review meeting, the Chief Minister will leave for Kanniyakumari for his overnight stay and will chair a review meeting there on September 23.
18 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||COVID Care Centre established at Govt. Engineering College||The district administration has set up a 600-bedded COVID Care Centre at the Government Engineering College at Sethurapatti on the outskirts of the city for accommodating asymptomatic COVID-19 patients. The college campus was used as a quarantine centre to accommodate overseas returnees during the initial stages of the spread of the virus. Upon arrival from foreign countries, the returnees, who opted for free accommodation, were taken to the college. They were accommodated in the hostels of the institution. But, it was hardly used after July and August months. With the creation of more facilities, the college has now been made a special COVID Care Centre. All twin share rooms of the hostel have been provided with new cots and beds. They can accommodate 300 patients. In addition, 300 beds have been established in the halls on the campus. Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that all basic facilities to ensure comfortable stay for the patients had been created at the college. The aspect of privacy to the patients had also been taken care of. “The green and clean atmosphere with good airflow is an added advantage to the patients to feel comfortable while being treated at the centre. They will not feel that they are in hospital,” said a senior revenue official. As per the existing arrangement, Mr. Sivarasu said that COVID-19 positive patients would be taken to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) for screening. Depending upon the level of infection, the patients would be admitted to the hospital. If the patients were asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, they would be shifted to the COVID care centre at the Khajamalai campus of the Bharathidasan university. It could accommodate 300 patients. If the centre turns full, patients would be given accommodation at the Sethurapatti college. “The arrangement has been made as a precautionary step. The number of fresh cases is under control and shows sign of gradual decline. The facility at Sethurapatti will come in handy if there is a sudden surge in the fresh cases,” Mr. Sivarasu said. Besides allopathy doctors, he added that Siddha and Ayurvedic practitioners would visit the centre regularly to treat the patients. If they developed complications, they would be shifted to the MGMGH. Arrangements were put in place to provide quality vegetarian and non vegetarian food to the patients as per the treatment protocol.
18 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur records highest number of positive cases||The central region on Thursday recorded 667 new COVID-19 cases, a slight increase over Wednesday's count of 633 with Thanjavur recording the highest number of positive cases. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Tiruchi and Pudukottai districts reported over 100 cases. Five deaths, three in Thanjavur and two in Karur, were recorded in the State bulletin of the Health Department. Three men, including a 49-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, a 69-year-old man with a history of diabetes and tuberculosis and a 65-year-old woman who had been suffering from diabetes and hypertension, succumbed to the infection in Thanjavur. In Karur, a 61-year-old man with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome and a 70-year-old man with diabetes died of COVID-19. As many as 155 patients tested positive in Thanjavur district. An anaesthetist, a staff nurse, an ambulance driver and a house surgeon of the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, an officer of the highways department in Mannargudi, a policeman at Keezhavasal and a municipality worker in Kumbakonam were among those who tested positive. Most patients were patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses or were primary contacts of patients who had tested positive earlier. A total of 118 patients - many of whom were local index cases with no contact or travel history tested positive for the viral infection in Pudukottai while 108 patients, including many with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI), tested positive in Tiruvarur. Tiruchi recorded 115 new cases for the viral infection and many of them were reported from existing containment zones. “The patients are primary contacts or patients with a history of respiratory illnesses,” a senior official said. In Nagapattinam, 72 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Among the patients who tested positive were frontline workers, local index cases with no travel history and contacts. Fifty-two persons, including residents from Thanthondimalai, Alagampatti, Kulithalai and Vengamedu, tested positive in Karur. Ariyalur saw 34 new cases of which 14 patients hailed from Ariyalur block, while 10 hailed from Jayankondam block, three from Thirumanur, four from T. Palur, two from Sendurai and one from Andimadam. A total of 34 containment zones have been created in the district as on Thursday. In Perambalur, 13 new patients tested positive. Five of them hailed from Perambalur block, three each from Veppanthattai and Alathur and two from Veppur blocks. Meanwhile, 345 swabs were lifted from people with contact history, residents in containment zones and people with symptoms of the viral infection and sent for testing.
18 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Writer and social activist Durai Guna held||The Pudukottai Police on Thursday arrested Tamil writer and social activist Durai Guna alias Gunasekaran after he allegedly stuck posters at different places in Karambakudi announcing a ‘one-day free training camp for the District Collector and other officials on ways of removing encroachments’ along the Karambakudi-Pudukottai highway. Mr. Guna was arrested last year too for putting up posters in Karambakudi calling for applications to fill the ‘vacant posts’ of District Collector, District Revenue Officer and other officials in an apparent protest against alleged official inaction on his plea to remove encroachments from an irrigation tank. The latest posters stuck at the old taluk office, bus stand and other places also mentioned that the camp was meant for the District Revenue Officer, Revenue Divisional Officer, Tahsildar, Divisional Engineer, Highways, Assistant Engineer, Highways and Village Administrative Officer. The training will be held on September 28 at Karambakudi, the posters read.  Police sources said the posters were stuck a few days ago and based on a complaint from the Karambakudi Village Administrative Officer Suresh, Mr. Guna was arrested and remanded in the Aranthangi sub jail, the sources added. A case has been registered by the Karambakudi Police against him under IPC sections 170 (personating a public servant), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) and under the Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act.
18 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||A panchayat union school gets own app to boost online learning||A mobile application to aid students in online learning was launched by the Panchayat Union Primary School, Edamalaipattipudur, in the city. The special features in the application would help students learn better, teachers said. The mobile application, named ‘PUP School Trichy’, has been made available to all students enrolled at the school. “As we are now practising remote learning, teachers can record audio, video and even send worksheets through the app. Pictures of the textbooks and samples can also be uploaded,” said H. Pushpalatha, assistant headmistress of the school. E-attendance for online classes too is recorded directly, she said. The application is a one-stop access point for all the students’ needs to learn amid the restrictions imposed due to COVID-19. “The app has a special calling and text message facility, which can be utilised by students with low or no internet connectivity for whom the videos may not load. The teacher will record a voice message instructing the students to read a certain topic or complete homework and it can be played by the parents on the app,” Ms. Pushpalatha said. When schools reopen, parents can use the app to track the location of their child, their class attendance, time table, progress card and even their yearly planner. They can also apply for leave and can use the app as a means to communicate with the headmistress and other teachers. K. Marudhanayagam, Block Education Officer, Manikandam, told The Hindu that students would also be provided with a small quiz at the end of each day’s lessons to help them recollect and remember it well. Another feature of the app is that a teacher can make remarks on each child for the parents’ to read. The app, which was developed by Best Shine, a private company, at the behest of School Education Department officials was launched by S. Shanthi, Chief Education Officer, Tiruchi, on Wednesday.
18 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Boy falls from first floor, dies||A four-year-old boy succumbed to injuries he sustained after falling down from the first floor of an apartment near Old Palpannai here on Wednesday night. The victim B. Joshal Deyson was an LKG student. The boy's parents who resided in the apartment took their son along with them for a birthday celebration of another boy residing in the first floor of the same apartment. Police sources said Deyson while trying to capture a balloon in the balcony accidentally slipped and fell down from the first floor and sustained head injury. The boy's parents immediately rushed the minor to a private hospital. However, he succumbed a few hours later. The Gandhi Market Police are investigating. The boy's father works as a chief accountant in a private factory near Perambalur.
18 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown tomorrow||Power supply will remain suspended in the following areas from 9. 45 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Saturday owing to maintenance works to be taken up by the Tangedco at the Thuvakudi sub-station: BHEL Township A, E, R and PH, and a part of C sector, AOL, Nehru Nagar, Anna Arch, Akbar Salai, MD Road, Government Polytechnic, National Institute of Technology, Rowthanmedu, BHEL Nagar, Indira Nagar, Thuvakudi, Thuvakudi Industrial Estate, Burma Nagar, Devarayaneri, Asoor, Thaeneerpatti and Poikaikudi.
18 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Create garden, Collector tells anganwadi workers||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has urged the anganwadi workers to ensure that the children in their centres are provided with balanced diet and greens and vegetables grown in the anganwadi garden. Inaugurating the ‘poshan abhiyaan’ scheme in the anganvadi at Kanarpatti under Maaur union on Thursday, she said the scheme, designed to provide healthy diet to children enrolled in anganwadis, had mandated creation of ‘anganwadi garden’ where greens, vegetables and fruits should be grown. The anganwadi workers should grow fruits like papaya, banana, a variety of greens and vegetables in these gardens for providing nutritious food to the children. “Since the government has made sufficient provisions for creating the ‘anganwadi garden’, the workers should make use of it in the best interest of children. Besides ensuring healthy and balanced diet to the children, this programme will inculcate in the young minds the importance of creating garden in their houses for getting fresh greens, vegetables and the fruits,” she said. She also asked the anganwadi workers to convert the nutritious flour being supplied to the anganwadis into ‘idiyappam’, ‘laddu’, ‘puttu’ and ‘kozhukattai’ so that the children would eagerly eat these dishes. Project Director, ‘Mahalir Thittam’, Michael Fernando and Project Officer, Integrated Child Development Programme, Jayasurya were present.
18 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Beaches and rivers deserted||‘Mahalaya Amavasya’ rituals, which would usually be performed along the Tamirabharani and on the beach in memory of ancestors, were not held this time as the huge public gathering had been prohibited in the wake of the pandemic. People would gather along the 125 km-long Tamirabharani watercourse right from Papanasam to Punnaikaayal and at Tiruchendur beach to perform rituals. Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish had asked the public not to gather along the Tamirabharani watercourse. So, people abstained from performing the rites.
18 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, Kanniyakumari reports 118 fresh cases||Kanniyakumari district on Thursday reported 118 new COVID-19 cases, which took its tally to 11,432. It has 764 active cases after 200 people were discharged. With a fresh fatality, the district’s death toll rose to 211. Tirunelveli saw its tally rise to 11,516 with the addition of 95 cases. With 97 people having been discharged from hospitals, the district has 1,044 active cases. Eighty people tested positive in Thoothukudi, raising the district’s tally to 12,620, with 789 active cases. Fifty-two people were discharged. Madurai added 78 new cases to have a tally of 15,647, with 818 active cases. Forty-seven people were discharged from hospitals and COVID-19 care centres. The district registered four deaths to have an overall toll of 377. Theni too recorded 78 fresh cases, which took its tally to 14,043. Hospitals in the district marked discharge of 81 people. In Tenkasi, the number of fresh cases was 70, with which the district’s total case count rose to 6,540. A total of 95 people were discharged. After the death of a COVID-19 patient, the district’s toll touched 123. Virudhunagar recorded 68 fresh cases, which took the total number of positive cases in the district to 13,889. With 27 persons having been discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases stands at 413. Dindigul’s total case count went up to 8,139 with 64 new cases reported on Thursday. There were 34 discharges in the district. Thirty fresh cases were registered in Ramanathapuram, which has a tally of 5,299. Thirty-four people were discharged from hospitals. Sivaganga district reported 44 new cases to have a tally of 4,669. The number of people discharged from hospitals was 20.
18 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||56% of village panchayat presidents in Tamil Nadu are women, 19% youth||Out of the 9,622 village panchayat presidents elected in 27 districts across Tamil Nadu, 5,421 are women and 1,817 are aged between 21 and 35, according to a report released by the Tiruppur-based Institute of Grassroots Governance (IGG). An organisation working to strengthen grassroots democracy, the IGG was started by the alumni of the Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development, Sriperumbudur. The report, ‘Analysis on Demographic status of Elected Village Panchayat Presidents in Tamil Nadu 2020’, was released on Tuesday to mark the International Day of Democracy. It analyses the representation of different age groups and compares the gender representation among the elected village panchayat presidents out of the 91,920 elected representatives of the rural local bodies in 27 districts. As the rural local bodies elections are yet to be held for the reconstituted districts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tirupattur, Ranipet, Villupuram, Kallakuruchi, Tirunelveli and Tenkasi, the report looks at the village panchayat presidents of the 27 districts. These districts include the erstwhile Nagapattinam district where the rural local bodies elections were held prior to its bifurcation and formation of Mayiladuthurai district in April this year. More representation With around 56.34% (5,421 out of 9,622) of the panchayat presidents being women, the representation of women has increased by around 17% (excluding the nine districts) as only 4,884 out of 12,524 (around 38.99%) village panchayat presidents were women in the 2011 local bodies elections. While female representation is dominant in the age groups of 21-35 and 36-50, male representation is dominant in the categories of 51-60 years and 61 years and above among the village panchayat presidents, the report said. As for youth representation, 1,817 out of 9,622 panchayat presidents fall in the age group of 21-35, which is around 18.88%. Out of the 1,817 youth panchayat presidents, 1,440 were women and 377 were men. K.G. Inbarasan, general secretary and research wing coordinator of the IGG, told The Hindu that while the representation of women is high among panchayat presidents, only 166 out of the 5,421 women panchayat presidents were found to be below 29 years of age and holding a degree. “We are trying to identify their needs and conduct training programmes for them...,” he said. The State government must increase the honorarium given to panchayat presidents — Rs. 1,000 a month — to encourage more youth to contest in the local bodies elections, he said. The State government must also issue standard operating procedures to conduct the gram sabha in all village panchayats as it remains suspended because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “When people come together to discuss, they will identify the priority areas,” Mr. Inbarasan said, adding that grama sabhas must be considered as important as Assembly sessions.
18 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Disciplinary action against SSI||Disciplinary action will be initiated against a special-sub inspector attached to the Tiruppur North police station for making a phone call to the control room on Monday night in an allegedly inebriated state, top police sources said on Thursday.     Tiruppur South police foiled a self-immolation bid by a 32-year-old man on the District Collectorate premises on Thursday. According to the police, the man was from Uthukuli and visited the Collectorate regarding a land dispute. However, he allegedly did not bring any petition. The police took him away for an inquiry.
18 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Without a wall, garbage yard poses risk to wildlife||Wildlife continues to enter the dumpyard and waste management facility at Theetukkal in Udhagamandalam, as funds are yet to be sanctioned for the construction of a perimeter wall to cordon off the area from the surrounding forests. Despite repeated calls from conservationists to prevent the ingress of wildlife into the facility, there has been no action on the ground. Officials from the municipality said that following an inspection by the National Green Tribunal, a section of the facility bordering farms and residences around the dumpyard was cordoned off with a wall. However, the section bordering reserve forests, which are contiguous with the Parsons Valley and Governor Shola forests, still have no barriers preventing the entry of wildlife. N. Sadiq Ali, Founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT) said that a host of wildlife, including gaur, wild boar, sambar and barking deer, entered the yard. He said the district administration should look into the possibility of handing over the yard to a private entity on the condition that they should build the wall if the local body was unable to get the funds for the project sanctioned. Last week, a sambar deer had entered the yard and was unable to escape. Forest department officials had to intervene to ensure that it got back into the wild. Wildlife experts said that herbivores feeding off the waste at the yard were at a higher risk of infection, and could spread such infections to other wildlife. The waste that the animals ate could contain something that could prove fatal. In 2019, a tiger was found dead in Parsons Valley with a blade in its gut. It was suspected that the tiger ingested the blade while feeding on a sambar deer carcass, which in turn could have picked up the object while eating in the dumpyard, said a conservationist. When contacted, District Forest Officer, Nilgiris Forest Division, D. Guru Swamy, said the Forest department was working with the Udhagamandalam Municipality to get a compound wall built around the yard. “The department feels that the construction of a compound wall will be a permanent solution to the problem, as no wildlife, except birds, will be able to enter the dumpyard. We hope that this will be done soon,” he said.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Devotees who gathered at Perur Padithurai sent back||The police sent back dozens of devotees, who attempted to conduct rituals and take a dip in River Noyyal at Perur Padithurai (ghat) near the Patteeswarar temple in Perur on the occasion of Mahalaya Amavasya on Thursday. District Collector K. Rajamani had requested devotees to avoid gathering at temples or water bodies close to temples to conduct the Mahalaya Amavasya rituals in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the police said that around 40 devotees visited the Padithurai at around 7 a.m. The crowd dispersed after Perur police personnel held talks with them explaining that only darshan of the deity inside the temple will be allowed. Over 100 personnel were deployed at the Padithurai and outside the Patteeswarar temple. Officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said that the number of devotees visiting the temple was slightly on the higher side on Thursday. The devotees were allowed inside the temple in batches to prevent overcrowding and a pandal was set up outside the temple as waiting space. The standard operating procedure issued by the State government was followed on the temple premises, officials said. No overcrowding was reported in other temples such as Karamadai Aranganatha Swamy Temple and Thekkampatti Vanabadrakaliamman Temple where the Mahalaya Amavasya rituals are usually held every year, according to the HR&CE officials.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||530 test positive in Coimbatore district||As many as 530 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Thursday. With this, the district’s tally touched 24,234 and the death toll reached 368 with the health department on Thursday declaring that three more persons succumbed to the disease. As per the media bulletin issued by the department, the district had 3,602 active cases of the disease on Thursday. As many as 364 persons were discharged from treatment facilities after recovering from the disease on Thursday. Tiruppur district reported three deaths and 191 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 5,544 cases. A 61-year-old man died at a private hospital in Erode on Wednesday and an 84-year-old man died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. On Monday, a 62-year-old man died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital while undergoing treatment for COVID-19. As many as 291 cases were reported in Salem. Of this, 275 were indigenous, officials said. Three patients died at private and government hospitals here. A total of 112 cases were reported in Namakkal of which 26 have returned from other districts. Dharmapuri recorded 124 cases, the single day highest number of positive cases in the district. Krishnagiri recorded 85 positive cases. Erode reported 98 new cases taking the tally to 5,002. 97 persons were discharged, while 1,024 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 82 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of cases in the Nilgiris stands at 2,678. The death toll in the district stands at 17 with 618 people under treatment.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Recovery rate high in govt. hospitals: DME||R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, on Thursday inspected Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here and reviewed COVID-19 treatment facilities. He said that recovery rate is higher at government hospitals. Dr. Babu reviewed the facilities at the hospital along with R. Balajinathan, Dean of the hospital, P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent and other senior officials. Preventive measures Talking to presspersons, Dr. Babu said, “COVID-19 preventive measures were reviewed. Considering the request of hospitals, they have been allowed to recruit 100 additional nurses on contract basis and also increase worker strength by 20%. There is adequate staff here.” He said that the patient recovery rate at government hospitals is higher and added that at the moment, there is one doctor and nurse per patient. Search for space for setting up a 30,000-litre oxygen tank here is on. He added that a 16,000-litre oxygen tank is already available at the hospital. Dr. Babu said that the death rate is 1.6% and the health department’s instruction is to bring it below 1%. Dr. Babu advised the public to get checked at the earliest and avoid self-treatment. He added that private hospitals have been advised to refer patients earlier to the hospital. Government hospitals are ready to receive patients round-the-clock. However, he requested private hospitals to avoid referring patients during late hours and refer them early. He said the government is planning to expand plasma treatment to all medical colleges where there are licensed blood banks. Dr. Babu later inspected the COVID-19 triage zone, plasma bank and other facilities at the hospital.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Perumal Murugan makes the cut for National Book Award||It was translated by N. Kalyan Raman and published by Grove Atlantic. “The book follows a black goat named Poonachi as she witnesses the indignities suffered by animals and humans on a farm in South India,” says The New Yorker . Expressing happiness over the development and attributing its popularity to the groundwork done by the Tamil publisher Kannan Sundaram of Kalachuvadu, Mr. Murugan told The Hindu that he chose to populate his novel with animals as writing about human beings had landed him in trouble. “I am fearful of writing about humans; even more of writing about gods. I can write about demons, perhaps. I am even used to a demonic life. I could make it an accompaniment here,” Mr. Murugan had said in his preface to the Tamil edition of the nominated book Poonachi . This fear is reflected in the novel. He even identifies the old man, who rears the goat Poonachi, as “a farmer who belonged to the community of asuras”. Even after deciding to write about animals, he zeroed in on goats as “they are problem-free, harmless and, above all, energetic”. “There are only five species of animals with which I am deeply familiar. Of them, dogs and cats are meant for poetry. It is forbidden to write about cows or pigs. That leaves only goats and sheep,” he explained. The animals, especially sheep, come in handy to portray the herd mentality of human beings. “It is not a novel meant for children. In fact, it may be the first Tamil novel about animals written for adult readers,” says Mr. Kalyan Raman in his translator’s note. “As we track the destiny of this orphan goat, shaped by a force-field of humans and animals, we realise that the author’s real theme is our own fears and longings, primordial urges and survival tactics,” he adds.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||23 vulnerable areas in Salem identified ahead of monsoon||Ahead of the north-east monsoon, the district administration has identified 23 vulnerable areas and zone-level monitoring committees were formed to monitor the areas. A meeting, chaired by Collector S.A. Raman, to review the preparedness for the monsoon was held at the Collectorate in which officials from various departments participated. The Collector said that 23 areas that could possibly be affected during monsoon and water bodies were identified and committees, to monitor these areas and all the villages, were formed. He said that officials were instructed to establish relief camps with basic amenities and provide compensation to the affected people and keep stock of ration items for a period of three months. Medicines, particularly medicines to treat snake bites, should be kept ready while excavators, generators, torch lights and woodcutter saw machines should be kept ready. Of the total 455 water bodies in the district, 259 were without water. Since the monsoon could bring copious rains to these water bodies, officials should monitor it, he said. Mr. Raman said that the control room at the Collectorate functions round-the-clock during disasters and people can contact the toll free numbers at 1077 or 0427-2452202 and provide any information.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘State entitled to administer temples’||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department has asserted before the Madras High Court that the government, despite being secular in nature, was entitled to administer temples through the Department since Article 25(2) of the Constitution empowers the State to enact laws for regulating or restricting any economic, financial, political or other secular activity associated with religious practice. In a counter-affidavit to a batch of cases filed by Indic Collective Trust and its president T.R. Ramesh, the HR&CE Department said most of the renowned temples in the State were constructed by erstwhile kings who had also endowed them with several properties. The kings managed the temples by appointing officials. That’s exactly what the present day government was doing through the HR&CE Department, it said. Validity upheld A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha was told that the HR&CE Act of 1959 had received the assent of the President on November 19, 1959. It was preceded by a 1951 Act whose constitutional validity was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1954. However, the petitioners were attempting to get the temples relieved of the supervisory control of the HR&CE Department by tarnishing its image, it said. Denying the charge of misappropriation and misuse of temple funds by the Department, it said collection of funds under the heads of special darshan, Abhishegam, Archanai, Urchavam and so on goes to the kitty of the temple concerned and not to the government or the Department.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cautious with cash||
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plasma donation begins at Salem GH||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital received its first plasma donation on Wednesday. Though plasma therapy treatment is not provided at the hospital, it has been accorded permission to receive plasma donations from patients recovered from COVID-19 disease which will be used for plasma therapy treatment at permitted centres in the State. Hospital authorities said a doctor, who recovered from the disease, was the first donor. R. Balajinathan, Dean, said that equipment worth Rs. 40 lakh has been set up at the hospital for plasma donation. Doctors said donors must be within 18-65 years of age and should not be suffering from diseases. A patient can donate plasma from 14th day of testing negative for COVID-19 disease, doctors said.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore- September 19  In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the Sulur sub-station, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the following areas: Sulur, TM Nagar, Ranganathapuram, MG Pudur, BS Nagar, Kannampalayam, Kangeyampalayam and Ravathur.  Erode- September 19   Erode sub-station, 10 a.m. to 3 p.m.: Erode Town all areas, Surampatti Valasu, Veerappanchatiram, Edayankattu Valasu, Municipal Colony, Teachers Colony, Perundurai Road, Sampath Nagar, Vettukattuvalasu, Manickampalayam, Andikadu, Pandian Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Vakil Thottam, Periyasemoor, Ram Nagar, Palayapalayam, Periyavalasu, Papathikadu, Bharathidasan Street, Muniyappa Kovil Street, Kothukaran Thottam, 16 Road, Narayanavalasu, Kumalankuttai, Towerline Colony, Thirumal Nagar, Ashokapuram, Vairapalayam, Karungalpalayam, KNK Road, Moolapattarai, Sakthi Road, Nethaji Road, Gandhiji Road, Periyar Nagar, EVN Road and Mettur Road.  Kaspapettai sub-station, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Kaspapettai, Mullamparappu, Chinniyampalayam, Velangattu Valasu, Veerapampalayam, 46 Pudur, Rangampalayam, Kurikaranpalayam, Chellapampalayam, Govindanaickenpalayam, Nanjai Uthukuli, Sankaranpalayam, T. Mettupalayam, Anakalpalayam, E.B. Nagar, K.S. Nagar, Indian Nagar, Telephone Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Chettipalayam, Sadayampalayam, Muthugoundanpalayam, Karundevanpalayam, Chavadipalayam Pudur, Keliyampatti, Ragupathi Naickenpalayam and Kagathanvalasu.  Kasipalayam sub-station, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Kasipalayam, Anicut areas,  Sudanandan Nagar, Surampatti Valasu, Jeganathapuram Colony, NGGO Colony, Uzhavan Nagar, Marappa Street 1 and 2, K.K. Nagar, Muthampalayam Housing Unit Phase 1,2 and 3, Anna Nagar, Rail Nagar, Balaji Garden, Ambigai Nagar, Annai Nagar, Nallipalayam, Chennimalai Road, Diesel Shed, Periya Thottam, Kalyasundaram Street, Vivekanandar Nagar, Aavin Feeds godown, Old Railway Station Road, Kallukadaimedu, Kuiyavan Thittu, Mandapam Street, Periyar Street, Karavaikal area, Jeevanandam Road, Balasubrayalu Street, Eswaran Street, Pudumai Colony, Nethaji Road, Gandhiji Road, Marapalam Road, VVCR Nagar, Kuppipalam Road and Pudu Agraharam Street.  Udhagamandalam- September 19 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.)   Ooty Sub-Station: Entire Ooty Town, Finger Post, Khandal Thamizhagam, Hill Bunk, Kodappamund, Mulli korai, Charring Cross, Bombay Castle, Ketti, Nondimedu, Thalaiyattumund, Ithalar, M Palada.  September 21 (9 a.m. to 4 p.m)   Uppatty sub-station: Uppatty, Ponnani, Devala, Yellamala, Nadugani, Kundlady, Pandalur, Athikunna, Kolapally, Rock Wood, Ayyankolly, Woodbare. Cherambadi sub-station : Cherambadi Town, Kannambyle, Naiken Cholai, Kayyuni, Erumadu, Thaloor, Pannonchira, Kakkundy, Cholandy Gudalur sub-station: Gudalur, Nanthatty, Soondy, Marappalam, Sembala, O'Valley, 1st Mile, 2nd Mile and Gandhinagar. Adhigaratty sub-station: Adhigaratty, Balocola, Devarshola, Kathadimattam, Nundhala, Thampatty, Manihatty, Harugutchi, Hulical, Melur, Manjacombai, Kilinchada, Selas, Bharathi Nagar, Thoothurmattam, Karumpalam, Colacombai, Glendale and Bengorm.
18 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Environmentalists oppose highway widening plan||Environmentalists have opposed the National Highway Authority of India’s plans to widen the National Highway 4A from Belagavi to Panjim in Goa saying that it would do “irreparable damage” to environment. In a letter to the Central Empowered Committee that is tasked with clearing such environmentally-sensitive projects, environmentalists and wildlife conservationists have pointed out that deforestation would have a devastating effect on the ecology of the Western Ghats and affect the tiger habitat areas in Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra. Secondly, there was no need for widening the highway as the Union government is already planning doubling the railway track in the same region, they argue. As much as 85 km of the highway passes through Karnataka and around 70 in Goa. It is being developed into a four-lane highway with toll gates at some points. It passes through the Kali Tiger Reserve, Dandeli Sanctuary, Bhagwan Mahaveer Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. The existing road is a two-way highway. Already, traffic on this road causes a large number of wildlife deaths and widening would increase road kill, activists say. The user agencies, National Highway Authority of India and the Public Works Department in Goa, have sought for clearance of forest on over 90 hectares of pristine land. Activists say that this would cause unforeseeable damage. “Western Ghats has a complex eco system. The least we can do is to protect and preserve it,” says Giridhar Kulkarni, a signatory to the letter. “Actually, there is no need for road widening at all. The government is already going ahead with doubling the railway track between Karnataka and Goa that passes through nearly the same route. Over 135 hectares of forest is being cleared for that project,” he says. The project has seen opposition earlier also. In June this year, 150 environmentalists, scientists and activists wrote to the Union government and the Central Empowered Committee asking them to drop the project. “We only hope the government understands the dangers involved in the project and drops it,” he said.
18 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmers threaten protest against delay in release of crop loss compensation||Farmers organisations have threatened to stage a protest in Belagavi on September 21, against the delay in the release of crop loss compensation, and also supply of low-quality seeds. They have complained that soyabean seeds distributed by the Agriculture Department through the Raitha Samparka Kendras in various hoblis had failed to sprout in the desired manner. Kharif crop had been sown on over 95,000 hectares of land in the district. Of this, around 3,000 hectares were damaged as there was no proper sprouting. “The Agriculture Department conducted a survey and submitted a report to the government three months ago, but the farmers are yet to get compensation,” said Sidagouda Modagi, Bharatiya Krishik Samaj president. “A farmer in Belagavi district gets an average yield of around 35 quintals per hectare. As per prevailing rates, that would fetch between Rs. 75,000 and Rs. 90,000 per hectare. But thousands of farmers who had sown low-quality soyabean seeds stand to lose all that money. That is not acceptable. They should be compensated as per market rates,” he said. He demanded that the government should give a compensation of at least Rs. 65,000 per hectare to farmers who lost their soyabean crop.
18 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Woman, son found dead in Halaga||A woman and her son were found dead in a house in Halaga village in Belagavi district on Thursday. The police gave their names as Bharati Gharane (36) and Prajwal (15). The police suspected that they could have killed themselves because of some domestic problems that Bharati was facing. Her husband left her after a few years of their marriage. She was working at a bakery in Halaga village and was living with another person. A case has been registered in the Rural Police Station. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Airport metro line: no timeline for sanctions, says Centre||The wait for the 56-km ‘ORR-airport metro line’ that will connect Central Silk Board to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) is likely to be longer than anticipated. In a written reply to a question by MP K.C. Ramamurthy on the status of approval for the project, Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said that metro projects are cost-intensive and require extensive inter-ministerial consultations. Their approval depends on the feasibility of the projects and availability of resources. The project cost is estimated to be Rs. 14,844 crore. In his reply, the Minister stated that “no time limit can be specified for sanctions of the project”. This is likely an indication that Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) may have to wait a while for final approval to begin work.  A mass transit project to the airport has been a long-pending demand of people travelling to and from the airport and residents who live along the proposed route. BMRCL had initiated a plan to provide a metro link to the airport in mid-2016. At the time, it had held public consultations to finalise the route. Initially, there was a proposal to have the metro run from Nagawara to the KIA via R.K. Hegdenagar, Jakkur. In December 2017, the State Cabinet approved the project. However, the alignment was dropped because of the presence of a petroleum pipeline and lack of feasibility. In 2018, the BMRCL proposed to change the alignment by extending the ORR line and building a metro corridor via K.R. Puram, Nagawara and Hebbal. In January 2019, the State Cabinet approved the project and a detailed project report was sent to the Union government by November that year. Land acquisition The BMRCL has already floated tenders for the project and the land acquisition process has reached an advanced stage. It recently entered into an MoU with Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) for the development and maintenance of two stations within the campus of KIA. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had written to the Centre seeking early approval for the project, first in June 2020 and again on September 4, 2020. The project has been proposed on an equal equity sharing model as per Metro Rail Policy – 2017. The Asian Development Bank has agreed to partially fund this project up to $500 million. Another important project that is pending with the Centre is the suburban rail project, which includes building a link from Majestic to Devanahalli connecting KIA.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Coming week is crucial for State to achieve low TPR and low MR: Experts||Karnataka’s high Test Positivity Rate (TPR) and low Mortality Rate (MR) may be placing the State in a better position in comparison to Maharashtra where both TPR and MR are high. But, according to experts, the coming week, when a further surge in numbers is being projected, is crucial for Karnataka. The State now needs to strive towards achieving low TPR and low MR at the earliest, experts assert. TPR, the percentage of patients who have tested positive, is a powerful tool to measure the spread of virus in a region at a given point of time. MR, the percentage of deceased patients among the total number of positive patients, reflects the severity of the virus in the region and also the qualitative and timely medical intervention. These are the prominent COVID-19 indicators for assessing the progress of States. Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said generally during a pandemic/epidemic, States are classified into four quadrants: high TPR/low MR, low TPR/low MR, low TPR/high MR, and high TPR/high MR. “The toughest combo is low TPR and high MR. With a TPR of 12.1% and MR of 1.54%, Karnataka needs to strive and achieve low TPR and low MR at the earliest to fall in the quadrant of mega States such as Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, and Haryana that have low TPR and low MR,” he said. Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative involving Public Health Foundation of India and Proxima, a management consulting firm, said the coming week is crucial for Karnataka. “If it does not improve its performance in the coming week, then it will not take long for the State to move into the quadrant where Maharashtra is currently in – with a high TPR, high MR,” he said. Need of the hour Dr. Babu said the need of the hour is to chalk out and implement a well co-ordinated action plan on COVID-19 management in the semi-urban and rural areas, similar to what is being done in Bengaluru. “The public-private partnership in terms of sharing of hospital beds being done in Bengaluru should be replicated at the district level. We should involve all private hospitals there as the pandemic is spreading rapidly in rural areas,” he said. The State should take up a robust information, education and communication (IEC) campaign to remove stigma around testing, he added.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Education Plus career counselling to go digital||The 18th edition of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling 2020 to help students make informed career choices and chalk out their future will be in a digital conclave avatar this year. The event sets a benchmark in educational and professional guidance. It acts as a platform to connect students and parents with speakers and educational institutions. This will help students make right decisions after getting necessary counselling and guidance.  The Hindu invites students who have cleared II PU this year besides those enrolled for II PU as well as their parents to apprise themselves about the career opportunities, trends in the industrial sector, and the future prospects in various streams. Who can attend? Students of classes 9 to 12, including those who want to pursue higher studies after class 12, besides students looking to do post-graduation in different fields can attend. Register for FREE just once to attend all sessions on all four days: Login to register: http://bit.ly/THEPEDIT or scan the QR Code. For queries, call 9964648444 or 9449343420. All participants will get a free copy of The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling handbook (hard copy and soft copy). Hard copy will be available in The Hindu offices across Karnataka. The gold sponsor is Insights IAS. The silver sponsors are: East West, Acharya Bangalore B-School and The Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Shaheen Group of institutions, Bidar, Jnana Darshana IAS.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents up in arms against SWM||Though the BBMP has seven waste processing plants, it continues to be dependent on landfills for the disposal of most of the waste generated in the city. Operations are being scaled down, primarily due to opposition from local communities in the vicinity, say civic officials. Plants at Subbanapalya, Seegehalli and Doddabidarakallu have not been functioning for at least five months now. The other plants are functioning at just 30% of their installed capacity. While residents allege that none of the processing plants are being maintained properly, BBMP claims that this is far from the truth. Senior officials from the Solid Waste Management Cell told The Hindu that third-party audits were conducted and a revised set of SOPs was issued after an audit was taken up based on the recommendation of the Technical Guidance Committee (TGC) appointed by the High Court. Officials, who commented on condition of anonymity, pointed out that in some cases, the local communities were prompted to protest by people with vested interests. With repeated complaints from local communities about poor management at the plants, members of the TGC have for long been pressing for appointment of dedicated teams for each of the processing plants. H.C. Sharathchandra, TGC member, told The Hindu that currently, the plant managers are also in-charge of some wards. This, he said, meant that the plants were not the first priority. He also proposed the constitution of a separate SWM Board to look into waste management. The High Court, on multiple occasions, has directed the BBMP to revive all the seven waste processing plants and run them at optimum capacity. While pointing out that no one has the authority to shut down waste processing plants, the BBMP sources said they would be inviting contempt of court if the plants are not revived soon.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State continues to report over 9,000 cases; Bengaluru records highest-ever increase||The State on Thursday reported 9,366 new cases taking the total number of cases to 4,94,356. With 93 deaths, the toll rose to 7,629, This includes 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,799 cases, the highest so far on a single day, taking the total tally to 1,84,082. With 34 of the 93 deaths from Bengaluru alone, the toll in this district rose to 2,555. As many as 7,268 persons were discharged across the State on Thursday taking the total number of recoveries to 3,83,077. Active cases continued to remain above one lakh at 1,03,631 for the second consecutive day. Of these, 805 patients are being monitored in the ICUs of various hospitals. photoAs many as 72,030 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 32,913 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 40,58,313.  Govt. doctors to meet today Meanwhile, government doctors under the banner of Karnataka Government Doctors’ Association (KGMOA), who have threatened to stop all work except COVID-19 duty and other emergencies from September 21, have planned to meet on Friday before another round of talks with the government. Nearly 4,900 doctors working under the Health and Family Welfare Department have stopped submitting reports, including those related to COVID-19, and attending official meetings in support of their demand seeking pay revision on a par with their counterparts in the Medical Education Department. Sources in KGMOA said the government was silent on their pay revision demand and had assured that instead incentives will be paid to specialist doctors. “This has not gone down well with others, especially General Duty Medical Officers who are the ones working on the frontline during the pandemic. There is a difference of opinion among the doctors about this and Friday’s meeting is going to be a stormy one,” said a senior doctor. KGMOA president G. Srinivas said the issue will be discussed among all doctors before another round of talks with the government.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli riots case: ex-Mayor summoned||Central Crime Branch (CCB) officers on Thursday issued a notice to former Mayor Sampath Raj to appear before them for questioning in connection with the violence at D.J. Halli where four people were killed and 11 others injured when the police opened fire and used teargas to quell a mob in August. This is the second time that summons have been issued to Sampath Raj, who was D. J. Halli councillor at the time of the incident. Earlier, in August, the CCB had questioned him before arresting his PA Arun Kumar for allegedly making 11 calls to the prime accused in the case, Muzammil Pasha, an SDPI leader. “We have substantial evidence against Arun Kumar for colluding with other accused, instigating and supporting the violence,” said a police officer. The NIA is running a parallel investigation.
18 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State Planning Board gets 28 members||The State government has appointed five official and 23 non-official members to the State Planning Board, which is headed by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The officials members are: Chief Secretary, Development Commissioner, Additional Chief Secretary to the Finance Department, Additional Chief Secretary, and Principal Secretary/Secretary to the Department of Planning, Programme Co-ordination and Statistics. The non-official members include: University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru Vice-Chancellor S. Rajendra Prasad; Davangere University Vice-Chancellor Sharanappa Vyjanath Halse; S. Madeshwaran, chairman of ISEC; Hoysala N. Chanakya, faculty at Centre for Sustainable Technologies, IISc.; FKCCI president R. Shivakumar; KASSIA president K.B. Arasappa, Capt. S. Raja Rao; hydro-geologist Devaraj Reddy, former Bengaluru Mayor B. S. Sathyanarayana, and retired IFS officer A.C. Lakshman. B.J. Puttaswamy continues to the vice-president of the board.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Changes in schedule on Green Line||To facilitate pre-commissioning of systems and trains on the extended metro line from Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura on Kanakapura Road, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has decided to halt metro services one hour before the usual closing time between R.V. Road and Yelachenahalli on Saturday and Sunday (September 19 and 20). In a release, the BMRCL stated that this weekend, services between Yelachenahalli and R.V.Road stations would stop at 8 p.m. instead of 9 p.m. The last train from Yelachenahalli to Nagasa-ndra will leave at 8 p.m. But from Nagasandra, the last train will leave at 6.56 p.m. On Sunday and Monday (September 20 and 21), train services will be available from 7 a.m. onwards. “The last train towards Yelachenahalli for those travelling on the Purple Line with interchange at Majestic can connect with trains leaving from Baiyappana-halli at 6.55 p.m. and from Mysuru Road at 7 p.m. Thereafter, passengers can travel only till R.V. Road station,” the release stated.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Road redevelopment work in CBD to be completed by year-end||Citizens will have to put up with dug up roads in the Central Business District (CBD) owing to work being undertaken as part of the Smart Cities Mission till the end of the year. Work was delayed due to the lockdown, shortage of labour and the onset of the monsoon. Gaurav Gupta, Administrator, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), inspected the progress of a few projects and directed officials to complete the work at a fast pace. Around 20 roads in and around the CBD, including Race Course Road, Infantry Road, Commercial Street, Raj Bhavan Road and Raja Ram Mohan Roy Road, have been dug up causing much inconvenience to residents, motorists and pedestrians. “Due to various reasons, the execution of the projects has been lagging. Action against contractors, who fail to adhere to the deadline, will be taken as per the tender agreement,” Mr. Gupta said. He added that he would bring the issue to the attention of the higher authorities concerned, including the Chief Minister, who also is the Bengaluru in-charge minister. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, Managing Director, Bengaluru Smart City Pvt. Ltd., said that execution of the projects got delayed due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown and shortage of labour. “We are working with a reduced workforce. Around 40% of work on various roads are complete. We will ensure that the rest is done before the end of the year,” she said. Ms. Korlapati has requested the authorities concerned to provide the Bengaluru Smart City Pvt. Ltd. with sufficient number of engineers and other staff. “Various important posts, including that of the executive engineer, are vacant. I have brought the issue to the notice of the authorities concerned,” she said.  Due to various reasons, the execution of the projects has been lagging. Action against contractors, who fail to adhere to the deadline, will be taken as per the tender agreement Gaurav Gupta, Administrator, BBMP
18 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Special cover||A special cover to commemorate the 70th birth anniversary of Kannada film actor Dr. Vishnuvardhan will be released on Friday at Bengaluru GPO at 3 p.m. Chief Postmaster, Bengaluru GPO, in a release, said that this is in recognition of Dr. Vishnuvardhan’s contribution to the film industry. The special cover will be available for sale at the Philatelic Bureau of Bengaluru GPO, Mangaluru HO, Mysuru HO and Belagavi HO in Karnataka Postal Circle, and also at e-Post Officewww.indiapost.gov.in, the release stated.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||PGCET-2020 to be held on October 13, 14||The PGCET 2020 entrance examination for admission to MBA, MCA, M.E. / M.Tech, M.Arch courses will be held on October 13 and 14. The new dates were announced after different universities’ and other department examinations were scheduled on the same dates, and considering the request of the students to postpone the PGCET 2020 exam dates, said the Karnataka Examination Authority in a release. The PGCET 2020 entrance examination was earlier scheduled for August 8 and 9. But owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, it was postponed to October 6 and 7. Further, the release said that candidates, who were not able to apply online, can apply for PGCET 2020 after 7.30 p.m. from September 16 till September 21 up to 5.30 p.m., and pay the fees on or before September 22, during bank hours. Those who have applied online but not paid the fees can also pay the fees, the release stated. Details information can be obtained from http://kea.kar.nic.in.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘State miners not benefiting from industry revival’||The iron ore industry is seeing a revival as steel mills have begun operations, but Karnataka’s miners are forced to watch this action from the sidelines, said the Federation of Indian Mineral Industries (FIMI-Southern Region). China’s purchase of iron ore from India rose to an eight-year-high in the first half of 2020. However, iron ore miners in the State are “bureaucratically barred” from selling iron outside the State. The mining industry in Karnataka has been stopped from growing on multiple fronts, lamented FIMI. The Indian steel sector not only became a net exporter of steel but also gained significantly while the iron ore producers, especially from Karnataka, suffer, it added. According to FIMI, Approximately 70% of the sourcing is done by a single major steel player. Also, the major steel player here has gradually increased its captive mines capacity and also been acquiring merchant mines like MEL. Hence, the merchant miners in the State will become further irrelevant and will have to accept the prices as offered by major steel player, as opposed to the price’s dynamics in the rest of the country or world. “This has created a skewed market disadvantageous to sellers as they can only sell to domestic end-users. The major concern here is that the steel players at any point of time may decide to discontinue purchase from domestic miners and import to build pressure on the miners to reduce the prices when the international prices are high,” said the trade body.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa requests Rajnath Singh to set up DRDO lab in Shivamogga||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa called on Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday and urged for an independent laboratory of the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) in Shivamogga. The Ministry of Defence has considered the State government’s proposal for establishing a research cell of the DRDO at Kuvempu University. But the State is expecting a full-fledged independent DRDO laboratory in Shivamogga with ample number of scientists and technocrats, the Chief Minister said. Further, the Chief Minister said that the laboratory can explore natural remedial measures for the military use from the Western Ghats region, said a press release. The land required for the construction of the laboratory as well as the official quarters for the personnel will be provided by the State government, Mr. Yediyurappa told Mr. Rajnath Singh.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Union govt. urged to accept Finance Commission’s special grant to State||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday and requested the Centre to accept the recommendation of the 14th Finance Commission for a special grant of Rs. 5,495 crore for Karnataka on account of reduced devolution. In a memorandum to Ms. Sitharaman, Mr. Yediyurappa, who also holds the State Finance portfolio, said that against the recommendation of Rs. 2,100.25 crore performance grant to urban local bodies and rural local bodies, an amount of only Rs. 869.4 crore has been received. He requested the Centre to release the balance of Rs. 1,230.85 crore. The State has been under severe financial stress owing to reduced economic activities and revenue mobilisation due to COVID-19. While thanking the Centre for the timely release of funds under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme, Mr. Yediyurappa sought early release of outstanding material dues of nearly Rs. 665.09 crore and unskilled wage dues of Rs. 54.65 crore. Mr. Yediyurappa appealed to the Union government to notify an additional 50 days under Section 3(4) of the MGNREGA as Karnataka.  Besides discussion of the State Cabinet expansion, the Chief Minister arrived in New Delhi on Thursday to meet various Union ministers to seek their clearance for development projects in the State. He will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP president J.P. Nadda on Friday. “I have come to Delhi to discuss with several Union Ministers about development works of the State. At the same time, I will also discuss the Cabinet expansion issue with the party leaders to ascertain their views,” Mr. Yediyurappa told presspersons. A few BJP legislators, who are aspiring for Cabinet berths, have also visited Delhi.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police open fire at suspect||The D.J. Halli police opened fire at a habitual offender when he allegedly attacked a constable in an attempt to evade arrest. According to the police, the accused, Premkumar, 30, had attacked and injured two men outside a bar on Wednesday night. The police shifted the injured men to a hospital and pursued the accused. They confronted him near L.R. Bande in D.J. Halli. “Premkumar charged towards constable Ranganath with a dagger and attacked him,” said the police.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Insurance sector monitored to ensure policies do not result in super profit to firms’||The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) has told the Karnataka High Court that it has been monitoring the pricing of health insurance policies offered by the public and private sector insurance companies to ensure that no policy results in any “super profit” to the companies. The authority also said it had clarified on April 1, 2020, that indemnity-based health insurance products, which cover the treatment costs of hospitalisation offered by all general and health insurance companies, also cover the costs of hospitalisation treatment for COVID-19. The IRDAI’s statement was filed before the court in response to a PIL petition, filed by city-based Letzkit Foundation, which has sought measures for health insurance coverage for senior citizens either free of cost or at affordable rates, including for COVID-19 treatment, among other pleas on health insurance for citizens at affordable cost. ‘Free policy not viable’ Stating that providing free policy for senior citizens is “not viable” as it would result in increase of premium for other categories of policyholders, the authority stated that the “entire business of health insurance is pool based...In case of reduction in premium of senior citizens, as sought by petitioner, another group of persons, like younger in age, have to cross subsidise premium.” Pointing out that persons below 40 years taking health insurance is very low, the IRDAI said that if premium is increased for this category to cross subsidise the senior citizens then it will act as dissuading factor in younger individuals from subscribing to health insurance policies. On the petitioner’s plea for insurance policy on the lines of Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), the IRDAI said insurance policies and the CGHS cannot be compared as object, purpose, methodology of implementation, funding, and benefits were totally different. The IRDAI also said that it ensured that 30 general and health insurance companies provide health insurance policy exclusively for COVID-19. As the counsel for Central government sought time to file response, a Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Ravi V. Hosmani adjourned further hearing on the plea till October 5.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drugs passed off as prasad||The City Market police on Thursday arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly dealing in drugs and recovered 90 gram of brown sugar from him. The accused, Vikram Khileri, is a resident of Giri Nagar. He was caught red-handed while waiting on his bike for customers. The drugs were concealed under the cover of his helmet. Vikram claimed that the contraband was smuggled into the city via private transport and courier services under the guise of prasad. “He would fill small plastic packets with the drug and courier them to his clients stating that it was prasad from a temple,” said a police officer.
18 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Canara Bank’s new initiative||In order to build a sustainable business relationship with its new and old customers, Canara Bank has introduced i-Lead 2.0, a lead management system (LMS). Customers can apply for products by mentioning product codes HL, VL, EL, GL, PL, WC, TL, and ML, and their name to 9591504466. They can also give a missed call to 18005729700. They can also call 18004250018 or 18002083333.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK pushes for amendment on language status||The Centre’s refusal to bring an amendment to the Constitution to put regional languages, including Kannada, on a par with Hindi signifies a rejection of other languages, said former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Thursday. He argued in a series of tweets that like Hindi, Kannada is also an official language in India. “All that needs to be done is to add Kannada and other regional languages to the list of Centre’s administrative languages,” Mr. Kumaraswamy said. His tweets followed a reply in the Rajya Sabha that such an amendment was not on the anvil. “Articles 343, 344, and 345 promote Hindi as a language. Attempts are being made to impose Hindi in the name of Constitutional provision. Let BJP leaders, who speak of changing the Constitution, make efforts to bring Kannada and other regional languages on a par with Hindi through an amendment,” he said. He pointed out that the Supreme Court, in its direction to the Centre, had recently asked it to make available all notifications in other official languages as well. Also, the Centre should understand that in the federal set-up all languages are equal, he said.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Delayed, low testing led to surge in cases’||Karnataka’s current surge in COVID-19 numbers is due to delayed and low testing during March-June period, according to experts. Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative involving Public Health Foundation of India and Proxima, a management consulting firm, said: “Up to June 30, Karnataka had done only 6.2 lakh tests, 15% of the total 40,58,313 tests conducted till date. The rapid spread of the virus leading to a surge in the number of cases and deaths from July is due to this low testing,” he said. Karnataka, which was considered a benchmark State in COVID-19 management in June, became one of the most affected States in July-August. As on June 30, it had a TPR of 2.45%, whereas national average was 6.63%. Now, it’s TPR is 12.1% as against the national average of 7.7%.
18 September 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni’s close aides questioned in Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case||Sleuths of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), investigating the murder of BJP leader and zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, questioned the close aides of the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, and also the wife of the deceased Mallamma in Dharwad on Thursday. Those who were questioned included Vice-President of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Shivanand Karigar who had played a crucial role in bringing Mallamma to the Congress against the wishes of her in-laws, Congress leader Nagaraj Gouri, Mahesh Shetty, Suma, sister of Mallamma, and her car driver. Prashanth Kekare, personal assistant to Mr. Vinay Kulkarni too was questioned by the CBI sleuths. All the questioning took place in various rooms at the Dharwad Suburban Police Station. Questioning went on for over seven hours and concluded late in the evening. And, subsequently, all their statements were recorded, sources revealed. Mallamma had initially raised her voice seeking justice for the murder of her husband and also led an agitation launched by BJP leaders. However, she switched sides and joined the Congress much against the wishes of her in-laws. Mallamma and her sister Suma were reportedly questioned by the CBI sleuths on the political development and her decision to join the Congress. Mahesh Shetty, who has been accused of negotiating a truce with Mallamma, was also questioned for a few hours. Sources revealed that the sleuths were investigating the case from all angles and that they are now trying to look at the possibility of a political angle too in connection with the murder.  Mallamma and her sister Suma were reportedly questioned by the CBI sleuths on the political development and her decision to join the Congress
18 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Reading literary works equally important for children’||Five Kannada books written by various authors and published by Sahitya Prakashana were released at a simple function here on Thursday. Releasing the books, humourist Gangavati Pranesh emphasised the need for making children read literary works apart from their textbooks as, for gaining comprehensive knowledge literature, it was equally important. Author of Kaadu Thota, Shivanand Kalave spoke on the need for ending monoculture and cultivating what best suits the soil rather than cultivating according to market needs. Terming traditional farming as a knowledge passed on from 10 generations, Mr. Kalave said that the need was to “look around and look at forests before proceeding to cultivating any crop”. The concept of Kaadu Thota, which allowed one to learn from forests, had the solution to today’s problems, including climate change, he said. Proprietor of Sahitya Prakashana M.A. Subramanya and convenor and journalist Gopalkrishna Hegde coordinated the event. A former police officer D.V. Guruprasad, who was scheduled to participate in the programme, had sent his recorded speech, which was webcast live. The books Kaadu Thota by Mr. Kalave, Yaava Kashtavoo Shashvatavalla by Mr. Guruprasad, Acharya Chanakya by K.S. Narayanacharya, Asahishnuta Noutanki and Pandita Esagida Pramadagalu by Premashekhar were released by dignitaries. On the occasion, Gangavati Pranesh was honoured with the title “Pustaka Samskrutiya Dodda Harikara”.
18 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rudragouda Biradar nominated||Professor of Department of Economics and Finance Officer of Karnatak University, Dharwad, Rudragouda R. Biradar has been nominated as member of the Karnataka State Planning Board by the State government.
18 September 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||On Kalyana Karnataka Utsav Day, Yediyurappa makes fresh promises for region||Despite the promises he made during last year remaining unfulfilled, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa made a bunch of new promises on the occasion of Kalyana Karnataka Utsav Day on Thursday. Completing the construction of Anubhava Mantapa at Basavakalyan in Bidar district, several drinking water and irrigation projects, negotiating with the Union government for making Kalaburagi a new railway division, and setting up a toy manufacturing cluster on 400 acres of land in Koppal were among the new promises he made after hoisting the national flag at DRA Grounds. Last year, he had promised the establishment of a separate secretariat for the implementation of Article 371(J) of the Constitution, shifting the Kalyana Karnataka special cell from Bengaluru to Kalaburagi, increasing special grants to the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB), andfilling the 10,748 government posts vacant in the region. They are yet to be realised. Mr. Yediyurappa also laid the foundation stone for many development initiatives, including a hospital building to be constructed in Kalaburagi for housing a branch of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. The Chief Minister said the government has given Rs. 33.37 crore for the development of the institute. As per information provided by the district administration, the total cost of the project is estimated to be Rs. 209 crore, and a major portion of it is to be provided by the KKRDB.
18 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Tahsildar caught in flash floods rescued||Yadgir Tahsildar Pandit Biradar, who spent more than three hours clinging for life from a tree to escape from floodwaters, was finally saved by a rescue team in Kalaburagi late on Wednesday night. Mr. Biradar was caught in flash floods while crossing a bridge at Ganapur village of Chincholi taluk in the evening. As the car he was travelling in was caught in the floodwaters, Mr. Biradar managed to get off the vehicle and then, climbed up a tree. The car was swept away in the floodwaters, while the tahsildar took shelter on a branch of a tree. After he raised an alarm for help, Fire and Emergency Services officials rescued the officer. A team of officials, including Chincholi Tahsildar Arun Kulkarni and Deputy Superintendent of Police Veerabhadraiah, also rushed to the spot. Mr. Biradar, hailing from Bidar district, is a Tahsildar in the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Yadgir district.
18 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Brave youth saves seven people from drowning||A brave youth risked his life to save seven persons in Salegaon village of Aland taluk in Kalaburagi district on Thursday. Khanderao Wadagaon jumped into the waters to save the seven caught in flash floods after the tractor-truck they were travelling in overturned and was swept away.
18 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||FSSAI constitutes task force on vegan food||The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) on Wednesday constituted a task force to look into guidelines/ provisions for vegan foods in the country. The task force comprises seven members, including Shankar Narayan, founder-president, Satvik Vegan Society (formerly Indian Vegan Society. Mr. Narayan founded the society in 2004 as a registered charitable trust. The society is a member of the International Vegetarian Union and Federation of Indian Animal Protection Organisation. It has its registered office at Hoseri, Yeljit village, Byndoor taluk, Udupi district. To promote vegan food, the society has been organising vegan festivals, putting up stalls at exhibitions, holding vegan talks, taking out school visits, and bringing about awareness among people about a lifestyle said to be good for their health. ICAR’s retired principal scientist (food and nutrition) Sumedha S. Deshpande, Sangeeta Pandey, Head of Nutrition and Dietetics, Mount Carmel College, Bengaluru, Lalitha Appukkutan, NIMS Medicity, Thiruvananthapuram, Palak Mehta, Founder and CEO, Vegan First, Pune, a representative each from the Ministry of Commerce and the Industry and Quality Council of India are the other members of the task force.
18 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Karwar train to start from Bengaluru City Station||South Western Railway (SWR) has decided to change the terminal for Train No. 06585/06586 Yeshwantpur-Karwar-Yeshwantpur Special Express to KSR Bengaluru City. Train No. 06586 starting its journey from Karwar on Saturday at 6 p.m. would arrive at Bengaluru City at 8 a.m. from Sunday onwards. Train No. 06585 starting its journey from Sunday onwards would depart Bengaluru City at 6.20 p.m., Yeshwantpur at 6.32 p.m. instead of earlier timing of 6.45 p.m., Hassan at 9.15 p.m. instead of 10 p.m. and Bantwal at 2.40 a.m. instead of 3.06 a.m. to reach Karwar at 8.25 a.m.. Following persistent demand from travellers, Uttara Kannada MP Anantkumar Hegde had urged the SWR GM to change the terminal of Karwar express to Bengaluru City. He had said it was the only train connecting coastal regions with the State capital and hence should start from City station. The SWR in a notification on Wednesday, however, said the change of terminal was purely temporary till regular train services commence. Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru, too tweeted to announce the change of terminal.
18 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Cases in Karnataka will touch 7 lakh, deaths 11,200 by Oct. 12’||As new COVID-19 cases continue to be reported unabated, Karnataka is poised to touch seven lakh cases and witness 11,200 deaths by October 12, according to a study. A study by Jeevan Raksha, an initiative by management consultant firm Proxima, and supported by Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), does not foresee any let up in the number of cases or deaths in the coming four weeks. Earlier predictions Jeevan Raksha’s forecasting module had met a fair degree of success in its earlier exercise last month when it predicted that Karnataka’s COVID-19 surge would reach 4.5 lakh cases and 6,700 deaths by September 12. “Our predictions were close. While number of cases in the State reached 4,40,411 cases, which was at 98% of our prediction, the number of deaths reached 7,067, which was at 105% of our prediction,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha. According to its “COVID-19: Trend Analysis and Projection” released on September 15, Jeevan Raksha predicts a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases to seven lakh and the number of deaths to 11,200 by October 12. Mr. Sanjeev said the projection is an effort to help Union and State governments to examine and initiate necessary steps by effectively mobilising the required resources and achieve the core objective of reducing mortality. Karnataka’s Test Positivity Rate (TPR) was 12.1% against the national average of 7.7% while the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) was 1.6%, a shade better than India’s 1.7%. A high TPR and low CFR indicates a “high spread of the virus, most cases in mild and very mild condition, pro-active action by local authorities,” the study said. Across India Jeevan Raksha also predicted that India’s COVID-19 positive case count will cross 75 lakh and the number of deaths will surpass 1,16,050 by October 12. As part of its projection last month, the study had predicted that the number of cases in India would touch 46.71 lakh by September 12 while the actual cases were 46.57 lakh. The number of deaths predicted by the study was 85,027 by September 12 while the actual deaths were 77,526.
18 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Authorities await relief funds to take up school repairs in Kodagu||Last month’s rain left a trail of destruction in Kodagu, damaging several school buildings across the district. Some classrooms in schools, which are located in areas that recorded heavy to very heavy rains, completely collapsed and they need to be reconstructed. The district also suffered floods and landslips in 2018 and 2019 and that also damaged many school buildings. According to the Department of Public Instruction, 117 school buildings are in need of repairs and classrooms that collapsed in four villages have to be rebuilt. The list of school buildings damaged in rain and the estimate of repairs has been sent to the district administration. When a Central team visited Kodagu early this month to assess the flood damage, the members inspected one of the damaged school building at Korangala village. The office of the Deputy Director of Public Instruction is awaiting grants for repair under the NDRF. Kodagu DDPI P.S. Machado told The Hindu that the buildings damaged last year had been repaired using the NDRF funds. Last year, the grant was received for the repair of 161 buildings, he said, adding a maximum of Rs. 2 lakh per school can be released for the repair. The DDPI said the works would be taken up once the grant was released since the groundwork for the repair had been made. He, however, said there was no need to worry since the schools, where the rooms had been damaged, have additional classrooms. Many schools in Kodagu have tiled roofs. Because of excessive rains, the buildings had developed cracks and water was dripping from ceiling. The authorities visited the classrooms that caved in Gonikoppa, Korangala, Kottamudi, and Biligere. The damaged areas have been sealed to stop the public from going near. In some schools where new classrooms had been constructed, the old classrooms are being used to cook food and store essentials.
18 September 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Stakeholders divided over attempts to revive MPM||The State government has invited private investors to revive Mysore Paper Mills (MPM) at Bhadravati, an 83-year-old public sector undertaking, renewing the lease of forest land to grow pulp wood. However, environment activists of Shivamogga have raised their voice against monoculture plantations and opposed the renewal of the lease of forest land, benefiting private investors. The public sector undertaking stopped functioning since November 2015 and a majority of the employees have taken voluntary retirement. However, Minister for Industries Jagadish Shettar, during his visit to the town on July 1, said the government would renew the forest land lease and also involve private people to revive the industry, which once registered an annual turnover of above Rs. 400 crore. The government, on September 2, issued a notification inviting private investors. The last date to respond is October 12. Once 4,500 people worked in this industry, while at present 550 staff members are on the roll. Many of them have been deputed to various departments of the State government. As many as 327 forest watchers are engaged in guarding the forest land spread over Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, and Davangere districts. The company had 30,000 ha of forest land on lease for 40 years and the lease expired in August this year. R. Raghunath, Deputy Conservator of Forests, working at MPM, told The Hindu that MPM had sought the renewal of the lease of 20,005 ha. “We have applied for the renewal of the lease. MPM has been growing trees that give raw materials for the paper industry. Besides that, MPM has guarded such a vast forest land all these years,” he said. However, Malenadu Parisara Hitarakshana Vedike, Sharavathi Nadi Ulisi Horata Okkuta, Raitha Sangha, Dalit Sangharsha Samiti and a few other organisations have opposed attempts to renew the lease of forest land. “Monoculture plantations have spoilt the forest vegetation. Acacia is not the natural variety of trees found in the Malnad area. No bird chooses these trees for its nest. People in the Malnad area are facing many problems because of these monoculture plantations, including landslips during heavy rains,” argued K.P. Sripal, an activist. The representatives of these associations have demanded the State government hand over the land to the Forest Department and take measures to convert into the natural forest area. “We are not against the revival of the industry. However, in the name of reviving the industry, the government should not hand over the forest land to private people,” he said. On the other hand, the employees of MPM are hoping for the revival of the industry with private investors. “For years we fought to retain the industry. Finally, it was closed down four years ago. Now, a couple of private investors have shown interest to run it, provided the forest land lease is renewed,” said S. Chandrashekhar, president of the employees’ union. He maintained that because of MPM, vast forest land had been protected all these years, which would otherwise have been lost to encroachers.
18 September 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Take Kalyana Karnataka on the path of development, educated youths told||Minister for Health and Family Welfare B. Sriramulu recalled the supreme sacrifices of the thousands of people who fought for the freedom of Hyderabad Karnataka (now Kalyana Karnataka) from the Nizam of Hyderabad, after unfurling the National Flag during the Liberation Day celebrations at the Pre University College Ground in Yadgir on Thursday. Mr. Ramulu said that prominent freedom fighters Mallappa Koiluru, Eshwarlal Bhattad, Sardar Sharanagowda Patil Inamdar, Vishwanath Reddy Mudnal, Jagannath Rao Chandraki, Veeranna Chatnalli, Kishan Rao Mahendrakar, Chandrashekhar Patil, among others from Yadgir district, fought the Nizam’s rule before the Indian government initiated police action to end the Nizam’s rule and included Hyderabad Karnataka region into Indian territory on September 17, 1948. “To eradicate social imbalances in the backward Kalyana Karnataka region, the Union government amended Article 371 and inserted clause J to provide special status to the region ensuring reservation in education and employment. Therefore, educated youths should benefit from the proviso and take the region on the path of development,” he said. “The State government was committed to developing the region by releasing grants as promised. It has reserved Rs. 1,500 crore in the budget. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa who renamed Hyderabad Karnataka as Kalyana Karnataka was keen on establishing a Ministry for Kalyana Karnataka to implement several programmes to ensure economic and educational empowerment,” the Minister said. He said that all government health care units, including hospitals, will soon get the required oxygen units to meet the demand of COVID-19 patients. Mr. Ramulu listed out the development works taken up in Yadgir district and said that district administration handled the COVID-19 situation well with the available health facilities. “The newly constructed district hospital has been converted into a COVID-19 hospital and it is testing 300 RT-PCR samples and 1,400 rapid antigen samples every day. Nearly 300 beds are reserved in the COVID hospital and 800 beds are reserved for asymptomatic patients in COVID care centres,” he said. An action plan for Rs. 114 crore under micro projects using the grants of Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board was sanctioned for Yadgir district for 2020-21. The board has released Rs. 171 crore so far and 916 works have been taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 102 crore. Of this, 691 works have been completed and 134 works are under way. The district administration has distributed rice and other foodgrains to 11,420 migrant families under the Atma Nirbhar scheme. Mr. Ramulu flagged off vehicles purchased under Swachh Bharat Abhiyan to collect garbage. MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal, Zilla Panchayat president Basanagowda Patil Yadiyapur, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya, Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane, Additional Deputy Commissioner Prakash Rajput and others were present.
18 September 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||‘Prepare detailed project report for airport at Raichur’||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has directed Raichur Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) to establish an airport in Raichur. He was chairing a discussion with the Deputy Commissioner and officers concerned after visiting the site meant for the airport near Yermarus, about 12 km from Raichur city, on Thursday. As much as 422 acres of land has been reserved for the proposed airport. If everything goes right, Raichur will soon get the much-anticipated airport after Bidar and Kalaburagi in Kalyana Karnataka Region. This would be helpful in improving transportation, trade and the industrial sector in this backward area. Mr. Savadi, who is Raichur district in-charge Minister, said that Rs. 200 crore is required for the airport project and Rs. 40 crore has already been released under the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) for the purpose. The Union and State governments would release the remaining grants. Therefore, the Deputy Commissioner of Raichur should immediately take steps and prepare the DPR, he said. He also said that he would raise the issue in the next Cabinet meeting and discuss the technical and other issues related to the airport project and obtain necessary approvals. Mr. Savadi said that the government will find solutions to problems that may arise during the establishment of the airport when Mr. Venkatesh Kumar quoted an Air Traffic officer as saying that the towers of the RTPS and the YTPS may possibly hinder the project. MLAs Shivaraj Patil and Shivanagowda Naik and others were present.  Laxman Savadi chairs a discussion with Raichur Deputy Commissioner and officers concerned after visiting the site meant for the airport near Yermarus on Thursday
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||People versus waste processing plants||Every day, around 200 garbage trucks make the trip to the Chikkanagamangala plant, claimed Govindaraj, a resident of Doddabelavangala. In March, residents had staged a protest, demanding that the BBMP not revive another plant in the vicinity. “We met the Chief Minister who heard our grievances about water sources being contaminated by the leachate from the plant,” he said. “The area is the catchment for the Byragondalu dam, which is around 5 km away. The dam is part of the Yettinahole project.” BBMP officials and TGC members claimed that this plant was better managed than the others.   For years, the Kudlu, Hosapalya, Harlur, Somasundarapalya and Prangipalya (KHHSP) Residents’ Welfare Association has been demanding that the Karnataka Compost Development Corporation plant be shut down if it cannot be run as per the norms. Kamesh Rastogi, RWA member, said over the past three weeks particularly, the stench from the plant has been overwhelming. He claimed that air monitors were not installed. Civic officials said that when it rains, there was no way the odour could be controlled. With regard to bio-filters, officials said the workers at the plant complained that it was claustrophobic and difficult to work.   “Even a common man, with no knowledge in solid waste management can say with conviction that the waste processing plant is not functioning properly,” said Pranay Dubey from Electronics City Rising. The citizens’ group has for the past couple of years been protesting, demanding closure of the plant citing odour and leachate contamination. “Repeated complaints about the plant have fallen on deaf ears,” said Mr. Dubey.   The twin plants are in the middle of Kempegowda Layout developed by the Bangalore Development Authority. Though the Seegehalli plant has been closed for a few months, the Kannahalli plant has been functioning. “We can’t have a meal in peace. While eating with one hand, we have to swat flies away with the other,” lamented Mohanraj from the Kannahalli-Seegehalli Horata Samiti. He alleged that leachate from the plant was not being treated and that wet waste was dumped in the open.   Residents living nearly 3-km from the plant are affected by the odour. The plant is located in a residential area, surrounded by many schools, said N. Satish, a resident of an apartment on Andhrahalli Main Road, near the plant. Residents had even lodged complaints about the plant in the Prime Minister’s Office. “The plant is not adhering to the prescribed norms. Members of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board visited the plant a couple of years ago and found SOPs were not being followed,” he added.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Dasara: Golden throne to be assembled today||The grandiose golden throne at the Mysuru palace would be assembled for the forthcoming Dasara festivities on September 18. The scaled down Mysuru Dasara-2020 would be celebrated from October 17 to 26. The scion of erstwhile Mysuru royal family, Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, would be holding ‘Khas Durbar’ sitting on the throne during the Navarathri celebrations of the Wadiyar family. The tradition of ‘Khas Durbar’ by the titular head of the royal family has been in practice since generations and the entry for watching the royal spectacle is restricted to the invitees of Wadiyars. However, in view of COVID-19 pandemic and bar on gatherings, it has to be seen whether the guests would be invited to witness the private durbar. Most likely, it's going to be within the family members, sources said. The dismantled portions of the throne kept in the safe custody of the strong room inside the palace would be brought out and assembled by a team of experts hailing from a village near Mysuru at the Durbar Hall. Special rituals would be performed at the palace by the family before and after the throne assembly. In view of the throne assembly, there is no entry to visitors to the palace till 2 p.m. on September 18. Meanwhile, the palace surroundings were being spruced up for the Dasara festivities which are confined to the Chamundi Hills and the palace as a safety precaution over the pandemic. Barring some cultural events at the palace, as announced by the government recently, no other events would be organised during the festivities which would be traditionally inaugurated atop Chamundi Hills on October 17. The government is yet to decide on the guest who will be inaugurating the festivities though a decision had been taken to invite one among five shortlisted COVID-19 warriors to open the ‘Nada Habba’. The Forest Department had shortlisted five elephants for Jamboo Savari which is limited to the palace premises. This year, Abhimanyu, a specialist in combing operations, will be carrying the golden howdah as Arjuna, who turned 60, has been retired. Tusker Arjuna had carried the howdah eight times in a row.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ashok Gasti passes away||Mr. Gasti was critically ill with multi-organ failure and was on life support system in ICU, he said. A low-profile leader who rose through the ranks in the RSS, Mr. Gasti is credited with organising the BJP in Raichur district. His choice for the Rajya Sabha nomination, which came as a surprise to many, was regarded a recognition of his dedicated work of decades. He was president of BJP youth morcha in Raichur when he was 18. He handled many posts in the party, including general secretary of the party’s OBC cell, district unit president, and in charge of Raichur, Ballari, and Koppal during the last Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. Mr. Gasti is survived by wife and two daughters.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Social distancing, anyone?||
18 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Kuttanad to be special farm zone||Kuttanad will be declared as a special agriculture zone under the the second Kuttanad package. With a view to producing Kuttanad brand rice, an integrated rice park will be set up in a year. Launching the second Kuttanad package through videoconferencing on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said Aymanam would be declared a model responsible tourism village. “Till March 2019, the government had spent Rs. 1,013.15 crore for various projects in the region. Now, the government has set aside Rs. 2,447 crore for the implementation of various projects under the second package. It will ensure comprehensive development and revive the flood-hit Kuttanad,” Mr. Vijayan said adding the package would have a positive impact on the agriculture sector The second package is being implemented jointly by the State Planning Board, Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, respective government departments and the Rebuild Kerala Initiative. The eco-restoration of the Vembanad wetland ecosystem, farming, development and flood mitigation have been given thrust. Some of the projects in the package have already entered the implementation phase. As part of flood mitigation, the Room for the River model will be implemented. “Widening and deepening of the leading channel of the Thottappally spillway, installation of three regulators in the Pampa and completion of second and third phases of the Alappuzha-Changanassery canal are part of the package,” he said. Farmers will be provided quality seeds, submersible pumps along with making the agriculture calendar mandatory. Measures will be initiated to promote inland fisheries. Insurance for duck farmers and setting up of a research institute to promote duck farming have been proposed. Steps will also be taken to protect the Pathiramanalisle. Other major proposals include protecting Vembanad Lake from encroachments and construction of a Rs. 291-crore water treatment plant for supplying drinking water to 13 grama panchayats.
18 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Rs. 10,000 cr. for Hill, Coastal Highways: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that Rs. 10,000 crore will be spent on the Hill and Coastal Highways in the State. He was inaugurating the work on the Kuttikanam-Chappathu stretch of the Peerumade-Devikulam part of the Hill Highway through videoconferencing on Thursday. He said the work between Peerumade and Devikulam would be completed in two phases. The highway would connect Kuttikanam, Elappara, Kattappana, Nedumkandam, Udumbanchola and Devikulam. In the first phase, the 19-km Kuttikanam-Chappathu stretch would be completed, he said. The project got administrative sanction in 2017 and Rs. 80.53 crore was allocated for the work. The highway would have a width of 12 m and walkways on either side. Resting places, toilets and sightseeing facilities would be arranged. The project would be completed in 18 months. Funds for the second phase construction from Chappathu to Kattappana had been allocated, he said.
18 September 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Shutters of Kundala dam to be raised||Two shutters of the Kundala dam will be raised by 20 cm each on Friday to release water to the Muthirapuzha river. Those living near the banks of the river should take precautionary measures, the District Collector has said.
18 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Man held on charge of hunting leopard||Forest officials arrested one person on Thursday on charge of trapping and hunting a leopard at Munnar. Karuvadu Kumar, 34, was arrested under the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. The leopard was found dead inside the Kannimala lower division on August 8 with a trap on its neck.
18 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB initiates prosecution against Kochi Corporation||The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has initiated prosecution measures against the Kochi Corporation for unscientific handling of waste at its dumping yard in Brahmapuram. A complaint will soon be filed in the Ernakulam Judicial First Class Magistrate court against the civic body for violation of provisions under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and Section 24 of the Water (Prevention and Control of) Pollution Act, 1974. The legal measures have been taken as a follow-up of the order issued by the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in July. The tribunal had said that the Chairman and Member Secretary of the board would be held liable if they failed to initiate prosecution and recover compensation from those responsible for the unscientific handling of waste at Brahmapuram.  The Hindu had reported on August 5 that the board had assessed an environment compensation of Rs. 13.31 crore on the Kochi Corporation for non-compliance with the norms under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, resulting in environmental pollution and threat to public health. The corresponding figure for five municipalities dumping its biodegradable waste at Brahmapuram was Rs. 2.72 crore (Kalamassery); Rs. 1.72 crore (Aluva); Rs. 1.96 crore (Angamaly); Rs. 2.92 crore (Thrikkakara); and Rs. 2.72 crore (Thripunithura). The Chief Environmental Engineer, Ernakulam, has been entrusted by the board chairman to initiate prosecution measures against the corporation under Section 19 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986 and Section 49 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. The board had informed the tribunal that the corporation was simply practising land disposal of both biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste. Nothing was seen in recent visits to manage fresh waste. Non bio-degradable waste was found being disposed of at another place, where fire accidents had occurred twice earlier, it said. In its reply filed before the Department of Local Self-Government and the board, the Secretary of the corporation said that the government had initiated steps to carry out biomining of the old waste in Brahmapuram and implement the waste-to-energy plant. The target of achieving 100% segregation of waste from households and establishments would be done by November this year, it claimed.
18 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mayor to write to govt. over delay in clearing files||After some councillors at the Kochi Corporation raised issues over a delay in the clearing of files by the Corporation Secretary, the Mayor is likely to write to the State government to resolve the matter. “We will write to the government asking for the Additional Secretary to be given full charge as Secretary,” Mayor Soumini Jain said. The current Secretary, who holds additional charge of the Regional Joint Director, Urban Affairs, seems to have his hands full, she added. P.J. Joseph, chairman, tax appeal standing committee, said the current secretary, with the additional charge, had not been able to consistently keep track of work at the corporation. “With the additional charge he has, the new Secretary has not been around full time, but nearly all files need to be presented before him. Work at the corporation has been suffering, and files are stagnating in this situation, particularly those of financial matters and all day-to-day activities,” said UDF councillor K.V.P. Krishnakumar. The Secretary who had held the post till last month had gone into quarantine, after which a new appointment had been made, said Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. Councillors of the ruling front have been needlessly pointing a finger at corporation officials, said Opposition Leader K.J. Antony. The responsibility for stagnation of work cannot be placed squarely on the shoulders of officials, he added. At a meeting on Thursday, the Mayor informed the contractors of the corporation, who have been on strike for over a month citing non-payment of crores worth of dues, that monthly payments would be made to them based on the corporation’s revenue. “Now that bill collectors have been stepping out for tax collection, revenue is likely to improve. At the same time, expenses are on the rise,” she said.
18 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gold smuggling: bail for 3 accused in Customs case||The High Court on Thursday granted bail to three accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case registered by the Customs. The court passed the order while allowing the bail petitions of T.M. Muhammed Anwar, M. Muhammed Abdu Shameem, and Jafsa, the 9th, 13th, and 14th accused in the case. However, they will not be released from the prison since the case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) too. The charge is that they had hatched a criminal conspiracy and abetted gold smuggling. The petitioners argued that the investigation was over and no purpose would be served by further detaining them in custody. The court observed that the accused were entitled to statutory bail under Section 167(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure as the prosecution had failed to file a final report. Conditions for bail The court ordered that the accused be granted bail on the execution of a bond for Rs. 50,000 each with two solvent sureties, each for the like amount. They should appear before the investigating officer every Mondayfor three months or until the filing of the final report, whichever was earlier.
18 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||383 positive cases in Ernakulam||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in the district hit a new high on Thursday, with 383 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Fifteen health workers were among those who tested positive. Nine of them are staff members at a private hospital at Kolenchery, while five health workers from other private hospitals in the district and another from a government hospital in Thrissur tested positive. Two police officers at the Thoppumpady police station have been infected. The other positive cases of infection were reported from Alangad, Aluva, Kadungalloor, Kothamangalam, Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Nedumbassery, Palluruthy, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Paipra, Perumbavoor, and Vengola. Nine persons who came from outside the State tested positive. A total of 357 people recovered and tested negative, while 3,271 people are being treated for the disease. As many as 21,742 people remain in quarantine.
18 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pokkali farmers welcome HC order on aquaculture||Pokkali rice farmers have welcomed a High Court of Kerala order terminating the aquaculture authority’s permission for fish cultivation throughout the year in pokkali fields. The order was issued on a petition filed by the Kerala Matsya Bandhana Thozhilali Union of Ezhupunna in Cherthala taluk, Alappuzha, against carrying out fish culture throughout the year. The September 8 order was issued by Justice P. V. Asha. A communication from Pokkali Samrakshana Samiti, a body of enthusiasts working to sustain the salt water resistant rice cultivation, said that aquaculture had been carried out in violation of the crop calendar prescribed by the State government.
18 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CoCoN conference from today||CoCoN, the annual cyber security and hacking conference being organised by the Kerala Police, will get under way on Friday. The latest edition of the conference will be held virtually owing to the pandemic. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will inaugurate the virtual conference. Kerala Cyberdome nodal officer Manoj Abraham will welcome the gathering and State Police Chief Loknath Behera will welcome the chief guests. Prince Michael of Yugoslavia will deliver the keynote address.
18 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||PCB chairman’s appointment challenged||The Kerala High Court on Thursday issued notice to the State government and the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) on a writ petition challenging the appointment of A.B. Pradeep Kumar as chairman of the board. The petition was filed by K.S Govindan Nair, an aspirant and former member secretary of the board.
18 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Martyred soldier laid to rest||The body of Aneesh Thomas, the solider who was killed in a ceasefire violation along the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani Sector, Rajouri (J&K), on September 15, was laid to rest with full military and State honours at his native village Vayala, Anchal, here on Thursday. He joined the Army 15 years ago and was posted in J&K recently. Naik Aneesh Thomas, 36, attached to the 17 Madras Regiment was expected to reach his home next week and his family was waiting for him when the tragedy struck. He is survived by his wife Emily and daughter Hannah. The vehicle carrying his body was accompanied by Army personnel and despite the COVID-19 restrictions, a large crowd gathered at his house to pay their last respects. His funeral service held at the Marthasmooni church, Mannur, was also attended by several persons, including politicians and officials. Additional District Magistrate P.R. Gopalakrishnan paid tributes on behalf of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Kollam District Collector B. Abdul Nasar and Punalur Revenue Divisional Officer B. Sasikumar for the State government. Mullakara Ratnakaran, MLA, district panchayat vice-president S. Venugopal, Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) chairman S. Jayamohan and Kollam District Police Chief (Rural) Harishankar were present.
18 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Probe into ‘suicide bid’||The Gandhinagar police have launched a probe into the alleged suicide attempt by a COVID-19 patient, who was the victim in the ambulance rape case at Aranmula, at the Government Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. As per reports the 19-year-old woman allegedly attempted to hang herself in a bathroom at an isolation ward here. Timely rescue She was rescued by the timely intervention of the hospital staff. The incident is said to have occurred around 1.30 p.m. “There are no complaints so far, but we have been alerted about the incident,” said the Station House Officer, Gandhinagar.
18 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Single-window online registration at MGU||The single-window online registration for admission to postgraduate programmes at colleges affiliated to Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) began on Thursday. The registration can be done by clicking the link ‘PG Cap 2020’ on www.cap.mgu.ac.in.
18 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No let-up in Kozhikode, more opting for home isolation||The gradual rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode in the past few days is happening in parallel with the increase in the number of those going under home isolation. According to the District Medical Officer, 545 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. This is the highest single-day spike so far. Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases through local transmission on Thursday was put at 490. In Malappuram As many as 351 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Thursday. While 320 of them were infected through local contact, there were 15 cases whose source of infection could not be identified. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 241 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday. While 156 of them contracted the infection through local contact, 27 came from other States. In Kasaragod As many as 319 cases were confirmed in the district on Thursday. In Thrissur As many as 296 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Thursday. While 140 people recovered from the disease, 2,375 are under treatment. In Wayanad A total of 107 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 554. In Kannur In Kannur, 260 people tested positive on Thursday. Of the total positive cases, 232 people contracted the disease through contact, while 16 came from other States, and 10 are health workers.
18 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wayanad road tunnel survey to begin today||Konkan Rail Corporation Ltd. ( KRCL) will on Friday begin the survey for the construction of a tunnel as part of the proposal to build an alternative road linking Kozhikode and Wayanad. A 12-member team led by Deputy Chief Engineer (Project) Ravisankar Ghodake will carry out the survey and field investigation and traffic study for the Rs. 658-crore two-lane tunnel road. The proposal is to construct a 6.8-km tunnel on the Anakkampoyil-Kalladi-Meppadi route aimed at decongesting the existing Thamarassery Ghat road. The project has been included in the 100-day special action plan of the Left Democratic Front government. Chief Minister Pinarayi is expected to announce the project on October 5. Parallel to pass Three months ago the State government gave its nod for the project on the hilly corridor that would run parallel to the landslip-prone Thamarassery pass that links Kozhikode and Wayanad. The tunnel will be the third longest in the country on completion. The proposal would benefit thousands of people as the distance from Kozhikode to Wayanad will be reduced to 54 km from the existing 85 km.
18 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJYM protest turns violent in Kozhikode||A protest march taken out by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists to the office of the District Police Chief (Kozhikode City) demanding the resignation of Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel turned violent on Thursday. The riot police confronted the protesters with water cannons and followed it up with a lathi charge when they attempted to break the barricade. At least four activists, including BJYM district president T. Reenish and Mahila co-ordinator Amrita Bindu who were injured in the lathi charge, were admitted to hospital. MYL march Indian Union Muslim League leader Parakkal Abdulla, MLA, accused the CPI(M) of creating underworld dons by protecting the higher-ups in the gold smuggling case. Inaugurating a protest march organised by Muslim Youth League (MYL) activists in front of the district collectorate here on Thursday demanding Mr. Jaleel’s ouster, Mr. Abdulla said his party and its affiliates would not rest until Mt. Jaleel was expelled
18 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||IUML treads cautiously on Minister’s Koran take||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has adopted a cautious line when dealing with the ‘religiously sensitive’ remarks made by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel in connection with his alleged involvement in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling racket. The IUML has chosen to ignore the Koran and to focus on gold even as Dr. Jaleel persistently tried to bring the holy book into focus. “Koran is not the issue. The issue is gold smuggling,” said IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed. IUML leaders continued to lay emphasis on gold and warn the people not to be misguided by the statements linking it with the Koran import. “The gold smuggled in under the guise of the Koran is the real issue,” said Mr. Majeed. The party is carefully parrying the attempts of Dr. Jaleel to reach out to community leaders portraying himself as a victim of politically and communally charged vendetta. The IUML has sent out messages to its cadres not to be distracted from the real issue. The party has viewed a recent statement by Dr. Jaleel that he would oblige if IUML chairman and spiritual leader Syed Hyderali Shihab Thangal asked him to quit, as a ploy to divert attention from the real issue. ‘Cheap sentimentality’ “He (Dr. Jaleel) is trying to divert the current discourse to a cheap sentimentality by trying to link himself with Thangal,” said IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty. According to the IUML, Dr. Jaleel has been adept at playing to the gallery with religious sentiments. “He has always used religious sentiments to his advantage. But it will not work now,” said Mr. Majeed. He sought to expose what he termed the hollowness of Dr. Jaleel’s statement about obliging to Mr. Thangal. “Not long ago, he said that he had become a Minister not with the blessings of Mr. Thangal. He had ascribed his ministership to AKG Centre. Now he says that he will quit if Thangal says,” the IUML leader said.
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||820 cases in capital||The capital’s COVID-19 burden continued to scale new peaks as 820 people were diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. Except for one, all cases are due to local transmission of the virus. The number of active cases also crossed 6,000 for the first time. The death toll also mounted with three more deaths — those of Pappanamcode (63 year old), Kottappuram (49) and a Kallattumukku (67) natives — being attributed to the disease, taking the count to 158. 83 with unknown source The growing incidence of cases with unknown sources of infection has been worrying the district administration. Eighty-three such cases were reported on Thursday. Among the new cases, 138 people were aged above 60 years and 91 below 15 years. With 547 people recovering from the illness, the active cases stood at 6,031. Factory employees The caseload included 110 employees, including 15 women, of a plastic factory at Manvila who had tested positive during the past four days. While 88 asymptomatic cases have been accommodated in a hostel by the company, others are undergoing treatment in a COVID first-line treatment centre. COVID-19 cases continued to mount in Attingal municipality where 10 persons, including employees of a block resource centre near the Government LP School, Alamcode, and a financial institution, near the Attingal private bus stand, tested positive. During his briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the pandemic spread continued unabated in spite of the intensified containment efforts in the district. While 30,281 tests were conducted in the district within a week until Wednesday, 4,184 COVID-19-positive cases were recorded. Pregnant women Directions have been issued to ensure strict quarantine of pregnant women in view of the intense local transmission that prevailed across the district, Mr. Vijayan said.
18 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||For first time, case graph crosses 4,000||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph continues to rise exponentially on a daily basis and crossed the 4,000 mark for the first time on Thursday, registering 4,351 new cases. As the epidemic curve scales the peak, this case number is likely to go up much further in the coming days, health experts have predicted. The number of samples tested in the State in the last 24 hours was 45,730 The State also registered 2,737 recoveries on the same day. The cumulative case burden now stands at 1,22,214 Having registered 87,341 recoveries till date, the number of cases currently being treated in hospitals is 34,314. Among these, 299 persons are critically ill, with 75 persons on ventilator support.  Major concern Ten more deaths were added to the official death list of the State, taking the toll to 489. Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam reported three deaths each, Thrissur two and one death each was reported by Malappuram and Kozhikode. The rise in active cases is a major concern for the State as the health system capacity may not be able to keep up with the surge in cases. Even with the districts launching home care of asymptomatic and mild patients, Thiruvananthapuram has over 6,000 active cases while Kozhikode, Malappuram and Ernakulam have over 3,000 active cases. Of the new cases reported, 95% – 4,153 out of the 4,351 cases – are locally acquired infections, including infections reported in 72 health-care workers. Sixteen of them are in Ernakulam, 15 in Thiruvananthapuram and 12 in Kasaragod. In 351 cases, the source of infection could not be identified. Surge in capital Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, addressing media, said the disease transmission in the capital district is a matter of grave concern. Even when disease containment activities had been strengthened, the disease transmission rate was not going down. The district on Thursday reported 820 cases, of which all except one lone case is locally transmitted infections. In the past one week alone, Thiruvananthapuram has reported 4,184 cases . Cases were steadily rising in Kozhikode too with the district registering 545 cases on Thursday. Ernakulam has 383, Alappuzha 367, Malappuram 351, Kasaragod 319, Thrissur 296, Kannur 260, Palakkad 241, Kollam 218, Kottayam 204, Pathanamthitta 136, Wayanad 107 and Idukki 104. The number of hotspots in the State now is 608.
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protests against Jaleel rage on||There appeared to be no let-up in sight for mass demonstrations in the State capital as activists of the Opposition parties clashed with the police yet again on Thursday. Violent protests continued for the sixth day on the trot, even as the capital district touched unprecedented heights in fresh COVID-19 cases. Security has remained on a heightened level in the Secretariat ever since the Enforcement Directorate’s questioning of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel last week had triggered violent protests. The Secretariat Annexe 1 building had also witnessed a security breach after some Kerala Students’ Union (KSU) activists forced their way into the premises. The City police have also strengthened security outside the CPI(M)’s State headquarters AKG Centre. Around 25 police personnel have been stationed in the area anticipating protests. While the police had to use water cannons to disperse agitators, the demonstrations on Thursday remained largely under control unlike what had happened on the previous days. While a joint demonstration taken out by Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and Mahila Morcha activists was the first among the series, Indian Union Muslim League’s youth outfit, Youth League, also took out a protest march. Four Youth Congress activists were injured as they clashed with the police later. Following a protest meet led by Shafi Parambil, MLA, the agitators attempted to topple the barricade. This led to the police spraying water on the protesters and later caning them. Against Union Minister The Youth Congress agitation took an interesting turn with the organisation training its focus on Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan along with Dr. Jaleel in the gold-smuggling case. They were both burnt in effigies. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led by its district president V.V. Rajesh took out a march in the evening.
18 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. keeps Jaleel issue on the boil||Anti-government protests buffeted Kerala for the sixth consecutive day on Thursday. The arrival of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel at the office of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Kochi for questioning in connection with the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case appeared to have catalysed the protests led by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party workers. Roads leading up to the NIA’s office at Kadavanthra turned riotous as waves after waves of protesters, who demanded the Minister’s resignation, clashed with a heavy police contingent through the good part of the day. The Kochi City police arrested nearly 100 protesters of the Congress, Youth Congress, and Mahila Morcha on charges of rioting and unlawful assembly besides violation of the COVID-19 protocol under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. While all of them were released on bail, a group of five Youth Congress activists were slapped with non-bailable charges under the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act. Protesters broke COVID-19 protocol and grappled with the police in Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, and Kannur, resulting in injuries on both sides. They damaged the office of Dr. Jaleel in Malappuram. MLA injured A Youth Congress march to the Palakkad Collectorate turned violent, leading to a police lathicharge and stone throwing. Over two dozen protesters, including V.T. Balram, MLA, were injured in the police action. Ten police personnel too were injured in stone throwing. The police resorted to a lathicharge to disperse the protesters as they tried to enter the Collectorate by jumping over barricades. Meanwhile, the attempts of the Youth Congress protesters to barge into a meeting attended by Minister A.K. Balan caused tension at the Collectorate. A case was registered against 25 Youth Congress workers. Mr. Balram said the police mercilessly beat up the protesters. He said women workers were abused and the police unleashed brutality. In Kottayam town, the police resorted to lathicharge and used water cannons on BJP workers as they continued to march to the Collectorate at 11 a.m. despite being blocked by barricades.
18 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Alappuzha reports 367 new cases||Alappuzha district reported 367 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. These include 349 persons who contracted the disease through local transmission, 10 who came from other States, six from abroad, and two health workers. Of the 349 locally transmitted cases, 79 were reported from Punnapra South, 50 from Alappuzha, and 22 from Kayamkulam. Meanwhile, 196 people tested negative. The number of active cases in the district stands at 2,537. 204 patients in Kottayam As many as 204 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday, taking the number of active cases in the district to 2,331. Kottayam municipality led the tally with 27 cases, followed by Kurichy panchayat with 13 cases. Cases were also reported from Ettumanur (12), Chirakkadavu (10), Moonnilavu (10), Pampady, Changanassery, Kaduthuruthy, and Thiruvarppu (eight cases each). There were 120 recoveries during the day.  218 cases in Kollam Kollam district reported 218 new COVID-19 cases and 325 recoveries on Thursday. While 210 patients contracted the infection through local contact, the other patients include three health workers, two Non-Resident Indians, and two persons who travelled from Assam and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The Health Department confirmed that the deaths of a 73-year-old Kallumthazham resident, a 62-year-old Prakkulam resident, and a 75-year-old Kulakkada resident are due to COVID-19. The first two patients had died on September 9 and the Kulakkada resident, on September 10. The district currently has 22,080 persons under observation and the number of samples collected is 1,58,065. The number of active cases is 2,574. 136 in Pathanamthitta A day after the highest number of new cases on a single day (236), the number of new cases in Pathanamthitta came down to 136 on Thursday. Of these, 107 persons contracted the virus through local contact while 11 landed from abroad. Two patients are health workers. With 122 recoveries in the day, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,097. Further, 16,087 persons are under observation. 104 cases in Idukki The number of cases reached the three-digit figure for the second time in Idukki on Thursday. Of 104 new cases, the source of infection of six patients could not be traced. These patients are residents of Konnathadi, Karunapuram, Nedumkandam, Cheruthoni, Marayur, and Munnar. Eighty persons were infected through local contact.
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU reviews move to cancel PG entrance||Kerala University (KU) has backtracked from its decision to scrap the entrance examinations for postgraduate (PG) programmes offered through its 44 study departments. Abandoning its plan to admit students on the basis of the marks in the qualifying examinations, the Syndicate has decided to stick to the conventional pen-and-paper mode for the exams. The move comes midway through the admission process for the credit and semester system (CSS) PG programmes that began on September 7. While mulling various options, the CSS Academic Committee had on August 12 suggested either online mode for the exams or granting admission based on the marks of the undergraduate (UG) exams. In view of the pandemic, the Syndicate opted for the latter in its meeting two days later. The decision was approved by the Academic Council on August 27. Sources said the proposal was met with widespread opposition with aspirants highlighting the disparity in the syllabi of UG programmes in universities across the country. In the absence of a mechanism to normalise the marks, the Syndicate decided to revert to the conventional mode of exams in an emergency meeting on Wednesday. “The candidates will be able to appear for the exams in their home districts. Exam centres will be identified in each district, including outside the university’s jurisdiction,” a senior official said. The deadline for submitting applications for admissions is September 21. ‘Bowing to pressure’ Save Education Forum, an organisation of educationists and activists, has come out against the Syndicate’s “unilateral move” alleging that it encroached upon the authority of the Academic Council. It also alleged that the university bowed to political pressure by claiming that the earlier plan to consider UG marks would have adversely affected several students affiliated to the Students Federation of India (SFI).
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTM to switch to virtual meet||Kerala Travel Mart (KTM), the four-day trade fair for the promotion of tourism in God’s Own Country scheduled from September 26, has been deferred and will be held as virtual meet from November 23. “The deferment of the biannual KTM is due to the pandemic. The virtual edition of the mart will be a window for the State to return to the development path through the tourism sector,” Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran said on Thursday. The 2018 edition of the KTM had helped the State tourism sector to overcome the apprehension following the floods, the Minister said. The buyers who came down to Kochi were able to increase the footfalls by spreading the view that Kerala is safe to holiday.  Previous edition In the previous edition, 35,000 business meetings were held and 10,000 meetings were with the buyers who came from abroad. The 1,600 buyers were selected from the 7,000 applications received. Good response has been received for the KTM from within the country and outside. But COVID-19 has upset the plans as the tourism sector has been hit badly with the travel restrictions and lockdown. The setback in the tourism sector, which provides foreign exchange, has also hit the economy badly. In the virtual mart from November 23 to 27, over 500 sellers and 2,500 buyers from within the country and abroad are expected to participate. The Minister said the tourism sector is expected to bounce back by January-February 2021 after the pandemic. The steps taken to contain the pandemic and the Rs. 455-crore financial aid provided to the stakeholders of the industry has been appreciated by all.
18 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KGMOA flays move to withhold doctors’ salary||The medical fraternity across the State is preparing to go on the warpath, expressing their strong protest against the government’s decision to continue to withhold the salary of health-care workers for six more months. President of the Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association Joseph Chacko and secretary G.S. Vijayakrishnan said on Thurdsay that the doctors were being forced to go on an agitation by the government which had shown nothing but callousness and disregard for health-care workers, who had been relentlessly fighting COVID-19 on the front lines. However, despite continuous appeal by the KGMOA, the government did not relent. It was said that the government had chosen to disregard even the Supreme Court’s directive not to withhold doctors’ salaries. The doctors would be forced to go on the path of an open stir if the government continued to ignore the demanads of doctors.
18 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||25th IFFK to be held from February 12 to 19||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy has announced that the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK) will be held from February 12 to 19, 2021, if the COVID-19 pandemic situation eases. The festival is usually held in December. “The conduct of the IFFK will be subject to the evolving situation of COVID-19. The festival will follow the guidelines of the Kerala government prevailing at that time,” said a statement from the academy on Thursday. According to an official of the academy, the general consensus is on organising a physical festival, instead of an online one. “Right now, we are starting with the usual background work of calling for and shortlisting films. In case the current situation persists, we obviously will have to postpone the festival. There are quite a few challenges with organising an online festival owing to issues such as piracy and limiting the geography from which films are accessed,” said the official. Though the festival cannot afford to have the usual 10,000 delegates even if the situation improves, the academy plans to have more theatres to ensure physical-distancing norms. As per the schedule put out by the academy, the deadline for submitting films is October 31. Films completed between September 1, 2019, and August 31, 2020, are eligible to apply. The deadline for previewing materials is November 2.
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held on impersonation charge||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police on Thursday arrested Deepu Krishnan, 36, of Nandiyode, on charges of masquerading as a cyber police officer and sexually harassing women. He allegedly used to visit women and claim that he had been investigating cases involving obscene content recorded without their knowledge and uploaded on YouTube. He is wanted in similar cases in police stations at Karamana, Medical College as well as parts of Thiruvananthapuram Rural. He had been absconding for days and was apprehended from a lodge at Thampanoor. He has been remanded in judicial custody.
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four youths missing in sea||Four youths went missing in the sea off the Vizhinjam coast on Thursday. The youths, identified as Johnson, Santhosh, Manu and Sabu, all natives of Pulluvila, went missing after they had gone for a swim at Azhimala. The Coast Guard has launched a search operation, the police said.
18 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chennithala flays salary cut move||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said on Thursday that the proposed salary cut of government employees and teachers for another six months is “unwarranted” and should be withdrawn. This will pose hardships to hundreds of families of employees reeling under financial crisis due to COVID-19. Instead of going ahead with the salary cut from September, the government should curb its expenditure and use the saved money for checking the pandemic. Stating that the government had saved Rs. 10,000 crore by deferring the refund of the deducted salary, Mr. Chennithala said this would turn a big liability for the new State government that would come to power after the Assembly election. He said the LDF government should refund the deducted salary before completing its term. Meanwhile, the Kerala Gazetted Officers Front has urged the government to exempt those drawing a monthly salary of Rs. 30,000 from the salary cut.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In one voice||
18 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 70,000 to take ‘grama sachivalayam’ test||A total of 70,714 candidates will be taking the examination being held to fill up the vacancies in village and ward secretariats in Anantapur district from September 20 to 26 every day in two sessions -- 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and 2.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. No candidate will be allowed inside the hall even a minute after the start of the examination, according to Joint Collector (VSWS - Development) A. Siri. At a press conference here on Thursday, she said two hours before the scheduled start of the examination, the centres would be opened and candidates need to undergo the COVID screening.
18 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID: notice to hospital for ‘excessive’ billing||A show-cause notice was served on G.V. Somayajulu, owner of Asha Hospital located on the Court Road here, for allegedly charging / excessive charging a patient for COVID-19 treatment. Joint Collector (VS/WS & Development) A. Siri, who went on a surprise inspection to four hospitals, found discrepancy in Asha Hospital, where a patient, who was admitted for treatment of an abscess in the stomach, was later tested for COVID-19 too. When Dr. Siri went to the COVID-19 ward, the attendants of the patient told her that they had been charged more than Rs. 25,000 though they were eligible for treatment under the Aarogyasri scheme. On cross-checking, Dr. Siri found that it was a deliberate billing for treatment though there were 10 beds in the ward. As per the Aarogyasri guidelines, 40% of the bed strength of any hospital identified for COVID-19 treatment has to be reserved for COVID patients.
18 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||6.8 lakh applications for secretariat posts||The Panchayat Raj and Municipal Administration officials are gearing up to conduct tests for filling up the vacancies in village and ward secretariats across the State from September 20. The notification for filling up 16,208 vacancies in 13 departments of village and ward secretariats was issued on January 10. Of the total, 14,062 vacancies are in village secretariats while 2,146 posts are lying vacant in ward secretariats. In total, 6.81 lakh applications have been received for the vacancies, of which around 4.56 lakh are for the Category-1 posts (panchayat secretary- Grade V- mahila police, welfare and education assistant and ward administrative secretary). District selection panels The District Selection Committees (DSC) have been constituted for supervising the recruitment process, with the respective Collectors as presidents, SPs and Joint Collectors as vice-presidents and departmental heads as the members. The recruitment tests will be conducted from September 20 to 26. COVID-19 protocols The officials said that all the COVID-19 protocols will be followed strictly during the examinations. Cellphones, calculators, other electronic digital equipment will not be allowed. “In Guntur, arrangements are being made for the tests scheduled to be conducted in 212 centres in five clusters of Guntur, Bapatla, Tenali, Narsaraopet and Macherla. In total, 86, 514 candidates will appear for the tests,” said Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar.
18 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||It is against the spirit of the Constitution: Botcha||The interim orders of the Andhra Pradesh High Court staying all investigation into the alleged land scam in Amaravati is against the spirit of the Constitution and natural justice, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana has alleged. “While the Chief Minister and his Cabinet Ministers have highest respect for the judiciary, the order is objectionable. The government constituted a SIT to probe the allegations of insider trading, the investigating agency came up with its findings, and the ACB booked cases,” the Minister told the media at the YSRCP central office at Tadepalli on Thursday. “In the run-up to the elections too we had highlighted the issue of large-scale corruption in Amaravati, and people supported us with their mandate. We have no objection if the accused persons approach the court. But the court order is against the spirit of the Constitution,” said Mr. Satyanarayana. Terming it as unprecedented, Mr. Satyanarayana said there were instances when the government had ordered a probe into the previous dispensation’s scams. “The judiciary is one of the four pillars of democracy that thrives when all the other institutions function independently and strongly,” the Minister said.
18 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Antarvedi protests: 37 released on bail||At least 37 protesters. arrested on the charges of throwing stones on a place of worship at Antarvedi during the protests on September 8 against the burning of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple chariot, were released from Kakinada subjail on Thursday. Amalapuram DSP Masum Basha told The Hindu, “All the 37 protesters were granted bail on Wednesday and released from the Kakinada subjail on Thursday morning.”
18 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prohibitory orders in Amalapuram till Sept. 20||Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik on Thursday said that Section 144 would be in force across the Amalapuram Revenue Division in East Godavari district between September 18 and 20. In an official release, Mr. Kaushik Said: "Section 144 will be in force till September 20 as part of the prevention of the spread of COVID-19 by restricting any public gathering. Recently, many police personnel on duty at Antarvedi temple have been infected with COVID-19 due gathering of public in the wake of the burning of the temple chariot." Mr. Kaushik further stated that no permission was given for any gathering or protest across the revenue division till September 20. Trade bandh Meanwhile, the Amalapuram Chamber of Commerce has given a call for voluntarily shutdown of all the trade activity on Friday. The police also geared up to prevent any gathering from Friday as BJP has given a call for for ‘Chalo Amalapuram’ as a part of its protest against the Antarvedi incident. By Thursday evening, the police put many BJP and Jana Sena Party leaders under the house arrest
18 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for release of water to Chennai||The stage is set for the release of water to Chennai metropolis from the Kandaleru reservoir from Friday. With Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy clearing the decks, the irrigation authorities have made all arrangements to release initially over 1,000 cusecs. “The water release will be stepped up to 1,500 cusecs after assessing the canal carrying capacity and plugging breaches, if any, in the next 30 to 45 days to meet the drinking water needs of denizens of Chennai,” Telugu Ganga Project Superintending Engineer K. Harinarayana Reddy told The Hindu.  With the Kandaleru reservoir receiving a steady inflow of 10,459 cusecs of water from the overflowing Somasila reservoir, there will be no problem in meeting the Krishna water needs of Tamil Nadu capital this year, according to sources in the Irrigation Department. Tamil Nadu is entitled for 15 tmcft under the Telugu Ganga project with Karnataka, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh as also Telangana chipping in with their contributions. The Kandaleru reservoir now has a storage of 37.72 tmcft of water. The released water is expected to reach the Poondi reservoir, which is the storage point of Krishna water in Tamil Nadu in six days through the Kandaleru-Poondi canal. Simultaneously, water will be released from Kandaleru to fill drinking water reservoirs in among other places Tirupati, Srikalahasti, Venkatagiri and Rapur in the State.
18 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Last rites of MP performed with State honours||The last rites of YSRCP MP from Tirupati Balli Durga Prasad Rao, who died of coronavirus on Wednesday, were performed with full State honours at Venkatagiri in Nellore district on Thursday. YSRCP MLAs B. Karunakar Reddy, Kakani Govardhan Reddy and K.Sanjeevaiah and the supporters of Durga Prasad Rao paid homage to the lawyer-turned-politician who had represented Gudur in the Assembly four times and served as the Primary Education Minister in the Cabinet of former Chief Minister of undivided Andhra Pradesh, N.T. Rama Rao between 1996 and 1998. Durga Prasad Rao joined the YSRCP ahead of the general elections in 2019 and become MP after defeating former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi . Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu and SP Baskar Bhushan were among those who paid their last respect to Durga Prasad Rao .
18 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 more succumb to COVID in Nellore, Prakasam||The toll due to coronavirus increased to 816 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh with 16 more patients succumbing to the viral disease in the last 24 hours. Ten patients died of the pandemic in Prakasam district taking the toll to 405. In SPSR Nellore district, the number of deaths rose to 411 with six more losing the battle against the virus, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. As many as 1,315 patients tested positive for the disease during the period, taking the cumulative confirmed cases to over 87,000 in the two districts. In a welcome trend, as many as 2,428 patients recovered from the illness during the period. The number of active cases dropped to 12,411 in Prakasam district as 1,596 patients were cured of the disease in the last 24 hours. So far, 26,627 patients had a recovery in the district so far. In SPSR Nellore district, 832 patients recovered during the period, taking the total number of cured patients in the district to 42,336. The number of active cases significantly fell to 5,352 in the district. ‘Efforts yielding result’ The constitution of task force committees at the village, mandal and Assembly constituency levels paid dividends in Prakasam district with the grassroots level functionaries, including health workers and village volunteers, reaching out to persons with suspected symptoms and providing treatment to patients, District Collector P. Bhaskar said while attending a review meeting held by State Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney. The primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons, especially those suffering from comorbodity condition were identified at the grassroots level within 24 hours. Over 12,000 patients were being provided treatment now from their homes in the district, where the death rate was minimal at 1.01%, he said.
18 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police foil BJP’s ‘Chalo Amalapuram’||Tension prevailed at several places of Srikakulam district on Thursday following the house arrest and forcible custody of several BJP leaders who planned ‘Chalo Amalapuram’ to register their protest over burning of celestial chariot of Antarvedi Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple. With the call given by BJP State president Somu Veerraju, the district party unit mobilised all leaders and activists from different parts of 38 mandals. There was a heated argument between police officials and BJP leader Nadukuduti Eswara Rao at Ranasthalam when they tried to arrest him. BJP leaders Pudi Tirupati Rao, Pydi Venugopalama, Duppala Ravindra, Pudi Baladitya, and district president Attada Ravibabji strongly condemned the police act.
18 September 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala temple gets spruced up for Brahmotsavams||The inner precincts of the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara has been spruced up for the annual Salakatla Brahmotsavams scheduled to commence on Saturday. For the first time in the history of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD), the nine-day festival will be conducted on a low key devoid of its usual grandeur in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. The two-time daily processions of the deities on various vahanams (carriers) that form the ‘nucleus’ part of the event will also be absent and devotees with valid darshan tickets alone will be allowed to motor up. Despite all the reversals, TTD has geared up itself for the ceremonial conduct of the mega event. The festival will take off to a religious start with ‘Dwajarohanam’ (hoisting of the temple flag) on Saturday with ‘ankurarpanam’ on Friday. The two-time ‘vahana sevas’ will be organised between 9 a.m. and 10 a.m. and 7.00 p.m. and 8 p.m. every day at kalyanotsava mandapam inside the main temple complex. While the auspicious ‘Garuda seva’ will be observed on September 23 between 7 p.m. and 8.30 p.m., curtains will be drawn on the mega event with the performance of Pallaki and Tiruchi Utsavams on September 27 followed by Dwajavarohanam the same night. Sarva Bhoopala vahana seva will substitute the procession of golden chariot and wooden chariots on September 24 and 26 respectively. Procession taken out Meanwhile, the 175-feet giant rope and the mat made of darbha (sacred grass) used in the Dwajarohanam ceremony were on Thursday taken out in a procession from TTD forest office and handed them over to the temple officials. The sacred grass was procured from the green fields of Chelluru village near Vadalamalapeta mandal about 20 km from Tirupati. The TTD categorically made it clear that all the religious formalities will be strictly adhered to during the conduct of the festival and there will be no room for any lapse. In the larger interest of the devout, the management has also resolved to live telecast the religious proceedings on all the days of the festival period.
18 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD invites CM for the fete||The TTD Chairman, Y.V. Subba Reddy, along with Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal and Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy on Thursday formally invited Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to the annual Salakatla Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara scheduled to commence here on Saturday. The customary invitation was extended to the Chief Minister at his camp office at Tadepalli in Vijayawada where the officials also presented him with a laddu and ‘theertham’ (sacred water) of the deity.
18 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dy. Tahsildar lands in ACB net||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested G. Srinivasa Rao, the Deputy Tahsildar of Kalakada mandal in Chittoor district, on Thursday when he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 3,000 from S. Sugbuthulla for doing an official favour. The official had allegedly demanded the bribe for forwarding the complainant’s bill amount of Rs. 1,66,932, which made the latter approach the ACB authorities. The officials laid a trap and around Thursday noon he was arrested reportedly while accepting the tainted money. The team arrested Mr. Srinivasa Rao and produced him before the ACB court in Nellore.
18 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘kills’ brother over property dispute||A person allegedly killed his elder brother in an inebriated condition in Madanapalle revenue division of Chittoor district on Thursday. The incident, which happened at Tirumalareddypalle village of Ramasamudram mandal on Thursday, was a consequence of a property dispute between them, according to villagers. Narayana was allegedly bludgeoned to death in a fit of rage by his brother Siva.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durga flyover to be thrown open today||The newly constructed Kanakadurga flyover on the Vijayawada-Hyderabad national highway will be opened for traffic from Friday, according to Vijayawada MP Kesineni Srinivas. However, there would be no formal inauguration as Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari, who was supposed to inaugurate the flyover virtually, tested positive for COVID-19 and fell ill. Mr. Srinivas announced that the flyover inauguration couldn’t be done. He said that in public interest, it will be opened for traffic. The foundation stone for the flyover was laid on December 5, 2015 by Mr. Gadkari who was Union Minister of Surface Transport then.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Talks on with Apple vendors to set up manufacturing unit in State’||The Andhra Pradesh government is negotiating with the major sub-contractors and vendors of the products of technology major Apple for setting up a manufacturing unit in the State. It has also offered to develop the Kadapa airport as a cargo hub with automatic customs clearances and direct delivery of components to their shop floors. “We held talks with the Apple management to know the kind of ecosystem they need. I hope a manufacturing unit will eventually come up in the State,” said Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Minister for Industries & Commerce, Information Technology (IT) and Skill Development. Addressing the media at the APIIC headquarters at Mangalagiri on Thursday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the government has plans to transform Visakhapatnam into a global cloud computing hub. “The guidelines are being framed. Modalities including mobilising venture capital and setting up incubation centres are being worked out. Besides, plans are afoot to take Internet facility to the doorsteps of people under the aegis of the A.P. State Fibernet Limited,” he said. Shipbuilding facility The Minister said that some companies had come forward to set up a ship building-cum-repair facility that can handle Panamax vessels to start with. Preliminary discussions have been held in this regard. The Government of India has evinced interest in partially funding eight fishing harbours proposed to be built by the State government. The DPRs for Ramayapatnam and Bhavanapadu ports are almost ready, he said.  Refinery projects Mr. Goutham Reddy further said Union Minister Piyush Goyal had promised to allocate two refinery projects in Visakhapatnam - Kakinada Petroleum, Chemicals and Petrochemical Investment Region. He asserted that Kadapa Steel Plant stood a bright chance of attracting global steel makers as the government had plans for its expansion once the economy started recovering. The Expressions of Interest have been submitted. The government has plans to establish a 1.50 MTPA integrated steel plant,” Mr. Goutham Reddy said. Bulk drug park The Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) has plans to set up a solar panel manufacturing unit in the State and it is taking up the proposal at the Board level, said Mr. Goutham Reddy. East Godavari district is being considered for establishment of a bulk drug park, he added.
18 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court order unusual and legally questionable, says Vijaya Sai||The Andhra Pradesh High Court order restraining the media from publishing any news regarding the FIR filed against a former Advocate-General was “quite unusual” and “legally questionable decision,” observed YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy during a discussion in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the interim order through which the High Court directed the media, including social media, not to report details was unusual because there appeared to be no material to justify such censorship other than the allegation by the petitioner (the former A-G) that the case was foisted on him as part of a political vendetta. Later, addressing the media on the sidelines of the protest staged on the lawns of Parliament against the alleged Amaravati land scandal and irregularities in the AP State Fibernet Limited, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the “gag order” was not well-received by the intelligentsia as it ought to be a tool used under exceptional circumstances.  ‘Mr. Reddy commented that the general impression was that the judiciary had overreached the legislature and executive, and that the court order was read by people as a deprivation of the fundamental right of expression. “There were no such gag orders when we were at the receiving end and things seemed to be right, and now the interpretation has differed. We are not attributing motives to any individuals, but want the same yardstick to be applied to all,” Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy stated, adding that he sought the Central government’s intervention in the issue.  There were no such gag orders when we were at the receiving end and things seemed to be right, and now interpretation has differed.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NREDCAP sets ball rolling for storage of renewable energy||In an attempt to convert variable renewable energy sources into round-the-clock power and attract investments to the State, the New and Renewable Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh (NREDCAP) has laid its focus on creating pumped hydro-storage (PHS) facility. PHS works by storing energy in water in the upper reservoir, pumped from a second reservoir at a lower elevation when there is excess power in the system. When there is demand for energy, the water in the upper reservoir is released and as it falls, it turns turbines that produce power. The NREDCAP has short-listed seven of the 29 feasible locations identified last year to set up solar parks and has floated tenders for preparation of Preliminary Feasibility Report (PFR) and Detailed Project Report (DPR). “It may take two years for the DPR after which we will start the project,” says NREDCAP Vice-Chairman and MD S. Ramana Reddy. The plan is to produce more renewable energy and integrate it with the grid. “Besides the existing 8,000 MW of renewable energy resources, we want to produce 10,000 MW more through the A.P. Green Energy Corporation, exclusively to meet the demands of the farm sector, especially the nine-hour free power scheme,” he explains. The locations to set up solar parks have been identified and transmission and sub-station works have started. “We have asked the AP-Transco to keep the sub-stations and evacuation lines ready as we will shortly call tenders for the 10,000 MW solar power plants,” he said. Integration with grid To integrate 18,000 MW of renewable energy with the grid, the State will need a pumped hydro storage facility. “ Around 90 % of the renewable power is available only in the day time, but the peak demand is after 5 p.m. We need to store the power. Globally, there is no storage technology in megawatt scale except pumped hydro storage,” says Mr. Reddy. When the DPR is ready, the NREDCAP will establish the power plants but their number would depend on the government’s financial position then. Export policy Referring to the renewable energy export policy , Mr. Reddy says the NREDCAP will identify, demarcate and aggregate uncultivable vacant lands in Rayalaseema region, and set up transmission sub-stations in collaboration with either the Transco or the Power Grid Corporation of India. As a major portion of the power will be sold outside the State, the NREDCAP is keen on a tie-up with the Power Grid Corporationr̥to set up two new Central power grid sub-stations in Kurnool and in Anantapur districts. “This will help us export nearly 8 gigawatt (8,000 MW) of power to other States,” says Mr. Reddy, adding that the NREDCAP has requested sanction of sub-stations at three other locations—Badwel in Kadapa, and Puttaparthi and Kadiri in Anantapur, as land banks are available there.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indian Navy likely to set up submarine communication facility in Prakasam||The Indian Navy is likely to set up an advanced system for communicating with its fleet of submarines, including those propelled by nuclear reactors, at Donakonda in Prakasam district. The Andhra Pradesh government offered about 2,600 acres for this high-security facility, for which soil testing is currently underway, according to Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy, who held parleys on it with top administrators in the Navy during his recent visit to New Delhi. Mr. Goutham Reddy told The Hindu that it is an ultra low-frequency communication system which the Navy is looking at. Strategic air base The the proposed defence cluster in Donakonda where the installation is coming up, has also been chosen by the Indian Air Force (IAF) for setting up a strategic air-base. The IAF has agreed to give it for commercial flight services over a period of time. Mr. Reddy said the government is taking steps for clearing certain hurdles in the establishment of the Navy’s Alternative Operational Base (AOB) at Rambilli in Visakhapatnam district. Discussions were held on issues related to the development of a port at Rambilli that largely caters to AOB. The handing over of about 55 acres on Dolphin’s Nose in Visakhapatnam to Navy on grounds of national security in view of the threat posed by the location of a place of worship on the hill that overlooks the headquarters of the Eastern Naval Command, Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam port, Hindustan Shipyard and the Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserve site was also dwelt upon. Monitoring of fishing boats and fish landing centres that dot the 900 km-long coastline was another thing that formed a part of the deliberations. Development of ports Coming to the ports sector, Mr. Reddy said priority was given to the development of ports at Ramayapatnam, Bhavanapadu and Machilipatnam. The Central government has shown interest in partnering with the State government in the establishment of Bhavanapadu port in Srikakulam district which has an 18-meter draft, he stated.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘YSRCP has no right to talk about press freedom’||TDP official spokesperson K. Pattabhi has asserted that the YSRCP government and its advisers have no moral right to speak about “media freedom and gag orders” considering how attacks have been made on the freedom of the press since the beginning of its tenure in the State. Addressing the media on Thursday, Mr. Pattabhi sought to remind Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Adviser (Public Affairs), that the national media, the Press Council of India, and the Editors Guild of India had slammed the government for issuing the G.O. 2430, which, he alleged, was a clear attempt to stifle the voice of the media in the State. “The Press Council of India and the Editors Guild of India had demanded withdrawal of the G.O. saying that it posed a grave threat to the freedom of the press and demoralise the mediapersons,” Mr. Pattabhi said, and added that Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy owed an explanation in this regard. Meanwhile, party spokesperson P. Anuradha has alleged that the government is planning to impose Rs. 600 crore burden on the people by increasing the cess on diesel and petrol in Andhra Pradesh. Ms. Anuradha said that any increase in fuel prices would be additional burden to the people who were already suffering form of increase in the RTC bus fares, power charges, sand rates, and liquor prices, she said. She alleged that the State government had incurred debts of around Rs. 1.2 lakh crore in the first 15 months of its rule , but it made no worthwhile effort to create infrastructure or wealth.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu Veerraju, Kanna put under house arrest||BJP State president Somu Veerraju and his predecessor Kanna Lakshminarayana were kept under house arrest at Tadepalli and Guntur respectively as they got ready to go to Amalapuram to protest against the ‘attacks on Hindu temples’, particularly the burning down of the chariot of the Antarvedi temple. Mr. Veerraju gave the call for ‘Chalo Amalapuram’ on September 18 to stage a protest there in view of the restrictions imposed at Antarvedi. The police confined the leaders to their houses on the ground due to the ban on mass gatherings because of prevalence of COVID and likelihood of a law and order problem. Mr. Veerraju said the confinement of the BJP cadres to houses was nothing but an act of suppression of peaceful protests.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested in daylight robbery case||The city police on Thursday arrested five persons in connection with the recent broad daylight robbery in the house of a doctor at Moghalrajpuram. Cash and gold valuing Rs. 37.25 lakh were recovered from the accused. Commissioner of Police B. Srinivasulu announced the arrest of the accused. Mr. Srinivasulu said that Mondem Vijay (26), who was working for the doctor, Ch. Muralidhar, along with at least five members hatched the robbery plan. On September 14, Vijay called the doctor’s wife, Swarupa Rani, and cautioned her about persons moving suspiciously outside her house. Before locking the doors, the doctor’s son Teja Sai found two men loitering outside the house and questioned them, Mr. Srinivasulu said. According to the police official, the two men, who entered the house forced Mr. Teja and Ms. Rani to open lockers at knife point and decamped with Rs. 48.50 lakh in cash and gold. Before leaving, one of the accused told the victims that Dr. Muralidhar had referred his father to another doctor for treatment but he died and he was forced to pay Rs. 20 lakh to get the body. The other accused were Uppati Nagendra Babu (28), Borra John Wesly (25), Elisetti Sai Kiran (27) and Jakkam Anil (22). Wesly and another accused who is yet to be arrested, Isukapalli Prakash, were accused in chain-snatching cases.
18 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 RTC staff held for bootlegging||Five persons, including three APSRTC staff, were arrested by the SEB for allegedly smuggling liquor, on Thursday. SEB officials seized 2,198 liquor bottles worth Rs. 11 lakh from an RTC cargo vehicle. Two of the accused are drivers. A case has been filed.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students brave pandemic fears to appear for EAMCET||Thousands of students in the city and elsewhere in the district appeared for the Andhra Pradesh Engineering Agriculture and Medical Common Entrance Test (A.P. EAMCET-2020) which began across the State on Thursday. The exam was held amidst unprecedented safety measures taken in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nine centres were allotted for the conduct of the entrance test in Visakhapatnam district. The exam was held from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. The engineering entrance exam is being held from September 17 to 23. About 1.85 lakh students from the State are appearing for the exam. Around 17,500 candidates from the district are expected to write the computer-based engineering entrance exam. Meanwhile, over 87,000 candidates from the State will appear for the agriculture and medical examinations scheduled to be held from September 23 to 25. Candidates reached their examination centres two hours before the examination time to avoid last-minute chaos. Hand sanitiser was provided at the gate for the candidates. Officials drew circles at the examination centre to ensure physical distancing between the candidates, while checking their temperature with thermal scanners. Though APSRTC officials arranged special buses from all parts of the district, a large number of parents preferred to personally drop their children instead of opting for public transport in view of the COVID-19 scare. Many candidates wore gloves and carried pocket hand sanitisers and water bottles. ‘Arrangements satisfactory’ Many were worried about appearing for the exam at a time when the COVID-19 spread was at its peak in the district. “Initially, I was a bit tensed, but settled down after seeing the arrangements. The measures taken by authorities were satisfactory. Everyone wore masks and gloves. Seating was also arranged in such a way so as to ensure appropriate physical distancing,” said Ch. Santosh, who appeared for the examination at a college in Sheela Nagar. “I was worried about appearing for the exam given the rate at which COVID-19 cases are being reported every day in the district. However, the arrangements put in place by authorities were quite good and I was able to write the exam in a relieved manner,” said V. Anusha, a resident of TPT Colony.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||449 new infections in a day||Visakhapatnam district reported 449 new coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the cumulative tally to 46,198. As many as 497 persons were recovered in 24 hours, including those who were discharged from hospitals, COVID care centres and those who were put under home quarantine. The death toll has gone up to 343, a bulletin released by the district administration said. It also confirmed the death of four more persons due to the virus. As per the bulletin, the number of active cases in the district now stands at 5,067 while the total discharges have been put at 40,788. Active clusters Special Officer for COVID-19 P.V. Sudhakar said among the 718 clusters in the district, 57 are very active, while 112 are active. As many as 549 clusters have been designated as dormant, he said, adding that 192 clusters have already been denotified till date.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inspects village secretariats||Collector V. Vinay Chand directed the staff of village secretariats to provide the best possible services to people. The Collector visited Padmanabham and Bheemunipatnam mandals on Thursday, as per the directions of the Chief Minister to Collectors asking them to tour rural areas twice a week. Mr. Vinay Chand visited the village secretariats and interacted with the staff. He inspected the construction of Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs), YSR Health Clinics and village secretariat buildings in various villages in the two mandals. He asked the staff of the secretariats whether they had all the required amenities and inquired on their reporting to duty and went through the registers. He ascertained about the tasks being performed by the staff. Mr. Vinay Chand asked the panchayat secretary on the number of streets in the villages and the condition of sanitation. The secretary told him that there was segregation of dry and wet waste at source. The Collector directed the MPDO to give full-fledged training to the secretariat staff. He inspected a new building under construction for the secretariat and asked the Assistant Engineer about the expected date of its completion. Later, he directed the officials to complete construction of the secretariat, RBKs and YSR Health Clinics buildings at the earliest.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Biking across the country to create awareness on COVID||Bijendar Singh, an avid motorcyclist from Haryana, reached the city on Thursday after riding for 53 days across several States. Mr. Singh is on a mission to spread awareness on COVID-19 and farmer suicides across the country. Members of Jana Vignana Vedika gave a warm welcome to Mr. Singh at the Gandhi Statue near the GVMC building. “I started from Haryana on July 26 and rode across Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha to reach Andhra Pradesh. Throughout my journey, I met nearly 19,000 people from various States and learnt about their food habits and local cultures,” Mr. Singh said. “A number of people have lost their jobs due to COVID-19, and the government should come to their help. Corporate hospitals are charging exorbitant rates for treating COVID-19 patients, and it is time that the government offers free treatment to all patients,” he added. “Through my motorcycle expedition, I also aim to send a message to farmers that they should stay strong in the face of adversity and face their problems instead of giving in to them and ending their lives,” Mr. Singh said. Member of The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) Aja Sarma congratulated Mr. Singh on his expedition and said the government must take note of his views.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police step up vigil on IPL betting||The city police have stepped up vigil on the betting activities as the Indian Premier League (IPL) is all set to begin in Abu Dhabi on Saturday, after nearly six months delay due to the coronavirus pandemic. A senior police officer said many bookies were arrested from the city for betting on IPL matches in the last four years and close to Rs. 20 lakh was seized from them. The police also seized equipment including integrated call receiving systems, line mobile phones, and others during raids. “Betting activities are not limited to the city now as the bookies are operating from rural areas of the district. A few years ago, the money put on betting used to be between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 20,000 at the local level as the punters would divert huge transactions to major cities such as Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Mumbai. It is learnt that even transactions of above Rs. 50,000 are being handled from Vizag,” said the police officer. Modus operandi A majority of the betting rackets busted in the city were being run out of apartments. Police records suggest that many gangs from other districts such as East Godavari, West Godavari, Prakasam and other States arrived in the city and took apartments on rent to run the illegal activities. During the IPL season last year, the city police arrested six persons on charges of organising betting in Gopalapatnam area. “The betting organisers use integrated connectivity boxes equipped with 60 multi-connectivity options (MCBs) with cellphones. They would use laptops with high-speed internet connections or TV sets to check live updates of the matches,” explains another police officer. The city police also found betting being organised individual houses in interior villages. The organisers would select thatched houses, cashew orchards to run their operations. He said mobile apps are being used to organise betting. “We have seen college goers fall into the trap of betting organisers. Parents should keep a watch on their children,” he added.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sub-Collector launches inquiry into land grabbing bid in Agency||Narsipatnam Sub-Collector Narapureddy Mourya visited Pedagaruvu village in Ravikamatham mandal of Visakhapatnam district and held an inquiry on Thursday. Ms. Mourya took up the inquiry after the villagers approached the ITDA Project Officer with a complaint that some persons were trying to grab the land that they have been tilling for decades. Mandal Secretary Mosuri Raju and All India Agriculture and Rural Worker Union requested the Sub-Collector to incorporate the tribal farmers’ names in Adangal and issue D-pattas. Pedagaruvu is inhabited by about 15 Kondh tribals, and all of them have been cultivating government land under survey number 362 (old survey number 95) for decades. On July 24, some persons had come to the village with an earthmoving machine and tried to level the land. When the tribals tried to protest, they were reportedly beaten up. Thereafter, the tribals approached the ITDA PO, who asked the tahsildar to submit a report. The tahsildar submitted a report to Sub-Inspector of Kothakota on August 31, but no action was reportedly taken.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks discussion on public issues||The CPI(M) on Thursday demanded a discussion on people’s problems in Parliament. At a protest organised by the Maddilapalem Zone Committee near Kalabharathi, the party leaders sought provision of Rs. 7,500 as financial assistance to workers and withdrawal of the plan to privatise PSUs. CPI(M) city secretariat member R.K.S.V. Kumar said that the reduction in the time for Question Hour was preventing members from raising issues. He demanded that the YSRCP MPs pull up the Centre over its reported decision to hand over the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant to POSCO.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘ESI hospitals can be built in all States’||BJP leader and former member of the ESIC Board Cheruvu Ramakotaiah wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting that every State in the country can have an ESI Atma Nirbhar Hospital for taking up treatment of heart, kidney, cancer and other chronic ailments for ESI members in that State. While commending the PM for his people-centric initiatives, Mr. Ramakotaiah recalled his association with the BJP for over two decades. He said he was appointed a member of ESIC during the tenure of Union Labour Minister Bandaru Dattatreya.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM webinar for students||Officials from GITAM Deemed to be University conducted special webinars on how to handle virtual interviews. Director, Training & Placements Gurumoorthy Gangadharan, said that due to COVID-19, companies are now switching to virtual placement drives. He said that almost all interviews are now conducted entirely online. Many students have been facing difficulty while giving online interviews, he said. “There are high chances of internet connection being lost in the middle of an interview. Through special webinars, we have tried to educate our students to be prepared for such scenarios,” he said.
18 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vishnu Kumar Raju under house arrest||BJP leader and former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has been placed under house arrest at Seethammadhara here on Thursday, as he reportedly planned to participate in a protest at Antarvedi. Dwaraka police station circle inspector served a notice on him, saying that he had credible information that Mr. Raju along with the BJP cadre, was planning to visit Antarvedi to participate in the protest, which could lead to law and order problems and Section 144 Cr. PC were in force in Amalapuram.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Proposed solar projects to undergo judicial preview||The Andhra Pradesh Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL), the nodal agency for implementation of 10 GW solar power capacity in the State, has submitted tender documents to the Judicial Preview Committee in respect of the projects proposed at 10 locations with aggregate installed capacity of 6,050 MW in the first phase. In a statement on Thursday, the Corporation CEO said the tender documents are available in the official website of the committeewww.judicialpreview.a p.gov.in. The Corporation has asked stakeholders, developers, contractors and general public to send their suggestions, remarks and objections to the mail id judicialpreview@gmail.com and judge-jpp@ap.gov.in by September 25. Copies of suggestions may also be sent to APGECL (pmu.apgecl@gmail.com). The APGECL will start the tender process after completion of the judicial preview, the officials said.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prey in sight||
18 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||19 sand-laden tractor trolleys seized||As many as 19 sand-laden tractor trolleys were seized by the police at Ananthogu village in Allapalli mandal on Wednesday night for allegedly transporting sand from the Kinnerasani riverbed without valid coupons from the mandal Revenue authorities. The raid comes a day after Collector M V Reddy ordered a vigilance inquiry into the allegations of illegal sand mining and transportation in several mandals of the district. Additional Collector D Anudeep has been appointed as the special officer to conduct the probe, official sources said. The decision assumes significance in the backdrop of a series of allegations against some organised gangs “minting money” by illegally extracting sand from streams and rivulets, transporting the minor mineral and selling it at an exorbitant price in big towns and cities. Serious concerns have been raised from various quarters that the “sand mafia” activities were not only causing irreparable damage to the ecosystem but also damaging roads.
18 September 2020||hydeerabad,TELANGANA||Online classes for ‘disabled’||The State government has decided to conduct online classes for visually and hearing-impaired students. The decision was announced by the Disabled and Senior Citizens Welfare department after a meeting chaired by Welfare Minister Koppula Eshwar. It was decided to supply smart phones to about 200 students studying in five such schools run by the department.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fatalities cross 1,000 in Telangana||The number of deaths in Telangana due to COVID-19 crossed 1,000 on September 16. Nine patients died on Wednesday, taking the toll to 1,005, according to the media bulletin issued by the Health department. However, doctors who attend coronavirus patients at government hospitals expressed doubts about the veracity of the numbers. A report on this was published in these columns on August 3. But, senior Health officials, on multiple occasions, stressed that they are not hiding any numbers. Apart from government hospitals, COVID deaths are recorded in corporate hospitals. The first COVID death in the State was reported on March 28. A 74-year-old man died at a corporate hospital in Hyderabad. And the second death was reported on March 30. Till May 17, COVID-19 deaths were intermittent. Thereafter, from May 18, COVID-19 patients died every day. The number of people who died in a day varied widely. However, in August, 9 or 10 deaths in a day was reported on 14 days, and nine out of 16 days (September 1-6) this month. In fact, the High Court, on September 4, observed that the tally of nine to 10 deaths a day due to COVID-19 is unbelievable. The highest number of deaths in a day is 14. While it took 95 days (March 2-June 4) to record the first 100 deaths, it took 8 to 16 days to cross the next set of 100 deaths.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LRS charges down to 2015 rates||The Government has issued orders revising the charges payable under the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) and brought them on par with the previous LRS scheme of 2015. Consequently, the number of slabs has been revised from four to seven and if 10% of the open space is not available in an unapproved layouts, the charges at 14% of the plot value prevailing as on the date of registration of such plot will be collected instead of rate prevailing as on August 26,  which was proposed earlier. It was also clarified that no separate ‘Nala’ charges need to be paid as conversion charges for agricultural to non agricultural use by the LRS applicants. These decisions have been taken following a number of requests made by the general public and public representatives that regularisation charges specified in the above rules are very high compared to rates stipulated in LRS Scheme 2015 and during this pandemic COVID situation it would be very difficult for a common man to pay the same. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao had considered the request favourably and had also announced in the floor of the Assembly that Land Regularisation Scheme regularization charges will be revised to make them same as what was provided in the previous LRS Scheme 2015. Revised charges on the market value of plots as on August 26, 2020, show that applicants for LRS up to 3,000 sq. yard should pay 20% of the basic regularisation charges, those having 3001-5000 sq. yards would have to pay 30%, for 5001-10,000 sq. yards it is 40%, for 10,000-20,000 sq. yards it is 50%, for 20,001-30,000 sq. yards it is 60%, for 30,001-50,000 sq. yards it is 80% and it is 100% for above 50,000 sq. yards, as per the orders issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State govt. rejects Centre’s options on GST compensation||The State government is learnt to have rejected the two options suggested by the Central government related to payment of Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation due from the Centre. The government is learnt to have addressed a communication to the Centre in this direction. Going by the data available, seven other States - Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Punjab, Delhi, Chhattisgarh and Puducherry - are among the States which rejected the two options presented by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman relating to the GST compensation. The Centre calculated that the compensation required by the States in the current financial year would be Rs. 3 lakh crore of which Rs. 65,000 crore was expected to be met from the cess levied, taking the total estimated shortfall to Rs. 2.35 lakh crore. Of this, Rs. 97,000 crore was on account of GST shortfall while the rest due to the impact of COVID-19 on the economy. The Centre last month asked the States to borrow the compensation amount arising from implementation of the GST amounting to Rs. 97,000 crore or the entire shortfall of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao however opposed the Centre’s offer. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on September 1, the Chief Minister wanted the decision asking the States to meet the shortfall in the compensation through borrowings to be reversed. Instead, the Centre could borrow the entire shortfall amount based on the strengths of the receipts into the cess amount. The entire debt servicing, both principal and interest, could be paid from the cess collected for such an extended period beyond 2022 as the GST Council might decide, he said in his letter. Stressing the need for maintaining the tradition of unanimous decisions by the GST Council in the future, he hoped that the concerns expressed by the State would be taken on board and the alternative suggested would be examined positively.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centenarian wins battle against COVID||In these days of death and desolation, a 103-year-old farmer’s victory in the battle against COVID infuses the much needed hope. Paruchuri Ramaswamy, who got infected with COVID on August 27, has recovered. He does not have diabetes, hypertension or any serious health ailment, and leads an active life. In fact, two days before getting admitted to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) at Gachibowli, he was brain storming and persuading his son to plant jackfruit trees in a farm at CR Foundation in Hyderabad. The centenarian stays at the foundation with his daughter Paruchuri Jamuna (66) after other family members moved to other states and countries. Along with him, 27 people from the foundation were diagnosed with coronavirus and were admitted to TIMS. “After undergoing treatment, he was referred to Gandhi Hospital to check if he developed any complications. He was discharged from there,” said Ehsan Ahmed Khan, in-charge medical superintendent, TIMS. The old man does not have any co-morbidity. When officials in the State Health department were asked for details about him, they said he belongs to a generation when people ate healthy food, and did work that kept them fit. “He has been a farmer all his life. To this day, he likes to spend mornings in the farm at the foundation and gives suggestions on farming. My father has healthy habits, and does not smoke or drink. He does not have any other health issue,” said Mrs. Jamuna. The only time Mr. Ramaswamy got admitted to a hospital was when he had anaemia a year ago. He recovered from it too. Having won over COVID-19, he is back at the foundation. 32 octogenarians recover At least 32 people, who are over 80 years and got admitted to TIMS, including 28 inmates of CR Foundation, have recovered. Of these 28 people, 27 have recovered after some were referred to Gandhi Hospital, and one person died. President of CR Foundation Dr. K. Narayana thanked the staff and administration at government hospitals, State Health department, and Health Minister Eatala Rajender.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||18 new circles formed in Commercial Taxes dept||The State government has decided to reorganize the Commercial Taxes Department to enable it to function more effectively. It has announced creation of 161 posts in different categories and constitution of 18 new circles of commercial taxes under the control of the Commissioner. The development follows a request made by the Commercial Taxes Commissioner for sanctioning of the new posts duly suppressing equal number of posts in the lower categories on administrative grounds. Accordingly, three new posts of joint commissioners (commercial taxes), six deputy commissioners, assistant commissioners (10), commercial tax officers (CTOs) (18), deputy CTO (59) and assistant CTO (65) have been created. The government has also announced the constitution of 18 new circles — 15 within the GHMC jurisdiction and one each in Narayanpet, Wanaparthy and Mulugu — as part of the reorganization. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said in the orders issued on Tuesday that the government had suppressed certain posts — junior stenos (37), typists (30), record assistants (35), senior drivers (6) and drivers (53) on administrative grounds. The Commercial Taxes Commissioner had been asked to notify the tax persons to their respective jurisdiction. The State Tax Employees’ Association had extended its heartfelt gratitude to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the Chief Secretary for the initiative. The cadre strength of the department would increase with the creation of new posts. This would in turn result in generation of additional revenue because of having controllable number of taxpayers per unit which were being multiplied every month with new businesses emerging in the State, Association honorary president T. Venkateshwarlu said. He said the initiative had increased the responsibility of the employees and assured that they would reciprocate by fetching proportionate and even more revenue to the government in the coming days.
18 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth for similar relief for Army, CAPF||Congress MP from Malkajgiri A. Revanth Reddy has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi demanding Rs. 15 lakh compensation to the families of those from the Armed Forces who have died of COVID on a par with that given to families of deceased in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF). In his letter, Mr. Reddy asked the PM about the rationale behind ignoring the Armed Forces while Rs. 15 lakh was additionally provided to kin of CAPF personnel through “Bharat Ke Veer” Funds. The government has been providing an additional Rs. 15 lakh apart from regular benefits to CAPF personnel who died of the infection contracted while on COVID related duties. Mr. Revanth Reddy said that if the Armed Forces were left out, it was an insult to them and ignoring their sacrifices made at the borders. He said that as per the information given to him based on his question in Parliament, 25,418 CAPF people were tested positive while 100 passed away. With regard to Indian Army, Air Force and Navy, the affected cases were 16,758, 1,365 and 1,716, respectively with 35 deaths. “Not extending the same benefits for Armed Forces is painful,” he said, and urged the Prime Minister that the government must ensure support to the families of the jawans. “At least on your birthday, I hope you will announce the extension of the same benefits to defence personnel,” he added. Mr. Reddy also requested the PM to provide compensation of minimum Rs. 25 lakh to the kin of all frontline workers, including sanitation staff, who lost their lives protecting ours.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Prospects of Singur, Nizamsagar getting surplus water brighten||After the reservoirs in the Krishna Basin getting surplus inflows for over a month now, it appears to be the turn of projects in Godavari Basin in the State now, including Singur and Nizamasagar, to become surplus, thanks to heavy rains in the catchment areas in Marathwada, North Karnataka and central Maharashtra. Heavy rains in the catchment areas of Manjira, one of the tributaries of the river Godavari, have swelled the storage of Singur reservoir in Sangareddy district by about 7 tmc ft in a matter of just one-and-a-half days. Sriramsagar project became surplus on Monday, for the first time this season, and the next day it was the turn of Mid Manair and Lower Manair dams. Inflows into Singur increased from just 1,000 cusecs on Tuesday to over 61,200 cusecs on Thursday evening. With more rains forecast in the catchment areas of Manjira, the source for Singur and Nizamsagar projects, for the next two-three days the chances of the two reservoirs getting surplus have increased. As of Thursday evening, the storage in Singur was 11 tmc ft against its capacity of 29.91 tmc ft and that in Nizamsagar was 3.55 tmc ft against capacity of 17.8 tmc ft. Sriramsagar was getting inflows of about 1.11 lakh cusecs, Mid Manair was getting 13,300 cusecs and Lower Manair was getting nearly 35,000 cusecs. Yellampally barrage was getting 93,000 cusecs of inflows. The flood to Jurala, Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala is continuing in heavy measure with heavy supplementation from Bhima although the discharge of flood at Almatti and Narayanpur has come down below 20,000 cusecs.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||200 days since first case of coronavirus||Do you remember March 2, 2020, when news of the first COVID case in Telangana came out? It has been 200 days till September 17 (Thursday) since coronavirus was first detected in the State. The pandemic that started in the month of March in Telangana State changed the way we live, move around, communicate with family and friends, and execute our work. And for hundreds of families, it led to tragedy of losing a loved one. From March 2 to September 17, a total of 1,65,003 cases were detected in the State. Of them, 1,33,555 have recovered and 1,005 have died.
18 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MCEME bags AICTE USVA awards||The Military College of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (MCEME), in a virtual award ceremony on Thursday, was conferred with the AICTE USVA Award-2020 for being adjudged ‘Overall Second’ among all technical institutions under the pan India umbrella of AICTE for academic excellence and innovative standards of technical education. The ceremony was presided over by Minister for Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. “We are effectively contributing to social cause of not only supporting migrants, organising blood donations camps, providing facilities for establishing quarantine centre, but also donation of masks and PPE to COVID warriors,” a release said. In addition, MCEME was also adjudged ‘Second’ in the category of spreading awareness during COVID-19 times. AICTE USVA awards are conferred annually by AICTE to honour technical institutions for outstanding contribution to academic, technical, social development in particular and nation building in general. This year, the awards launched to assess contribution of technical institutions to academic domain and national cause during the COVID-19 pandemic witnessed nationwide participation of more than 900 technical institutions contesting for the coveted award spanning over three stages. The selection process narrowed down to 500 institutions pan India for the final stage.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSR volunteer portal unveiled by HYSEA||Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) has unveiled a volunteering portal for associates of IT and ITeS firms desirous of participating in CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. A release from HYSEA said that the user-friendly portal is a one-stop platform to learn and participate in CSR events and projects being conducted in Telangana. Volunteers can participate in any event according to one’s areas of interest. An individual should register and select the events they would want to participate in. They can also choose roles for the event they are interested in such as volunteer, coordinator and administrator. Also, there is an option to subscribe to interesting volunteering themes and a notification is sent via email when an event aligned to the theme is rolled out. Launching the portal, Telangana IT and Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the portal will be a major shot in the arm for CSR volunteering activity in Telangana. He urged corporate employees to register on the portal and contribute to CSR initiatives by participating in various campaigns and events on the portal.
18 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bhatti, Talasani differ||To prove their point made in the Assembly debate, Minister for Animal Husbandary T. Srinivas Yadav and Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka jointly inspected the double bedroom houses under construction in the city on Thursday. The visit was an extension of the heated debate in the Assembly on Wednesday where Mr. Bhatti alleged that the government was trying to mislead people on construction of one lakh houses in GHMC area. The ruling party countered Mr. Bhatti’s observations and said it was ready to take him on a tour of the construction sites. Quite unexpectedly, Mr. Srinivas Yadav landed at Mr. Bhatti’s house in the morning and, after exchanging pleasantries, they, with Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and officials, visited Marredpally, Bansilalpet, Kattal Mandi, Jiyaguda, Ghode ka Khabar and Indira Colony. Mr. Srinivas Yadav explained the aspects to the Congress leader. During the five-hour visit, Mr. Vikramarka interacted with beneficiaries and took notes. They had inspected 3,428 houses and he would respond on the issue after visiting all units. The visit would continue on Friday, he said. Mr. Bhatti said most of the houses that he had visited were being built on the land owned by beneficiaries. Among the 3,428 houses there were just 400 new beneficiaries. People who gave their land for construction had informed him that they were staying in rented houses paying huge rents as construction was delayed. Mr. Bhatti said the promsie was one lakh houses per year but the numbe was in thousands.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clone trains from Sept. 21||The Railway Board has announced that clone trains — full fledged trains to be run behind the fully booked original express trains to meet the high demand from passengers — will be operated from September 21 through 20 pairs of rakes, or train sets, across the country. The Board, in an official notification to the zonal headquarters, has informed that fares of the clone trains will be as per the ‘Humsafar’ trains and the train sets too will be from those. South Central Railway (SCR) has been allotted two train sets of clone specials — from Secunderabad to Danapur in Bihar and vice-versa for train numbers 2787 and 2788. These are to be run daily with halts at Balarshah, Nagpur, Itarsi, Jabalpur, Katni, Prayagraj and Deen Dayal Upadhyaya junction. Earlier this month, Chairman of Railway Board and first CEO V.K. Yadav had informed that special clone trains will be run on routes where there is heavy traffic and long wait lists. The clone train will be run ahead of the actual train with fewer halts for the passengers’ convenience. Wait-listed passengers are to be informed of their seat numbers soon after reservation charts of the original train are drawn up four hours before the departure for being accommodated in the clones. Deputy director (coaching) Rajesh Kumar, in his detailed note to the General Managers, stated that these special clone trains will be fully reserved and limited halts were decided after discussions with the respective State governments due to the current COVID-19 restrictions. While 19 of these trains are based on ‘Humsafar’ train sets, the Delhi-Lucknow train will be a ‘Jan Shatabdi’ train set and will have the same fare. Zonal railways have been given the freedom to review the operations of these trains. Most of these clone specials are towards Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Jharkhand.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Ensure transparency in 2BHK allotments’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA & UD) K. T. Rama Rao has directed the officials to ensure transparency in identifying beneficiaries for double bedroom house allotment in the city. Mr. Rama Rao, with Minister for Housing V. Prashanth Reddy, conducted a review meeting on Thursday about the progress of the construction of double bedroom units in GHMC limits. During the meeting, Mr. Rama Rao asked GHMC commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar to coordinate with district collectors within GHMC limits in finalising the beneficiaries’ list. ‘Lakh units’ A lakh dwelling units were in various stages of progress in the city under the double bedroom housing project for the urban poor. The Minister instructed the officials to ensure that the names of previous beneficiaries who had already received houses under various housing schemes for the poor did not appear in the latest list. Asking them to ensure enhanced greenery at the double bedroom housing sites, Mr. Rama Rao told them to plant saplings from now itself. Officials told the Ministers that the construction works for one lakh ‘dignity houses’ within GHMC limits was progressing fast and nearing completion. MA & UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar and Housing Principal Secretary Sunil Sharma too were present at the meeting.
18 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Only Congress deserves credit for Hyderabad’s merger: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the credit for the merger of Hyderabad State into Indian Union goes to the Congress party alone and criticised the BJP, TRS and MIM for trying to distort and communalise the merger issue. Speaking after hoisting the national flag at Gandhi Bhavan on the 72nd anniversary of Hyderabad Merger Day, he said that only Congress and Communist parties have struggled for Hyderabad’s merger with Indian Union. “BJP or its predecessors did not participate in the struggle against Nizam’s Rule. In fact, BJP did not even exist when Congress leaders were struggling against the Nizam’s Rule.” However, today BJP leaders were trying to communalise the issue calling it ‘liberation’ by distorting the history. Similarly, TRS and MIM too were trying to communalise the history for political gains, he said. He reminded that Congress party has been celebrating the occasion since 1949 without any hue and cry. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the last Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan had refused to join Hyderabad State with the Indian Union and wanted to either join Pakistan or stay independent. But his plans were foiled when the then Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru and Union Home Minister Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel through Operation Polo.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre to fund martyrs’ memorial||The Ministry of Culture has agreed to provide funds for setting up a grand memorial for martyrs of Telangana Armed Struggle so that the future generations could be made aware of the civil apprising against the Nizam’s tyranny and the Razakar atrocities against the common people, said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Thursday. Addressing a gathering after hoisting the tricolour at his official residence in New Delhi to celebrate Telangana Liberation Day — when the Nizam surrendered to the Indian Army and accepted to join the Indian Union in 1948 — he said the memorial will have portraits and documentary evidence of the valiant fight put up by scores of freedom fighters starting from Swami Ramananda Tirtha and others.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain continues in several areas of city||The downpour that caught the city unawares on Wednesday, continued with reduced intensity on Thursday too in several localities. Ferozguda in Balanagar received maximum rainfall of 7.2 cm on Thursday up to 8 p.m., followed by Malkajgiri which received 5.5 cm. Fateh Nagar, Pedda Amberpet and Old Bowenpally experienced steady showers throughout the day. Begumpet, Marredpally, Abdullapurmet, Hastinapuram, Raidurg, Ameerpet, Khajaguda, Goutham Nagar, Alwal, Keesara, Trimulgherry, Hayatnagar, Secunderabad, Srinagar Colony, Shaikpet, Khairatabad, and Ramachandrapuram areas too received considerable rainfall. At about 5.30 p.m., there was an alert from GHMC about impending moderate to heavy rainfall over many parts of the city with gusty winds, and an advice to the citizens to stay indoors. However, there were no such signs till 9.30 p.m. Updating its grievance report from Wednesday, GHMC informed that there were six instances of wall collapse, and 126 instances of water logging reported till 6 p.m. on Thursday, through various channels. Director, EV&DM, Viswajeet Kampati tweeted that DRF teams have redressed over 100 complaints related to water stagnation and tree falls on Wednesday and Thursday.  More rain forecast Heavy rains are likely to continue for next few days in Telangana with another low pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal in addition to the current cyclonic circulation and a very active Southwest monsoon, according to the India Meteorological Department.
18 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Constable suspended||Shiva Kumar, a constable with Keesara police station, was suspended on Wednesday for hosting his birthday party at Haritha Hotel, Keesaragutta. Subsequently, he tested positive for coronavirus. Some colleagues, who had attended the party, also tested positive for the virus.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Celebrate July 17 instead’||The Hyderabad Deccan Democratic and Secular Alliance, Voice of Telangana, All India Majlis Tameer-e-Millat and 1969 Telangana Movement Founders Forum have opposed the demand for celebration of September 17 as Liberation Day, as being demanded by some organisations and political parties. Stating that there is no justification in the demand, functionaries of the four organisations said on Thursday that the demand would not be accepted by them and they would continue to protest it vehemently. In a joint statement issued on Thursday, president of HDDSA Kolluri Chiranjeevi, president of VoT Lingala Panduranga Reddy, president of 1969 TMFF K.M. Arifuddin and vice-president of AIMTM Mohd. Ziauddin Nayyar sought to explain what exactly had happened in 1948. “On September 17, 1948 nothing had happened in the princely State of Hyderabad. However, for the first time, the Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, went to the Deccan Radio and announced in his address to people that he would be inviting the Indian Army to enter Secunderabad Cantonment, which they vacated after the Standstill Agreement, and dismissed the Cabinet headed by Liak Ali,” they stated. It was on September 18, 1948 that the Indian Army entered Secunderabad. What should be realised is that if the army was sent against the Nizam, he should have been removed from power. “It is a travesty of truth and preposterous to say that on September 17, 1948 the Asaf Jahi rule came to an end. On the other hand, it continued up to January 26, 1950. It was the Nizam who acceded Hyderabad to Indian Union only on January 26, 1950,” they explained. One should demand celebration of July 17 because it was on that day in 1857 Maulvi Alauddin, a native of Nalgonda district, stormed the residency of a British resident at Sultan Bazaar for India’s independence. For that, he was arrested and sent to Andaman Jail and there he breathed his last. He was the first Indian ever to be sent to the Andaman Jail in 1857, First War of Independence.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Landslip on ORR||The Outer Ring Road (ORR) experienced landslip at a few locations on Thursday, owing to rain. Heavy boulders fell from the hillocks through which the ORR was carved. They fell on the carriageway near Rajendra Nagar Exit gate on Wednesday night and Thursday afternoon, a statement by HMDA said. No loss of life or property was reported. They were removed.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Floral waste recycling start-up raises Rs. 10.5 cr||A waste recycling start-up in Kanpur, supported earlier by AIC-IIITH Foundation, has raised Rs. 10.5 crore in a pre-series A round. Phool.co, the start-up, which converts floral waste into charcoal free luxury incense products, raised the funds through IAN Fund and San Francisco-based Draper Richards Kaplan Foundation, a release on Thursday said. With deep-tech research and leveraging its flower cycling technology, it has developed ‘Fleather’. A viable alternative to animal leather, Fleather was recently awarded PETA’s best innovation in the vegan world. Phool.co has expanded its operations to Tirupati. During the lockdown, the company ensured its supply chain by sourcing flower waste directly from the distressed horticulture farmers, bringing them critical income in the toughest of times, the release said. AIC-IIITH Foundation is an Atal Incubation Center set up for incubating and supporting tech-based social enterprises. In its early growth stage, Phool.co was supported by the Foundation through its PRIF Incubation Programme with a seed grant of Rs. 30 lakh. PRIF Incubation programme is an initiative by Pernod Ricard India Foundation to support social impact organisations.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||400 mg version of Favipiravir launched||City-based integrated pharmaceutical company MSN Group on Thursday introduced a 400 mg version of oral antiviral Favipiravir called ‘Favilow’, which it claimed to be the most affordable brand, for treatment of mild to moderate COVID in the country and to reduce the pill burden and overall treatment outcome. The higher strength will improve patient compliance and experience by effectively reducing the number of tablets that patients require per day. Shelf life of Favilow 200 mg has been extended from 3 to 6 months, which would improve pharmacies’ confidence in stocking the product and ease out availability of the medicine. In August, MSN had come up with the affordable ‘Favipiravir’ under the brand name ‘Faviflow’ priced at Rs. 33. The 200 mg tablet was made available to patients requiring treatment in pharmacies of over 170 cities. “We have launched the most affordable Favipiravir to reduce the cost burden. We continue to harness our expertise in research and innovation by coming up with treatment options for patients battling COVID,” said CMD MSN Group Dr. MSN Reddy. The firm  has already launched ‘Oseltamivir’ 75 mg capsules, another anti-viral medication under the brand name ‘Oselow’, as part of the COVID treatment range. Favilow 400 mg will be available at all major medical and hospital pharmacies and can be purchased by producing a prescription by a healthcare practitioner. For home delivery, one can contact MSN COVID Helpline @ 9100591030 or mail tocustomercare@msnlabs. com.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices over RT-PCR tests||Telangana High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the State government in a PIL petition seeking incorporation of additional details in resilts of RT-PCR test, which is conducted to confirm COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the HC Registry to tag the fresh plea with other PIL pleas on COVID-19. It would be heard again on September 24. Lawyer Teegala Ram Prasad filed the petition, seeking mention of Cycle Threshold (Ct) value in RT-PCR reports.
18 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor acts on The Hindu report||Governor Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday urged the Union Ministry of Culture to carry out restoration work to protect the Kakatiya-period Trikuta temple at Mupparam village in Warangal district. A report on the dilapidated condition of the temple, ‘Splendid art pavilion of Kakatiyas needs urgent restoration’, was published in these columns on September. 14. Expressing concern over the dilapidated condition of the temple, the Governor, in a letter, requested Minister of State Prahlad Singh Patel to instruct the Archaeological Survey of India to inspect the site and coordinate with the State government to restore its splendour.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC panel okays many proposals||GHMC Standing Committee has, during its meeting on Thursday, accorded approval to a proposal raising the cost estimate for construction of RCC box drain and approach roads at the Road Under Bridge (RUB) between Yakutpura and Uppuguda railway stations. The cost capped previously at Rs. 4.45 crore has been raised to Rs. 6.55 crore. A proposal to build the Yousufguda Circle office after demolition of an existing GHMC community hall beside the old ward office too got nod from the standing committee. Proposals to extend services of 250 site engineers recruited on outsourcing basis received approval.
18 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Group insurance policy benefits girl student||M. Vani, a B. Tech final year student of Swarna Bharathi Institute of Science & Technology (SBIT) here, received a compensation of Rs. 2 lakh from an insurance company following the death of her father in an accident recently. Thanks to the group personal accident insurance scheme being implemented in the college, Vani, a native of Thallampadu village in Khammam rural mandal, received the compensation, according to a press release. SBIT chairman G Krishna handed over the cheque for the said amount to her.
18 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two washed away; couple electrocuted||Four persons were killed in two separate incidents in the district in the past 24 hours. According to sources, two persons were washed away at Satwar village in Zaheerabad late on Wednesday night when they tried to cross the swollen Titli stream that flows by the village. The two have been identified as Raju of Satwar village and Erpula Raju of Nyalakal. Locals continued their efforts to trace them till late in the night. Their bodies were traced in the morning. In another incident at Antwar village in Narayanakhed mandal, a couple — Lakshman and Swaroopa — were electrocuted when they were trying to dry wet clothes on Thursday. The power lines passing over their iron sheet roof house came into contact with the house due to heavy rain.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees second highest spike in cases||The Capital witnessed the second biggest spike in daily new COVID-19 count with 4,432 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. The total number of cases stood at 2,34,701. The total number of daily tests was 60,0014, which was over the 60,000-mark for the third consecutive day. Also, 38 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,877. This is the highest daily spike in the number of deaths in the two months in the city. Over 30,000 active cases Of the total cases, 1,98,103 people have recovered and there are 31,721 active cases. Of the total 14,652 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 52.9% were vacant, as per government data on Thursday. However, 61.8% of the ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and 69.03% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) has slightly gone up to 7.3% from 6.8% on Tuesday. The number of containment zones jumped to 1,670 on Thursday, the highest till now. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that they were increasing ICU beds in hospitals and issued directions in this regard to private hospitals last week. “In the Capital, we have increased the testing by four times. For 10-15 days there will be higher number of cases. But we will be able to isolate all the positive cases. After 10-15 days, this move will give positive result for us,” said the Minister.  In Delhi, we increased the testing by four times. For 10-15 days there will be higher number of cases. But we will be able to isolate all positive cases Satyendar Jain Health Minister
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Assembly panel questions ‘identical’ FIRs||A Delhi Assembly committee has raised questions on five “identical” FIRs filed against five different people from the minority community in connection with the Delhi riots, which broke out here on February. The five FIRs, which have consecutive numbers, were filed in Dayalpur police station on a single day in a span of seven hours. ‘Similar set of words’ All the FIRs read in Hindi, using similar set of words, that “a suspect person on seeing the police party, turned around quickly and started walking away” and was “stopped and questioned” and “on searching, from the right pocket of pants he was wearing, a loaded country-made pistolwas seized”. “All the five FIRs were filed on February 27 at Dayalpur police station and the content of the FIRs are the same. Also, all are under Arms Act. In all the FIRs, a loaded pistol was found from the right pocket,” said chairman of the committee and AAP MLA, Amanatullah Khan. The FIRs — 66, 67, 68, 69 and 70 — were filed on February 27, 2020. These were filed against Mohammad Sohib, 22, Shahrukh, 22, Faizan, 28, Athar, 23, and Faiz Ahmed, 30. The Delhi Assembly Committee on Welfare of Minorities has also asked the Home Department of the Delhi government to write a letter to the police on why the FIRs are identical. The officials said the Home Department is yet to write the letter as on Thursday afternoon. When contacted, a senior officer said during the riots, there were PCR calls of firing in Dayalpur. He said a policeman was also killed by rioters in Dayalpur area. Next, the police were instructed to recover illegal arms from the riot-affected areas. “It is a set drill used by the police force while filing FIR in any criminal case. One can check any other cases — similar language and certain common words will be found. Usually, most of the people hold arms on the right side of their waist. We have conducted a fair investigation in all cases related to Delhi riots,” said the officer. Mr. Khan said: “Rajeev Verma [Principal Secretary Vigilance Department] was present during yesterday’s [Wednesday] meeting and the committee has asked the Home Department to write a letter to the police regarding the matter.” Mr. Khan also said all 754 FIRs filed in connection with the Delhi riots were not accessible for public. ‘A secret’ “The FIRs are not even being shared with the committee and the police said it is a secret. We have asked them to share an order or notification, which says that it is a secret. But they are not giving it also,” Mr. Khan added.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riots: Pinjra Tod member gets bail, still lodged in jail||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to Pinjra Tod member, Natasha Narwal — currently lodged in Tihar jail — in one of the FIRs registered against her in connection with February riots here. Ms. Narwal was granted bail in FIR number 50 in which she along with Devangana Kalita and Gulfisha Fathima were accused of rioting, murder, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy among other IPC Sections. The bail was granted by trial court in Karkardooma. It has been learnt that the bail matter was argued on Wednesday — the same day when the police submitted a 17,000-paged chargesheet in the said case. She has not got bail in FIR number 59, which is being probed by Special Cell. This FIR has her registered under Sections of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Ms. Narwal has been informed that she has got bail in FIR 50. Accused in 3 FIRs She is accused in three FIRs — 48, 50 and 59 — out of which she has been granted bail in two. Narwal was arrested on March 23 and has been lodged in Tihar jail since.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Groups chant slogans in riot-affected area: locals||For the residents of riot-affected Shiv Vihar, an area dominated by Muslim community, men chanting religious slogans and carrying saffron flags has become a common sight in the past few days.  Action taken A senior officer said they had received information about the same and necessary legal action has been taken. A resident, Neha Fareen, said for the past 15-20 days“groups of boys chant Jai Shree Ram especially on Tuesdays near Madina Masjid. This happens during the evening Namaz as if they want to provoke and intimidate people”. Ms. Fareen added that the same thing happened last Tuesday. “Locals reached out to the policemen, who patrol near a school in the area. The officers said ‘why are you bothered… let them’,” she said, adding that the police were then informed on the emergency number after a team reached the spot. Another resident, Imran, claimed that the groups also slam their doors while crossing the area. “They try to provoke all of us but we have not said anything. They scream louder behind the mosque,” he claimed. In a related development, Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau member, Brinda Karat, wrote to Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava, asking him to take action in the matter. She said: “You are aware that this was the area where minority communities were attacked, homes burnt and families forced to take shelter in relief camps. It is only now that they are returning to their homes, many of which are yet to be repaired. In such a situation, such processions without police permission are objectionable and need to be stopped,” she wrote. Ms. Karat said she has spoken to senior officers regarding the matter and also shared videos of the incident. “Confidence building measures are an immediate requirement in the area, towards which a first step would be to ensure such processions are stopped,” she stated.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Court takes cognisance of chargesheet under UAPA against 15 persons||A Delhi court on Thursday took cognisance of a chargesheet filed by the police under the stringent law — Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) — and other legal provisions against 15 persons for “larger conspiracy” in north-east Delhi riots in February. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat directed the police to supply copies of the chargesheet filed on Wednesday to the accused persons. The court has listed the matter for hearing on September 21. Total 15 persons have been named in the chargesheet, including ex-AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, ex-Congress councillor Ishrat Jahan, Saifi Khalid (activist of United against Hate campaign), Jamia Coordination Committee members — Safoora Zargar and Meeran Haider. Pinjra Tod members and JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal respectively are also named in the chargesheet along with Jamia Millia Islamia student, Asif Iqbal Tanha. The Special Cell of Delhi Police has told the court that while collecting evidence it has relied upon Call Data Records and WhatsApp chats. In its chargesheet, the police have listed 747 witnesses and 51 of them have recorded their statements before the Magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU principals call Sisodia’s charges baseless||The Delhi University Principals’ Association (DUPA) on Thursday hit out at Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia over his unsubstantiated allegations and misleading statements, charging various colleges of misappropriation of funds. For the last several months, teachers and administration at 12 colleges that are fully funded by the Delhi government have been complaining over delay in release of funds, as a consequence of which salaries of many employees have not been paid. Of the Rs. 275 crore due to the colleges, only a sum of about Rs. 37 crore has been released so far, said Jaswinder Singh, DUPA president and Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa College principal, while 75% of the funds should have been released by now. Reiterating his position, Mr. Sisodia in a statement said that the Delhi government had increased the funds of these colleges by two to three times, despite which they had failed to pay salaries. He added that some of these colleges had been depositing money in fixed deposits which had accrued Rs. 15 to Rs. 30 crore, and argued they should be used for the college’s expenses.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man attacks sweeper over cleaning||A 30-year-old sweeper was injured when a man attacked him with a knife after an argument over cleaning in south-east Delhi’s Jamia Nagar area, the police said on Thursday. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said that the victim, Sonpal, a resident of Nehru Nagar, works as a sweeper in the municipal corporation on contract basis in Jamia Nagar. He was attacked by Mohammad Shiraz (28), also a resident of Jamia Nagar, with a knife after an argument.
18 September 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. govt. to rethink milling policy||The Madhya Pradesh government is planning to overhaul its milling policy with greater emphasis on quality control and inspections, a graded approach to incentives and mobile phone-based solutions in view of thousands of metric tonnes (MT) of rice stocks being found to be non-issuable or unfit for human consumption during an ongoing State-wide inspection. The Madhya Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited didn’t have a proper quality control wing, its Managing Director Abhijeet Agrawal told The Hindu . “We just have 10-12 third party quality controllers State-wide, and have a huge shortage of such technical manpower. We plan to set up a permanent quality control cadre, having at least 500-600 employees.” Further, just 700 millers State-wide were not commensurate with the increasing yearly procurement: 25.8 lakh MT was procured in December and January, 2019. So, in a bid to encourage the milling sector, the government planned on a graded approach to incentivise millers based on efficiency parameters, a shift from the flat Rs. 25 a quintal incentive offered universally, said Mr. Agrawal. In addition, the government planned to hand over the procured stocks directly to millers, in an attempt to begin milling early to allow for proper inspections in time. “This year, milling began in April, a month late, which pressed officials extensively during inspections,” he added. “Using sortex machines, millers can sort our grains more efficiently. Right now, only 30% have them State-wide. We are working towards making the machines mandatory,” said Mr. Agrawal., besides pointing to the plan to set up district-level quality-control laboratories. As of September 17, inspection reports revealed 35,000 MT rice stocks in 48 of 52 districts was non-issuable - returnable to millers who have to provide issuable stocks - 1,40,000 MT issuable and more than 20,000 MT unfit for human consumption. “ We have received reports for 70% of the samples as of now,” Mr. Agrawal said, while stating supply of rice stocks had resumed.  Stocks withheld Rice stocks were withheld State-wide last month after the Union Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution found in August samples collected in Mandla and Balaghat districts to be unfit for human consumption, and instead suitable for livestock, cattle and poultry. “We are backtracing those who declared stocks as confirming standards, and will seek directions from the State government to fix the responsibility for so many people,” Mr. Agrawal said. Further, if 10% of the lot with millers was found below the rejection limit, blacklisting proceedings will be initiated against them.  Immense pressure There was immense pressure on officials in April, May and June to supply huge quantities of rice stocks especially, as wheat mills remained shut during the lockdown, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, said an official of the Corporation, requesting anonymity. “We had to supply around 8.2 lakh MT of rice, while our annual consumption is 10 lakh MT,” he said. Further, the official claimed transport restrictions in view of the lockdown and diversion of manpower to salvage wheat stocks drenched in cyclone ‘Nisarga’ didn’t allow for adequate inspections of rice stocks, a claim rejected by Mr. Agrawal.
18 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha asks departments to make proposals based on actual needs||With COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacting State’s financial health, the Odisha government directed different departments to prepare proposals based on actual needs for supplementary provisions. The direction was issued as various departments had in previous years surrendered substantial amount without spending them. Supplementary statement of expenditure for the financial year 2020-21 will be presented in the Odisha Legislative Assembly towards the month of November. In a letter to all department, State Finance Secretary Ashok Meena said, “the fight against COVID appears longer, which would require higher expenditure. However. the strategic lockdown and shutdown to contain the pandemic has adversely affected the economic activities and revenue realization. The national and State economy are likely to contract during 2020-21. There would be resource shortfall both on account of central transfer as well as own revenue.” According to him, the Odisha Budget, 2020-21 was presented in the Assembly on February 18, 2020 prior to onset of the pandemic with focus of the budget on reviving the healthcare — through upgradation of existing facilities and building new state-of-art medical infrastructure, creating industrial and skill development hubs, boosting tourism and transforming rural and urban Odisha. “The enduring pandemic has completely changed the scenario. In the pandemic situation, life is above the rest. Saving life of the people has been the first priority of the government. Specialized health infrastructures have been created with critical care facilities and ventilator support for treatment of the COVID patients,” he said.  ‘Situation under control’  Stating that owing to the prompt real-time decision making and responsiveness of the government, he said COVID situation in the State remained well within control. “States have been allowed additional borrowing of 2% of GSDP with certain conditions. The contraction of the GSDP along-with availing higher borrowing can jeopardise the debt sustainability unless a prudent fiscal path is adopted in medium term,” said the Finance Secretary.
18 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Heavy rain alert in Odisha||The Odisha government on Thursday put all District Collectors on alert with a low pressure area brewing over the Bay of Bengal likely to trigger heavy rain from September 20 to 22. A cyclonic circulation lay over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and neighbourhood between 3.1 and 3.6 km above mean sea level, said Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena. He said the system was likely to develop over the northeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around September 20. During three days from September 20 to 22, 13 districts of Odisha might receive heavy rain. Yellow warning has been issued for four southern districts — Koraput, Nabarangpur, Rayagada and Malkangiri — where heavy rainfall has been predicted on September 20. The intensity of rainfall is likely to increase in the four districts next day. Meanwhile, a Central team concluded its visit after assessing flood damage in the State.
18 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Subcommittee for disinvestment formed||The Punjab Cabinet on Thursday approved the formation of an empowered Cabinet sub-committee on disinvestment to finalise the modalities for strategic disinvestment of 33.49% equity shareholding of Punjab Alkalies and Chemicals Limited (PACL), held by the State government through Punjab State Industrial Development Corporation (PSIDC). The Cabinet meeting, which was chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, also decided to accord priority for providing tap connections in the remaining 17.59 lakh households of the State from the tied grants for water under the 15th Finance Commission to meet its 2022 target of 100% piped water connectivity. The Cabinet also decided to reduce the requirement of constructed area from 50,000 sq. mt. to 30,000 sq. mt. for multi-domain university, and from 20,000 sq. mt. to 15,000 sq. mt. for single-domain university. “It has been decided to accordingly amend the Punjab Private University Policy-2010, ” said a govt. statement.
18 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU may rename its school after ex-royal||After the descendants of Mahendra Pratap demanded that the land leased out to Aligarh Muslim University by the erstwhile Raja of Mursan (in Hathras district) be returned to them, the Executive Council of the university has authorised Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor to form a committee to negotiate with the family members. “The Raja gave the university 3.04 acres of land on a 90-year lease in 1929 that expired in 2019 and since then negotiations are going on with the family members of Mahendra Pratap,” said Shafey Kidwai, University spokesperson. Land in two parts The said land is divided into two parts. On one part, AMU City High School is functioning and on the adjoining area, Tikona park is situated. Sources said the family had made a fresh proposal whereby the land of the park amounting to 1.2 acres be returned to them and the school be named after Raja Mahendra Pratap. “The committee is actively considering it,” said the source, refusing to be identified. Charat Pratap Singh, the great-grandson of Mahendra Pratap, told reporters that he didn’t want a functioning educational institution to shut down but he did want the contribution of Mahendra Pratap in the establishment of the university to be acknowledged. The BJP units of Aligarh and Hathras have also been raising this demand for some time now.  ‘Distinguished alumnus’ “A distinguished alumnus of Mohammedan Anglo-Oriental College, Raja Mahendra Pratap (1869-1979) is acknowledged as a great freedom fighter and philanthropist,” countered Rahat Abrar, Director Urdu Academy, who has collected historical details of the Raja’s family’s association with the university.
18 September 2020||Guwahati,||Mizoram govt. promoting VIP culture, alleges BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party has criticised the Mizo National Front (MNF) government in Mizoram for allegedly promoting ‘VIP culture’ with its latest decision in the management of the COVID-19 pandemic. The MNF is one of the constituents of an anti-Congress forum in the north-eastern region helmed by the BJP. In a statement, the BJP said the government’s decision on Tuesday to designate a 28-bed hostel in the capital Aizawl as a Covid Care Centre (CCC) for VIPs smacked of a bid to differentiate among patients on the basis of their social status. Accusing the government of being biased, the BJP referred to two cases to drive home its point. One was that of its lone MLA Buddha Dhan Chakma and the other was that of Health Secretary H. Lalengmawia, both having tested positive but asymptomatic. While Mr. Chakma was shifted to a government hospital on September 13, Mr. Lalengmawia was placed in home isolation. The fresh guidelines issued on Tuesday allow asymptomatic patients to stay in home isolation, provided they have requisite facilities. “It is very unfortunate that Mizoram is dealing with a biased government. It is tilted towards those who are in good terms with the MNF. When many MPs, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, were diagnosed with the disease, they were not undergoing treatment in specially arranged CCCs but in normal hospitals,” the BJP said. The party said the special CCC for the VIPs would result in the wastage of public money at a time when the State was reeling under a financial crisis. Mizoram continued to be the only north-eastern State without any COVID-19 fatality. Adjoining Assam led the COVID-19 death count with 511 as on Wednesday.
18 September 2020||Imphal,||Three held in Manipur for Rs. 1.15 cr. heist||Manipur Police arrested three persons for their alleged involvement in the loot of Rs. 1.15 crore from an SBI ATM in Churachandpur district, an officer said on Thursday. The police arrested the three accused from Churachandpur district on Wednesday and recovered Rs. 20 lakh of the looted money.
18 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Wetlands being identified in Rajasthan to protect biodiversity||The wetlands, which have played an important role in the storage of sediment and nutrients, are being identified in Rajasthan for ensuring their utilisation, stopping encroachments on them and enabling the local authorities to maintain them. While six wetlands are already identified in the State, 52 more have been earmarked for time-bound development. Minister of State for Environment & Forest Sukhram Bishnoi said here on Thursday that the wetlands would be strengthened for increasing vegetation of aquatic plants and protecting biodiversity. Mr. Bishnoi said at a meeting of the State Wetland Authority that no waste would be allowed to be dumped at the wetlands and effective steps would be taken for water conservation. He said strict action would be taken against those running submersible pump sets for illegal salt mining in the world-famous Sambhar Lake, where a large number of migratory birds had died last year. The State Government's Directorate of Environment and Climate Change will function as the secretariat of the State Wetland Authority. Mr. Bishnoi said the environment committees would take up the works for conservation of wetlands and water bodies, which were home to a wide range of plant and animal life, at the district level. Sreya Guha, Principal Secretary (Forest & Environment), said the fresh and saline lakes supporting unique ecosystems in the State would be protected with the strict implementation of the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, 2019.
18 September 2020||Jalna,||3 detained in Jalna for blocking minister’s way||Three activists of a pro-Maratha outfit were detained on Thursday after they blocked the way of State Health Minister Rajesh Tope over their demand for reservation in government jobs and education, the police said. After attending a function of the Marathwada Muktisangram Din at the Town Hall in Jalna, Mr. Tope was heading towards his car when four to five activists of the Maratha Mahasangh started raising slogans of “Jai Bhavani Jai Shivaji” and “We want reservation”, and blocked his way. The police quickly intervened and detained three activists, a police official said. Mr. Tope was here to unfurl the national flag on the occasion of the Marathwada Muktisangram Din, which is celebrated on September 17 every year to mark liberation of the region from the clutches of Nizam of Hyderabad. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday chaired an all-party meeting and urged the parties to set aside their political differences to fight the legal battle for implementation of the Maratha quota in jobs and education.
18 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Kites a menace for Lucknow Metro service||The Lucknow Metro may have resumed operations after a long gap due to COVID-19 but kite flying especially the ‘Chinese’ manjha variety near its corridor continues to act as a menace in its smooth operation. In the latest incident, on September 14, the over head electrification (OHE) of the Lucknow metro got tripped near Mawaiya station after getting entangled in a ‘Chinese’ manjha of a kite. This disrupted electrical supply for a few moments before it was restored, said an official. However, this was not a one-off. A spokesperson for the Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation said that kite flying had become rampant in some areas close to the Metro corridor during the lockdown leading to many such incidents of tripping of the OHE in recent past. The flying of kites near the corridor can cause short-circuit of live 25,000 volt over-head power supply wires, “causing serious damage” to the Metro property and at the same time putting the kite flyers at risk of electrocution if the manjha has metal in it, the Metro said. Panchanan Mishra, DGM, Public Relations of the Metro, said that in the year 2019-20 five FIRs had been registered against people in breakdowns connected with kite flying. “Whenever a metallic kite thread or ‘Chinese’ manjha comes [in contact with the] OHE it short circuits with 25,000 volt OHE supply and disruption in supply occurs instantaneously,” said Mr. Mishra. This disruption causes many of the trains in line to stop for some minutes before resumption of the OHE supply.
18 September 2020||Mumbai,||Shocked by SC stay: Fadnavis||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said the Supreme Court’s decision to stay the implementation of the Maratha reservation Act “shocked” him. The apex court’s decision was rare as the Bombay High Court had upheld the 2018 Act providing quota to the community in government jobs and education in Maharashtra, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly said. The Supreme Court last week stayed the implementation of the Act and referred it to a larger Constitution Bench. “I was shocked when I learnt about the Supreme Court’s stay order,” Mr. Fadnavis told a news channel. The Act was passed when Mr. Fadnavis led a BJP-Shiv Sena government in the State. “Other States such as Rajasthan tried passing similar laws (to provide reservation) for some communities but those laws were struck down by high courts,” Mr. Fadnavis said. Mr. Fadnavis also accused the present Sena-led government in the State of not being ready to “take up the challenge of pursuing the matter to its logical end”. “Instead of making logical arguments, some leaders are pointing fingers at the Centre for not cooperating over the matter. It is a lame excuse to divert attention from its (the State government’s) own poor performance,” he said.
18 September 2020||Mumbai,||Corona clouds Jewish New Year fete||The Jewish community in India is gearing up for low-key celebrations of Jewish New Year and related festivals on account of the ban on entry of community members to synagogues and restrictions on congregations in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Jewish New Year, Rosh Hashanah, starts on the evening of Friday and will end on Sunday evening. It will be followed by a month of festivals and rituals. The sudden imposition of Section 144 in Mumbai from Thursday midnight to contain the spread of COVID-19 has added to the community’s dampened mood. “This will be the first time that we will not be able to conduct the religious rituals as usual. Community members are sad because they are deprived of going to the synagogue but since the government has taken decisions for the safety of people, we can not complain,” said Samuel Elijah Daniel Bamnolkar, president, Shaar Hashamaim Synagogue, Thane. Eddna Samuel, originally from Thane, migrated to Israel two years ago and her son Kevin is in the Israeli army as per due procedure. However, Ms. Samuel continues to remain loyal and connected to India by encouraging and facilitating business ties between Israeli companies seeking to do business here. “India and Israel’s relations are constantly deepening not just in business but also in strategic areas impacting human lives. Companies in both countries are partnering in areas such as agriculture, defence, security systems, medical equipment, technology, AI, cloud and robotics. Start-ups and entrepreneurs are exploring new avenues of collaboration and enterprise,” Ms. Samuel, director, Motif India, a consulting firm, said. However, the dynamically changing geopolitical equations in the West Asia, especially between the UAE and Bahrain and Israel, and deeper trade and economic ties of Israel with India have offered hope of peace and prosperity in these troubled times. The normalisation of relations will open up lots of opportunities at a time when ties between India and the UAE-GCC countries too are growing. The major focus for India-GCC-Israel collaboration is food security and agriculture. Leena Moses Karkera, who was formerly working with Madhya Pradesh  Tourism, said, “It’s very difficult for a Jew to survive without visiting the synagogue but these are not normal times. But we are happy that the change in mindset in Arab will usher in an era of peace and this will benefit everyone”
18 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC quashes FIR against bank manager for abetment to suicide||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court has quashed an FIR that charged a bank manager with abetment to suicide over the death of a man who was “refused further loan as the previous loan amount was outstanding”. A Division Bench of Justices V.M. Deshpande and Anil Kilor said “if he [branch manager] is not granting any further loan, it cannot be termed that by such act he instigated and/or abetted the person to commit suicide”. On June 12, 2015, Sudhir Gawande, whose father and brother, Prashant, held a loan account at Morshi branch of the Bank of Maharashtra in Amravati district, killed himself. An FIR was then filed against the branch manager, Santosh Kumar Singh, under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. After he was granted pre-arrest bail on June 26, 2015, Mr. Singh moved the court to quash the FIR. Mr. Singh’s advocate told the court that the “FIR cannot stand scrutiny of law as there is nothing to show that his client had an intention to aid, instigate, abet Sudhir to commit suicide”. The advocate said there was an outstanding amount in the name of Mr. Prashant Gawande to the tune of Rs. 2,32,689, as per the loan account on March 31, 2015. According to the FIR, the day he died, “Sudhir approached the bank for a fresh loan by restructuring the loan account”. The advocate said if that request was refused, “it cannot be held as abetment to Sudhir to commit suicide”.
18 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Marathas to get justice in police recruitment’||The Maharashtra government will try to give justice to the Maratha community when it undertakes police recruitment, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday. In a video message shared on Twitter, Mr. Deshmukh said that the government would keep aside 13% posts for the community after checking legal aspects. The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday approved recruitment of 12,528 police constables. The Supreme Court recently passed an interim order staying implementation of the 2018 State law that granted reservation to the Maratha community in government jobs and education. The minister said the MVA government is making all efforts to ensure the Maratha quota remains intact. The government will try to give justice to the Maratha community by keeping aside 13% of the posts checking legal aspects while the recruitment process is undertaken, Mr. Deshmukh said in the message.
18 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Low cost of Nafed onions worries traders at APMC||Traders at the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market in Navi Mumbai have voiced their concerns over losses caused by the arrival of onions procured by the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed). The Nafed onions sold at a lower price than that of the produce coming directly from farmers are preferred by customers, they said, adding, that would also bring losses to the farmers. “On Wednesday, around 70 trucks of onions from farmers and five from Nafed reached the market. While the farmer’s onions are sold between Rs. 22 and Rs. 26 per kg, the Nafed onions cost Rs. 18 to Rs. 20. We are afraid that we would have to bring down the rate of the farmer’s produce and suffer losses,” Chandrakant Ramane, an onion trader, said. Another trader Raju Shelke said the government should not have stopped the export of onions. “Exports will boost the economy which is down anyway. On Thursday, there were no Nafed onions and the farmer’s produce reached in around 42 trucks. But if in the week, the Nafed onions continue to come, the farmers will suffer huge losses.”
18 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Red sanders worth Rs. 7.41 cr. seized by DRI||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) of Mumbai has seized 18.5 metric tonnes of red sanders worth Rs. 7.41 crore at Nhava Sheva port. DRI officials intercepted a container, which had sailed from Mundra port, at Nhava Sheva on September 14.
18 September 2020||Pune,||Quota issue: Maratha leaders hit the streets||Despite Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray attempting to present a united front over the Maratha reservation issue, protests erupted across the State on Thursday as pro-Maratha outfits and community leaders censured the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for its lacklustre efforts in defending the quota law in the Supreme Court. Several community leaders, including Bharatiya Janata Party MPs like Sambhajiraje and Narayan Rane, as well as former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, questioned the timing and the logic behind the MVA government’s mega recruitment drive to fill 12,500-odd vacant police posts. They said that it was a gross injustice to Maratha youths who would be bereft of this opportunity owing to the apex court’s stay on the implementation of the Maratha quota law. In Kolhapur, Maratha outfits staged agitations outside the offices of the Kolhapur District Cooperative Milk Producers Association (known popularly as ‘Gokul’), while demonstrations flared up in Pune and parts of the Marathwada region. Activists of the Sakal Maratha Samaj in Kolhapur attempted to waylay milk tankers heading to Mumbai, but were thwarted by the police.  Proposal submitted In Pune, the Maratha Kranti Morcha submitted a proposal enumerating its demands to district Collector Rajesh Deshmukh. Maratha activists across the State raised slogans against Mr. Thackeray and State PWD Minister Ashok Chavan, demanding their resignations. Mr. Chavan headed the Cabinet sub-committee on the Maratha quota issue. Sit-ins, which went on for several hours, were held by members of the pro-Maratha Chhava Sanghatana outside Mr. Chavan’s house in Nanded and minister Amit Deshmukh’s house in Latur. Seeking to pacify the protesters, Mr. Chavan, himself a Maratha community leader, said that the State government had done everything in its power to defend the interests of the Marathas in the Supreme Court. “While the SC’s decision was indeed unexpected, there was no shortfall in our [MVA government’s] efforts. Besides, there is no point in agitating in this manner. The issue will have to be resolved by legal means,” Mr. Chavan said. Stating that he had worked to the best of his ability on the matter as head of the Cabinet sub-committee, Mr. Chavan offered to step down if it so pleased Maratha outfits. “Furthermore, if Maratha groups feel that the lawyers appointed by the MVA government have indeed not fought wholeheartedly to present the case for the quota law in the SC, then they are free to hire their own lawyers,” he said. Shiv Sangram leader and BJP ally Vinayak Mete alleged a complete “lack of coordination” between the three parties — Shiv Sena, the Nationalist Congress Party and the Congress — those constituted the MVA government. Resignation sought “Mr. Chavan has proved himself utterly inept. He should resign not only from his post as chairman of the quota sub-committee but also as minister,” Mr. Mete said. Criticising the MVA’s mega recruitment drive to fill vacant police posts, Dilip Desai, Sakal Maratha Samaj coordinator from Kolhapur, said the Thackeray government’s move was akin to rubbing salt on the wounds of the Maratha community. Mr. Fadnavis, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, said that there was absolutely no hurry in announcing the recruitment. “The government must assure the Maratha community that their rights are secure,” he said. Mr. Rane, Rajya Sabha MP, lashed out at the CM, claiming that the latter “never had had any affection for the community”.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Paying obeisance||
18 September 2020||Washington,||Trump contradicts CDC on vaccination||U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday contradicted the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Robert Redfield on the efficacy of masks and the schedule for vaccine availability. Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House that Dr. Redfield had probably not understood the question on vaccine distribution correctly at a Senate hearing earlier on Wednesday. Coronavirus cases in the U.S. are soaring with over 6 million infections and around 200,000 deaths. The President faces a tough contest for re-election in November and has proclaimed a vaccine would be available by the end of the year. Dr. Redfield, testifying with other officials at a U.S. Senate committee hearing on the government’s pandemic response, had told Senators that it would probably take until the “late second quarter, third quarter 2021” for the vaccine to be “fully available” to the American public so people could “get back to regular life”. There will be an initial vaccine available sometime between November and December but it will be in “very limited supply” and just for priority use, Dr. Redfield said. ‘Incorrect information’ “I think he made a mistake when he said that... it’s just incorrect information,” Mr. Trump said about Dr. Redfield’s comments. Mr. Trump reiterated that vaccine distribution could start in October but “certainly during November and December would be the latest”. There would be a “very full distribution” as soon as the vaccine was ready. He said a “vast section”of the U.S. would receive the vaccine and then other countries as well. The President also contradicted Dr. Redfield on masks. The CDC chief , holding up a mask, had said masks were “the most important, powerful, public health tool we have”. The scientists appealed to all Americans to wear a mask and said if they did for 6-12 weeks, the pandemic could be brought under control. “I might even go so far as to say that this face mask is more guaranteed to protect me against COVID than when I take a COVID vaccine because the immunogenicity may be 70% and if I don’t get an immune response, the vaccine is not going to protect me. This face mask will,” Dr. Redfield said. During his testimony, the doctor also advised social distancing, hand washing and being cautious about crowds. The President said he had spoken on the phone with Dr. Redford after the Senate Hearing about the scientist’s comments on masks and vaccinations. “It’s not more effective by any means than a vaccine and I called him [Dr. Redfield] about that...,” Mr. Trump said. “I believe that if you ask him he would probably say that he didn’t understand the question.” Dr. Redfield showed no visible or verbal signs of confusion over the question at the hearing nor has he issued a statement to that effect following the President’s comments. At another point in Wednesday’s briefing, Mr. Trump said, “the mask may help” and that he hopes masks help. “But again, the mask is a mixed bag, there are some people, professionals... who don’t like the mask because of the touchiness... and then you’re touching everything else.” Significant evidence that Mr. Trump downplayed the coronavirus threat and criticisms that he misled the public on its severity in January and February have emerged with the recent publication of investigative journalist Bob Woodward’s book Rage . A former White House official, Joe Grogan, had said the President did not want to create panic, the Washington Post reported. India visit As late as February 23 when the President was leaving the White House for Joint Base Andrews so he could board Air Force One to India, he had said the virus “very much under control”. As Mr. Trump travelled in India over the next two days — attending a rally with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Ahmedabad , visiting the Taj Mahal and participating in official events in New Delhi — the public in the U.S. was learning that the virus could be a more serious public health issue than Mr. Trump had let on. Mr. Woodward writes, “...on February 25, as Trump boarded Air Force One to return from a state visit to India, the director of the National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases at the CDC, Dr Nancy Messonier, issued a stark public warning,” that schools may be closed, people may need to work from home and that it the disruption to life may be “very severe.” “Trump on his way back to the U.S. from India, called Azar [the Health Secretary] and threatened to fire Messonier.”
18 September 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. to make Gilgit-Baltistan a full-fledged province: report||Pakistan has decided to elevate Gilgit-Baltistan’s status to that of a full-fledged province, a Pakistani media report on Thursday quoted a senior Minister as saying. India has clearly conveyed to Pakistan that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of the country by virtue of its fully legal and irrevocable accession. According to a report in the Express Tribune , Minister for Kashmir and Gilgit-Baltistan Affairs, Ali Amin Gandapur, on Wednesday said that Prime Minister Imran Khan would soon visit the region and make the formal announcement to elevate Gilgit-Baltistan to the status of a full-fledged province with all constitutional rights. Mr. Gandapur said Gilgit-Baltistan would be given adequate representation on all constitutional bodies, including the National Assembly and the Senate. After consultation with all stakeholders, the federal government has decided in principle to give constitutional rights to Gilgit-Baltistan, the Minister told reporters. India’s objections India has said the Government of Pakistan or its judiciary has no locus standi on territories illegally and forcibly occupied by it. India completely rejects such actions and continued attempts to bring material changes in Pakistan occupied areas of the Indian territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Instead, Pakistan should immediately vacate all areas under its illegal occupation, the Ministry of External Affairs said in May while protesting Islamabad’s efforts to bring material change in Pakistan occupied territories. Mr. Gandapur also said that work on the Moqpondass Special Economic Zone would begin under the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). The CPEC, which connects Gwadar Port in Pakistan’s Balochistan with China’s Xinjiang province, is the flagship project of Beijing’s ambitious Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The CPEC is a collection of infrastructure and other projects under construction throughout Pakistan since 2013.
18 September 2020||LONDON,||U.K. defends planned Brexit law||The British government struggled on Thursday to overcome American opposition to its plans to breach the Brexit withdrawal agreement with the European Union, after Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden became the latest U.S. politician to express alarm. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s move to break parts of the EU divorce deal relating to Northern Ireland has triggered fears it could undermine the 1998 Good Friday peace accord that ended decades of violence between Irish nationalists and British unionists. “We can’t allow the Good Friday Agreement that brought peace to Northern Ireland to become a casualty of Brexit,” Mr. Biden tweeted. “Any trade deal between the U.S. and U.K. must be contingent upon respect for the Agreement and preventing the return of a hard border. Period,” he wrote. Britain and the EU jointly promised in the Brexit agreement to ensure there are no customs posts or other obstacles on the Northern Ireland-Ireland border. The open border is key to the stability that underpins the peace settlement. Raab in Washington British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab is in Washington this week, and has been trying to assuage American concerns that a pending government Bill would undermine Northern Ireland peace, if passed by lawmakers. Mr. Raab insisted the U.K. has an “absolute” commitment to the Good Friday Agreement. He described Britain’s planned law as “precautionary” and “proportionate.” Mr. Johnson argues the law is intended to be an insurance policy against unreasonable behavior by the EU that could threaten the unity of the U.K. by disrupting trade between Northern Ireland and the rest of the U.K. The bloc has demanded the U.K. drop the plan by the end of September or face legal action. The Bill has also caused an uproar in Britain. Five former British PMs have criticised Mr. Johnson’s willingness to break international law, and the government’s top legal civil servant and most senior law officer for Scotland have both resigned.
18 September 2020||Copenhagen,||‘Alarming virus transmission in Europe’||The World Health Organization warned on Thursday of “alarming rates of transmission” of Covid-19 across Europe and cautioned countries against shortening quarantine periods. The WHO's regional director for Europe Hans Kluge said the number of novel coronavirus cases seen in September “should serve as a wake-up call for all of us.” “Although these numbers reflect more comprehensive testing, it also shows alarming rates of transmission across the region,” he told an online press conference from the Danish capital Copenhagen. The health body also said it would not change its guidance calling for a 14-day quarantine period for anyone exposed to the novel coronavirus. “Our quarantine recommendation of 14 days has been based on our understanding of the incubation period and transmission of the disease. We would only revise that on the basis of a change of our understanding of the science,” WHO Europe's senior emergency officer Catherine Smallwood said. In France for instance, the recommended length for self-isolation in case of exposure has been reduced from 14 to seven days. It is 10 days in the U.K. and Ireland, and several other European countries, such as Portugal and Croatia, are currently considering reducing their recommendations. “Knowing the immense individual and societal impact even a slight reduction in the length of quarantine can have... I encourage countries of the region to make scientific due process with their experts and explore safe reduction options,” Kluge said, adding that the “concept of quarantine must be protected” and “continuously adapted.” COVID-19 'fatigue' The 53-member States of WHO Europe have recorded nearly five million cases of COVID-19 and more than 2,27,000 related deaths, according to the organisation's own figures. The number of daily cases recorded is currently between 40,000 and 50,000, comparable to a daily peak of 43,000 on April 1 — although testing in many countries has increased considerably. A new record was set on September 11, with some 54,000 cases recorded in 24 hours. Noting reports that Europeans were experiencing COVID-19 “fatigue”, he said that rather than returning to lockdowns authorities ought to “focus on reducing harm, where and when possible.” “Engage the youth in finding new and safe ways to be social,” Mr. Kluge said.
18 September 2020||Washington,||Obama book coming out in November||Former U.S. President Barack Obama on Thursday announced the publication in November of the first half of his memoirs, A Promised Land — two weeks after the election pitting Donald Trump against Joe Biden. Publisher Penguin Random House said the book will be released in 25 languages on November 17. “There’s no feeling like finishing a book, and I’m proud of this one,” Mr. Obama, 59, tweeted. “In A Promised Land , I try to provide an honest accounting of my presidency, the forces we grapple with as a nation, and how we can heal our divisions and make democracy work for everybody.” Mr. Obama, America’s first black president, served two terms in the White House from January 2009 through January 2017, when he was succeeded by Trump. The book will reveal Mr. Obama’s thoughts during the global financial crisis and his take on Russian President Vladimir Putin, the statement from Penguin Random House said. It will also revisit the Democratic leader’s approval of a May 2011 raid in which Al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden was killed in Pakistan. “I’ve also tried to give readers a sense of the personal journey that Michelle and I went through during those years, with all the incredible highs and lows,” Mr. Obama said in a statement. “I hope more than anything that the book inspires young people across the country -- and around the globe -- to take up the baton, lift up their voices, and play their part in remaking the world for the better.”
18 September 2020||Washington,||Barr ‘suggested’ sedition charges on rioters||Attorney General William Barr told federal prosecutors in a call last week that they should consider charging rioters and others who committed violent crimes at protests in recent months with sedition, according to two people familiar with the call. The highly unusual suggestion to charge people with insurrection against lawful authority alarmed some on the call, which included U.S. attorneys around the country, said the people, who described Mr. Barr’s comments on the condition of anonymity for fear of retribution. The Attorney General has also asked prosecutors in the Justice Department’s civil rights division to explore whether they could bring criminal charges against Mayor Jenny Durkan of Seattle for allowing some residents to establish a police-free protest zone near the city’s downtown for weeks this summer, according to two people briefed on those discussions. Late Wednesday, a department spokesman said that Mr. Barr did not direct the civil rights division to explore this idea. Aggressive path The directives are in keeping with Mr. Barr’s approach to prosecute crimes as aggressively as possible in cities where protests have given way to violence. But in suggesting possible prosecution of Durkan, a Democrat, Mr. Barr also took aim at an elected official whom President Donald Trump has repeatedly attacked. A Justice Department representatives did not respond to requests for comment. The Wall Street Journal first reported Mr. Barr’s remarks about sedition. The disclosures came as Mr. Barr directly inserted himself into the presidential race in recent days to warn that the United States would be on the brink of destruction if Mr. Trump lost. He told a Chicago Tribun e columnist that the nation could find itself “irrevocably committed to the socialist path” if Mr. Trump lost and that the country faced “a clear fork in the road.”NY Times
18 September 2020||Dhaka,||Man jailed for ‘insulting’ Prophet||A Hindu man has been jailed for seven years in Muslim-majority Bangladesh for insulting the Prophet Mohammed on Facebook, a prosecutor said on Thursday. Although Bangladesh is officially secular, criticism of Islam is taboo. Jibon Krishna Roy, a security guard, was found guilty on Wednesday of posting “obscene, derogatory and objectionable comments on Prophet Mohammed”, prosecutor Nazrul Islam Shahim said. The offence falls under the country's controversial Internet laws.
18 September 2020||Taipei,||Taipei, Sept 17, 2020 (AFP) -||A top U.S. diplomat landed in Taiwan on Thursday, the highest-ranking State Department official to visit in 40 years, in a sign of Washington’s willingness to defy China and its campaign to isolate the self-ruled island. China said it opposes Keith Krach’s visit. “China strongly opposes this,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said.AFP
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Is the Quad rising after China’s challenge at the LAC?||As India faces China’s challenge over the ground situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC), is a maritime coalition in the Indo-Pacific, the Quadrilateral, comprising India, the U.S., Japan and Australia, an effective counter? Ashok Kantha and Tanvi Madan discuss this question in a conversation moderated by Suhasini Haidar . Edited excerpts:  In the past week in Parliament, the Defence Minister has said that we have not seen transgressions across the LAC with China, but that Chinese troops have been amassed along it. There is hope that the five-point agreement in Moscow last week will bring some peace along the LAC. How do you see the situation? Ashok Kantha:As the Defence Minister pointed out, we are in the middle of an unprecedented situation. We have had stand-offs along the India-China border in the past, but what’s happening this time is really different. For one, as the Defence Minister noted, the level of troops amassed by China is of a very high order. And we have also undertaken some deployment to match that. The onus has been placed on the border commanders to move towards early disengagement, de-escalation of troops. As you know, that process has not made any headway since the middle of July. There is a glimmer of hope from the Foreign Ministers’ agreement in Moscow. I think there is need for very active involvement and engagement at diplomatic levels, apart from meetings with the border commanders of India and China. Tanvi Madan:It is clear from what the Defence Minister has said that the Chinese have violated previous agreements on the LAC. So, there’s a lack of trust, and even the Indian Ambassador to China pointed out that there’s been considerable damage to trust between New Delhi and Beijing. So, how do you trust that the new agreement [in Moscow] is going to work? I think there are some parallels with the 1962 war. But there are also limits to those parallels: both China and India are much stronger countries than they were then, and they have dialogue mechanisms, consistent dialogue even today, despite the kind of violations we have seen. Given the challenge, do you think that the U.S.-India-Japan-Australia Quadrilateral is an effective counter to China’s aggression at the LAC? TM:I think it depends on what you’re trying to counter. I think you could call the Quadrilateral a coalition of the willing to try to deter China in the future, to set the rules of the road in the Indo-Pacific, and to ensure that they are maintained, but it’s not an exclusive arrangement. Did India’s presence in the Quad deter China or the PLA [People’s Liberation Army] from transgressing the boundary? The answer is ‘no’. But that is also not what one should expect from something like this, which is frankly not an alliance. I think the Quad is useful in terms of what it can do. What can these countries do to enhance Indian capabilities? And what can the Quad do to shape the future balance of power, even the present balance of power, and try to restore deterrence in Asia, in the Indo-Pacific? AK:We need to look at the Quad in depth, as part of a much larger jigsaw puzzle that we are faced with today. We have to recognise and acknowledge that our relations with China have entered new territory. The basic paradigm governing this relationship over the last three decades has broken down. Now, as we try and deal with an increasingly aggressive and assertive China, which is rising in a situation where the capability gap between India and China is growing, I think the Quad will be useful, but it will not be the answer to the challenge we are facing. When it comes to our continental challenge vis-a-vis China, the Quad will be of fairly limited use to us. Yes, to some extent, we may get support from partner countries bilaterally in matters like intelligence inputs or credible supplies of military hardware, but we are largely on our own when it comes to dealing with the Chinese challenge along the land border. When it comes to the maritime domain, clearly there can be much greater collaboration with like-minded countries, say, in pushing forward the idea of a free and open Indo-Pacific and a whole lot of other areas. We haven’t really seen the Quad emerge from all the questions that were asked about it. For example, right now India is still hesitant to even say that Australia will be a part of the Malabar exercises. Even if that decision has been taken, it has not been announced, presumably because you don’t want to exacerbate the situation with China. What might this Quad coalition actually look like? TM:I don’t think the litmus test for the Quad is whether Australia will join Malabar. Japan, Australia, India and the U.S. are four democratic anchors in the region which have spelt out what they would like to do together, including maritime security cooperation, providing alternatives to the Belt and Road initiative, cooperation in 5G, cyberspace and other areas like Artificial Intelligence. You even see things like Quad-plus formats thinking about what a post COVID-19 world would look like, not just in terms of the kind of healthcare, but also in things like supply chain resiliency. I think it’s a question of whether Quad countries can establish more habits of cooperation and interoperability. I don’t just mean that in the military sense, that if and when there are scenarios where they need to act together, that could be like the supposed tsunami in disaster relief, but could be something more kinetic. What India needs to do most, which I think has perhaps not been done enough, is use these partnerships for internal balancing, use these partnerships to build India’s own capabilities. The continental and maritime are connected in that sense. How does this closeness with the U.S. in the Quad impact China’s behaviour? We’ve often heard many diplomats say that China actually comes closer to India when India and the U.S. have a better relationship. How do you think the dynamics work? AK:Frankly, we have been far too cautious when it comes to developing the Quad or when it comes to developing our own strategic linkages with the U.S. by asking how China would react. A relationship with the U.S. helps in our dealings with China, more so in a situation where the capability gap between India and China is increasing day by day. We have to work with like-minded countries, and that includes the U.S., Japan, Australia and many other countries. At the same time, we have to recognise that what we can achieve through the Quad is limited, it’s still work in progress. So, much more effort needs to be put in, to flesh out the idea of Quad and to see how it can become an effective lateral grouping. TM:Chinese actions at the boundary have tended to be about bilateral issues between China and India, or how Beijing is looking at the region, or thinking about an assertive posture. The other thing that I think we’ve seen is — and we’ve seen it in the last six months — Beijing has been acting assertively on multiple fronts, regardless of ties with the U.S. So, the Japanese, for example, have been engaging in a major outreach to China over the last few months. But even they are facing this assertiveness from China. The Philippines was hesitating from signing an agreement with the U.S., and they too have been facing this assertiveness from the Chinese. Australians used to be very hesitant about saying anything to the Chinese. And that didn’t prevent the Chinese from pushing against them, which is why you’ve seen the change towards China in Australia in the last few years. So, you cannot let Beijing veto a relationship that is actually helping you strengthen your own ability to balance China, and particularly if it is acting aggressively against you. How does India’s membership of the eight-nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation work with being part of the four-nation Quadrilateral? Do you think India is going to have to choose between these continental and maritime coalitions, or can these contradictions be managed? AK:I think these contradictions can be managed. It’s possible for us to be part of multilateral groupings which might be seemingly at odds with each other. In fact, the fact that we are part of RIC [Russia-India-China] and BRICS [Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa] and SCO [Shanghai Cooperation Organisation] provides a good rationale for more proactive engagement in the Quad setting. What we need to do is to show the requisite strategy, flexibility. China is a fact of life for us. We need to engage with China, though the nature of this engagement is going to change very significantly in the months and years to come. TM:India’s motivations for being part of the SCO in particular, but also RIC and BRICS, are three or four. One is to keep Russia on its side for defence but also strategic reasons. Russia continues to be important to India and these institutions and groupings are important to Russia. Second, you do not want to leave a platform to your rivals, that is China and Pakistan. I think the third thing is these are platforms to resolve or try to manage some of these contradictions with those rivals when you might not have other platforms to engage with them during a crisis. The Quad has a very different purpose, and you do not have any inherent disputes between those four Quad countries. In the SCO, however, you have seen that India declined to participate in this SCO military exercise and then walked out of the NSA [National Security Advisers] meeting because of the Pakistanis showing a new map. And if this becomes a venue for India-Pakistan or India-China tensions in the way SAARC has, then you have to question the SCO’s value. India may have multiple partnerships, but they are all not equal. This is not a hub and spoke where each of these relationships is equal. And I think the India-Russia relationship could potentially create strains with the U.S. as it has over the S-400 (anti-missile system). All anybody in the West has to do is just sit back and let these contradictions within the SCO play out themselves.  We may get support from partner countries bilaterally in matters like intelligence inputs or credible supplies of military hardware, but we are largely on our own when it comes to dealing with the Chinese challenge along the land border Ashok Kantha
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Reject this inequitable climate proposal||The UN Secretary General António Guterres’s call for India to give up coal immediately and reduce emissions by 45% by 2030 is a call to de-industrialise the country and abandon the population to a permanent low-development trap. Piling on the pressure In an extraordinary move in climate diplomacy, Mr. Guterres, delivering the Darbari Seth Memorial Lecture on August 28, at the Energy and Resources Institute (TERI), in New Delhi, called on India to make no new investment in coal after 2020. Superficially framed as an even-handed appeal to all G20 nations, it was in reality a deliberate setting aside of the foundational principles of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) that distinguish sharply between the responsibilities and commitments of developed countries vis-à-vis those of developing countries. Delivered on Indian soil, at a premier climate institution in the country, and in the presence of India’s External Affairs Minister, the speech was an unmistakable ratcheting up of pressure on India in the climate arena. Subsequently, at a press conference at the UN Headquarters on September 9 while releasing the latest climate report of the World Meteorological Organization, he has upped the ante even further by asking China and India too to reduce their emissions by 45% by 2030, on a par with the developed countries. To add insult to injury, the advice was delivered after it was evident that India, with the lowest per capita income among the G-20, is undergoing the worst economic contraction among them currently, whose long-term impact is still very unclear. What is the state of India’s climate action today? The UN Secretary General is quite aware that India, by any yardstick of reckoning, is punching at least on a par, if not above, its weight in responsibility and economic capacity in climate action. India’s track record Its renewable energy programme is ambitious while its energy efficiency programme is delivering, especially in the domestic consumption sector. India is one of the few countries with at least 2° Celsius warming compliant climate action, and one of a much smaller list of those currently on track to fulfilling their Paris Agreement commitments. Despite the accelerated economic growth of recent decades India’s annual emissions, at 0.5 tonnes per capita, are well below the global average of 1.3 tonnes, and also those of China, the United States and the European Union (EU), the three leading emitters in absolute terms, whose per capita emissions are higher than this average. In terms of cumulative emissions (which is what really counts in determining the extent of temperature increase), India’s contribution by 2017 was only 4% for a population of 1.3 billion, whereas the European Union, with a population of only 448 million, was responsible for 20%. What then lies behind the UN chief’s call to India to set aside coal right away? The UNFCCC itself has reported that between 1990 and 2017, the developed nations (excluding Russia and east Europe) have reduced their annual emissions by only 1.3%. This amounts to practically nil, given the inevitable errors in such accounting. While talking about their phasing out of coal, which is often a decade or more into the future, the global North has obscured the reality of its continued dependence on oil and natural gas, both equally fossil fuels, with no timeline for their phaseout. While it is amply clear that their commitments into the future set the world on a path for almost 3°C warming, they have diverted attention by fuzzy talk of “carbon neutrality” by 2050, and the passage of resolutions declaring a climate emergency that amount to little more than moral posturing. A First World strategy Alongside, large sections of First World environmentalist opinion, while unable to summon up the domestic political support required for climate action, have turned to pressure the developing countries to bear the brunt of climate mitigation. Their strategies include the demonising of coal mining and coal-based power generation, promoting claims that immediate climate mitigation would miraculously lower domestic inequalities and ensure climate adaptation, promoting Third World natural resources as active sites of mitigation and not adaptation, and promoting theories of “de-growth” or the neglect of industrial and agricultural productivity for the pursuit of climate change mitigation. All of these are accompanied by increasing appeals to multilateral or First World financial and development institutions to force this agenda on to developing countries. A section of concerned youth in the developing countries, fearful of their futures, but unsensitised to global and international inequalities, have also helped promote the undifferentiated rhetoric of a climate emergency for which all are held equally responsible. The current incumbent of the post of UN Secretary General has embraced this strategy almost fully. Tellingly, he has rarely, if indeed ever, called out the U.S. for its withdrawal from the Paris Agreement, or called out the EU nations for their long-term reliance on gas and oil while hiding behind their overwhelming rhetorical focus on coal. He has been promoting the agenda of carbon neutrality by 2050 as national level goals applicable to all, without any reference to global and international equity and the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities in climate action. With this wilful neglect of the core principles of the climate convention, and extreme demands that the developing world cannot satisfy, the UN Secretary General risks unravelling even the Paris Accord, unsatisfactory as it is. Ending coal investment What will be the consequences if India indeed ceases all coal investment from this very year? Currently, roughly 2 GW of coal-based generation is being decommissioned per year, which implies that by 2030, India will have only 184 GW of coal-based generation. But meeting the 2030 electricity consumption target of 1,580 to 1,660 units per person per year, based on the continuation or a slight increase of the current decadal growth rate, will require anywhere between 650 GW to 750 GW of renewable energy. Unlike the developed nations, India cannot substitute coal substantially by oil and gas and despite some wind potential, a huge part of this growth needs to come from solar. None of this will really drive industry, particularly manufacturing, since renewables at best can meet residential consumption and some part of the demand from the service sector. Currently, manufacturing growth powered by fossil fuel-based energy is itself a necessity, both technological and economic, for the transition to renewables. Whether providing 70% to 80% of all generation capacity is possible through renewables depends critically on technology development, including improvements in the efficiency of conversion of energy from its source into electricity, in the management of the corresponding electricity grids, as well as advance in storage technologies. But since the Copenhagen Accord signalled the end of legally binding commitments to emissions reduction by the developed countries, technology development in climate change mitigation technologies has registered a significant fall. Annual filing of patents shows a marked decline, ranging between 30% to 50% or more from 2009-10 to 2017, across all subsectors and across all developed countries, without exception. The exception is China which has a rising trend in select areas. Regrettably, India’s presence in such patenting hovers between minimal to near-vanishing, a persistent trend over decades that is very difficult to reverse any time soon. Lacking production capacity in renewable energy technologies and their large-scale operation, deployment on this scale will expose India to increasing and severe dependence on external sources and supply chains. It is also a truism that renewables alongside coal will generate, directly and indirectly, far more employment than renewables alone. Apart from the impossibility of India implementing a 45% reduction in emissions by 2030, the advice by the UN Secretary General, taken all together, amounts to asking for the virtual de-industrialisation of India, and stagnation in a low-development trap for the vast majority of its population. India must unanimously reject the UN Secretary General’s call and reiterate its long-standing commitment to an equitable response to the challenge of global warming. T. Jayaraman is with the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai. Tejal Kanitkar is with the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Criticism, the judiciary and a word of advice||The fires created and stoked by Justice Arun Mishra using the power of contempt to convict Prashant Bhushan for free speech still rage. While so, here comes another contempt action, by a Madras High Court Judge. The Tamil actor, Suriya, who supports public causes, had issued a statement highlighting what he felt was differential treatment, viz . that when due to fear of the novel coronavirus, the court is delivering justice through video conferencing, it is asking students to go and write the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (for admission to medical courses) without fear. The judge, Justice S.M. Subramaniam, in a letter, has requested the Chief Justice of the Madras High Court to initiate proceedings for contempt. Possible solutions The judge is well-esteemed, and was in the news recently for a generous donation to support young lawyers in these difficult times. So for court watchers, this was a bit of a surprise. One other matter for surprise was that this letter was given by an undisclosed source to the media; this is hardly proper, it is a letter of importance addressed to the head of the judiciary in the State, and if the confidential nature had been maintained, the Chief Justice could have dealt with it in a variety of ways — discussed it quietly with the judge, perhaps bring about a softening of view, involving other senior members of the Court for a considered decision, etc. A simple solution would have been for the court’s Registry to issue a statement explaining how the factual position is obviously different, and that while online court hearings are a viable alternative, none such exists for NEET. Now, the harsh glare of publicity, with strong voices weighing in advocating actions of extreme ends (throw the letter out/throw the actor in) only makes things more difficult for the Chief Justice. Freedom of speech is not just Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution; it is an article of faith for courts and judges, because they, above all, know that it is essential for the functioning and survival of a democracy, and for making government accountable to the people. The courts are constitutionally cast as Defenders and Protectors of the public right to free speech and expression. It is a tragic inversion to see judges being cast as the ones who want to limit and abridge it. This is not for the well-being of the institution and those who man it and depend on it, and that means a great many of us. Avoiding controversy Judges know that much depends on the factual setting of the case. Now, if only some quiet deliberation had taken place, could not the senior judges have considered if it was rational, wise and prudent to pitch their tent opposing a sea of anxious parents who are quite justifiably petrified about the prospect of their child catching this dreaded infection? God forbid, if such were to happen, we know it is human nature to look elsewhere to blame, and the courts closeted in closed rooms hearings are easy objects to blame. To go in for contempt on this issue will invite and exacerbate this. And the actor seems to have a favourable public image, especially among the youth. Why do we want to go looking for trouble, could have been the question very easily asked; not so easy to answer, and that would have ended the matter. Somewhere here one also gets the feeling that the place of criticism and critiquing in a democracy is not being properly understood. As George Orwell said, freedom is the right to tell people what they do not want to hear. And the response of authority to criticism should echo the words popularly attributed to Voltaire — I disagree with everything you say, but I shall defend to the death your right to say it. Judges are holders of high public office and are not immune from being criticised. They must bear it and carry on, safe in the knowledge that their rightful actions and their garnered reputations are their ultimate shield, and that ill-mannered and ill-meant speech will be recognised for what it is and shunned by people. We want our judges to have broad shoulders with the ability to shrug off such comments, and focus on the matters that matter. A platform and guidelines There are multiple voices in the current narrative on this subject; lawyers objecting to their criticism of judges’ acts of commission and omission being proscribed, journalists’ fear of chilling effect on free speech, and public bewilderment at what is going on. But there is another set of voices we need to pay close attention to — and these are of judges who have passed strong judgments in seminal cases in favour of free speech and expression, who now can be heard saying that some things have gone too far. And so there is need for introspection, communication and understanding on all sides. We also need a forum for moderating dialogue between leaders of these three communities, where concerns and apprehensions can be discussed between them, all of whom want the best for the country and its institutions and people. What could then emerge is a clear set of guidelines, of what is acceptable and what is not. And one can then be sure that the latter category are acts so undefendable that no supporter of free speech will support them, for rights are indeed subject to restrictions; the latter must be reasonable and minimal, but must be obeyed for the former to have full play. Sriram Panchu is a Senior Advocate at the Madras High Court, and the President of the national association Mediators India. E-mail: srirampanchu@gmail.com
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||For the welfare of animals||For a country that claims adherence to ahimsa , India’s treatment of its animals betrays a moral failure. Over the past year alone, there have been reports of animals being subjected to sexual abuse, acid attacks, being thrown off rooftops, and being burnt alive. A major factor that enables such violence is an inept legal framework.  The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (PCA) Act, 1960 punishes the most serious forms of animal violence with a paltry fine of Rs. 50. We’ve had amendment bills, social media campaigns and petitions before the Supreme Court seeking stricter punishment for animal abuse, but to no avail. However, this is not the only issue plaguing the PCA Act. Several other aspects of this legislation need reconsideration if India is to develop a meaningful animal rights regime. Classification of offences Section 11 lists a series of offences, which vary from abandoning an animal to kicking it, mutilating it or killing it, and prescribes the same punishment for all these offences. Severe offences are treated on a par with less severe ones. This is a clear departure from established principles of penology. An amendment is required to grade the offences according to their severity, and specify punishments accordingly. Further, the more severe offences must be made cognisable and non-bailable. At present, a majority of the offences under the Act are non-cognisable, which means the police cannot investigate the offence or arrest the accused without the permission of a Magistrate. This facilitates police inaction, and ensures that most culprits of animal abuse go scot free. The PCA Act creates a plethora of exceptions which significantly dilute the protections available to animals. Though Section 11 criminalises several forms of animal cruelty, sub-section (3) carves out exceptions for animal husbandry procedures such as dehorning, castration, nose-roping, and branding. The law does not provide any guidelines for these procedures. This allows individuals to resort to cruel methods. Many farmers remove horns using hot irons, knives or wires. Nose-roping involves piercing the animal’s nasal septa using a thick, blunt needle. Branding is traditionally done by applying a hot iron directly to the animal’s skin to imprint an identification mark on its body. These procedures cause tremendous physical and psychological pain to animals. Viable alternatives On August 10, PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) India moved the Delhi High Court seeking the enactment of proper regulations for such animal husbandry procedures. The petition suggests mandating the use of anesthetics prior to castration, and the replacement of cruel practices such as nose-roping with face halters and branding with radio frequency identification. Further, as opposed to dehorning cattle, it recommended that farmers breed hornless cattle. The exceptions in favour of animal husbandry practices need to be reconsidered as there are viable alternatives that would prevent animals from undergoing such trauma. The PCA Act also suffers from ambiguity in definition. The law was enacted to “prevent the infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering on animals”. However, this phrase is not defined anywhere in the Act. This is crucial because what constitutes “unnecessary” is entirely a matter of subjective assessment. In the absence of a clear statutory definition, we are leaving crucial questions of animal welfare to the subjective moral compass of judges. Given that the aim of law is to achieve a certain standard of objectivity, it is essential that the expression “unnecessary pain or suffering” be defined. The Constitution requires all citizens to “have compassion for living creatures”. We must seek to protect the most vulnerable among us. If this promise of the Constitution is to hold any value, our animal welfare laws need an overhaul. Parth Maniktala is a final-year law student at the Faculty of Law, University of Delhi
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Need for caution||Russia’s candidate vaccine for COVID-19 appears to have found a midwife in India. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is piloting the Sputnik V vaccine, has announced a partnership with the Hyderabad-based Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories to conduct a Phase-3 trial, or large multi-location human trials here. Were the candidate vaccine, developed by Russia’s Gamaleya, to prove safe and efficacious, the RDIF would supply 100 million doses through its partnership with Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories. However, there is no agreement to manufacture the vaccine here unlike the deal between the Pune-based Serum Institute of India and the United Kingdom-based AstraZeneca, for the Oxford University-developed ChAdOx1 vaccine. Sputnik V is being developed as a two-dose vaccine on a human adenovirus vaccine platform. Several vaccines that are in development are also being deployed on similar platforms, and the evidence so far is that none of these has been commercially approved for use in humans though there is an experimental vaccine for Ebola. Results of the Phase-1 and Phase-2 trials of the vaccine, published in The Lancet , suggest that the evidence so far is that it has proven safe and efficacious enough to progress to the next stage of trials. Controversially, Sputnik V has been granted a pre-approval by Russia’s regulators even before Phase-3 trials have been completed. There is immense political pressure globally on regulatory agencies to get a vaccine out at the earliest. Thus, it is incumbent on a company conducting such trials to be particularly vigilant that all good practices and necessary protocols are scrupulously followed. It is well acknowledged that two-thirds of the most common vaccines produced globally are made in India. The Serum Institute has committed to producing 100 million doses of its vaccine for India and other ‘Low and Middle Income Countries’ at less than $3 per dose. Reportedly, half of these are for India. All in all, there seems to be a guarantee for only about 150 million doses for India, which given the country’s population is minuscule. All of this of course does not account for the vaccines that are being indigenously developed in India: Covaxin, by Bharat Biotech, based on a strain sourced from the Indian Council of Medical Research, and ZyCov-D, the plasmid DNA-vaccine being developed by Zydus Cadilla. In Phase-2 trials now, both are being tested for their ability to produce a satisfactory immune response. India has the capabilities for vaccine manufacture, cold chain storage and distribution to ensure access to citizens — and the world — in reasonable time, but it must not forget that vaccines must go through their inevitably long gestation to ensure that only those that are safe and efficacious make their way to the market.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A push for reform||As the United Nations commences the 75th session of the General Assembly, the need for internal reforms to suit the 21st century could not be starker. Volkan Bozkir, the Turkish diplomat and politician who is the incoming president of the UNGA, has voiced concern that the structure of the 15-member Security Council ought to be more democratic and representative. But action has been long overdue on the demand, especially from the so-called Group of 4 (G4) countries — Brazil, Germany, India and Japan — which advocate a permanent seat for all of them. Meanwhile, the veto powers that the UNSC’s five permanent members enjoy is an anachronism in this age. This instrument is often wielded as a blunt weapon to shore up their geopolitical interests, regardless of the disastrous consequences for the victims of armed conflict. The push for reform gathered momentum following the unilateral declaration of war by the United States and the United Kingdom, against Iraq, in 2003. The General Assembly’s 122nd plenary meeting in 2008 decided to facilitate the reform process through the Inter-Governmental Negotiations framework (IGN) on equitable representation as well as expansion of the UNSC. Though the General Assembly’s adoption of a 2015 resolution to allow the IGN on the basis of a framework document generated some enthusiasm, it was dampened by the U.S., Russia and China being opposed to serious reform of the Council. The G4 bemoaned earlier this year that the IGN process might have outlived its purpose given the absence of a negotiating document which alone could provide a structure to the deliberations. In any case, the exercise has been deferred in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. India’s election in June as a non-permanent member of the UNSC, obtaining 184 votes, was a diplomatic triumph, notwithstanding that it was the lone contestant for the Asia-Pacific seat. But in a sign of the difficulties ahead to achieve New Delhi’s ultimate objective, reforms to the UN figured no more than as part of a broader vision in the declaration to commemorate the organisation’s 75th anniversary. The political and economic architecture of the emerging global order that the allied powers shaped at the end of World War II has been altered since then. The UN remains unreflective of the current trajectory, especially in the strategic and economic arenas. The multilateral framework now faces an unprecedented challenge — to fashion a collective response to humanity’s biggest problems, which include global warming and the pandemic. Paradoxically though, the post-war order faces an existential threat to its stability from the revival of nationalism across the globe, with some of the powers that enshrined common principles and rules willing to discard them. All countries must have the voice to influence policy.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Covering Parliament during a pandemic||What strikes you the most when you enter Parliament now is emptiness. There are no milling crowds, no chatter, and no reporters tailing parliamentarians. Strict rules have been put in place to ensure safety. To make sure that there are no big crowds, the number of reporters has been severely limited by both Houses of Parliament. The list of news organisations that are allowed inside the Parliament premises has been trimmed. Many regional and smaller organisations are barred. On any given day, there are not more than 35 reporters allowed inside the premises. The Rajya Sabha has come up with a roster allocating different dates to each organisation. On the days one doesn’t figure in the list, one has no choice but to watch the live transmission from miles away. No photographers, except from the news agency PTI, have been provided access. No television cameras are allowed except Doordarshan, ANI, Rajya Sabha TV, and Lok Sabha TV. And these camerapersons too are allowed only up to a certain point. On the days one does get to attend Parliament, the rule is that reporters must exit the building minutes after the session ends. Entry and exit timings are meticulously noted down by the security staff. This means we cannot, in the corridors, accost politicians who have been avoiding us, stop them as they wait for their cars to ask for a few minutes for a briefing, or hang around at party offices to listen to anecdotes or analysis that could help us piece together a political puzzle. You check in, you check out. A few privileged senior reporters used to have access to the Central Hall, where parliamentarians usually rest. The Central Hall is now closed to everyone except sitting MPs. The media gallery overlooking the Rajya Sabha is equally desolate. Each reporter sits more than six feet apart from the next. And MPs, who in pre-pandemic days used to sit in the chamber a floor below, now sit in the galleries next to the one reserved for the media. With MPs as close neighbours, reporters cannot afford to make any wisecracks, or roll their eyes at certain speeches or drift off to sleep during a soporific speech. You can get caught easily, as I was. A senior leader called to tell me very politely later, “It seems like you were tired and shut your eyes.” One of the key symptoms of COVID-19 is fatigue. The fatigue of the pandemic has hit Parliament too, which looks tired and worn out. And the Parliament canteen, known for its so-called inexpensive food, is also practically shut. So, even if you feel like nibbling something after sitting through four hours of parliamentary proceedings, all you can get now is a packet of biscuits. And in case you need pre-packaged food, you have to book it a day in advance. Covering Parliament is as much about what happens inside the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha as what happens outside them. It is a one-stop destination for political news. But today, all reporters can file is a straitjacketed news copy. To bring in that extra element, we attend debriefing sessions via Zoom and chase sources with persistent WhatsApp messages. If we are fortunate enough and willing to set aside our fears, a few brave MPs are willing to meet us outside Parliament too.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Politics and Programmes (From an editorial)||Politics can never be a one man’s game. It is a collective attempt on the part of the people in a country to realise their ultimate sovereignty in the State. In a country like India struggling for freedom from foreign domination, it is this collective aspect of the fight that must be particularly borne in mind. This is especially so at the present crisis, when the nation wants, as one man, to make its power felt against an unrepentant Government so as to vindicate its wounded honour and self-respect. Individuals do, now and then, figure prominently as leaders inspiring the people with valuable ideas and holding up before them noble ideals of action which they have already realised in their individual lives. Their magnetic personalities must necessarily influence the politics of their time a great deal in matters of general policy and outlook. But they can never, by themselves, entirely exhaust the political game, nor completely identify their personal greatness and political capacities with those of the people. For, it must always be remembered that political progress is of the people as a whole and not solely achieved by the martyrdom of a few heroes.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Danger of fratricidal war in West Asia||The situation in Jordan has altered so radically by the open confrontation between the Palestine guerrillas, led by Mr. Yasser Arafat, and King Hussein’s military Cabinet that public opinion here now fears an intervention by other Arab States more than by Israel [London, September 17]. King Hussein’s action, which he stayed till it became inevitable, has had the result of reuniting the commando groups under Mr. Arafat, virtually creating a military State under him within his (King Hussein’s) own military State and making it clear that two sets of military authorities cannot continue to rule the country separately. Each wants to subdue the other. President Al-Bakr of Iraq and the ruling Baath Party have proclaimed that they cannot contemplate a defeat of the guerrillas. President Nasser cannot contemplate an Iraqi domination of Jordan either. If the Jordanian army looked like going down under the combined strength of the Palestinians and the Iraqis (and possibly the Syrians), President Nasser may feel obliged to move in for King Hussein’s support, and it will be fratricidal war in the Arab world.
18 September 2020||new delhi,||Petrol usage returns to pre-COVID level||India’s petrol sales rose in the first half of September for the first time since the country’s lockdown in late March, signalling demand may have returned to pre-COVID-19 levels. Petrol sales between September 1 and 15 rose 2.2% year-on-year and were up 7% over the previous month, according to preliminary industry data. Diesel sales, however, continued to be in negative territory, with demand falling 6%. But the demand was 19.3% higher than in August 2020. This is the first time that petrol sales in the world’s third-largest oil importer have risen since the March 25 nationwide lockdown crippled economic activity and sent demand plummeting. Petrol sales rose to 9,65,000 tonnes compared with 9,45,000 tonnes in the same period a year earlier and 9,00,000 tonnes during August 1-15, 2020. Demand for diesel, the most-consumed fuel in the country, fell to 2.13 million tonnes, from 2.25 million tonnes for the September 1-15, 2019, period. Sales were 1.78 million tonnes in the first half of August this year. Local lockdowns hamper Industry sources said while the Indian economy has started to pick up with lockdown restrictions being lifted since June, local lockdowns by States had hampered a quick pick-up in demand. Petrol sales have picked up as commuters are increasingly preferring personal transport to public conveyance. The rise in September for petrol is a turnaround from the sharp drop witnessed in August. Diesel and petrol sales had fallen by 21% and 7.4%, respectively, in August from a year earlier. Jet fuel sales at 1,25,000 tonnes were down 60% in the first half of September but were 15% higher than the 1,03,000 tonnes in August. Cooking gas sales were up 12.5% at 1.13 million tonnes and 13.5% month-on-month. Wholesale sales of cars rose 14% in August, while two-wheeler sales increased by 3%. Shrikant Madhav Vaidya, Chairman, Indian Oil Corp. — India’s largest fuel retailer — earlier this week said that there were signs of demand recovery, but that the pandemic’s impact could linger and monthly consumption may edge back to pre-pandemic levels by the end of the year. Fuel demand is expected to rise further in October as the festive season kicks in.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||AAI may suffer a loss in FY21||State-owned Airports Authority of India (AAI), which runs more than 100 airports and has been a cash-rich entity that pays a dividend to the government, will likely be in the red at the end of the current fiscal, the government told Parliament. To run various airports at a time of depressed demand and revenue, the AAI has sought a loan of Rs. 1,500 crore from the State Bank of India, Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri told the Lok Sabha. Payment deferrals Despite this, it has allowed deferrals in annual payments to be made to it by the four biggest airports in the country — Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad — with which it has a public private partnership agreement. The government had ordered AAI to pay its entire profit after tax (PAT) as dividend to it from FY18, raising it from 30% of PAT it used to pay earlier. This was despite AAI’s own financial requirement for maintenance and expansion of airports. According to its last annual report, it paid Rs. 1,780 crore to the government in FY18. National carrier Air India has also taken a hit and seen its revenue drop to Rs. 1,531 crore from Rs. 7,066 crore despite operating 2,600 international flights since May for the repatriation of Indians from around the world.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Telcos must conduct special security audit of networks’||The Department of Telecom has directed all telecom services providers in the country to carry out a special audit of their networks by an external agency to ensure security, Parliament was informed on Thursday. The move assumes significance as it comes at a time when there are renewed discussions in the country over allowing the use of telecom equipment supplied by China-headquartered firms due to security and surveillance concerns. “Government is aware that in the modern age, the telecom equipment and networks used for provisioning of telecom services are prone to spyware/malwares, including the backdoor and trapdoor vulnerabilities,” Minister of State for Communications and IT Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Dhotre added that as per license conditions, each licensee had to get their networks audited for security once in a financial year by a network audit and certification agency. “Further, the DoT, on December 6, directed the telecom service providers... to carry out Special Security Audit of their network,” he said. The telcos include BSNL, MTNL, Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea. Replying to a query on the use of Chinese equipment, Mr. Dhotre said state-owned BSNL had 44.4% of its mobile network equipment from ZTE and 9% from Huawei, while 10% of MTNL’s network equipment was from Chinese equipment manufacturers. Reliance Jio had not deployed any equipment from ZTE and Huawei, he added.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Stopped cash burn: Manipal Hospitals MD||As lockdowns begin to be eased across the country, inpatient treatment at hospitals are seeing an uptick. Dilip Jose , MD and CEO, Manipal Hospitals Group, said in an interview that the group is now at about 80% of its pre-COVID levels both in inpatient count and in revenue. Excerpts:   Your experience in these past few months...   Across our network, we used to see 4,500-odd patients in our outpatient departments daily; that came down to about 500-600 during the lockdown. That’s the level of impact it had. One reason is, of course, the transport and other restrictions. And second, the fear factor held people back in March and April. There was a similar reduction in inpatient numbers also. April was the worst. May onwards, we have seen some uptick for two reasons: one is that people, who had avoided going to hospitals in April, and who now could not postpone treatment any further, came into hospitals. We are at about 70% of pre-COVID-19 levels in terms of our outpatient footfalls and about 80% of pre-COVID-19 levels in inpatient occupancy. Elective surgeries are seeing a mixed response. Dialysis, chemotherapy, radiation therapy… have come back to near normal. Revenue went down to 35-40% of our pre-COVID-19 level in April. Now, they are back at 80%. We have stopped bleeding cash at this point. But, for a tertiary-care hospital such as Manipal, about 70% of our costs are fixed. This is related to our people. When revenue came down dramatically, and costs remained fixed, we lost cash in April. We have been able to negotiate rental waivers and got some reduction in annual maintenance amount with equipment suppliers. How about capex? One part of our capex is the replacement capex, where equipment at the end of its lifecycle has to be replaced to help maintain continuity. Second comes the critical, medical-related procurement of additional ventilators, ICU equipment, with occupancies going up and all that. Critical medical equipment is what we have prioritised. We have temporarily put off expansion of the network. For this year, the expansion is within the existing facilities.   Did you ramp up ICU beds? We didn’t have to do too much apart from accelerating procurement of some ventilators. In ICUs, the differential is the people, not really the infrastructure.Here, we focused on ramping up testing capabilities and [ensuring] all beds had oxygen lines and the like. Many COVID-19 patients do not need critical care, they need oxygen. If we can give adequate care like this, it takes away the burden from the ICU; then genuinely sick patients can go to the ICU. We also created additional capabilities in a high-dependency unit, which is a step down from an ICU. So, a patient who is not so sick but needs higher monitoring can be treated in these units.
18 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Tankers cruise; rates for containers, dry bulk fall||Tanker owners have remained insulated from the disruption in global trade due to the COVID-19 pandemic that has resulted in charter rates of dry bulk and container carriers crashing as demand has dried up, Crisil Research said. “That’s because a crash in crude oil prices earlier this year had led to a situation known as ‘oil contango’, wherein the price of an oil futures contract exceeded the spot price. This sparked a rush for booking vessels to be used as floating storage. Thus, even as dry bulk and container rates wallowed, tanker charter rates were 44% higher on-year in the first half of 2020,” it said. Crisil Research expects dry bulk trade to fall 4-6% on-year in 2020, led by weak industrial demand and muted steel production, which would hit coal and iron ore procurement. As per the report, container charter rates are expected to fall 20-23% on-year in 2020 on the back of a 10-12% decline in container trade, impacted by lower consumption demand from likes of the EU and the U.S. ‘Some cushion’ “Given that the tanker segment constitutes a large chunk (63%) of the Indian fleet, the surge in tanker rates provides some cushion to a drop in revenue. However, the oil contango... is now tapering,” Crisil said. “We expect Indian shipping players’ revenue to decline 9-11% due to reduced trade globally,” it added.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||IRDAI panel pushes for pandemic risk pool||A working group of insurance regulator IRDAI has recommended the setting up of an Indian Pandemic Risk Pool with public-private-government participation to cover losses resulting from pandemics such as COVID-19 in the future. IRDAI said the quantum of loss due to an epidemic/pandemic is huge and beyond the capacity of public and/or private companies and/or government alone. Thus, a risk-pooling mechanism with public-private-government participation would be an appropriate resolution to address similar concerns in future. The group said since MSMEs and the unorganised sector were the worst hit by COVID-19, the first phase of the proposed pool should cover income losses due to business interruption resulting from a future pandemic event and subsequent lockdowns. Pandemic losses are covered under available health insurance products. Hence, the coverage for losses in health segment due to a pandemic, beyond a threshold, may be covered under the second phase. The coverage may later be expanded to life insurance. The group proposed a government backstop of about Rs. 75,000 crore initially, considering the pool can be designed to cater to four crore MSME workers.  The first phase should cover income losses due to business interruption
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Happiest Minds lists at 123% premium||Shares of Happiest Minds Technologies, led by technolgy industry veteran Ashok Soota, listed on the bourses at a premium of more than 123% over the issue price of Rs. 166 per share. The initial public offering was subscribed 151 times. This is the second instance when Mr. Soota has successfully listed an IT firm on the bourses in his long entrepreneurial journey despite initial skepticism among analysts about the timing and size of the issue. The stock opened at Rs. 351 on BSE, hit a day's high of Rs. 395 and closed at Rs. 371. Mr. Soota had played the lead role in taking Mindtree, which he co-founded with nine others in 1999, public in 2007. He co-founded Happiest Minds in 2011 at the age of 68 when most experts thought that another IT services firm may find it difficult to survive in an intensely-competitive environment. The company drew 97% of its revenue from digital services in FY20.
18 September 2020||MUMBAI,||‘SMEs’ asset-backed securities to be impacted’||COVID-19-induced economic and property market disruptions would cause loan delinquencies in micro, small and medium enterprises (SMEs). This will impact the firms’ asset-backed securities (ABS) over the rest of the year, hurting refinancing prospects and leading to lower recovery rates said Moody’s Investors Service. “We forecast India’s economy to contract 11.5% in the fiscal year ending March 2021,” said Dipanshu Rustagi, assistant VP, Moody’s. “And as the economy slows, SME loan delinquencies — which have been on the rise since January — will continue to increase and property prices face increasing pressure. Refinancing to be hurt “This will challenge SMEs’ refinancing of loans against property (LAP) and hurt the recovery prospects for defaulted loans, affecting the quality of ABS that we rate,” Mr. Rustagi added. The Centre’s stimulus measures and the structural features of these deals will partially offset rising risks, Moody’s said. For example, as part of the relief measures, the government has guaranteed new and outstanding SME loans, which will help alleviate liquidity pressures in the sector, added Moody’s.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vistara offers Wi-Fi on-board||Vistara has become the first Indian airline to introduce Wi-Fi connectivity on its flights to London. To begin with, the service will be available only on-board the two Boeing 787-9 aircraft in a fleet of 43 planes. Vistara uses the aircraft to provide connections to London. Vistara said it would soon introduce the service on the aircraft it uses to connect domestic and short-haul international routes — the Airbus A321neo. The move follows the decision taken by the Department of Telecommunications in 2018 to allow Wi-Fi in the Indian airspace. As per rules, passengers can access Wi-Fi only after the flight has attained a height of 3,000 metres.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||DRL, Celgene settle Revlimid patent suit||Pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories and Celgene, a wholly owned subsidiary of Bristol Myers Squibb, have settled their litigation relating to patents for multiple myeloma drug Revlimid (lenalidomide) capsules. In settlement of all outstanding claims in the litigation, Celgene has agreed to provide Dr. Reddy’s with a licence to sell volume-limited amounts of generic lenalidomide capsules in the U.S., beginning on a confidential date after March 2022, subject to regulatory approval. The agreed-upon percentages are confidential, Dr. Reddy’s said on Thursday.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘MSMEs used tech to survive lockdown’||Information Technology (IT) infrastructure helped businesses tide over the challenges arising from the lockdown, Tally Solutions said in a report. According to a study it conducted, about 94% of MSMEs in India had adopted technology to stay afloat in the last few months. About 67% of respondents in western India adopted full-fledged IT infrastructure in their businesses post-lockdown, compared with just 29% during the lockdown. Similarly, 60% respondents from the south had adopted complete IT infrastructure, the study found. The COVID-19 pandemic has driven the digital transformation of micro, small and medium enterprises.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Mumbai primed for title defence||Mumbai Indians' bid to defend its title and win an unprecedented fifth crown has been helped by the rescheduling of the tournament. Had the 2020 edition started on March 29 as per the original plan, captain Rohit Sharma, all-rounder Hardik Pandya and fast-bowler Jasprit Bumrah would have been doubtful starters for the opener, given the various injuries they were recovering from. Come September and all the MI stars have not only recovered but also managed to get into the groove for the big stage. The fact that a majority of the squad’s domestic cricketers trained at the MI facility in Navi Mumbai for well over a month before departure could also work in its favour. No doubt MI will miss Lasith Malinga, the Lankan veteran who was one of the architects of a record fourth IPL title last year, but its other overseas veteran, Kieron Pollard, is in great nick, which augurs well. If Pollard can translate his form from CPL to IPL, MI can shed its reputation of being terrible starters, something that has haunted the outfit every time it has defended the IPL title. In fact, the last time a part of the IPL was played in the UAE, because of the 2014 Lok Sabha election, Rohit and Co. returned win-less from the Emirates. While the venue has not been a happy hunting ground for MI, the timing would surely bring a smile to the management’s faces. It was a tournament that started on September 19 in 2011 — the now-defunct Champions League T20 — that fetched MI its maiden title. Rohit’s army — with all the bases covered in terms of combination — will be hoping to replicate that success this time around.  MI will miss Malinga, the Lankan veteran who was one of the architects of a record fourth IPL title last year
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Count Dhoni’s lions out at your own peril||Chennai Super Kings is a feeling. It’s about a spirit that embraces freedom. And a way cricket is played, without the fear of defeat. Where cricketers are chilled out off the arena, relaxed and focused on it. CSK is about that euphoria when scripting victories from impossible situations, bucking the odds.  The franchise is also about M.S. Dhoni. He is the heart of the side, the soul of its existence. It is Dhoni who implores his men to banish the demon of self doubt and express themselves. The examples are many. Ambati Rayudu was reborn under Dhoni’s guidance, and Shane Watson, turning back the clock and free from expectations, rediscovered his mojo. Daring, flamboyant To the legion of its supporters, CSK is what it is because it dishes out a daring, flamboyant brand of cricket that consistently throws up heroes. And then there is the ageless Dhoni himself, still lightning quick behind the wickets and between the stumps, and still backing himself to unleash the monster hits. Then, as captain cool, he is hugely influential, narrowing down the angles or setting up alluring baits, and cleverly changing bowlers. Dwayne Bravo is effective with his changes of pace since Dhoni comprehends exactly when to bowl him. CSK has had starting problems this time around in the UAE, struck by COVID-19 and losing key men Suresh Raina and Harbhajan Singh, both for personal reasons. Tough act to fill The radiant Raina is a tough act to fill but CSK, given the cricketing acumen of Dhoni and coach Stephen Fleming, could well find an answer. Harbhajan’s absence leaves CSK without an off-spinner but the side could employ the googlies of Piyush Chawla and Imran Tahir against the left-handers. Promising much Apart from Piyush, the two other signings, Josh Hazlewood, rated the world’s best by Richard Hadlee for his accuracy, swing and cut, and the combative left-arm seaming all-rounder Sam Curran promise much. Since the matches will be played at only three venues, Dubai, Sharjah and Abu Dhabi, the pitches could slow down, bringing the spinners into play. And Dhoni’s Dad’s Army could emerge the Daddy of them all.
18 September 2020||Rome,||‘Perfect start’ for Nadal; Bopanna advances||In his first match in over six months, Rafael Nadal swept aside fellow Spaniard Pablo Carreno Busta on Wednesday to reach the third round of the Italian Open. The nine-time Rome winner came through 6-1, 6-1 against 18th-ranked Carreno Busta, a recent semifinalist at the US Open. “It was a perfect start for me. It was solid, good shots on the forehand and backhand. I didn’t expect to play that well,” Nadal said. “Maybe Pablo was a little bit tired from a great tournament there in New York, but thinking about myself, I played a very solid match and very serious and doing a lot of things very well. So very happy.” Rohan Bopanna and Denis Shapovalov upset the top-seeded duo of Robert Farah and Juan Sebastian Cabal 3-6, 6-3, [10-5] to move into the quarterfinals.  Important results (second round): Men: Denis Shapovalov bt Pedro Martinez 6-4, 6-4; Filip Krajinovic bt Marco Cecchinato 6-4, 6-1; Stefano Travaglia bt Borna Coric 7-6(2), 7-5, Grigor Dimitrov bt Yoshihito Nishioka 6-1, 6-0; Rafael Nadal bt Pablo Carreno Busta 6-1, 6-1.   Women: Elina Svitolina bt Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova 6-3, 7-6(4); Karolina Pliskova bt Barbora Strycova 6-3, 6-3; Svetlana Kuznetsova bt Anett Kontaveit 4-6, 7-5, 6-3.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Nikhat Zareen delighted to be in TOPS||Former world junior boxing champion Nikhat Zareen is delighted to be included in the Target Olympic Podium Scheme of the Sports Authority of India. The Hyderabad-based boxer is happy that she is back in the 51kg category, the same weight category in which she was engaged in a controversy with World champion Mary Kom. “I am really working hard. I feel there are much better chances of me putting up a special performance in the Games and I thank the Union Sports Ministry, SAI and all those who supported me to be back in the TOPS,” Nikhat told The Hindu . “I am especially grateful to SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy for facilitating a financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakhs from the NATCO Group recently which is unforgettable for it came in tough times. I hope to live up to the expectations,” she said. “I believe my job is to keep working hard and leave the rest to destiny,” she said. “The target for me is to stay fit and compete in international tournaments whenever they are scheduled and win medals for the country. Right now, I am training at a private centre in Madhapur in the evenings,” Nikhat said.
18 September 2020||Manchester,||Australia takes series with incredible win||Glenn Maxwell and Alex Carey hit brilliant hundreds as Australia sealed a dramatic series win over England in the third ODI at Old Trafford on Wednesday. Record stand Australia, chasing a target of 303, was all but out of the game at 73 for five when Maxwell came to the crease. But an Australia record sixth-wicket stand of 212 between Carey (106) and Maxwell (108) helped give the tourists a 2-1 victory as England suffered its first home ODI series defeat in five years. Maxwell's hundred was just his second in 113 ODIs while it was Carey's maiden century in his 39th match. When Maxwell holed out off leg-spinner Adil Rashid, Australia still needed 18 off 15 balls. That became 10 off six when Carey, whose century came off 106 balls, was superbly caught by a diving Mark Wood at third man off Jofra Archer. Mitchell Starc, however, hit his first ball, from Rashid, for six and sealed victory with two balls to spare by hitting a four.  The scores: England 302/7 in 50 overs (Jonny Bairstow 112, Sam Billings 57, Chris Woakes 53 n.o.; Mitchell Starc 3/74, Adam Zampa 3/51) lost to Australia 305/7 in 49.4 overs (Alex Carey 106, Glenn Maxwell 108).
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Royal Challengers to honour ‘COVID heroes’||To honour the tireless efforts of people who have created a positive impact in the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) will don a jersey with the message ‘My COVID Heroes’ in the IPL. The jersey, with the message displayed on the back, will be worn by players during training and matches. In a web conference attended by RCB chairman Sanjeev Churiwala and players Virat Kohli, Parthiv Patel and Devdutt Padikkal, the franchise honoured three ‘COVID Heroes’ — Simranjeet Singh, Hetika Shah and Zeeshan Javid. RCB will also support GiveIndia Foundation by donating proceeds from an auction of the jerseys that players wear in RCB’s first match of the IPL.
18 September 2020||La Roche-sur-Foron (France),||Roglic retains lead||Primoz Roglic retained his lead on compatriot Tadej Pogacar atop the Tour de France standings after stage 18 on Thursday. Bedevilled by problems that saw them withdraw captain Egan Bernal on Wednesday, teammate Michal Kwiatkowski won the stage as Richard Carapaz took the King of the Mountains jersey. Roglic leads Pogacar by 57 seconds with Friday’s stage 19 and the culminating run up the Champs-Elysees on Sunday both set to be decided in a mass bunch sprint. Miguel Angel Lopez of Colombia is still third. Ineos claimed a 1-2 finish on Thursday.
18 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Rana just happy to be back in action||Kolkata Knight Riders batsman Nitish Rana hopes his aggressive brand of cricket will be in sync with head coach Brendon McCullum’s plans. “I belong to Delhi and we play aggressively. As a kid, I was a huge fan of McCullum. I was very excited when he became KKR coach. I hope he coaches us as aggressively as he used to play,” said Rana in an interaction. Eager to learn The southpaw was also eager to learn a few things, including leadership qualities, from England limited-over skipper Eoin Morgan. “I am very excited because he is a World Cup-winning captain. There are only a few left-handers who dominate in white-ball cricket and he is one of them. I look forward to learning from him.” Rana — who used to practise on the terrace of his house with his wife Saachi’s assistance during the lockdown — said he was desperate to get back in action. “The bio-bubble existence began six months ago when we were at home, there was the fear of going out. Here, initially it was a bit strange. Now we are used to it. But the most heartening thing is cricket is happening. I am happy that at least we are getting a chance to play,” said Rana.
18 September 2020||Bengaluru,||KSA’s financial relief to coaches, pool staff||The Karnataka Swimming Association (KSA) will provide a three-month financial relief package totalling Rs. 15 lakh to coaches and pool staff across Karnataka. The fundraiser, named ‘KSA Cares’, aims to help individuals whose income has been affected by swimming pools remaining shut — for nearly six months now — due to the COVID-19 pandemic.    In August, KSA had dispersed Rs. 5.5 lakh financial aid to 250 coaches and pool staff across Karnataka. The KSA also distributed dry ration to coaches and pool staff from affiliated centres. This relief package will be extended till October. “I am happy to note that we have deposited the second round of financial aid on 14th September. Apart from KSA’s own funds, we also received overwhelming support from Infosys Foundation, which contributed 400 bags of food items. Premanjali Foundation contributed 300 bags, and Kirloskar Systems contributed Rs. 3 lakh to the cause,” KSA president Gopal Hosur stated. Coaches and pool staff from Mangaluru, Belagavi, Mandya, Davanagere, Karwar, Udupi, Shivamogga and other districts have benefited from this initiative. K.P. Sanjo, a coach in Davanagere, stated, “It had come to a point where I had to take hand loans to cover the costs of my meals. With pools shut during summer, our income became nil and savings were all spent to survive the lockdown months. We were in dire need of help, and KSA announced this relief package at the right time. I received Rs. 5,000 each in August and September. This really helps cover my basic costs and I know I can survive with this until pools restart.”
18 September 2020||Chennai,||‘Rehab of sportspersons a top priority’||Even after they test negative after acquiring the virus, COVID-19 can leave deep scars in sportspersons. Dr. S. Arumugam, Director, Chennai’s Centre for Sports Sciences (CSS), a state-of-the-art facility in the Sri Ramachandra Medical College campus, told The Hindu , “Medically, the post-COVID debris include impaired lung function, skeletal muscle weakness, decreased functional capacity and overall decreased quality of life,” He added, “Early research shows that medically supervised and focused rehabilitation in the form of regular assessments, progressive exercise prescription, respiratory muscle training and relaxation therapy are effective in assisting in early recovery and return to optimum fitness.” Dr. Arumugam said, “We are at the forefront in the war against COVID-19 at the SRMC, with many government-approved vaccine trials underway at the dedicated hands of our reputed scientists and researchers.” Plenty of research At CSS, COVID rehabilitation of sportspersons is being given top priority. Apart from holistic and continued rehab services, plenty of research takes place to enable those recovered to rediscover the winning edge. Dr. Arumugam said, “The CSS is a world-class facility with multidisciplinary experts from all fields of medicine and in the field of rehabilitation and physiotherapy for sportspersons.” A research centre that is accredited and has tie-ups with reputed organisations such as ICMR, NAAC, NABH, and Sports Authority of India, the CSS has offered two sets of proposed plan of care as packages. First is the initial assessment after six weeks of becoming COVID positive and recovery. This will include basic screening, blood investigations, assessment of co-morbid conditions, six-minute walk test, ADL assessment (Katz index), fatigue assessment, respiratory muscle strength assessment and hand-grip assessment. Then there is the individualised rehab programme which includes breathing exercises, respiratory muscle training, aerobic exercises, strength training, balance and flexibility exercise and relaxation technique. Dr. Arumugam said: “We want sportspersons to successfully return to peak fitness after COVID.”
18 September 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Will be a challenge to adapt to the conditions’||With a majority of Indian players having little experience of playing in the UAE, Mumbai Indians captain Rohit Sharma said the onus is on the experienced players to share their knowledge of the conditions with the youngsters. “It will be a challenge for us to adapt to the conditions here. Not many from our group have played here. It is important for people who have been here before to share their experience with the others,” Rohit said during an interaction with the media from Abu Dhabi on Thursday. “Reading the pitches will play a critical role in this IPL. The slowness of the wicket will be a factor. We are expecting some reverse swing and we have got some good quality pacers in our line-up to exploit that.” The last time the IPL was partially played in UAE, MI had lost all its five games. Rohit stressed it won’t have any bearing on the 2020 campaign since “only two-three guys from this squad” were part of the 2014 team. Head coach Mahela Jayawardene said the management had taken a conscious decision to offer players the option of travelling with their families to mentally cope with living in a bio-bubble. “Most of the players have come with their families and it’s good that they are spending time with them,” Jayawardene said.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu pulls out of Denmark Open||World champion P.V. Sindhu has pulled out of the Denmark Open scheduled to be held in Odense from October 13 to 18. The 25-year-old shuttler informed The Hindu on Thursday that since she is not playing in the now-postponed Thomas and Uber Cup (Oct. 3 to 11), there is no point in travelling all the way to compete in only one championship taking such a high risk because of the pandemic.
18 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||HFC signs up striker Aridane Santana||Hyderabad FC has signed up experienced Spanish striker Aridane Santana for the upcoming ISL season. The 33-year-old player joins on a one-year deal, after a successful season with fellow ISL side Odisha FC. “Aridane will be an important player for us in the season. He is the typical striker — strong, a good header of the ball, holds up possession, someone with a good shot, and a hard worker,” said HFC head coach Manolo Marquez.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Existence & consciousness||The essence of all knowledge is summed up in the statement, ‘By knowing the Lord one knows all,’ and the Lord can be known only if He chooses to reveal Himself to us. In the Bhagavad Gita, the Lord reveals His glories and explains in detail the subtle aspects of His Supreme Self that lie beyond the limits of Time and Space, said Swamini Satyavratananda in a discourse. Sat, Existence and Chit, Consciousness are the exclusive principles of Brahman, distinctive and absolutely independent. They are not the part, product or property of anything in the created universe. Sat is existence or the ‘Is-ness’ while Chit is the consciousness principle, lending sentience to the created world. He says ‘I am the Self dwelling in the heart of all beings, who constitute my body.’ God is the soul of all the beings; all the sentient and non-sentient aspects of the universe together constitute His body. It is clear that the Self is the controller and supporter of the body. If all things and beings exist with their distinctive names and forms, it is owing to Brahman who is present as the antaratma in their inner selves. The inner self, the atma in each being is imperishable and is independent of all the variety of nama and roopa in creation that is available to the human senses, mind and intellect and survives even after the body falls. The Brihadaranyaka Upanishad explains this truth thus: “He who dwelling in all beings is within all beings, whom all beings do not know, whose body all beings are, who controls all beings from within, is your inner controller, Immortal self.” Brahman is the creator, preserver and destroyer of all and hence He is described as beginning, middle and end. This Existence and Consciousness Principle survives even after time of dissolution in this Vibhuti.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 07:59 IST,||Sudoku - September 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Mission: my first bakery||Jannani Mohan, a Psychology student pursuing her Bachelor’s degree at Madras School of Social Work, began selling cupcakes from her home in July 2018. How did she manage a business along with her studies? Jannani says, “It is important to know how much one can handle; I don’t take orders during exams.” On the other hand, Berine Vinola Simon, a Statistics undergraduate at SIES College of Arts and Science in Mumbai, says, “My college ends at 1 p.m. So there is a lot of time to bake.” Vinola clearly remembers her first order: “I baked a cake for a classmate in college. After tasting that, a teacher wanted one for her son’s birthday. That was my first order.” Now, Vinola delivers around 10 cakes a month, joining a host of students around the country who are turning their baking skills into a source of income. This largely-teenage fraternity is an enterprising one, but functions at a scale that is far from commercial or standardised. They are not afraid to admit that they are still testing the waters. For instance, 13-year-old Rasmika Rangarajan from Chennai, who bakes and sells under the name 53, Baker Street, describes how she began, “After referring to different recipes from cookbooks, websites and online videos, I modify them and create my own.” Rashmika recalls the number of times she tried out each recipe, “For I wanted to get the best possible result, perfect in texture, taste and look. There is a lot to learn; I am eager to fine-tune my skills.” Vinola attended a course in baking in Kharghar, Navi Mumbai. “By the end of the course, I grew confident,” she says. She suggests that beginners do the same. “Sign up for a course or workshop. Basics are important. Baking is like chemistry: if even one thing is more than needed, the whole thing will become a mess.” Some of her peers honed their basics at home in familial setups. Lakshmi Muralidharan, an English Literature student of St. Thomas College, Thrissur, would bake at home with her sister Gowri. Lakshmi says, “I have been baking at home for a long time for other special occasions, even before starting my venture Cake Bay.” Numbers, numbers everywhere The learning curve, however, is about more than just cooking. Vinola recalls one of her first challenges: “I had a small microwave, with which I could bake only one cake at a time, that too not more than one kilogram. When I got an order for a two kilogram cake, I had to bake two cakes and attach them.” And then, of course, there is the business itself, which some found easier than others. “My parents had gifted me an oven-toaster-griller. I invested Rs. 5,000 and bought a handwhisk, ingredients, and muffin tins,” says Jannani. Not all parents, however, are keen on their child juggling their studies with a startup. Vinola has been fighting these odds since 2015. “It was only after orders started coming in and I proved myself to my parents, that they started supporting me. But they still want me to find a job with a decent salary.” For her first order, she had just Rs. 500 in hand, with which she bought whipping cream, flour, butter, sugar and one packing box for her first order. With subsequent orders, she gradually bought other items for her business. Vinola explains, “I sell up to 10 cakes a month, and I make a profit of 25%”. Rasmika makes around 20%-30% profit on completing 30 to 40 orders a month. Jannani and Vinola say that they ask customers to place orders at least one day ahead. Vinola delivers the cakes herself, seeks the help of her father, or uses the local train. She does not charge for deliveries for up to 25 kilometres. Jannani uses delivery apps like Dunzo and Task Hopper.  These bakers are working without teams or high-end appliances, but, according to Janani, every baker should invest in a pair of weighing scales. “For baking professionally, you need a trusty set of weighing scales. Cup measurements are volume-based and depend on how you scoop your ingredients; the amount will be different almost every time. Weighing ingredients is far more accurate, enabling me to maintain the same flavour profile. Electronic scales can cost as little as Rs. 300 and as much as Rs. 2,000,” she says. They ensure a standard taste, as does Lakshmi’s personal rule: “We use the same brand of compounds or chocolates to melt and to bake.” Crowd pleasers Rasmika describes her best-selling Ferrero Rocher cake. “It has layers of moist eggless chocolate sponge cake, with a home-made hazelnut filling, with a cream frosting and topped with a ganache drip and Ferrero Rocher chocolates on top.” Jannani’s stars, on the other hand, are “my double chocolate cupcakes, closely followed by my fudgy brownies.” Clearly, there can never be too many people selling brownies.  liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with dummy text.liftout tag with du   For the love of cakes The first enclosed ovens are believed to have been built in ancient Greece, around 800 BC.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A lens trained on the arts||“Every art form should be documented for it to survive through generations. This is relevant especially in folk arts and one way to do it is through photographs and videos,” says Sridhar Balasubramaniyam over a patchy phone call from Tiruvannamalai. This 29-year-old photographer from Coimbatore has been documenting theatre for the past seven years, and recently won the Alkazi Theatre Photography Grant 2020, issued by the New Delhi-based Alkazi Foundation for Arts. The grant is for Rs. 1. 5 lakh. “The grant was announced three weeks ago. There will also be a felicitation ceremony and an exhibition of my work,” he says. The jury consisted of eminent names, including Diana Campbell Betancourt, artistic director of Samdani Art Foundation in Dhaka; Richard Schechner, professor emeritus, Performance Studies, New York University; and Aveek Sen, who is a teacher in visual arts, music, and literature. “I was introduced to them through this fellowship. I have not met them yet, but I admire their work,” says Sridhar. Sridhar’s entry consisted of a photo story with 30 monochrome photographs. “I called it ‘The Space between the Body and the Land’. I am always at peace when close to nature,” he says. What emotions does nature exhibit when it is exploited by humans? “Much like how people use their bodies to express themselves in theatre, I decided to use them to portray nature’s feelings,” he explains . It was his conscious decision to stay away from vibrant colours. “The aesthetic experience provided by black and white was perfect to convey the emotions that I wanted to share. Usage of bright hues would have diluted the effect,” he adds. The photographs consist of those that he shot over the last few years. “I had to select from thousands of photos. I was at home during lockdown and had enough time to sort it out,” says Sridhar. Sridhar developed an interest in documenting theatre after he started working with Manal Magudi, a theatre group. “I joined as a photographer, but with time, I also explored acting. I have been a part of around 50 plays by the group. It widened my perception of humans, emotions, and cultures,” he says. The road ahead Besides theatre photography, Sridhar also enjoys capturing tribal and inter-cultural weddings. “It is a project that I am working on. One of my photographs showcases the wedding of a Canadian woman and a north Indian man in a tribal hamlet in Kodaikanal,” he explains. Sridhar plans to use the grant to document the different landscapes mentioned in Sangam literature. “It includes kurinji (mountains), mullai (forests), marudham (fields), neithal (coasts), and paalai (deserts). I plan to use theatre artistes for this project as well. I also hope to bring out a book with my photographs soon.”
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghost Use Facebook The blackmail||The story so far: After her grandfather dies, Maya wants to open a Facebook account to communicate with him, but her mother is strictly against the idea.  That evening, after snacks, Maya bolted off next door. “Good to see you, Maya,” said Mrs. Ghosh as she let Maya inside. “You can keep Rocky company while I do my grocery shopping.” Maya ran straight to Rocky’s bedroom. “Hey Rocky!” She made him jump and spill his banana milkshake. “No use drinking that,” Maya giggled. “You”ll never grow taller than me.” “Forget all that, Maya. What did aunty say?” asked Rocky, wiping up the spill. “What else?” Maya sighed. “As usual, Mummy said no.” Rocky sighed with relief. “But I have an idea.” A deal Rocky preferred to be left alone with a vampire than with Maya. He remembered how Maya had forced him up a neem tree in the park to get down baby squirrels and the furious mother squirrel had almost snapped off his nose. “We can open my Facebook account right away,” said Maya. “Certainly not!” Rocky leapt up onto the bed and sat opposite Maya. “If Mummy finds out, I”ll never be allowed to use the computer again.” Rocky felt more angry than afraid. “Then how will I become a computer engineer.” “You don’t deserve to be my friend,” grunted Maya, as she waved to Rocky’s mother who was at the gate. Rocky’s heart sank. “It’s too dangerous!” “Dangerous! You talk like a baby,” quipped Maya. “Nobody can jump out of the computer and gobble you up.” She upturned the packet of potato chips on the bed. “Sorry, Mickey. Maya didn’t leave even a crumb for you.” Rocky apologised to his pet white rat. “But Maya saved one whole chip for Mickey.” Mickey gratefully grabbed it from Maya’s hand. “Do you even feed Mickey? If he doesn’t get fat soon, he won’t be even a mouthful for my Fuzz,” she laughed wickedly. “Bad Maya! Your Fuzz is already so fat. If she eats Mickey, her stomach will explode.” “Not any more,” said Maya. “Now Fuzz’s stomach looks like an empty cave. And she’d be delighted to eat a germ-free rat that bathes with baby shampoo. But if you allow me to open my Facebook account, I won’t feed him to Fuzz. And if Nana doesn’t respond to my friend request, I’ll cancel the account immediately.” Rocky wasn’t fooled. He also knew he was helpless. It seemed a worthwhile bargain if he could save Mickey from becoming Fuzz’s food. He could also tell his mother he let Maya use his computer in exchange for Mickey’s life.  To be continued...   Rocky preferred to be left alone with a vampire than with Maya.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A chat over a cuppa||When Kaldi, a goatherd in Ethiopia, took his goats out to graze, he noticed a couple of them eating berries from a bush and becoming very frisky and energetic. They wouldn’t sleep at night either. Kaldi reported this to the abbot of the local monastery. The curious abbot collected the berries and made a brew, which he consumed. It gave him more energy and also kept him awake during the long hours of prayer. Soon news of these berries began to spread and the rest, as they say, is history. By the 15th century, coffee reached the Arabian Peninsula and “wine of Araby”, as it was called, became popular in Egypt, Yemen, Syria and Turkey. Hot favourite  Turkish coffee soon became a favourite not only in the palace but also among aristocrats and the public. Qavehkhaneh or coffee houses became the centre of social and community activities like playing chess, listening to music, watching dances and discussing current affairs and news. To make Turkish Coffee, Arabica beans are ground manually and boiled with water and sugar in a special pot called cezve in Turkey and ibrik elsewhere. It is taken off the heat as soon as it begins to froth. It is traditionally served in individual porcelain cups called kahvefinjanı. Sometimes the coffee may be flavoured with cardamom or other spices and served with a small piece of Turkish delight. Turkish Coffee made it to the UNESCO’s list of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2013. It is celebrated in literature and songs and is an important part of ceremonies and festivals.  Fun facts  When asking for a girls’ hand in marriage, if the boy is served salty Turkish coffee, it means the girl does not like him or is watching to see if he is brave enough to drink it. It was also used to test if the girl could make the national drink. The dregs of Turkish Coffee are used to tell fortunes. A glass of water is served along with the coffee. If the guest drinks the coffee first, it means he is not hungry. But, if he drinks the water, it means he is hungry and food is served.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunny side up||The last rays of the dying sun touched the mountain tips and slowly, the countryside faded into darkness. “Tanya, are you ready?” shouted her mother. “Don’t be late for school!” “Tanya! Hurry up,” said her dad. “I can’t be late for work again!” Tanya’s father worked with a courier company, while her mother worked at the Blood Bank. “Coming! Coming!” shouted Tanya, as she zipped up her bag, slung it over her shoulder and rushed out. “I wish I could go to school when the sun is up,” said Tanya, wistfully. “Don’t start now,” said her mother impatiently. “You know we can’t be outside during the day.” “That’s what you always say!” sulked Tanya. Night-time school They dropped her at the school gates. In the dark, they could just about discern the silvery outlines of the gate. The broad driveway led up to the classrooms. Tanya walked away with her head hung low. “She is so unhappy having to go to school at night. I wish we could find a remedy for this,” said her mother. “Remedy? How can we find a remedy for this?” shouted her father angrily. “She has to understand that this is the best time for us.” “Easier said than done,” said her mother, sadly. One morning, when everyone in her house was asleep, Tanya decided to sneak out. She was surprised by the brilliance of day. She looked up to find the source of so much light. It warmed her hands and legs and filled her with joy. She wanted to dance and sing. She ran into the park and found other children playing there. She joined them and had a great time. Around noon, Riya, one of the girls she was playing with, said, “I’m hungry. I’m going to have a snack. If you want you can come along.” At Riya’s house, the cook warmed up some samosas. One bite, and Tanya’s eyes were popping. Never had she tasted something so amazing. “Oh my god! What is this? I’ve never tasted anything so fantastic,” exclaimed Tanya. “Oh baby!” beamed the cook. “It is the usual potato samosa only but I have added garlic to it. That’s why the taste is so different.” Just then, the clock struck one. Tanya realised it was getting late and she would have to get back home, if she did not want her indiscretions discovered. The next morning, she sneaked out again. This continued for a couple of weeks. When it was time for school, she was tired and disinterested. She refused to eat at home saying the food was bland and insipid. Her parents were at their wits’ end. Caught One afternoon, when she came home, she found her parents awake and worried. As soon as she slipped in through her bedroom window, they caught hold of her. “Where have you been?” asked her mother. “We were worried sick!” “I went out to play,” said Tanya, nonchalantly. “But it is day...,” spluttered her father. “Yes, indeed. And a fine, glorious day it is,” said Tanya. “I’ve never been happier in my whole life!” “Phew! What’s that smell?” asked her mother, wrinkling up her nose. “Oh that!” said Tanya, with a careless wave of her hand. “Must be the samosas. You know Riya’s cook adds garlic to them.” “GARLIC? GARLIC?” shouted her parents. “What’s wrong with you?” cried her mother. “Don’t you know we are vampires?” “Garlic and the sun will destroy us!” said her father.” “That’s not true,” said Tanya, “I’m still around, aren’t I?” There was silence for a while. Then they said, “Yes, you sure are.” “So does that mean that these are just superstitions we have been fed on?” asked her mother doubtfully. “Looks like it,” said her father with a smile.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Game, anyone?||Do you know that everyone’s playing pandemic bingo on social media? I’m not a big fan of bingo, mostly because my grandmother used to have these ladies’ lunches every month and would ask me to be the emcee when she hosted! First of all, your cheeks get pinched by 30 grandmas (don’t let those soft voices fool you; some of them have tight grips!). Then, since most of them don’t hear so well, you have to scream the numbers out at the top of your voice again and again. “Us time” But this pandemic bingo is strictly for us kids! Sorry to be ageist; get your own bingo game, grandmas!  You’ll need:  A4 papers A ruler Colour pencils and pens Something you can use as counters. The pesky brother is going to use his collection of dried buggers. Gross. I nstructions:  Draw a 3x3 grid on your sheet of paper. You can play this by yourself, but it’s more fun when you play with someone else. If playing with my pesky brother, I suggest you wear surgical gloves in case you accidentally touch one of his counters. On another sheet of paper, copy out each of the phrases on the grid and make them into chits. Place the chits in a bowl and give them a good shake. Pull out a chit and read what’s on it. If a player has the phrase on their sheet, they can place a counter on it.  Things to add to your grid:  You’ve turned the mic and camera off during online school, so you can take a quick nap. You’ve unsynced your Google classroom from your parents’ phones, so they don’t know just how much pending homework you have. (Don’t you miss real school where you could just ‘accidentally’ leave your diary in your cubby hole and they never found out?) You refused a pandemic home haircut and now have more hair than your dog. You did get a pandemic home haircut, and you look like an extra from a sci-fi film. You are getting cabin fever from constantly being in the same room as your sibling and painted a line down the middle. Anyone who crosses over into your territory had better watch out. You are secretly happy PUB-G has been banned, because you weren’t allowed to play it and were feeling left out. Your English teacher set a ‘What I learned during the lockdown’ essay on the first day of online school. You can’t remember when you last stepped beyond the front gate of the building. You don’t know what date, day or month it is anymore because 2020 is just one big drag! The cool thing about playing pandemic bingo is that you can add whatever you want to your grid! Tell me some of the cool things you included. And send me some extra surgical gloves when you do, please?  If playing with my pesky brother, I suggest you wear surgical gloves
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Animal whisperer||Movie:Dr. Dolittle (2020) Genre:Adventure Fantasy Dr. Dolittle isn’t an average run-of-the-mill veterinarian. He has the rare gift of being able to communicate with animals. After the death of his wife, Lily, he withdraws from society and spends more time with animals. He finds a self-appointed apprentice in Tommy Stubbins, who accidentally injures Kevin, the squirrel. Poly aka Polynesia, the macaw, sends Tommy to Dr. Dolittle. The vet is forced to reconnect with humans when Queen Victoria asks him for help to cure her from a dangerous illness. Though Dr. Dolittle refuses at first, Poly insists it’s time he sought the company of his own kind. He discovers that the Queen has been poisoned and that the only possible cure is the magical fruit of Eden, found only at Lily’s birthplace. The doc and his animal entourage set sail but find themselves facing all kinds of trouble, not the least from Dr. Dolittle’s rival, Dr. Blair. Will they find the cure in time?  Trivia  A reboot of the 1967 film, it is based on author Hugh Lofting’s second book, The Voyages of Dr. Dolittle.  Robert Downey Jr. plays Dr. Dolittle, based on Dr. William Price, an eccentric and well-known historical Welshman. Price’s home town, Llantrisant, has installed a statue.  This is Robert Downey Jr.'s first non-Iron Man role since “The Judge” (2014).  Dr. Dolittle flips a hat onto his head in the same way that Sherlock Holmes does in the 2009 film. Robert Downey Jr. played the famous detective in that film.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Crunch ‘n’ munch||Ingredients  1/2 cup butter 1/2 cup granulated sugar 1/4 cup brown sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla extract 1 large egg 1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour 1/2 teaspoon baking soda 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 cup chocolate chips  Method  1. Preheat the oven to 180 °C. 2. Microwave the butter for about 40 seconds. The butter should be completely melted but shouldn’t be hot. 3.In a large bowl, mix the butter with the both the sugars until well combined. 4. Stir in vanilla and egg until fully mixed well. 5. Add the flour, baking soda, and salt. 6. Mix the dough until just combined. The dough should be soft and a little sticky, but not overly sticky. 7. Stir in chocolate chips. 8. Scoop out about 1.5 tablespoons of dough and place two inches apart on the baking sheet. 9. Bake for 7-10 minutes, or until cookies are set. They will be puffy and still look a little under-baked in the middle.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn about the pandemic||After losing two of their relatives from India to COVID-19, Sophia and Sean Nesamoney, students in the Bay Area of California, the U.S., decided that they wanted to help children educate themselves about the rapid spread of the coronavirus and what they could do to protect themselves. They created a free children’s picture book and audiobook called “The ABCs of Coronavirus” so that children could learn about the pandemic in a fun and accessible way. The book talks about the benefits of social distancing, wearing masks and other beneficial practices that we should now incorporate into our daily lives. The authors The text was written by Sophia Nesamoney, a student at Stanford University. She is studying human biology and hopes to become a doctor. She is also a two-time published novelist. The book was illustrated by Sean Nesamoney, a student at Menlo High School who is interested in computer programming and digital design and also enjoys singing and music production. The picture book and audiobook are available for free in English Hindi, Tamil and Kannada. The contents have been fact-checked by Dr. Vinitha Raghavan, a critical care nephrologist working on the front-lines of the pandemic in Chicago. The books can be downloaded athttps://www.howtocoronavirus.co/
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||On the farm||Across  2 Grassy area for grazing (6) 6 A fruit, also a bird (4) 7 Tool for digging (3) 8 A silk farm has these (6) 9 Farm to ___: When produce goes directly to consumer (4) 11 A collective term for cows and buffaloes (6) 13 Nitrogenous fertilizer (4) 15 Young one of sheep (4) 17 Small, simple dwelling (3) 18 A measure of the acidity of the soil (2) 19 Crops need plenty of ___shine (3) 22 Grown without chemicals (7) 23 Keeps the mice away (3)  Down  1 Tall tower used to store grain (4) 2 A dairy farm produces this (4) 3 The science of farming (11) 4 Grain used to make bread (5) 5 Encloses an area (5) 9 These are grown in orchards (6) 10 A cereal that grows in cold regions (3) 12 Domesticated (4) 14 Remains of a fire (3) 16 Young one of hen (5) 20 Cashew is one, so is almond (3) 21 Insect that makes tunnels in the soil (3)
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||Why does a SIM card have a cut on one corner?  SIM stands for Standard Identity Module. A SIM card is a removable electronic chip that is used to identify the subscriber in a particular mobile network. To be able to do that, it is important that the pin on the SIM makes contact with the pin on the slot in the phone, where the SIM is inserted. The cut on one corner of the SIM card ensures that the card is inserted correctly and helps avoid any misalignment that may not allow the SIM to work.  Whatis Earth’s age?  Earth is about 4.54 billion years old. Considering that it is way older than any living organism that ever walked on Earth, how did scientists figure our planet’s age? By studying Earth’s crust and the rocks from meteors and the Moon. This is based on the theory that these bodies in the solar system may have formed at similar times. That is why Earth’s age is approximated with an error margin of plus or minus 50 million years.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||How to ask a curious question||1. Pick a question. 2. Visitwww.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watchthis space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunny side up||The last rays of the dying sun touched the mountain tips and slowly, the countryside faded into darkness. “Tanya, are you ready?” shouted her mother. “Don’t be late for school!” “Tanya! Hurry up,” said her dad. “I can’t be late for work again!” Tanya’s father worked with a courier company, while her mother worked at the Blood Bank. “Coming! Coming!” shouted Tanya, as she zipped up her bag, slung it over her shoulder and rushed out. “I wish I could go to school when the sun is up,” said Tanya, wistfully. “Don’t start now,” said her mother impatiently. “You know we can’t be outside during the day.” “That’s what you always say!” sulked Tanya. Night-time school They dropped her at the school gates. In the dark, they could just about discern the silvery outlines of the gate. The broad driveway led up to the classrooms. Tanya walked away with her head hung low. “She is so unhappy having to go to school at night. I wish we could find a remedy for this,” said her mother. “Remedy? How can we find a remedy for this?” shouted her father angrily. “She has to understand that this is the best time for us.” “Easier said than done,” said her mother, sadly. One morning, when everyone in her house was asleep, Tanya decided to sneak out. She was surprised by the brilliance of day. She looked up to find the source of so much light. It warmed her hands and legs and filled her with joy. She wanted to dance and sing. She ran into the park and found other children playing there. She joined them and had a great time. Around noon, Riya, one of the girls she was playing with, said, “I’m hungry. I’m going to have a snack. If you want you can come along.” At Riya’s house, the cook warmed up some samosas. One bite, and Tanya’s eyes were popping. Never had she tasted something so amazing. “Oh my god! What is this? I’ve never tasted anything so fantastic,” exclaimed Tanya. “Oh baby!” beamed the cook. “It is the usual potato samosa only but I have added garlic to it. That’s why the taste is so different.” Just then, the clock struck one. Tanya realised it was getting late and she would have to get back home, if she did not want her indiscretions discovered. The next morning, she sneaked out again. This continued for a couple of weeks. When it was time for school, she was tired and disinterested. She refused to eat at home saying the food was bland and insipid. Her parents were at their wits’ end. Caught One afternoon, when she came home, she found her parents awake and worried. As soon as she slipped in through her bedroom window, they caught hold of her. “Where have you been?” asked her mother. “We were worried sick!” “I went out to play,” said Tanya, nonchalantly. “But it is day...,” spluttered her father. “Yes, indeed. And a fine, glorious day it is,” said Tanya. “I’ve never been happier in my whole life!” “Phew! What’s that smell?” asked her mother, wrinkling up her nose. “Oh that!” said Tanya, with a careless wave of her hand. “Must be the samosas. You know Riya’s cook adds garlic to them.” “GARLIC? GARLIC?” shouted her parents. “What’s wrong with you?” cried her mother. “Don’t you know we are vampires?” “Garlic and the sun will destroy us!” said her father.” “That’s not true,” said Tanya, “I’m still around, aren’t I?” There was silence for a while. Then they said, “Yes, you sure are.” “So does that mean that these are just superstitions we have been fed on?” asked her mother doubtfully. “Looks like it,” said her father with a smile.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘An unbounded bounded person’||“A breath of fresh air, clear, incisive and invigorating.” This is what Rai Krishnadasa, Honorary Director of Bharat Kala Bhavan at Benaras, wrote in his foreword to Kapila Vatsyayan’s 1968 book Classical Indian Dance in Literature and the Arts . The magnum opus was the first comprehensive study by an Indian scholar of the synergies between classical dance, literature and sculpture. A path-breaking work, it has since guided all research scholars with its thorough methodology, its study of the Natyasastra, of archaeology and architecture, and its effortless bridging of the arts, of thought and imagination. This Wednesday, the author of this magnificent compendium passed away peacefully at the age of 91 in her New Delhi home. Her death marks the end of an incomparable saga of research that placed Kapila firmly in the league of renowned art scholars such as Stella Kramrisch, Alice Boner, Dr. Ananda Coomaraswamy and Dr. V. Raghavan. Armed with an MA in English from the University of Delhi, an MA in Education from the University of Michigan, and a Ph.D from Banaras Hindu University, Kapila effortlessly combined theoretical knowledge with extensive practice. Kapila had spent her formative years in Shantiniketan, immersing herself in literature, painting, music and dance. Later a disciple of art scholar Pandit Vasudev Sharan Agrawal, she also studied Kathak from the legendary Acchan Maharaj, Manipuri from Guru Amubi Singh, and Bharatanatyam from Guru Meenakshi Sundaram Pillai. Having thus deeply experienced the practice of aesthetics or rasa, she was able to imbue her scholarship with it, going beyond the usual understanding of rasa as mood and evocation to establishing it as a state of being. Prominent among the dozens of volumes of scholarship she produced are Traditions of Indian Folk Dance (1976), The Square and the Circle of Indian Arts (1983), and Bharata: The Natya Sastra (1996). Continued on page 2 Continuned from page 1 Kapila’s fastidious nature, sharp intellect and uncompromising attitude made her an able administrator and institution builder. She worked closely with Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Azad and Dr. Radhakrishnan, becoming the administration’s nodal centre for cultural affairs. She established the Centre for Cultural Resources and Training, conceptualised the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, and was Vice-President of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. She was president of India International Centre and chairperson of Asiatic International Research Division. As additional secretary in the Department of Education, she was part of the process of establishing the three Akademis: Sangeet Natak, Lalilt Kala and Sahitya Akademi. She was also nominated twice to the Rajya Sabha. At IGNCA, she held several seminal exhibitions, prominent among them Kham, Akara and Kaal (1986 to 1991), which mapped time and space across civilizations and art forms. And the innumerable publication programmes and video interviews she spearheaded for IGNCA is a great legacy, archiving traditional, philosophical, spiritual and speculative thoughts around the arts. Kapila guided me as a young critic as she did every scholar who approached her, and I remember her enthusiastic support when I curated Uday Shankar’s centenary exhibition at IGNCA. Not just me, but the entire fraternity was confident of receiving her guidance on any project. Honoured with the Padma Shri, the Padma Vibhushan, the Sangeet Natak Akademi award and several other national and international awards, her biography, Afloat a Lotus Leaf, was written by Jyoti Sabharwal. Approach to arts If one had to pick a single thread of her work, it would be her interdisciplinary approach to the arts. To arrive at her aesthetic theories of dance she applied the study of literature, sculpture, painting, music and theatre. Her profound interest in classical dances led her to a deep study of folk, rural and tribal dances. She saw the classical, the folk, and the contemporary as being without dichotomies and as equally valid manifestations of creativity and imagination. This made her uniquely able to stride the classical and modern worlds with equal confidence. She once said in an interview: “I did not go to modern dance from modern dance, but from tradition.” She studied the physicality of dance, distinguishing between the Western tradition of keen awareness of the body and the Asian tradition of transcending the body; between Western dance’s aspiration to fly above the earth to Asian dance’s deeply-grounded embrace of the earth. And she did so without losing sight of their synergies. As she said in an interview, “I got the essence of each of these traditions without being bound by the conventions of these traditions. I became an unbounded bounded person.” With a lifetime spent researching, exploring and re-interpreting the remarkable complexities of Indian culture, Kapila’s strength lay in being able to make this study futuristic, realising the present while protecting it from descending into a mere obsession with the past. In her passing, the world of dance and culture sees the end of an era of catholic scholarship that was deeply excited about and invested in Indian culture while still being able to fly above it all.  The author is a Delhi-based dance writer and critic.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Green room with a new view||Before wearing his headgear, Kalamandalam Balasubramanian goes into a meditative mode . He prays in a sitting posture, hands reverently holding his kireedam , which the master will soon fix on his headwith a coarse cloth. The two-minute ritual marks the actor’s exit from the green room and entry onto the stage. “The prayer instils the belief that I’m now the character in toto,” says Balasubramanian, fresh from a performance last week. As the country slowly emerges out of the lockdown, a temple in south Kerala organised a Kathakali performance on Srikrishna Jayanti, which heralded the dance-drama’s return to its traditional platform after a gap of six months. “Since March, the dance paraphernalia has been lying idle. Finally, the prospect of a recovery,” says Chingoli Purushothaman, who did the make-up for the September 10 presentation of Kuchelavritham at Evoor near Haripad. About 25 km northeast of Evoor is Tiruvalla, where a 20th century drawing teacher’s experiment once rescued a night-long show from an unexpected shortage of make-up artistes. In the process, K.P. Ramakrishna Panikkar, the lone make-up man at the venue, altered forever the looks of the Kathakali performer. To hasten the long-drawn facial chutti work, he used white paper instead of thick rice paste for the raised border from the cheeks down to the chin. The role of the rice paste was reduced to a glue — lining the foundation to stick the paper. By the early 1940s, this innovation became the norm across Travancore. Novel chutti technique This was the decade when Kathakali witnessed a revival with the emergence of Kalamandalam. “The institution invited Panikkar to train chutti students in the technique,” says make-up veteran Kalamandalam Ramamohanan. Not to be left behind, north Malabar dancers too adopted the paper chutti . For instance, Mekkara Narayanan Nair (1929-2016) was initially trained to make rice paste chutti at Vengayil Kaliyogam, before leaving his native village Taliparamba for P.S.V. Natyasangham as a teenager. “Today, this Kathakali institution in Kottakkal off Malappuram has adopted all the contemporaneity associated with chutti , but it carries certain traces of Nair’s original Kadathanadan school,” says Kannur-based make-up artiste Parakandy Kunhikrishnan. Facial painting is integral to Kathakali, but it forms just one part of the preparatory drill. If the natural powders, made into a paste with coconut oil, bear at least half-a-dozen hues, no less colourful are the accessories of the characters in the four-century-old dance form. “Certain primordial elements remain even as ‘aharyaabhinaya’ in Kathakali has evolved with time,” says chutti artist Pallipuram Unnikrishnan, referring to the criticality of physical appearance in character portrayal. “We owe a lot to pre-classical Dravidian ritual arts such as Theyyam, Mudiyettu, Thiyyattu, Kalamezhuthu and even the ancient murals.” Ramamohanan, 74, agrees, but believes Kathakali owes its looks primarily to Koodiyattam, the oldest extant Sanskrit theatre. “Maybe Kathakali initially imbibed all aspects of it and then went on to shed some features that continue to be in in vogue in Koodiyattam,” he says. “Another source is the pre-classical Krishnanattam ballet.” To Ramamohanan, Kathakali’s much-refined Kalluvazhi style accorded importance to chutti only in the second half of the 19th century. That was when Kuyilthudi Ittirarisha Menon became the chief at Olapamanna mansion that patronised the arts in Vellinezhi, west of Palakkad. When his disciple Pattikkamthodi Ravunni Menon went on to become the guru at Kalamandalam, it then had an innovative chutti artiste, Kurungattil Ravunni Nair. “His pupil Othenath Govindan Nair further improvised to come up with a chutti training manual,” says Ramamohanan, hailing Vazhenkada Rama Warrier and his pupil Govinda Warrier. In the early 1960s, at Ramamohan’s Vellinezhi village was a young carpenter, Kothavil Krishnan, who specialised in the woodwork of the Kathakali costume, which goes into the intricately carved headgear and ornaments. After Krishnan’s death in 1989, his son Ramankutty further enriched the craft and groomed his successors at Kalamandalam during his two-year tenure. Ramankutty died in 2018, but not before putting in place a production team comprising his two sons and many pupils. Elegant costumes Much as the meykoppu ornaments for the torso and arms have gained more sheen over the decades, the Kathakali costume, especially the clothing worn from belly downwards, has become more elegant in the past 50 years. Not only has the uduthukettu gained an impressive size, the stiffly starched cloth inside, which created the puffed-up skirt, has been replaced with plastic-laced sacks that are much lighter for the dancer. “It takes a lot of practice to ensure the uduthukettu is a perfect circle,” says nonagenarian Appunni Tharakan, one of the most renowned green room assistants today. “Equally important is to maintain these costume items over the seasons.” South of Kochi, chutti artist Eroor Manoj, 38, points at the flipside of a broad uduthukettu . “Some masters need frills so wide that it requires some 60 sacks against the standard 40. And then you notice that the passage to the dais is narrow,” he says, quoting similar piquant instances from his uncle Eroor Surendran’s life as a green room assistant. The turn of the 21st century saw the multifaceted Sadanam K. Harikumaran using fibre-glass for headgears. That, again, stemmed from an urgency. “In the year 2000, my troupe got an invitation at short notice for a Paris tour. I realised that synthetic material is much cheaper than a wooden kireedam that costs over Rs. 80,000.” Three years ago, Harikumaran also came up with an easy-to-wear uduthukettu arranged with nylon sheets above a circular thermocol frame around the waist. These days, even ready-to-fit chutti paper-cuttings aren’t unusual outside Kerala. And, in another change, many women are now doing chutti . From Barbara Vijayakumar of Southampton and Deepali Sinha of Delhi to Kalanilayam Sujatha of Kottayam, the list is long. In the Kathakali green room, it is the assistant who hands over the kireedam to the performer, signalling the start of the show. The subsequent invocation is, in a way, a salute to the backstage artists.  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s performing arts.   K.P. Ramakrishna Panikkar altered the looks of the Kathakali performer by using white paper instead of thick rice paste for make-up
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The M.S. film that never was||In 1969, veteran singer, stage and film personality K.B. Sundarambal (KBS) received the Tamil Nadu State Film Award for best singer for her role in the movie Thunaivan . Shortly thereafter came the announcement of the government conferring on her the Padma Shri. In this context, the Tamil magazine Bommai published an interview with her in January 1970, in which KBS speaks of her life as a theatre artiste, her relationship with S.G. Kittappa, and her film career. The interviewer highlights the fact that KBS picked her roles in movies very carefully and that this led to long gaps in her acting career. There was in particular a hiatus of 13 years between the release of Manimekalai (1940) and Gemini’s Avvaiyyar (1953). The questioner asks KBS if there were truly no offers in between. There was one she says, from a Subbiah Chettiar. He was keen on making Valli Tirumanam , with KBS to be cast as Murugan. It was, however, the choice for Valli that made me sit up – M.S. Subbulakshmi! KBS then goes on to state that she and the producer could not agree on the remuneration and so the production was shelved. Role that M.S. refused Reading the interview led to several thoughts. What is interesting is that no biographer of M.S. ever mentions this. We do know of the four productions that spanned her film career – Seva Sadanam (1938), Sakuntalai (1940), Savitri (1941) and Meera (1945). A Hindi version of the last named released in 1947. There are stories of an offer that M.S. refused, which was for a film titled Vipranarayana , to be made by K. Subrahmanyam, who had first given her prominence at the Mahamakham festival in Kumbakonam in 1932/33 and also directed Seva Sadanam . Chronologically it would appear that Valli Tirumanam , if it had been made, would have been after KBS’ Manimekalai and definitely before M.S.’ Meera , after which she refused all film offers. Valli Tirumanam is the story of the courting of Valli by Lord Murugan and their subsequent wedding. It was one of the most popular subjects of Tamil theatre. It was also first made into a film in 1933. In his detailed biography of KBS, Pa. Chozhanadan ( Kodumudi Kokilam K.B. Sundarambal Varalaru , Rishabham Pathippagam, Chennai, 2002) recounts how the play made KBS a star and led to an invitation to perform at Colombo for a period of one-and-a-half years. She was just 16. But such was her impact that no actor hired to play the lead opposite her could please the audience. Most were chased out by hecklers. This was when the organisers decided to bring in Kittappa from India. He was already a sensation and the prospect of seeing the two together on stage created waves in Colombo. Given that this was an era when actors were expected to make their stage entrance singing one of their popular hits, irrespective of whether it had anything to do with the play, Kittappa made his entry as Murugan in Colombo singing Tyagaraja’s ‘Mokshamu Galada’. KBS held her own and the play was a great success. When at the end of his contract Kittappa returned to India, his brother suggested to Sundarambal’s manager that the success of the two as a pair be encouraged. And so they continued to act together in India. KBS as Nandanar Playing the role of a male was not something unusual for KBS. She speaks of how, if engaged to perform in the same town over a long stretch, she and Kittappa would exchange roles. If she played Valli and he Murugan in the first staging, she would be Murugan and he Valli in the next. And so, the same audiences would return to see how different the play was. There would be arguments over who was better in each role. In 1935, a few years after Kittappa’s death, KBS made her film debut playing a male role – as Nandanar. How would M.S. have fared as Valli? Of course, her music would have seen her through. In all likelihood, given her early years in Madurai, which was the heartland of Tamil theatre, she would have been familiar with the play as well. In fact, the singer’s theatre connections merit some research. The diaries of the songwriter Madhurakavi Bhaskaradas ( Madhurakavi Bhaskaradasin Natkurippugal , 1917-1951, compiled by Cha Murgabhoopathi, Bharathi Puthagalayam, Chennai 2009) reveal a lot of interaction between him, MS, and her mother Madurai Shanmukhavadivu. He was the mainstay for songs in Tamil theatre and associated with some films as well. He writes that he composed songs for M.S. at her mother’s request when she was in Madurai and after she moved to Madras as well. Today, we can only speculate on what a treat a film starring KBS and MS would have been.  The author, a historian, writes on Carnatic music.   Subbiah Chettiar was keen on making Valli Tirumanam , with KBS to be cast as Murugan. It was, however, the choice for Valli that made KBS sit up – M.S. Subbulakshmi
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Voice that brought plays to life||The late Kathakali singer Kalamandalam Venmani Haridas was once performing Melappadam, a musical ensemble that is often a prelude to a Kathakali performance, in Mumbai. While singing the navabhava phrase in ragamalika, Haridas came up with a gentle gamaka-rich Suddha Dhanyasi alapana. The drum beats became softer and there was complete silence in the auditorium. Tabla maestro Ustad Zakir Hussain, who was seated in the front row along with other luminaries of the music world, walked up on to the stage and touched Haridas’ feet. This episode narrated by Kalamandalam Vinod, who accompanied Haridas that day, was one of the many shared at Harismrithi, a panel discussion and demonstration on the musical genius of Haridas, who died on September 17, 2005, at the age of 59. Creative partnership Kathakali vocalist Nedumbally Rammohan, who moderated the discussion, started by briefly tracing the evolution of Kathakali music from Venkitakrishna Bhagavatar in the early part of the last century to Unnikrishna Kurup in the 1980s. The focus of the discussion, however, was the influence of Haridas, and his creative partnership with Kalamandalam Sankaran Embranthiri and Kalamandalam Hyderali, the trio who dominated Kathakali music for a few decades. The panellists — Kottakkal Madhu, Kalamandalam Babu Namboothiri, Kalamandalam Hareesh and Kalamandalam Vinod — recalled their experience as sankidi or vocal support to Haridas. They sang the various padams made popular by him in dance dramas such as Kuchelavrittam, Kiratham, Karnasapadham, Dakshayagam and Nalacharitam. They also spoke about how Haridas, besides singing in Padi and Khandaram, conventionally used in Kathakali, introduced Carnatic ragas that enhanced the dance viewing experience. Sadanam Ramakrishnan on the chenda, Kalamandalam Venu on the maddalam and Sadanam Jithin on the idakka provided percussion support. Penchant for perfection Rammohan highlighted Haridas’ penchant for perfection. “He sang ‘Kalayami Sumathe’ in Kuchelavrittam in a ragamalika of Saramati, Bahudari and Amritavarshini. The lighter piece, ‘Enthoru Chitramidam’, in the same play, was rendered in Kavadichindhu to suit the scene where the vriddha or maid is wonderstruck by Kuchela suddenly gaining wealth.” The aim, Harish added, was to make music that suited the story and situation. Haridas could transform even an insignificant padam special — for example ‘Manavendra’ in Uttaraswayamvaram, where the terrified cowherds appeal to Prince Uttaran, stood out in his voice. The picture of Haridas that emerged at the session was one of a prodigious talent. Though soft-spoken, he was never shy of experimenting. A keen listener, he imbibed much from his gurus and peers, and from different genres of music. He gained exposure in Hindustani music during his stay at Mrinalini Sarabhai’s Darpana Academy in Ahmedabad. His singing stood out for its perfect pitch and modulation, its masterly gamakas and the right emphasis on words to convey appropriate emotions. Babu Namboodiri pointed to Haridas’ expertise in using swarakshara, where the swara and the sahitya converge. Referring to his treatment of ‘Mathale nisamaya’ in Kalakeyavadham , Babu said Haridas stuck to tradition when it came to the highly stylised and structured plays of Kottayam Thampuran. According to Kottakkal Madhu, Haridas entered Kalamandalam during the glorious era of music and gained immensely through his interactions with masters Neelakantan Nambeesan, Gangadharan, Madambi Subramanian Namboodiri, Embranthiri and Hyderali. Rammohan said that even today Kathakali organisers give him old tapes, requesting him to sing in the ragas used by Haridas, a testimony to how his music lives on. The programme, organised by Vazhenkada Kunchunair Smaraka Trust and Venmani Haridas Anusmarana Samiti, can be watched on the Trust’s YouTube channel and Facebook page.  The author, a retired journalist, writes on Kerala’s performing arts.   Haridas’ singing stood out for its perfect pitch, modulation, masterly gamakas and right emphasis on words to convey appropriate emotions
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Lalgudi deserved more||Scores of Lalgudi’s disciples and followers are celebrating the maestro’s 90th birth anniversary (September 17) in several ways. Despite Covid-19, which has sobered the mood, there is no doubt that Lalgudi deserves the grandest of celebrations. If Lalgudi Jayaraman is household name in Carnatic music circles, it is not for ordinary reasons – the man excelled in everything he did. From his accompaniment credentials to his solo virtuosos, from well-constructed compositions to operatic music to a large well-trained army of direct and indirect disciples, from a deep musical understanding to subtle humour, everything he touched he outclassed. His recordings are master classes for budding musicians, especially his chiselled sangathis of compositions. Sadly, our urgent modern routines do not have time for intelligent reflections and celebrations of masters of the past. That’s a pity. Lalgudi should ideally be part of the headlines of our music, not a footnote to be remembered only on occasions. There are three aspects of Lalgudi, especially, that often get overlooked in a discussion of his career. As a soloist Firstly, Lalgudi’s decision to withdraw from being an accompanist. At some point during the peak of his career, he decided not to accompany but instead to focus on his blossoming solo career and on other creative pursuits. This was a loss for co-musicians and for the listening public. Lalgudi was brilliant as an accompanist, and had made a name as such, playing alongside many stalwarts. Sadly, that aspect was lost to listeners. Secondly, knowledge sharing. By all measures, Lalgudi was not just an extraordinary talent, but also a great musical mind. But did we get to hear enough from him? About his experience of playing for greats like GNB, the Alathur brothers, Madurai Mani Iyer and so on? Did we know about his inner emotions when he played a song from the trinity’s repertoire? What about his thoughts on various ragas? Or the awakening that came with his compositions? Or about his peerless bani? In the handful of lec-dems that one has heard, one saw Lalgudi’s high standards of preparation, subject coverage, fine demonstration and crisp language. But why did he not do more? Why did he not disseminate his knowledge more widely? Perhaps he was born a couple of decades too early — otherwise he would have been the logical master of lec-dems in today’s social-media ruled world. Limited international reach And lastly, Lalgudi Jayaraman deserved much more from the national and international stage. He was south India’s match to Ravi Shankar or Zubin Mehta in every aspect. When he was in his early 30s, Lalgudi was invited to the Edinburgh festival by the legendary Yehudi Menuhin. But the momentum for international outreach stopped there. The world should have experienced his music and thoughts a lot more. Sadly, his own reticence, Carnatic music industry’s notoriously small ambitions, and the limited fraternity ensured that his superstar status remained contained. Lalgudi deserved a celebrity management specialist. Today, he would no doubt have got one! The fact that he did not digress to other forms of music or modern cross-boundary collaborations preserved his genius but it also bottled his fame. Perhaps a concerted campaign can even now unbottle it.  The writer is a classical music critic   and commentator.   Lalgudi deserved much more from the national and international stage. He was south India’s match to Ravi Shankar or Zubin Mehta in every aspect
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A blend of musical styles||The Amrit Varsha Utsav streamed from New Delhi’s Triveni Sabhagar was organised to celebrate the 75th birthday (September 8)of veteran vocalist Pt. Vidyadhar Vyas. Featuring concerts, workshops and lec-dems, the two-day event presented by Dr. Suneera Kasliwal concluded with Pt. Vidyadhar Vyas’ performance. Groomed in guru-sishya parampara by his father Pt. Narayan Rao Vyas and uncle Pt. Shankar Rao Vyas — who were the direct disciples of Pt. Vishnu Digambar Paluskar — Pt. Vidyadhar Vyas belongs to the Paluskar Parampara of Gwalior Gharana. Opening with Bageshri Kanada, one of the significant raags of his Gharana, Pt. Vyas rendered it in a way that established his credentials as a worthy inheritor of an illustrious legacy. This was followed by rare elements such as the Trivat, a three-fold composition in Bhupali, culminating in impressive pakhawaj bols. He concluded with the timeless ‘Chaturang’ in raga Sindhura. A four-part composition comprising the lyric, sargam, tarana and a Sanskrit sloka, composed by Pt. Vishnu Digambar Paluskar, was presented by Vyas with grace and striking virtuosity. Malhar festival Dr. Deepti Bhalla, Dean, Faculty of Music and Fine Arts, Delhi University, organised the annual Malhar Festival online. With a fine mix of vocal and instrumental, Hindustani and Carnatic, the two-day event featured well-known artistes and opened with a group rendition by the students of the music department. Carnatic vocalists Kanchana S. Sriranjani and Kanchana S. Shruthi Ranjani, known as the Kanchana Sisters, selected ragas such as Amrita Vahini, Amrita Varshini, Varuna Priya and Megh-Malhar for the Malhar festival, focusing on monsoon ragas. The Kanchana Sisters are known for their ‘Avadhana Pallavis’, rendering complex compositions while maintaining different talas in different nadais (tempo) on both hands simultaneously. Initiated into music by their violinist-father Kanchana V. Subbarathnam, the sisters were able to bring out different shades of the ragas besides highlighting minute details about the ragas and lyrics they presented. Citing Valmiki’s ‘Kaale varshatu parjanyah’, for instance, before opening with ‘Maha Ganapatim’ in raga Amrit-Vahini, they explained that the composer Jayachamarajendra Wadiyar thought of raga Amrita Vahini and the Bhairavi janya-raga kriti because he was a Srividya devotee. They also narrated the story of how Muthuswami Dikshitar created the raga Amritavarshini before presenting his famous composition ‘Anandamritakarshini’. Their well-planned swaraprastaras appealed as much for their rendering as for their phrasing. Similarly they narrated how Mysore Vasudevachar, a devotee of Lord Venkateswara, composed a kriti in raga Varunapriya to please the rain God as his hometown was reeling under drought. His singing brought heavy rains. The sisters were in perfect sync. They also impressed the audience with the use of Western chords and counterpoints with one singing from shadja and the other from gandhara or panchamam at the same time, before concluding their concert with a composition in Megh Malhar. Pune-based Shashank Maktedar, a senior disciple of Pt. Ulhas Kashalkar, opened his vocal recital with the traditional Bada Khayal ‘Maan na kariye…’ in Gaud Malhar, leisurely exploring the contours of the raga, maintaining the slow tempo of Vilambit Teental. The popular Chhota Khayal ‘Saiyan mora re…’ had refreshing spurts of aakar and bol-taans. The concluding Kafi bandish set to addha theka ‘Kaisi bijuri chamak rahi’ described the clouds, lightning and the rains. The Carnatic veena recital by Shivani Yella, Head of the Veena Department, Tirupati University, eschewed the concept of monsoon and played raga Subhapantuvarali equivalent to Hindustani Todi. The full-fledged Ragam-Tanam created the sombre ambience of the raga. Pt. Vinod Lele’s tabla solo, with a rich repertoire Benarasi Baaj, especially his ‘Megh Paran’ was exquisite, but Pt. Vinay Mishra could have chosen a different variety of Malhar for the lehera (musical refrain) on the harmonium, instead of Miyan Malhar, which was rendered on the sitar by Ustad Sayeed Zafar Khan just before their performance.  The author is a Hindustani     music critic.    The Kanchana Sisters impressed the audience with the use of Western chords and counterpoints
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The mythology-crime thriller connect||In a sumptuous collection of mythic retellings, Ganesha Goes to Lunch , author Kamla K. Kapur observes that “Western mythology illumines the dark recesses of the mind, and offers deep psychological insights into the human psyche.” In contrast, “the aspect that Indian myths bring to the surface of consciousness is the spiritual and philosophic.” But if the recent trend of online Indian thrillers is anything to go by, then Hindu mythology can equally be aligned with darkness. From Netflix’s Sacred Games to Voot’s Asur , and Disney Hotstar’s Aarya to Amazon Prime’s Paatal Lok , crime narratives resolutely draw their creative potential from the vast realm of age-old stories, even as their action is firmly rooted in the contemporary scenario. A number of aspects explain this connection. The most obvious one relates to the potency of archetypes, which the Swiss psycho-analyst Carl Jung defined as archaic patterns, symbols, behavioural mechanisms and narrative tropes that recurrently appear across space and time. Even before the episodes begin, Indian crime thrillers often signal such archetypes through their loaded titles. Thus, while Sacred Games indicates the complex dispositions of its characters through allusions to figures such as Aswatthama, Yayati and Rudra, Asur ’s presiding archetype resides in the series’ title itself, which prepares the viewer for a demonic tale of corruption and killings. Inspired by the epic The same holds true for Paatal Lok , whose title and introductory dialogue by the protagonist-policeman Hathiram Chaudhary refer to the mythical netherworld (Paatal Lok). In Aarya , the most slow-paced yet equally gripping thriller of the lot, the final episode ‘Dharam Sankat’ superbly orchestrates a pop-and-rap rendition of the Bhagavad Gita , which serves as an overarching commentary on the schisms marring the series’ central family, much like the Mahabharata . Mythical archetypes trigger other abstractions for creative tapping as well. Just as myths by definition take us back to an amorphous sphere of elemental instincts and imaginary beginnings, crime thrillers also rely on convoluted impulses of the past whose discernment serves as the story’s primary fodder. As characters and viewers simultaneously sink into the shadowy abyss of personal and social histories, a general realisation emerges that the case at hand is far bigger and deeper than one could initially assume. In the words of Sacred Games ’ anti-hero Ganesh Gaitonde, articulated at the very beginning to Sartaj the investigator: “ Yeh khel aapse, mujhse, hum sab se bada hai .” (This game is bigger than all of us.) The deeper the search goes, the more expansive the story becomes. It isn’t surprising then that sometimes criminal intensity is equated with cosmic forces. While unveiling the mental makeup of villains, both Paatal Lok and Asur riff upon the peculiarly evil arrangement of planets and stars associated with cruel kings such as Hiranyakashyap. Primitive objects and symbols like hammers and masks and other elusive visual paraphernalia further reinforce the link with devilish psychology, which is determinedly unfathomable and consequently, otherworldly. In spite of the best forensic technology deployed by rationalist characters on the good side, it is often such cryptic signs enshrining a mysterious temperament that need to be made sense of for successful resolutions, a case in point being Sacred Games ’ handwritten code-book, which holds the key to nuclear explosion. If myths generally seek to address our origins as human beings, then myth-inspired crime thrillers tarnish those very origins to inaugurate the foundations of emotional disturbance. Children and childhood thus logically serve as another commonality between mythology and crime. From Asur ’s main villain Shubh, who grows into a serial killer due to his father’s constant insinuations about his ill-fated birth, to the extreme childhood trauma of the prime suspects in Paatal Lok owing to poverty and discrimination, young characters embody the incipient appeal of evil. Hope at the end But for all their darkness, myths also hold the potential for redemption. As the teenage daughter of Aarya ’s eponymous heroine begins empathising with her mother’s harsh burdens towards the end, she discovers hope in the very Gita she had earlier shunned. And in the denouement of Paatal Lok , a softer aspect of the lead murderer Hathoda Tyagi emerges when he is shown to spare dog-loving people — a learning based upon the famous story from the Mahabharata of Yudishthira’s unwavering allegiance to the dog who accompanies him to heaven’s doors, Swarg ka Dwaar , which, interestingly, also happens to be the final episode’s title.  The author is a writer and photographer from Shimla.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It was exciting to be back on stage’||“The lockdown is neither a time to look back nor ahead but to be in the present,” says Anoushka Shankar from her London home. And going by the rave reviews of her concert at BBC Proms live-streamed recently from the Royal Albert Hall, she is living up the present. It was her first major musical outing during Covid-19, which halted her original plans to celebrate her father's birth centenary with performances across the world, including with her half-sister Norah Jones. Though she has played at the Proms earlier, this year was special. The evening was dedicated to sitar virtuoso Pt. Ravi Shankar; the mood both introspective and inventive. Besides revisiting and reinterpreting her father’s compositions with electronic music producer Gold Panda, Anoushka did what she loves doing — blending sounds and influences. Along with conductor and arranger Jules Buckley, she presented new arrangements of her own works for the Britten Sinfonia and her regular collaborator, percussionist Manu Delago.   “It was exciting to be back on stage after six months and make music with artistes,” says the multi-Grammy nominated sitar player and composer. “But it felt strange to perform in an empty auditorium. Though we went through the same process of rehearsals and dressing up, much of the energy of a concert comes from the people. The artiste-audience interaction is crucial to the music experience. I missed it very much. But it was incredible that at least there were so many artistes on stage. We have to now feed off each other's responses.” She feels music has always responded to changes. “Art is informed by the situation. We are seeing it happen once again with music moving to the digital space during the lockdown. But there has been too much happening online, may be a natural nervousness about the future,” says Anoushka, who has chosen to relax and stay calm. “Memories of this stillness will help us perceive things differently in the future.” Recent India trip She was in India just a month before the lockdown to tour with her new EP Love Letters . She has now launched a vinyl edition of the EP. With its all-women team comprising German-Turkish singer-songwriter Alev Lenz, cellist Ayanna Witter-Johnson, Lisa-Kaindé Díaz of the Cuban group Ibeyi, writer/director Shirin Anandita and singer Shilpa Rao, the album’s gentle, simple songs brim with “female energy and dwell in the vulnerable space within them.” The lyrics are disarmingly honest and talk about love, heartbreak, loss and healing, written as they were after Anoushka’s divorce from filmmaker Joe Wright. Melancholic tone She also recently released a video for one of the tracks, ‘Those Words’, by Shilpa. “It has shots of nostalgia. Memories are crucial to everyone, not just artistes.” Anoushka, Shilpa and Ayanna recorded the footage on their phones from their homes in London, Mumbai and Norway. The video, directed by Anoushka, captures the melancholy in the song’s lyrics. “Your music reflects what you are going through. It’s your emotional response to a situation. It could be about your life or about people. ‘Land of Gold,’ for instance, was my reaction to the refugee crisis. Art can mean differently at different times. Sometimes it could be a political tool, sometimes a social statement, sometimes it might be about love.” The musical heir of the inimitable Pt. Ravi Shankar, Anoushka, like her bold experimenter father, who tread the world of collaboration like no other Indian musician, enjoys entering into a dialogue with ensembles and artistes from across genres. “There has to be a strong impetus for me to do a project. Something should excite me. There has to be some learning in the process; it has to trigger some emotion. That helps me decide who I want to work with,” she says. That explains why she played the sitar for a track ‘Knowledge of the Self’ in Punk icon Patti Smith’s new album, Peradam. “She is one of my heroes. I have paired my music with her spoken words that are inspired by French writer Rene Daumal,” says Anoushka. She has also played on the track ‘Ama La’ from the Dalai Lama’s first music album, ‘Inner World’ that was released in July on his 85th birthday. “It was beautiful, meditative, immersive to be playing the sitar to his voice. It was a huge honour.” A tribute to mothers, it’s not surprising the track resonated with Anoushka, who, alongside raising her two boys, Zubin and Mohan, has chartered her own musical course.  The artiste-audience interaction is crucial to the music experience. I missed it very much. But it was incredible that at least there were so many artistes on stage
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||New ICC at Dhrupad Sansthan||Following objections by some students, a new Internal Complaints Committee (ICC) has been set up at the Bhopal-based school of Hindustani music, Dhrupad Sansthan, to inquire into the allegations of sexual harassment against teacher Akhilesh Gundecha that surfaced recently on social media. A group of 70 students has welcomed the new ICC after the previous one was dissolved following objections. Some 25 students have objected to the new ICC as well. In a press release, the 70 students said, “Through a fair, transparent and dialogic process, we, the students, have selected and endorsed all members of the reconstituted ICC committee.” The statement also said, “None of us has been party to the statements issued to the media prior to this. We respect the sentiments of those who issued them… we stand in solidarity with anyone who may have faced any form of unwelcome sexual advances at any point in time.” Dhrupad Sansthan, a centre of musical excellence for over two decades now, saw the death of Ramakant Gundecha recently. The allegations against Ramakant and his brother Akhilesh Gudecha were first made public by a Facebook user on September 2, who shared them from an anonymous source who had posted the allegations on a WhatsApp group.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Decoding the SPB factor||India’s film music has had several star singers. Many have held on to their fame for two to three decades, sometimes more. For instance, Mohammed Rafi and Lata Mangeshkar were superstars for almost 40 years. One could list six to seven such voices that have lived on as singing sensations from the late 1940s to now but curiously, among them, you will not find any from the south. More interesting, musicians like Hemant Kumar and Kishore Kumar, who produced a significant regional body of work, earned the coveted ‘national’ status only when they sang for Hindi cinema. Equally, P.B. Sreenivas, S. Janaki, P. Susheela and other southern singers did not earn national popularity despite being phenomenal musicians. So what constituted the ‘national’ was clearly Hindi but, ironically, the Hindi itself was largely made up of rich, regional talent. From the Burmans to Mangeshkar to Khyyam. If someone managed to break this sound barrier and become a pan-Indian phenomenon, it is S.P. Balasubrahmanyam. No regional singer before him achieved what he did. Yesudas and Vani Jayaram had made an impact in Hindi playback, but their journeys were limited. SPB sang across 16 languages, over 40,000 songs, and he was the first to make it big in Bollywood. He sang for Naushad, Kalyanji-Anandji, R.D. Burman, the biggest composers, and became the voice of all the top heroes from Rajesh Khanna and Dharmendra to Anil Kapoor and Salman Khan. A glorious journey When SPB was roped in forEk Duuje Ke Liye(1981), nearly a decade after Vani Jayaram’s stellar success with ‘Bole Re Papi Hara’(Guddi, 1971), composers Lakshmikant-Pyarelal were unhappy about an unknown ‘Madrasi’ singer. Director K. Balachander refused to relent, and thus was ushered in the beginning of a glorious run in Mumbai for SPB. It is not that Bollywood bestows validation on a singer, or that regional success is inferior, but it’s to try and understand what makes a musician a national phenomenon. What is it about SPB’s music that made him sought after across regions? Here are a few thoughts. First is his resemblance to the musical persona of Mohammed Rafi. SPB has always held Rafi close to his heart, hero-worshipping him. He admits to being deeply moved by his music and even to emulating Rafi’s style to the point of overdoing it. Citing Rafi’s rendition of ‘Ye Mera Prem Patra Padhkar’ fromSangam, he says: “The camera first captures the beautiful flowering trees and then focusses on the hero. From an external landscape it gradually moves towards the internal landscape. If a singer cannot capture the beauty of that inner emotion which is as grand as the external, what’s the point? Just listen to how Rafi saab articulates the word ‘zindagi’, it’s to die for.” In his 2008 book,Bollywood Melodies, Ganesh Anantharaman captures what SPB says: Rafi created “superstars out of ordinary stars with his vocal virtuosity.” Theorists say he made subtle vocal modifications to become one with the on-screen persona. In fact, Rafi’s voice made several careers. This, serendipitously, is not only something SPB deeply admires, he captures it. Like Rafi, SPB leaves the fictional state of ‘being’ to flow towards transformation, to ‘become’ the other. This happens both musically and philosophically. SPB gets the language and its inflections and its spirit right. SPB has no formal music training. Yet, with an expressive, flexible baritone, he has effortlessly matched acoustic parameters. When director K. Vishwanath asked him to be the voice of a Carnatic classical singer in the Telugu filmSankarabharanam(1980), SPB refused. But Vishwanath coerced him, and SPB went on to win his first national award. As withGanayogi Panchakshara Gawai(1995), the eponymous Kannada film on the blind Hindustani singer, for which too he won the national award. So what did he do in both cases? A trained listener can easily tell that SPB’s rendition of the Carnatic or Hindustani classical is far from authentic, but he celebrates his imperfections by capturing the essence of the genres. He gives them a dramatic impetus and what he does is a “performance” of the classical and not the classical itself. Then there’s the joy of music in SPB’s body language. He can’t hide his emotions or hold back his appreciation. Each time he sings a song he has sung a hundred times before, he renders it with the excitement of the first time. He ensures that you experience what he is experiencing. SPB’s music is a defence of the imaginative playful. Music is not merely a presentation of technique or style, but the quintessence of life itself. It is not just beautiful and ornate, it is a conversation. The song is the inner text of music as well as meaning. Playfulness, therefore, is not the absence of rules, but a creative perception of them. In SPB’s singing there is a curiosity for the inner motions of life and living. SPB is his own, but he also has the richness of Rafi, the ebullience of Kishore Kumar, the plaintiveness of Mukesh, the seriousness of Manna De, the romance of P.B. Sreenivas, and the expressiveness of Janaki. He can symbolise the traditions of cinematic music as seen in M.S. Viswanathan as well as the contemporary outlook of Rahman. In SPB’s music that has spanned over five decades there is the glimpse of several consummate thoughts on Indian film music. And it embodies the grand journey of this genre.  SPB has no formal music training. Yet, with an expressive, flexible baritone, he has effortlessly matched acoustic parameters
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on Natyasastra||A ten-day online workshop on the Natyasastra will be conducted from October 5 to 14 (7 p.m. - 10 p.m.). The event has been jointly organised by Gokul Jan Kalyan Samiti, Bhopal, and Dhruvaa – the Sanskrit Band, Bhopal. Graduates in any discipline with the ability to read Devanagari script can participate.  The workshop will be conducted by an authority on Sanskrit Dramaturgy and poet Prof. Radhavallabh Tripathi and Sanskrit scholar and musician Sanjay Dwivedi. The course fee is Rs. 5,000. For registration, mail gokuljankalyan2017@gmail. com.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Twenty-day veena festival||Narada Gana Sabha Trust, Bharata Ilango Foundation for Asian Culture (BIFAC), and Kalakendra will jointly present a 20-day online Veena Mahotsavam and Viswa Veena Mahayagnam, from September 20 to October 9. Curated by veena exponent Kannan Balakrishnan, the event features an array of concerts by eminent and young musicians. The concerts can be viewed on www.kalakendra.com, and on Kalakendra’s YouTube channel and Facebook page.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Margi Madhu Chakyar’s online Koodiyattam classes||Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi, and SNA Kutiyattam Kendra, Thiruvananthapuram, have jointly organised ‘Deeksha’, online Koodiyattam classes, until September 20 by Margi Madhu Chakyar. Log on to https://www.facebook.com/sangeetnatak/
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Watch Kalpana||Watch the iconic film Kalpana, written and directed by legendary dancer Uday Shankar on September 19 (12 noon) on narthaki.com’s Facebook page. The story is about a young dancer’s dream of setting up an academy. The film has Uday Shankar and his wife Amala in the lead.
18 September 2020||September 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘An unbounded bounded person’||“A breath of fresh air, clear, incisive and invigorating.” This is what Rai Krishnadasa, Honorary Director of Bharat Kala Bhavan at Benaras, wrote in his foreword to Kapila Vatsyayan’s 1968 book Classical Indian Dance in Literature and the Arts . The magnum opus was the first comprehensive study by an Indian scholar of the synergies between classical dance, literature and sculpture. A path-breaking work, it has since guided all research scholars with its thorough methodology, its study of the Natyasastra, of archaeology and architecture, and its effortless bridging of the arts, of thought and imagination. This Wednesday, the author of this magnificent compendium passed away peacefully at the age of 91 in her New Delhi home. Her death marks the end of an incomparable saga of research that placed Kapila firmly in the league of renowned art scholars such as Stella Kramrisch, Alice Boner, Dr. Ananda Coomaraswamy and Dr. V. Raghavan. Armed with an MA in English from the University of Delhi, an MA in Education from the University of Michigan, and a Ph.D from Banaras Hindu University, Kapila effortlessly combined theoretical knowledge with extensive practice. Kapila had spent her formative years in Shantiniketan, immersing herself in literature, painting, music and dance. Later a disciple of art scholar Pandit Vasudev Sharan Agrawal, she also studied Kathak from the legendary Acchan Maharaj, Manipuri from Guru Amubi Singh, and Bharatanatyam from Guru Meenakshi Sundaram Pillai. Having thus deeply experienced the practice of aesthetics or rasa, she was able to imbue her scholarship with it, going beyond the usual understanding of rasa as mood and evocation to establishing it as a state of being. Prominent among the dozens of volumes of scholarship she produced are Traditions of Indian Folk Dance (1976), The Square and the Circle of Indian Arts (1983), and Bharata: The Natya Sastra (1996). Continued on page 2 Continuned from page 1 Kapila’s fastidious nature, sharp intellect and uncompromising attitude made her an able administrator and institution builder. She worked closely with Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Azad and Dr. Radhakrishnan, becoming the administration’s nodal centre for cultural affairs. She established the Centre for Cultural Resources and Training, conceptualised the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, and was Vice-President of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations. She was president of India International Centre and chairperson of Asiatic International Research Division. As additional secretary in the Department of Education, she was part of the process of establishing the three Akademis: Sangeet Natak, Lalilt Kala and Sahitya Akademi. She was also nominated twice to the Rajya Sabha. At IGNCA, she held several seminal exhibitions, prominent among them Kham, Akara and Kaal (1986 to 1991), which mapped time and space across civilizations and art forms. And the innumerable publication programmes and video interviews she spearheaded for IGNCA is a great legacy, archiving traditional, philosophical, spiritual and speculative thoughts around the arts. Kapila guided me as a young critic as she did every scholar who approached her, and I remember her enthusiastic support when I curated Uday Shankar’s centenary exhibition at IGNCA. Not just me, but the entire fraternity was confident of receiving her guidance on any project. Honoured with the Padma Shri, the Padma Vibhushan, the Sangeet Natak Akademi award and several other national and international awards, her biography, Afloat a Lotus Leaf, was written by Jyoti Sabharwal. Approach to arts If one had to pick a single thread of her work, it would be her interdisciplinary approach to the arts. To arrive at her aesthetic theories of dance she applied the study of literature, sculpture, painting, music and theatre. Her profound interest in classical dances led her to a deep study of folk, rural and tribal dances. She saw the classical, the folk, and the contemporary as being without dichotomies and as equally valid manifestations of creativity and imagination. This made her uniquely able to stride the classical and modern worlds with equal confidence. She once said in an interview: “I did not go to modern dance from modern dance, but from tradition.” She studied the physicality of dance, distinguishing between the Western tradition of keen awareness of the body and the Asian tradition of transcending the body; between Western dance’s aspiration to fly above the earth to Asian dance’s deeply-grounded embrace of the earth. And she did so without losing sight of their synergies. As she said in an interview, “I got the essence of each of these traditions without being bound by the conventions of these traditions. I became an unbounded bounded person.” With a lifetime spent researching, exploring and re-interpreting the remarkable complexities of Indian culture, Kapila’s strength lay in being able to make this study futuristic, realising the present while protecting it from descending into a mere obsession with the past. In her passing, the world of dance and culture sees the end of an era of catholic scholarship that was deeply excited about and invested in Indian culture while still being able to fly above it all.  The author is a Delhi-based dance writer and critic.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Soaring vegetable prices to stabilise soon, say vendors||A combination of supply chain disruption due to COVID-19 and recent flooding in parts of North India had a role to play in the shooting up of vegetable prices here, claim vendors. However, with adverse factors receding, most expect prices to return back to normal soon. “Two factors have led to the rise in prices,” said Anil Malhotra of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Company (APMC). He added that these include a slowdown in farming due to the lockdown and COVID-19 and the recent flooding. Mr. Malhotra expects prices to stabilise and go back to normal now that lockdown restrictions have eased and people have started going back to work, he said. Kunal Saxena, a vendor at the Govindpuri vegetable market, argued that there was plenty of supply in the market and that the slowdown was only temporary because of the flooding. While costs of most vegetables were stable, he pointed out that the cost of tomatoes and potatoes had particularly shot up. While the sales had been severely affected due to COVID-19, he believed prices would return to normal in about months time, once winter sets in, he said. Vendors did say that demand was a lot weaker since the lockdown. The same way it has affected every other business, it has affected the vendors too, said Dhara Singh, who has been selling vegetables for the last 15 years. Earlier, restaurants would purchase supply from the market, but with fewer people visiting them restaurants were also buying lesser, he said. With regard to the rise in prices, he concurred that rates would likely return to normal soon and that such fluctuations are common during the monsoon. Consumers hit hard The rise in prices has hit the consumers hard as well. “Tomatoes are double the rate,” complained Simran Kaur, who said she had become extra wise on her grocery spending. Rates were not an issue for everyone however. Others such as Ashwin Kumar commenting that such changes were common and weren’t changing his purchasing choices.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC ridership declined due to protests, riots: Puri||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation suffered “some decline” in ridership due to the protests and riots earlier this year while the COVID-19 induced lockdown from March cost the metro over Rs. 1,600 crore in lost revenue, according to a reply given to the Lok Sabha on Thursday. Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Puri said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha: “Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited (DMRC) has informed that there was some decline in cumulative ridership due to protests and riots in Delhi.” The Minister was asked by MPs Arjun Lal Meena, P.P. Chaudhary, Sunil Kumar Singh and Kaushal Kishore whether the Delhi Metro had suffered losses due to the protests and riots. North-east Delhi had witnessed communal riots in February and there had been anti-CAA protests around the city after the legislation was passed by Parliament in December 2019. The reply did not include details of the losses as asked. The MPs also asked about the quantum of losses due to suspension of metro services and any delay in projects during the lockdown. “DMRC has informed that loss of revenue due to closure of metro services in view of COVID-19 pandemic is around Rs. 1,609 crore,” the Minister stated, adding that there had been no delays. “Preparatory work like detailed designing, preparation of tender schedule, finalisation of tender etc. has been carried out by DMRC during the lockdown,” the reply said. The Minister added that the DMRC had taken measures to enhance revenue, including property development at stations and leasing of spaces. “Ensuring financial sustainability during operations of metro rail system is the responsibility of State government... DMRC has informed that payments towards loan have been made as per schedule,” the Minister replied.
18 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre, State trying to privatise education: Cong.||Delhi Congress on Thursday alleged that the BJP and AAP governments were trying to privatise education in the garb of the National Education Policy. It alleged that a blatant example of this was Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia’s statement that the 12 Delhi University colleges under the Delhi Government should generate its own funds to pay the salaries of staffers as the Delhi government’s grant should be treated only “as supplementary assistance”. The party said that “the main reason for the AAP government withholding the funds, however, is the non-formation of governing bodies in these colleges and the rise in the salary bills,” the party said. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the BJP and AAP were “on the same page” in pushing the privatisation agenda of the corporates in the education sector. He said that without government funding, no college can survive on its own. “The teachers and staffers of 12 colleges under the Delhi government have not got their salaries for the past five months as the Delhi government has not released the funds, but the Deputy Chief Minister, who is also the Education Minister of Delhi, is trying to justify the withholding of funds on one pretext or other, which is bereft of democratic ethos and moral norms,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that the teachers and staffers of these 12 colleges are under tremendous financial crisis due to the non-payment of their salaries, with many even not being able to pay their rents, EMIs and other financial obligations. Mr. Kumar said that there are three kinds of audits in these colleges – internal audit, which is done by the respective colleges; ELFA audit of the Delhi government and AGCR audit, which is done by the CAG on regular intervals in all colleges. He said that there should be action on audit reports of deviations, if any.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to roll out plan to set up public charging stations||The Delhi government on Thursday said that they will roll out a coordinated strategy to set up 200 public charging and battery swapping stations for electric vehicles at prominent locations in the city. “All government agencies in Delhi, including the three civic bodies, NDMC, DDA, PWD, Transport Department, DTC, DMRC, DSIIDC, will carry out a comprehensive planning exercise in the next two weeks to identify concessional locations within their jurisdictions for the purpose of setting up public charging stations,” the government said in an official statement after the first meeting of the Charging Infrastructure Working Group under the chairmanship of Jasmine Shah, Vice-Chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission of Delhi (DDCD). The Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy 2020 which was notified last month by the Transport Department lays a special emphasis on accelerated rollout of public charging infrastructure.
18 September 2020||New Delhi,||Rhea drugs case: actor moves Delhi HC to restrain news channels||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Union government and the Press Council of India (PCI) to respond to a petition by actor Rakul Preet Singh seeking to restrain news channels from airing contents which are defamatory or “suggestive innuendos” against her in the Rhea Chakraborty narcotic drugs case. Justice Navin Chawla also issued notice to Prasar Bharati and the News Broadcasters Association, on Ms. Singh’s plea seeking direction to news channels to broadcast content strictly in adherence to the Programme and Advertising Codes as prescribed in the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1985. “It is hoped that media houses and TV channels would show restraint and abide by the Program Code and other guidelines while making report in connection with Rakul Preet Singh”, the court remarked. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma said there cannot be a blanket ban or pre-censorship on airing contents on news channels. The court also asked the authorities to treat Ms. Singh’s petition as a representation and take a decision on it before the next hearing on October 15.
