18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers have constitutional right to continue protest: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said farmers have a constitutional right to continue with their “absolutely perfect” protest as long as their dissent against the controversial agricultural laws did not slip into violence. “We clarify that this court will not interfere with the protest. Indeed the right to protest is part of a fundamental right and can as a matter of fact, be exercised subject to public order. There can certainly be no impediment in the exercise of such rights as long as it is non-violent and does not result in damage to the life and properties of other citizens... We are of the view at this stage that the protest should be allowed to continue without impediment and without any breach of peace by protesters or the police”, a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde observed in its order. The apex court, however, said that the purpose of the protesting farmers would not be served if they continued to sit without engaging in talks. “Yes, there is a protest that is going on... Yes, the protest is constitutional as long as it does not damage property and lives. It is an absolutely perfect protest. But their [farmers’] purpose cannot be realised if they continue to sit without talking”, the CJI observed. ‘Impartial panel’ The court reiterated its suggestion of forming an “impartial and independent committee” of experts in agriculture to hear both farmers and the Union government on the laws.
18 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata refuses to allow 3 IPS officers to go to Centre||A fresh political row erupted in poll-bound West Bengal with the Union government on Thursday again demanding that the State relieve three serving IPS officers for Central deputation despite its strong reservations against the move.   Describing the Centre’s order as a “colourable exercise of power and a blatant misuse of emergency provision of the IPS Cadre Rule, 1954,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said West Bengal was “not going to cow down in front of an expansionist and undemocratic force”. State’s objection Despite the objection of the State government, the Union government called the three IPS officers on central deputation. The officers were deployed for the security of BJP president J.P. Nadda when his convoy was attacked on December 10. Mr. Nadda was visiting Diamond Harbour in the South 24 Parganas, the Lok Sabha constituency of Ms. Banerjee’s nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee.  Several leaders were injured and many vehicles in the convoy of the BJP president were damaged in the attack after stones were hurled at them. Stones came flying from all sides at the convoy as people holding flags of the Trinamool Congress lined up on the road at several places. Mr. Nadda said he escaped unhurt because he was in a bullet-proof car. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and vice-president Mukul Roy were among those who suffered injuries in the attack. The Trinamool Congress leadership, including Ms. Banerjee, blamed the BJP for the provocation which led to the attack. Three FIRs were registered and seven persons arrested. The officers caught in the Central deputation row are Inspector General (South Bengal) Rajeev Mishra, Deputy Inspector General (Presidency Range) Praveen Kumar Tripathi, and Diamond Harbour Superintendent of Police Bholanath Pandey. Ms. Banerjee said such a move before the elections was against “the basic tenets of the federal structure”.
18 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Naidu dares Jagan for referendum on capital||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Thursday challenged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to hold a referendum on the idea of three capitals. Mr. Naidu said that he would quit politics if majority of people voted against the location of capital at Amaravati. Addressing a public meeting organised to mark one year of launching of a protest against the government’s plan to shift the capital, Mr. Naidu alleged that ever since Mr. Jagan came to power, he had been making moves to shift the capital out of Amaravati and later came up with the idea of three capitals. “Mr. Jagan says insider trading has taken place in Amaravati. What has he done in the last 19 months? Why did he fail to prove his allegations? Everyone knows that farmers have voluntarily given 34,000 acres as part of land pooling scheme, of which 8,274 acres will be with the government. Had Mr. Jagan continued the capital works, 130 firms would have set up offices in Amaravati making it like Cyberabad,’’ said Mr. Naidu. Stating that Amaravati would have become a centre for growth, Mr. Naidu demanded that the Chief Minister rescind his decision on three capitals and resume all activities relating to construction in Amaravati. The TDP chief said his vision had helped Cyberabad to become a global destination for major IT and ITeS companies. There was no region in the State, where such huge land parcel was available other than in Amaravati, he said. Mr. Naidu began the day by visiting the Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada and then drove to Uddandarayunivaripalem, where the foundation stone for construction of Amaravati was laid. “I was not able to control my emotions as I recollected those days. We collected holy soil and water from various temples in the country. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he would help build a city greater than Delhi. What happened to all those promises?” questioned Mr. Naidu. TDP State working president K. Atchannaidu, CPI secretary K. Ramakrishna, PCC working president Sk. Mastan Vali and others spoke. Earlier the members of JAC took out a huge procession leading to the venue. A heavy police bandobust ensured that no untoward incidents took place.
18 December 2020||ARIYALUR,||Kamal can’t do any good to people: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan had no intention of doing any good to the people and was only spoiling families through his films and TV showBigg Boss. Responding to a journalist’s question on Mr. Haasan insinuating that officials who were raided by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption were “following the government’s footsteps”, he said the actor had no knowledge of the administrative machinery. “He has launched a party now... after retirement [from acting]. What does he know? At 70 [actually 66], he is conductingBig Boss. When those conductingBigg Bossenter politics, what will happen? No family will prosper watching it. You are considering him a leader of a party and asking questions [about his comments],” he said here. Mr. Palaniswami alleged that Mr. Haasan’s job was only to spoil good families. “Not only children, even good families will get spoilt watching his programme,” he said. He could have spread better messages through TV programmes on topics such as inter-linking of rivers and farming and through shows for students. “MGR [the former Chief Minister] spread messages through his songs. Has Kamal Haasan sung any song for the good of the people? If families watch his films, they will be ruined,” he said, adding that actors like MGR and Jayalalithaa had sacrificed themselves for the larger good of society. Later, in Perambalur, to a question on Mr. Haasan invoking MGR’s name repeatedly in his campaign, he said it amounted to the actor admitting that he had no influence of his own.
18 December 2020||KAKINADA,||Protesters set fire to machinery at Divi’s pharma project site in East Godavari||A few hundred protesters, led by women, on Thursday allegedly damaged property, machinery and the protection wall on the 498-acre site proposed for a pharma company by Divi's Laboratories Limited at Vontimamidi village of Thondangi mandal in East Godavari district. The people affected by the pharma project and members of Left organisations reached the project site from different directions and reportedly set fire to the machinery on the site, where the company was engaged in the ground levelling work for the proposed Rs. 390-crore project. East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that at least 300 protesters were suspected to be involved in the alleged vandalism. They demolished a portion of the protection wall before setting fire to the machinery, including a generator and three motorcycles. However, none of the protesters or police personnel was hurt. The irate protesters reportedly decided to stop the work on the site as they had been continuing a relay hunger strike at Pampalapeta village near the project site, protesting against setting up of the “hazardous project”. In early December, Divi's Laboratories had to cancel an official foundation stone-laying ceremony through online by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, citing a stiff resentment from the local communities against the project. “We have deployed a battalion of the AP Special Police, 100 personnel from the District Special Party and seven DSPs on the site,” Ms. Asmi said. A few dozen protesters have been taken into custody.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Strengthening relationship with Bangladesh a priority, says PM||Bangladesh is a major pillar of India’s ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the inauguration of summit-level talks held virtually on Thursday. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said many Indian nationals were working in Bangladesh and enhancing bilateral economic ties. The two leaders remotely launched the rail link between Chilahati (Bangladesh) and Haldibari (West Bengal), which is the fifth such link between the countries. “Bangladesh is a major pillar of our ‘neighbourhood first’ policy and it has been a special priority for me from day one to strengthen our relations with Bangladesh. Today, I pay my respect to the martyrs of our both sides, who sacrificed their lives during the 1971 war, when the anti-liberation forces were defeated by us,” Mr. Modi said in Hindi. He greeted Bangladesh on the occasion of the centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. A joint statement issued at the end of the summit said that the filming of a biopic on Bangabandhu would begin under the direction of Shyam Benegal in January 2021. The document also pledged to name the road from Mujib Nagar to West Bengal’s Nadia as “Shadhinota Shorok”. It was in Mujib Nagar that a government in exile was formed in 1971. Mr. Modi accepted an invitation from Dhaka to be present at the 50th anniversary of independence of Bangladesh in March. He reiterated that removal of obstacles to land connectivity and growing trade had changed the texture of India-Bangladesh relationship. The Chilahati-Haldibari rail link was last operational in 1965. Upgrade of the old lines were carried out before the inauguration.
18 December 2020||Canning,||Tiger census begins in Sundarbans||The tiger census through camera trapping method has started in West Bengal’s Sundarbans, which, according to the last estimate, was home to 96 big cats, according to an official. The process of camera installation in the Sundarbans, has been completed in the first phase, and the movement of big cats will be monitored for a month, he said. “Overall 1,164 cameras will be installed at 582 locations this time,” Sundarbans Tiger Reserve field director Tapas Das said. Altogether 10 teams comprising 120 forest personnel are taking part in the exercise, he said. According to the last census, the tiger population in the Sundarbans reserve forest had increased to 96 from the previous estimate of 88.Of the 4,200 square km area, in Sundarbans, 3,700 sq km is the habitat of big cats.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC extends protection to U.P. interfaith couple||An interfaith couple from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, who were constrained to leave the State fearing harassment at the hands of vigilante groups, have found a safe haven in the Capital under the direction of the Delhi High Court. Justice Anu Malhotra on Wednesday ordered the Delhi government and police to grant protection to the couple after they approached the court. Justice Malhotra also directed the Delhi government to provide a ‘safe house’ to the couple. Sought help from DSW The couple in their plea stated that they had approached the Delhi government’s Department of Social Welfare (DSW) seeking help to secure their protection and to provide them accommodation in a safe house, as is their right under law. However, they were turned away by the DSW on December 14, 2020. They stated that the department did not even suggest an alternative location for their accommodation, thus “jeopardising the right to life, liberty and privacy”. During the hearing, the DSW stated that “adequate safe house in terms of the verdict of the Supreme Court in Shakti Vahini (Supra) would be made available to the petitioners today itself”. As the safe house in which the couple would be lodged is within the jurisdiction of the Mukherjee Nagar police station, the court was informed that the mobile numbers of the beat constable and the SHO of the area would also be provided to them. In their plea filed through advocates Soutik Banerjee and Aakarsh Kamra, the 25-year-old Muslim man and 21-year-old Hindu woman said they fell in love after they met during coaching classes for competitive exams. Advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for the couple, argued that the couple being educated adults desire to marry each other under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, out of their own free will and volition, without any intention of converting from their religion. However, the parents and relatives of the woman were opposed to their interfaith matrimonial alliance and had been coercing and pressurising her to marry a man of their choosing, Ms. Grover said.
18 December 2020||Pune,||With more recoveries, Maharashtra’s active case number dips to 60,000||Maharashtra continued to report more recoveries with 4,358 patients discharged on Thursday, as against 3,880 new COVID-19 cases. As per State Health Department figures, the active case tally (after a process of reconciling records and eliminating duplication) has now dipped to 60,454 while the total case tally stands at 18,84,773. With 65 deaths, fatalities stand at 48,499. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 17,74,255. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 94.14%. “Of a total 1,19,33,956 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,84,773 (case positivity rate of 15.79%) have returned positive with nearly 62,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the total case fatality stood at 2.57%. Pune district reported over 700 new cases to take its case tally to 3,65,101 while five deaths saw its death toll reach 7,654. As per district administration figures, robust recoveries have brought the active case tally down to 8,760 while its recovery rate is 95.10%. Mumbai city reported 586 new cases to take its case tally to 2,84,990 of whom only 7,024 are active though. With 10 deaths, the fatalities rose to 11,013. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 400 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,20,174 of whom 4,559 are currently active. Six deaths took the total death toll to 3,123. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported six deaths as its cumulative death toll rose to 1,735 while 87 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 53,637 of whom 1,202 are active cases. Neighbouring Sangli reported 34 cases and two deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 49,833 of whom only 373 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,745. Kolhapur continued to witness low surges, reporting a mere 21 cases and no deaths for two consecutive days as its total case tally reached 48,951 of whom 790 are active. The total death toll remained constant at 1,657. Nashik district reported 277 cases and five deaths as its case tally reached 1,11,555 of whom 2,769 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,805. Jalgaon reported 34 new cases and no deaths as the case tally reached 55,432 of whom only 549 are active. The death toll is 1,422. Dr. Awate informed that 5,06,914 people across the State were in home quarantine while 4,033 were in institutional quarantine.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Gadkari to lay stone for 396 km of NH in State||Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari will be dedicating six projects worth Rs. 3,717 crore covering a length of 370 km while also laying the foundation stone for eight projects, worth Rs. 9,440 crore covering a length of 396 km, in Telangana, virtually, on Dec.21. Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao will be participating through the virtual platforms, said his Cabinet colleague and Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy at a press conference on Thursday. The Centre was committed to building the Hyderabad to Vijaywada and Hyderabad to Bengaluru Expressways besides also taking over some of the key State roads but there have been delays in land acquisition, he said. “I will be soon writing to the Chief Minister seeking cooperation in taking up land acquisition on a war footing as several letters written to the chief secretary and other officials had not elicited much response,” said Mr. Reddy. More road projects can be taken up if the current works are completed and in this context he also pointed out to the delay in taking up the Amberpet flyover in the last three years after the foundation stone was laid by Mr. Gadkari himself. More than 2,00 km of national highways are sought to be developed under the ‘Bhartmala Pariyojana’ in TS alone, while it is 35,000 km across the nation.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Assembly passes resolution rejecting laws||The Delhi Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution “rejecting” the farm laws, saying that they should be “repealed” by the Central government. Attacking the BJP, AAP chief and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Central government to not become “worse than Britishers” who ruled India, and said the farmer laws were made to “fund” the BJP’s election campaigns. “More than 20 farmers have been martyred in the protest. I want to ask the Centre, how many more lives will you take before you listen to the farmers of the country? Each farmer has become a Bhagat Singh at the protest site,” he said.
18 December 2020||Hassan,||21 bonded labourers rescued in Shivamogga||The Shivamogga district administration rescued 21 bonded labourers, including 12 women, native of Telangana State, who were forced to work on the University of Agriculture and Horticultural Sciences campus at Iruvakki in Sagar taluk. A team of officers, led by V. Prasanna, Assistant Commissioner of Sagar sub-division, conducted the raid on Tuesday. Upon enquiry, the officers learnt that they were all from Nagarkurnool district of Telangana and had been working on the campus as construction labourers for the last two years. The construction of the university buildings has been going on in the village. The Karnataka Housing Board is the project-implementing agency. Two work supervisors — Modavth Hunia and Eshwaraiah — also natives of Mahabubnagar in Telangana, brought these people after paying them advance. Mr. Prasanna told The Hindu that the two paid each person an advance ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh and made them work to clear the amount.  The workers would get a salary of Rs. 5,500 per month, which would be adjusted to the advance paid. They were provided with food and shelter but never allowed to go out of that place. The officer said the workers were paid an advance and forced to work for wages lower than the minimum wages. “This act attracts the provisions under the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976”, said the officer. The Sagar Rural police have registered a case against the two supervisors. The Department of Women and Child Development and the police were involved in the rescue operation. Compensation The State government would be paying compensation of Rs. 20,000 each to the released labourers. The workers along with their eight children travelled to Telangana on Thursday, the officer added.   Mistreatment The workers would get a salary of Rs. 5,500 per month, which would be adjusted to the advance paid. They were provided with food and shelter, but never allowed to go out
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Strengthening ties with Bangladesh a priority: PM||Bangladesh is a major pillar of India’s ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the inauguration of summit-level talks held virtually on Thursday. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said many Indian nationals were working in Bangladesh and enhancing bilateral economic ties. The two leaders remotely launched the rail link between Chilahati (Bangladesh) and Haldibari (West Bengal), which is the fifth such link between the countries. “Bangladesh is a major pillar of our ‘neighbourhood first’ policy and it has been a special priority for me from day one to strengthen our relations with Bangladesh. Today, I pay my respect to the martyrs of our both sides, who sacrificed their lives during the 1971 war, when the anti-liberation forces were defeated by us,” Mr. Modi said. Biopic on Bangabandhu He greeted Bangladesh on the occasion of the centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. A joint statement issued at the end of the summit said that the filming of a biopic on Bangabandhu would begin under the direction of Shyam Benegal in January 2021. The document also pledged to name the road from Mujib Nagar to West Bengal’s Nadia as “Shadhinota Shorok”. It was in Mujib Nagar that a government in exile was formed in 1971. Mr. Modi accepted an invitation from Dhaka to be present at the 50th anniversary of independence of Bangladesh in March.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Ban on year-end public events||The State government has banned holding of public events such as parties and dance programmes from December 20, 2020 to January 2, 2021, in view of the pandemic. The guidelines issued on Thursday also ban handshakes and hugs, and stress on the need for social distancing. Clubs, pubs, and restaurants, however, can function as usual.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Man arrested, foreign currency seized||Sleuths from the Air Support Wing of the Central Industrial Security Force on Thursday apprehended Chithari Barikkad on the charge of being in illegal possession of foreign currency at the international airport here on Thursday. The seized currency was worth Rs. 4.35 lakh. According to a press release, Sub Inspector Devender Singh frisked Barikkad at the frisking point at the international security hold area of the airport. Barikkad was bound for Dubai on the Air India flight (IX 1381) that left at 5.30 p.m. Barikkad was found to have concealed foreign currency in his undergarments. The CISF recovered Euro and UAE Dirhams. Barikkad was handed over to the Customs for further inquiry and action, the release said.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Wanted man arrested||The Sullia Police arrested Prateek, a resident of Kollamogru in Madappady village of Sullia taluk, who is involved in five criminal cases. According to a press release, Prateek had failed to appear before court in the five cases. As many as 14 non-bailable warrants had been issued against him by the court. On Wednesday, the police arrested him from a hideout in Mangaluru. The police produced him before the jurisdictional magistrate who sent Prateek to jail, the release said.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Strengthening ties with Bangladesh a priority: PM||Bangladesh is a major pillar of India’s ‘neighbourhood first’ policy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the inauguration of summit-level talks held virtually on Thursday. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said many Indian nationals were working in Bangladesh and enhancing bilateral economic ties. The two leaders remotely launched the rail link between Chilahati (Bangladesh) and Haldibari (West Bengal. “Bangladesh is a major pillar of our ‘neighbourhood first’ policy and it has been a special priority for me from day one to strengthen our relations with Bangladesh. Today, I pay my respect to the martyrs of our both sides, who sacrificed their lives during the 1971 war,” Mr. Modi said in Hindi.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Make efforts for uplift of BCs, says Jagan||The newly sworn-in chairmen and directors of various BC corporations have to keep in mind that their post is a responsibility and not power, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. Addressing them after they took oath at a programme called ‘BC Sankranti’ here on Thursday, Mr. Jagan said, “They should make all efforts to uplift those who have been left out of the welfare programmes. They must ensure that the welfare schemes reached all the eligible beneficiaries.” Mr. Jagan said, “Of the 56 corporations, 29 will be headed by women. This apart, 336 of the 672 director posts are given to women. The government has created history by taking a leap for development of women and the BCs.”
18 December 2020||Erode,||Two trampled to death by elephant at STR||A forest watcher and volunteer were trampled to death by a wild elephant at Vilamundi forest range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve on Thursday.
18 December 2020||Kolkata,||Suvendu Adhikari resigns from Trinamool Congress||Suvendu Adhikari, among the tallest leaders of the Trinamool Congress, severed all ties with West Bengal's ruling party on Thursday by sending his resignation to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In another important development, Jitendra Tewari, MLA from Pandaveshwar in Paschim Bardhaman district, also resigned from the Trinamool Congress in the day. Mr. Adhikari, in a letter to Ms. Banerjee dated December 16, said: “I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of All India Trinamool Congress as well as other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect”. While he did not specify reasons for his resignation, he thanked the party chairperson for “challenges and opportunities” The development ends months of speculation over his differences with the TMC. Several senior party leaders had attempted to placate and persuade him not to leave. Mr. Adhikari's resignation comes a day after he resigned as MLA and almost 20 days after he resigned as Minister.
18 December 2020||KALABURAGI,||SEC seeks report on poll code ‘violation’||Following a poll code violation complaint lodged by the Kalaburagi District Congress Committee against Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board chairman Dattatreya Patil Revoor who reportedly promised Rs. 1 crore funds from the board to gram panchayats whose members are elected unopposed, the State Election Commission (SEC) has written to the Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi with a direction to look into the matter and submit a report to it.
18 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Teachers end fast||After a letter from the Minister concerned, protesting teachers ended their relay hunger strike in Hubballi on Thursday.
18 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||After CBI questioning, Indi in judicial custody||After the CBI completed questioning the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni’s uncle Chandrashekar Indi alias Chandu Mama, the CBI Special Court has remanded him in judicial custody till December 28.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||IT search yields Rs. 700 cr undisclosed income||The Income Tax Department on Thursday detected Rs. 700 crore in undisclosed income and seized Rs. 21 crore in unaccounted-for cash at the end of searches on the premises of a construction company in Erode and Chennai.
18 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Operation to capture elephant continues||The Forest Department’s operation to tranquillise and capture a male wild elephant nicknamed Shankar in Gudalur in the Nilgiris extended to the fourth day on Thursday as veterinarians could not get the tusker in a conducive condition and in close range.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Bengaluru Mission 2022’ launched||The projects taken up under Bengaluru Mission 2022 for upgrading the city’s infrastructure to address the growing population and number of vehicles will receive budgetary allocation and will be reviewed every six months for progress, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said here on Thursday. A task force will be set up to supervise the projects.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista estimate rises to Rs. 13,450 crore||The government’s latest proposal for the redevelop-ment of Central Vista before an expert panel of the Ministry of Environment and Forest dropped the proposed new PM’s Office from the plan, while revising the estimated cost from Rs. 11,794 crore to Rs. 13,450 crore.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi not too happy with Centre’s pollution panel’||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Thursday orally remarked that the people of Delhi are not too happy with the Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management in the NCR and Adjoining Areas, set up to curb air pollution by preventing stubble-burning in Punjab, U.P. and Haryana.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Is Facebook lying to India, asks Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asked if Facebook is “lying” to India and its Parliament about the contents posted by members of the Bajrang Dal. He took to Twitter to point out alleged contradictory positions taken by Facebook.
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||First Mumbai nearby||While the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws continues on Delhi borders, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday discussed the possibility of bringing in new Acts which will prohibit buyers from getting farm produce at rates lesser than the minimum support price. Public Works Department Minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan has written to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who heads the Cabinet sub-committee on farm laws, saying Maharashtra may introduce farmer-friendly laws on the lines of Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Rajasthan.
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has issued a notice to Bollywood filmmaker Karan Johar over a viral video allegedly showing drugs being consumed at a party at his house last year, NCB sources said on Thursday. The notice has been sent to Mr. Johar to check the video’s veracity, an NCB official said. The Central agency is conducting an anti-drugs probe.
18 December 2020||Thoothukudi,||Sterlite panel may summon Rajinikanth||At least 210 students of colleges in five southern zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) have tested positive for COVID-19 in recent days. The results in respect of 2,361 of the 6,344 students who have been tested are yet to be received.
18 December 2020||Perambalur,||‘School reopening only after cases dip’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said the government would consider reopening schools only after the incidence of COVID-19 comes down. He said the government would wait not rush into reopening schools, as it was a matter of lives.
18 December 2020||MYSURU,||Now, get MUDA approval for building plans in a day||In a relief to those planning to construct houses, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) on Thursday launched a new initiative – “Namme Mane, Namma Licence” – that assures approval of building plans within a day.
18 December 2020||Mysuru/Bengaluru,||Farmers’ leaders: Why do we need Upper House?||The unprecedented chaos witnessed in the State Legislative Council on Tuesday, over the issue of no-confidence motion against the Chairman, has led to a demand for the abolition of the Upper House of the State legislature by farmers’ organisations.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Classes for X, XII students may resume on Jan. 1||Schools in Karnataka are likely to resume classes on January 1 for X and XII students who are preparing for their board examinations. This was the recommendation of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista project cost rises to Rs. 13,450 cr.||The government’s latest proposal for the redevelopment of Central Vista before an expert panel of the Ministry of Environment and Forest dropped the proposed new Prime Minister’s Office from the plan, while revising the estimated cost from Rs. 11,794 crore to Rs. 13,450 crore. The Central Public Works Department’s proposal for terms of reference, which is a step before the application for environment clearance, was discussed by the MoEF Expert Appraisal Committee on Thursday, according to sources. A source said the CPWD was given suggestions and asked to address the issues raised in representations from the public. The CPWD on December 9 submitted a proposal for TOR for the “development/redevelopment of Common Central Secretariat buildings and Central Conference Centre along with Prime Minister’s Residence, SPG Building and Vice President’s Enclave,” with a total built-up area of 17,21,500 square metre and demolition of 4,58,820 sq m. This plan did not include the proposed PMO that was mentioned in an earlier version of the proposal submitted in November. The source said there were issues of pending land-use change and litigation. ‘Integrated approach’ The CPWD had first submitted a plan for the 10 secretariat buildings and conference centre and the TOR which was approved in October. Then, the CPWD applied for amending the TOR to include the PMO, PM’s residence, SPG building and V-P’s Enclave, but the EAC in its meeting on November 25 returned the proposal. The EAC asked the agency to “refrain from piecemeal approach” and apply again with an “integrated approach,” according to the minutes of the meeting. Among those who submitted their representations to the EAC was former MoEF Secretary Meena Gupta, a retired IAS officer. Ms. Gupta wrote to the chairperson of the EAC, T. Haque, that the CPWD had “once again arbitrarily added and subtracted components of the Central Vista redevelopment and this completely undermines the directions of the EAC given during the last meeting.” She added that there was no explanation given for removing the PMO from the plan and other components, including the new Parliament, the New India Garden and underground transit system had not been included. Ms. Gupta told The Hindu that the approach had been “slipshod” and “piecemeal”. “Such an important project should not be taken up like this,” she said.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||SSLC, Class 12 exams from March 17 in Kerala||The SSLC and Plus Two higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examinations will be held from March 17 to 30. The decision was taken at a high-level online meeting of Education Ministers and those for Health, Agriculture and Fisheries and Education and Health Secretaries that was presided over by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan here on Thursday. There was concern among Class 10 and Plus Two students regarding the date for the examinations in the wake of online classes being held for them since the start of the academic year owing to COVID-19. The General Education Department will soon make arrangements for the public examination for Classes 10 and 12 (Plus Two), a statement from the Chief Minister’s office said. Classes for students who need to prepare for practical examinations as part of the year-end examinations will begin in schools on January 1. Revision From January 1, steps will also be taken in schools to begin revision of the online classes that are being telecast and clear their doubts as concerns have been expressed over how much students have really been able to grasp the content of the online classes. Model examinations will be held ahead of the public examinations. Students will be provided with counselling in schools to reduce anxiety or stress. General Education Secretary A. Shajahan said there would be no formal reopening of schools. The aim was to complete examination-related procedures such as registration and fee payment and prepare students for the exam. This would be done only with parental consent and attendance was not compulsory. Schools-level plans, he said, would be critical in determining how many students in a class could come to school at a time or on a single day, for how much time, where would they be seated so that physical distancing could be followed, and so on. “Schools can decide to hold more interactive sessions for students in need of it or limited ones for others. If there are students who do not need to come to school at all, schools can decide against calling them. Instructions cannot be given at the State level for these. Schools have been given a free hand to make the arrangements according to thier facilities,” he said. A decision on rescheduling online classes when class 10 and 12 students reach school will be taken after consultations, Mr. Shajahan said.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to seek legal opinion||Protesting farmer leaders will seek legal opinion on Friday before taking any position in the Supreme Court case on their agitation seeking repeal of three contentious agricultural reform laws. Most of them are not in favour of impleading themselves in the case, they said. “After a meeting of the committee plus the Punjab leaders this afternoon, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha has decided to consult with four senior Supreme Court lawyers — Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, Colin Gonsalves, and HS Phoolka — before taking any position on the Supreme Court case,” said K.V. Biju, national coordinator of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh. The seven farm organisations mentioned in the case that were a part of their movement have not yet received any communication from the court, he said. “The leaders are not in favour of impleading themselves into the case, but we have decided to seek legal opinion first... It is the BJP which is behind this case, so why should we play into their hands?”, Kisan Krantikari Union president Darshan Pal told The Hindu . Farm leaders are worried about the legal precedent set during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) earlier this year. “When a PIL was filed on the anti-CAA protests, the court gave the order to vacate them. If the same thing happens, that will damage our movement,” said a leader, who did not wish to be named. They also argued that this issue was the domain of the executive, not the judiciary. “The grammar of democratic governance must be articulated by the government. Constitutional institutions like courts exist for checks and balances, not as replacement of the obligations to be performed by the political executive,” said a statement from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee. At Krishi Bhavan, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met members of the Federation of Indian Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) and Aggregators, representing 500 FPOs in 15 States, who said the three laws had created an enabling environment to benefit small and marginal farmers. Tomar pens letter Mr. Tomar also issued an 8-page open letter addressed to farmers. Drawing on his own credentials as the son of a farmer, he made an emotional appeal to farmers not to be misled by the protesters, accusing them of harmful political motivations. In the last six years, a group of people have attempted to bring discontent and anarchy into the country, by hiding behind different groups, whether Dalits, women or minorities, said the letter. “Today, these people once again sneak up behind the farmers of the country for their political cause,” it added. On farmers’ side, a letter was sent to Mr. Tomar from 10 senior academics and experts in agricultural economics arguing that the three laws are harmful to small farmers. “We do believe that improvements and changes are required in the agricultural marketing system for the benefit of millions of small farmers, but the reforms brought by these Acts do not serve that purpose. They are based on wrong assumptions and claims about why farmers are unable to get remunerative prices, about farmers not having freedom to sell wherever they like under the previously existing laws, and about regulated markets not being in the farmers’ interests,” it said.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s recovery rate high: govt.||India’s COVID-19 recovery rate is among the highest in the world, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. While the global figure for recovery rate is 70.27%, India is recording 95.31%, it said. The U.S., Brazil, Russia, and Italy are reporting lower recovery rates. “India has registered 33,291 recoveries in the last 24 hours. About 75.63% of these new recovered cases are contributed by 10 States/Union Territories. With 5,728 persons recovering from COVID-19, Kerala has recorded maximum number of recoveries, Maharashtra registered 3,887 recoveries while West Bengal registered 2,767 recoveries,” noted the data released by the Ministry. India has 24,010 new cases registered in the 24 hours with 10 States/Union Territories contributing 78.27% of the new cases. Kerala reported 6,185 cases in the 24 hours, West Bengal recorded 2,293 cases, while Chhattisgarh registered 1,661 new cases. Also 79.15% of the 355 case fatalities reported in the past 24 hours are from 10 States/Union Territories. About 26.76% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra which reported 95 deaths, West Bengal saw a fatality count of 46 while Delhi reported 32 new deaths. “India has registered a steady decline in the number of daily deaths. The case fatality rate is sustained at 1.45% and is consistently decreasing. India’s fatality rate is one of the lowest in the world,” said the Ministry.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘BJP will stand exposed in Bengal’||Ahead of the Assembly election in West Bengal next year, the Congress in-charge for the State Jitin Prasada speaks on the Congress-Left alliance and the BJP growing presence there. Why is the Congress hesitant about announcing its alliance with the Left parties? The Congress stand is very clear. We have had joint programmes at the State-level with the Left parties. The Congress party at present is in the process of consultations. Wide range of talks are going on at all levels within the party. Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s decision will be final in this regard. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the Congress could not arrive at an agreement with the Left parties. Has the situation changed since then? Of course, we have had, at the State-level, joint demonstrations and protests against the State and the Central government. Once we get feedback from all quarters and submit a report, Sonia Gandhi ji will take the final call. Is there a possibility of the Congress joining hands with the Trinamool Congress? There is no need to jump the gun here. We are talking to our leaders and cadres. Like I said earlier, we have been working with the Left parties on various issues. Who is your primary political adversary in West Bengal — the BJP or the Trinamool Congress? As of now, the Congress is facing a twin challenge, where on the one hand, the BJP is trying to stoke communal sentiments and playing divisive politics, ignoring the burning issues of development, infrastructure, education and health, which are key in Bengal. And on the other hand, is the deteriorating law and order situation under the Trinamool Congress government. What role will the Congress play in West Bengal where the BJP has been expanding its presence? We all have seen, in the Lok Sabha election 2019, for whatever reason, the BJP did exceptionally well across the country. But now, with close to 18 months after their re-election, the people are beginning to see through them. And they have not only failed to deliver on their promise as usual. The farmers’ agitation is a case in point. They went around the country making tall promises to the farmers and today you can see a countrywide protest against the three farm laws. In Bengal specifically, the BJP does not have a positive agenda. They are only trying to divert attention from real issues. How is the BJP gaining ground in West Bengal, even when it is relatively a newer party in the State, compared with the Congress and the Left? They are the party in power at the Centre with huge resources at their command and control over the media. But all of these factors do not mean that they will electorally gain in the State. They will stand exposed in Bengal because their intention is to take on the very idea that Bengal stood [for] and trample over its culture and heritage. There are some people in the BJP who even want to alter the national anthem written by Rabindranath Tagore. Bengal has never been divided on religious and caste lines. This goes against the Bengali ethos. Debate on the CAA/NRC (Citizenship Amendment Act/National Register of Citizens) is set to reappear with the West Bengal Assembly polls. What is the Congress’ stand on the issue? People have seen through all this. The BJP should not use the NRC as a political tool. Time and again it has been seen that the BJP rakes up the NRC/CAA when an election nears, then it quietly puts it in cold storage. Congress stands for whatever is in national interest.  Once we get feedback from all quarters [on tie-up with the Left], Sonia Gandhi ji will take the final call
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala CM asks Modi to ‘correct’ Central agencies||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday invoked the spirit of federalism to seek the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prevent inquiries by Central agencies from deteriorating into ‘‘politically motivated fault-finding missions aimed at tarnishing the image of the State government’’. In an open letter to Mr. Modi to initiate “corrective steps at least at this juncture”, Mr. Vijayan said Central investigations into the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case had turned out to be “fishing and roving” expeditions that sought to cast a wide net in search of some offence or the other to portray the State government in a poor light. The agencies had lost sight of their original aim of solving the case. They had made no headway in the probe since July. The investigations had become part of an orchestrated campaign to defame the political leadership of the Government of Kerala. Calculated news leaks highlighting cherry-picked portions of the statements of the accused and implanting advance information about impending issuance of summons in the media pointed to a measure of deliberation on the part of some officials in the Customs and the Enforcement Directorate (ED), Mr. Vijayan said. Mr. Vijayan excoriated the Central agencies for violating the Constitutional division of powers in the cooperative federal set-up. Their sweeping and directionless inquiries had precipitated a “serious governance issue” in the State. The warrants issued by the agencies for details of government programmes lacked specificity, the letter said. For one, the ED ordered the LIFe Mission chief to “produce all documents” related to the State’s flagship programme to provide free housing to the poor within 24 hours. Such actions had “demotivated honest and hard-working officers, who will be gripped by fear psychosis,” he said. Victory in polls Mr. Vijayan summed up the animating principle of federalism that defined Centre-State relationship in his appeal to Mr. Modi a day after the Left Democratic Front registered an emphatic win in the local body elections in Kerala. The ruling coalition had weathered a recriminatory campaign that banked on the myriad scandals surrounding the smuggling case to coast to victory. Simultaneously, Mr. Vijayan appeared to have also attempted to find common cause with other non-National Democratic Alliance-ruled States, which had similar high-profile political run-ins with the law enforcement.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,||ISRO launches satellite for communications||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) successfully placed into a transfer orbit India’s 42nd communications satellite, CMS-01, carried on board the PSLV-C50, from the second launch pad of the Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota Range, on Thursday. India’s workhorse launch vehicle, the PSLV, in its 52nd mission, configured in its ‘XL’ version with six strap-on motors, rose into the skies at 3.41 p.m. The satellite was placed into a precise geosynchronous transfer orbit (GTO) roughly 20 minutes after lift-off. CMS-01 is a communications satellite envisaged for providing services in extended C Band of the frequency spectrum and its coverage will include the Indian mainland and the Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep islands, the ISRO said. The satellite is expected to have a life of over seven years. “The satellite was injected precisely into its pre-defined sub-GTO orbit. The satellite is functioning very well and in another four days from now, it will be placed into its specified slot in the geosynchronous orbit after a series of manoeuvres,” ISRO Chairman K. Sivan said. He said the satellite would act as a continuation of the GSAT-12 launched 11 years ago. Mr. Sivan said the next launch, the PSLV-C51, would be a special mission for ISRO and the entire country as the vehicle would carry the country’s first private sector satellite under the space reforms programme announced by the Indian government. “Recently, we have brought in space reforms to unlock India’s potential in the space sector, which the Government of India has initiated. Within eight months [of the announcement], the first satellite, from Pixxel India named ‘Anand’, will be launched on board the PSLV-C51. This is the first among a series of satellites to be launched,” Mr. Sivan said. He said two more satellites, ‘Satish Sat’ from Space Kidz India and ‘Unity Sat’ from a consortium of universities will also be launched. The ISRO Chairman said the PSLV-C51 launch will mark a new era of space reforms in India.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Tata Sons violated Companies Act provisions’||Pre-consultation with Tata Trusts was “going around” contrary to what is expected from a board-managed company under the Companies Act, minority shareholder Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group submitted in the Supreme Court on Thursday. The SP Group referred to how Section 10 of the Companies Act of 2013 mandates that the memorandum and articles of a company should be subject to the statute. The SP Group has claimed how Article 121 of the Articles of Association of Tata Sons, the flagship company, was used by Tata Trusts headed by Ratan Tata, which owns 66% stake in Tata Sons, to undermine the board. The Cyrus Mistry camp has argued in court that the Tata Trust was pre-consulted before every decision. This was against the tenets of a company managed by an independent board. A three-judge Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde has reserved its judgment on the cross-appeals filed by Tata Sons and Cyrus Mistry against the December 2019 verdict of the NCLAT. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, for the SP Group, said the management of the company had violated three provisions of the Companies Act, including Section 166, which mandates that directors have to exercise independent judgment; Section 118(10), which mandates that secretarial rules need to be followed; and finally, Section 149, which provides that the board, and not the majority shareholder, should manage the company. For the Tatas, senior advocate Harish Salve said the governance structure proposed by Mr. Mistry had envisaged a role for Tata Trusts in Tata Sons.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia convenes meeting of senior leaders on Dec. 19||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has convened a meeting of senior leaders, including some members from group of 23 (G-23) dissenters, at her residence on December 19 to discuss the upcoming Assembly elections, ongoing farmers’ agitation and the government skipping the winter session of Parliament, a senior leader of the party said on Thursday. This will be the first time that party leaders will meet with the Congress president in person at the 10 Janpath residence since the lockdown. All meetings were so far conducted virtually ever since COVID-19 restrictions kicked in March. The party leader said some meetings could stretch onto Sunday as Ms. Gandhi would try to meet those who had sought appointments from her in the past few months. Among the dissenters, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, Deputy Leader Anand Sharma, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and former Union Minister Shashi Tharoor are likely to be part of the strategy meeting. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Madhya Pradesh Congress chief Kamal Nath have also been invited. Earlier, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi had held discussions with leaders of these States and had given a report to Ms. Gandhi. Ms. Gandhi is likely to discuss the party’s debacle in the Bihar Assembly polls, poor performance in the by-polls to 58 seats across several States, setback in the local bodies’ elections in Rajasthan, Hyderabad, Kerala and the council elections in Bodoland Territorial Region of Assam. The Congress chief will also discuss the ongoing farmers’ agitation over three new farm laws and the Centre’s decision not to hold the winter session of Parliament. The timing of the meeting is significant as it comes amidst a churn in the party over the leadership issue, with G-23 leaders writing to Ms. Gandhi in August to pitch for a “full-time and active leadership”, organisational elections and have elected members to rhe Congress Working Committee. Following the letter, the party’s central election authority is gearing up to hold organisational polls, including elections for a party president by the first week of February. One section of the party is keen that Rahul Gandhi takes back the reins for the Congress to function unitedly. “Sonia ji wants to bring the different factions together and make them work in close coordination with Rahul ji to strengthen the party,” the senior leader said.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||House panel members want free grain scheme extended||At a meeting of a parliamentary committee held on Tuesday, members demanded the extension of the free foodgrain scheme started by the government as part of the COVID-19 relief package. The scheme ended on November 30. The issue was raised at the meeting of the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution headed by Trinamool Congress leader Sudip Bandhopadhyay. The members were of the view that till a vaccine was approved and distributed to the public, the scheme should be extended. The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana was announced in March by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of the package. The scheme covers 80 crore ration card holders. Each household gets five kg of rice or wheat each month and one kg of pulses. The scheme was announced only for three months in the first round till June 30 and later it was extended till November 30. “The pandemic is not over yet and the number of cases are also rising. Our view is that till the time we are really through with this pandemic the scheme should continue,” a member said on condition of anonymity. The officials deposing in front of the committee only said that the suggestions would be considered. According to informed sources, a few States have demanded an extension. Senior officials at the Department of Food and Public Distribution indicated that an extension was unlikely. “We are a country with a huge buffer stock, so it is absolutely illogical to leave these stocks for rodents to feed on rather than giving it to the hungry,” a member said. Reetika Khera, Associate Professor of Economics, IIT, Delhi, who has been involved with food security issues, said the FCI website showed that the buffer stock in October should be 307 lakh tonnes, whereas it was more than 700 lakh tonnes in September. Since then, the data were not available. “It appears that the stocks are far in excess of the buffer stock norms. Continuing the Garib Kalyan Yojana will provide relief to millions of poor households facing uncertainty and food anxieties, and will help government reduce storage costs,” she said.  Till the time we are really through with this pandemic, the scheme should continue Standing Committee member
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC orders protection for couple||An interfaith couple from Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh, who were constrained to leave the State fearing harassment at the hands of vigilante groups, have found a safe haven in the Capital under the direction of the Delhi High Court. Justice Anu Malhotra on Wednesday ordered the Delhi government and police to grant protection to the couple after they approached the court. Justice Malhotra also directed the Delhi government to provide a ‘safe house’ to the couple. Sought help from DSW The couple in their plea stated that they had approached the Delhi government’s Department of Social Welfare (DSW) seeking help to secure their protection and to provide them accommodation in a safe house, as is their right under law. However, they were turned away by the DSW on December 14, 2020. They stated that the department did not even suggest an alternative location for their accommodation, thus “jeopardising the right to life, liberty and privacy”. During the hearing, the DSW stated that “adequate safe house in terms of the verdict of the Supreme Court in Shakti Vahini (Supra) would be made available to the petitioners today itself”. As the safe house in which the couple would be lodged is within the jurisdiction of the Mukherjee Nagar police station, the court was informed that the mobile numbers of the beat constable and the SHO of the area would also be provided to them. In their plea filed through advocates Soutik Banerjee and Aakarsh Kamra, the 25-year-old Muslim man and 21-year-old Hindu woman said they fell in love after they met during coaching classes for competitive exams. Advocate Vrinda Grover, appearing for the couple, argued that the couple being educated adults desire to marry each other under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, out of their own free will and volition, without any intention of converting from their religion. However, the parents and relatives of the woman were opposed to their interfaith matrimonial alliance and had been coercing and pressurising her to marry a man of their choosing, Ms. Grover said.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC faults Telangana govt. for not abiding by assurances on registration||The Telangana High Court has faulted the government for not abiding by the assurances given to the court with regard to registration of non-agricultural properties. The court said the government had assured that there would be no insistence on submission of Aadhaar number for either slot booking or for generating Property Tax Index Number, but failed in its implementation. It was not proper on the part of the government to insist on Aadhaar number for obtaining PTIN. The court instructed the government not to elicit Aadhaar and personal information for the process. The Bench comprising Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy however permitted the government to continue the registration processes through identification documents other than Aadhaar. The judges directed the government to take steps to remove the provision insisting on Aadhaar number from the software deployed for the registration processes. Took exception The Bench also took exception to the officials insisting on Aadhaar number in the summary transactions. The Bench reiterated that there should not be any insistence on production of Aadhaar numbers. The government could instead seek any other document for identification.  Cabinet sub-committee Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the court that the Cabinet sub-committee constituted to study registration related aspects would take the court’s directions into consideration. He sought one week’s time from the court for carrying out necessary changes in the software and the court accordingly posted the matter after a week.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP to intensify its outreach programme||On a day when the Supreme Court asked the Union government if it was possible to suspend executive action on the three farm laws till the deadlock with agitating farmers was resolved, the BJP decided to forge ahead with its intensive outreach programme to farmers, explaining the advantages of the laws. In a meeting of BJP general secretaries and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, it was decided that an outreach programme, currently under way in several States, would continue. Party president J.P. Nadda, who has tested positive for COVID-19, joined the meeting via Web, while Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal were present. It was after this meeting that Mr. Tomar released an eight-page letter addressed to farmers extolling not just the benefits of the laws but also attacking the political Opposition for opposing the laws after having espoused the same reforms in the past. Key strategy “Tomarji’s letter is the strategy,” said a senior leader of the BJP, namely that the government was currently firm on the laws and the doublespeak of Opposition parties in agricultural reforms is also exposed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also set to address farmers in Madhya Pradesh via video link on Friday . “Amit Shahji took a review of the progress of the programmes so far and spoke about the need to intensify it,” a senior leader said. The shadow of the now scrapped land acquisition ordinance also lies heavy on this issue. It had to be scrapped after several notifications as Opposition had made it unviable politically. “This, however, is something that parties like the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party have advocated in the past. The Aam Aadmi Party too had this in their Punjab polls manifesto and the Hooda Committee that advocated for such reforms had a senior Akali Dal as member. So it’s not the same situation,” said a senior leader. All this points to the government not having any intention of suspending executive action on the laws as suggested by the Supreme Court. After a big day in the apex court, it seems both sides, government and farmers groups are sticking to their stands.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,||CBI FIR in LIFE Mission case malicious, State submits in HC||The State government on Thursday submitted before the Kerala High Court that the charges in the First Information Report (FIR) lodged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment (LIFE) Mission project were wholly malicious and fuelled by ulterior political motives. The submission was made when a petition filed by U.V. Jose, Chief Executive Officer, LIFE Mission, and Santhosh Eappen, managing director, Unitac, a contracting company and the first accused in the case, seeking to quash the FIR came up for hearing. The court asked whether any document relating to the handing over of the government land for the construction of the LIFE Mission housing project in Wadakkancherry, Thrissur, was available. The court wanted to know how the IAS officer had allowed the agency to construct a building on government land based on a third-party pact in which the LIFE Mission was not a party. “Prima facie it appears that there was something fishy. The government will have to answer,” the court observed orally. Supreme Court lawyer V.K. Viswanathan, appearing for the government, submitted that there was nothing suspicious in the project. The Vigilance and Anti-corruption Bureau was probing the alleged irregularities. The project at Wadakkancherry was funded by UAE Red Crescent, a charitable organisation. The agreement for the construction of the buildings was executed between the Consular General of the UAE and Unitac, a construction company. It was the sponsors which had selected Unitac and Sane Ventures. Neither the State government nor the LIFE Mission had any role in the selection of contractors. In fact, the funds were directly transferred to the accounts of Unitac and Sane Ventures. ‘Link to gold smuggling’ High Court lawyer K. Ramkumar, who appeared for the Centre, submitted that the LIFE Mission case was linked to the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The accused in the smuggling case had received kickbacks to ensure that the project was awarded to Unitac. The hearing was adjourned to December 21.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rumblings of discontent at Kerala Cong. meet over polls||The Political Affairs Committee (PAC) of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) met here on Thursday amidst growing rumblings of discontent in the party with its current leadership for the poor showing in the local body elections. KPCC working president K. Sudhakaran, MP, seemed to spotlight the dissatisfaction when he said that the culture of nominating office-bearers from block level and upwards had hollowed out the Congress and weakened its organisational structure. The Congress had become a loose federation of group satraps committed solely to preserving their clout. It lacked leadership with commanding power, he said. Mr. Sudhakaran hinted that only a leadership change would help turn the Congress around and transform it into a formidable fighting machine ahead of the Assembly elections. Nevertheless, K.C. Venugopal, general secretary, All India Congress Committee (AICC), denied rumours of a leadership change. With Assembly elections around the corner, the national leadership of the Congress did not want its rank and file to indulge in a protracted and essentially self-defeating blame game over the debacle. Mr. Venugopal’s words seemed to reflect the determination of the AICC to move forward. By one account, the PAC would debate whether the Congress had given voters an alternative vision of policy and credible governance alternative alongside its anti-corruption election platform. Ouster of Jose faction The PAC would also debate the criticism that the Congress had acted in feverish haste by ousting the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) from the United Democratic Front (UDF). Mr. Mani’s inclusion in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) had brought the ruling front considerable gains in the UDF heartlands in Kottayam, Idukki and Pathanamthitta. Tie-up with WPI The PAC would weigh the criticism that the Congress had accorded the LDF a political weapon by openly aligning with the Welfare Party of India (WPI), the political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami. Congress leaders had given mixed messages about the nature of the “alliance” with the WPI. Some of them felt that the WPI alliance had driven traditional UDF voters, mostly Hindus, into the fold of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance. The PAC would also examine whether the selection of candidates reflected the age, religion and caste demography of constituencies at least in some measure.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Finding warmth in the big tent, a city within a city||With the mercury dipping in the national capital, a “tent city” has come up inside a petrol filling station at the Singhu border to provide accommodation to the farmers who are protesting against the three controversial agriculture laws. Rows of green and grey tents have been set up to provide relief from the cold wave to hundreds of farmers who are reaching Delhi each day. Currently, around 150 waterproof and windproof tents with the capacity to accommodate nearly 500 people have been installed. The insulated tents were brought in when several farmers got drenched in rain last Saturday, said Jatin Singh, one of the managing team members for the arrangements. Varying capacity “Blankets and mattresses come with the tents itself. While some of the tents can accommodate up to five people, there are a few others which can accommodate around 2-3 people,” Mr. Singh said. While a “check-in” time of 6 p.m. has been set, women and children can take up the accommodation at any point of time, Mr. Singh said. “This facility is primarily for those who do not have their own trolleys and tractors where they can rest and spend the nights,” explained Mr. Singh. The tents are being provided by an NGO, Hemkunt Foundation, which is supported by the sangat (community). Lovedeep Singh, a student of Patiala University, who has begun volunteering at the tent city said, “I reached the border five days back with my mother and sister and we have been camping here since then. All kinds of facilities, including water and sanitation, have been provided here.” Residents of two villages in Sirsa — Gudiakhera and Dhukra — have arranged for blankets and quilts. Volunteer Suresh Dhaka said, “Some people are sending wheat and milk, others have sent medicines.”
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five parties spent Rs. 34 cr. on Delhi polls: ADR||Five political parties, including the ruling Aam Aadmi Party, collected Rs. 49.99 crore and spent Rs. 34.32 crore in the Delhi Assembly election campaign this year, the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) said in a report on Thursday. Many parties, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), that contested the polls in February have failed to make their expenditure statements public even after 230 days, it noted.  The parties are required to submit their reports to the Election Commission of India (ECI) within 75 days of completion of polls. Violation of SC order The report said this delay was in violation of a 1996 judgment of the Supreme Court in the Common Cause vs. Union of India case, where it directed the ECI to create a format for recognised parties to submit their statements. Details unavailable The statements of the BJP, the Nationalist Congress Party, the Communist Party of India and the Janata Dal (United) are among those unavailable on the ECI’s website, the ADR said. A total of 62.2% of the expenditure by the five parties — the Aam Aadmi Party, the Congress, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the Bahujan Samaj Party and the Lok Janshakti Party — whose statements are available went towards "publicity", the report said. The LJP submitted that it had zero collections and expenditure for the Delhi Assembly elections. Of the total expenditure, 51% was by the Aam Aadmi Party.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea against Kafeel’s release rejected||The Supreme Court on Thursday dismissed an appeal by the Uttar Pradesh government against an Allahabad High Court decision quashing the detention of Dr. Kafeel Khan under the National Security Act (NSA). A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, however, said any remarks made by the High Court on the facts of the case in its September order would not interfere in the ongoing prosecution of the case. “Case will be decided on its own merits,” the Bench observed. Senior advocate Indira Jaising, for Mr. Khan’s mother Nuzhat Perween, argued against the State’s appeal. “The man has been out for three months now and there has been no problems,” Ms. Jaising submitted. Chief Justice Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the court would not intervene against the quashing of detention order and told the State “to get on with whatever prosecution is pending”. Dr. Khan had been in custody since January 29 for his remarks during a speech at an anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) event in Aligarh Muslim University last year. The High Court had, in its order, said his speech did not “disclose any effort to promote hatred” .
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Elected MP’s right to speak must be protected’||A day after walking out of a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee (PSC) on Defence, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to express “dismay” at the manner in which the meeting was conducted and asked Mr. Birla “to protect an elected MP’s right to speak freely”. Giving his version of Wednesday’s events that saw him walkout from the Parliamentary panel meet, Mr. Gandhi said he was “repeatedly prevented” by the Chairman of the PSC on Defence, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Jual Oram, forcing him to walk out in protest. “Sir, as Speaker of the Lok Sabha and custodian of the House, I urge you to intervene and ensure that the discussion and presentations held in the defence committee are in consonance with the role and objective of the institution and that the right of elected MPs to speak freely is protected,” Mr. Gandhi is learnt to have said in his letter. The Congress leader also expressed surprise that the panel chose to “discuss uniforms in the current military situation” and mentioned that he had given in writing that the Committee should discuss India’s “strategy against China’s aggressive posture on the northern border in coordination with Pakistan; response to China’s reusable autonomous armed drones and unmanned systems strategy... and the inter-governmental agreement on the purchase of Rafale war planes”.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Minister defends arrest of Tablighis||Days after a Delhi court acquitted 36 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members who were accused by the police of violating COVID-19 guidelines, Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said the Tablighis violated tourist visa norms. At a press conference, he said that though the Tablighis were welcome to visit India under prescribed tourist visa norms, they violated the visa conditions by participating in religious functions here. “The Centre took action against them as they attempted to hide coronavirus, travelled to other parts of the country for religious teachings, leading to its [COVID-19] spread,” he said. On March 29, as many as 2,361 persons of the Tablighi Jamaat were evacuated by the police from Jamaat’s Nizamuddin headquarters. One case relating to the gathering was registered under various sections and 233 persons of the Tablighi Jamaat were arrested.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Meditate on this: yogasana is now a sport||Yogasana will be a competitive sport in the country, with officials of the Ministries of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga, Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, Homoeopathy) and Youth Affairs and Sports announcing on Thursday that they will now work towards taking it up as a sport globally. “The Central government took the decision to promote yogasana as a competitive sport after extensive consultation with stakeholders over the last three or four years. The National Board of Promotion and Development of Yoga and Naturopathy in 2019 recommended that yogasana be recognised as a competitive sport,” Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH, said at a joint press conference. He said an exhaustive document containing rules, regulations and syllabus for yogasana competitions had been prepared, and the technical committee had also made a list of the asana s (compulsory and optional) after exhaustive research from traditional books on yoga. “Work for automation of the scoring system to introduce objectivity in marking has been initiated and district, State and national and world championships in yogasana are proposed in 2021. A pilot championship of traditional yogasana by the name of national individual yogasana sports championship (virtual mode) is proposed to be organised in February 2021,” he said.  Patented system The official said that work was currently on to develop a patented electronic scoring system for yogasana championships in India and globally, along with courses and certification. In his presentation, Mr. Kotecha explained that yogasana as a sports discipline was likely to have 51 medals in four events and seven categories. The proposed events for both men and women include traditional, artistic (single and pair), rhythmic (pair), and free flow and group yogasana, individual all round championship and team championship. At the conference Kiren Rijiju, Minister of State, Youth Affairs and Sports, said that every sport had emerged from some region or country and India had already brought to the world the beauty and usefulness of this ancient tradition, which has now evolved into competitive sports with the final aim of making yogasana an Olympic event. Minister of Ayush Shripad Yesso Naik added that yogasana as an Olympic event would create a widespread opportunity for expanding awareness of yoga and its myriad health benefits.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,||Raveendran appears for questioning before ED||C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on Thursday appeared at the Kochi office of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for questioning. He had earlier avoided appearing before the ED on “health grounds.” His interrogation was continuing late into the evening. Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Thursday dismissed Mr. Raveendran’s petition challenging the summons issued by the ED directing him to appear on December 17 before it. ‘Petition premature’ Dismissing the petition, Justice V.G. Arun found substantial force in the preliminary objection regarding maintainability of the petition raised by the Additional Solicitor General appearing for the ED. The Additional Solicitor General contended that the petition was premature since mere issuance of summons under Section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act did not give rise to any cause of action. The court observed that a person issued with summons was bound to attend in person or through authorised agents as the officer issuing the summons directs and was bound to state the truth on any subjects with respect to which he was examined or make statements and to produce such documents as might be required. The court said that there was no basis for the apprehension that the petitioner would be forced to give statements against his will inasmuch as the date for appearance was changed by the ED on three occasions, acceding to the request made by the petitioner.
18 December 2020||Kolkata,||Suvendu Adhikari quits Trinamool Congress||Suvendu Adhikari, among the tallest leaders of the Trinamool Congress, severed all ties with West Bengal's ruling party on Thursday by sending his resignation to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In another important development, Jitendra Tewari, MLA from Pandaveshwar in Paschim Bardhaman district, also quit the TMC. In a letter to Ms. Banerjee dated December 16, he said: “I am writing to tender my resignation as a member of All India Trinamool Congress as well as other positions held by me in the party and its associate organs with immediate effect”. While the leader did not specify reasons for his resignation, he thanked the party chairperson for “challenges and opportunities” presented by the party and noted that he would value his time spent as party member. The development ends months of speculation over Mr. Adhikari’s differences with the Trinamool Congress. Several senior party leaders had persuaded him not to leave. Mr. Adhikari’s resignation comes a day after he resigned as MLA and almost 20 days after he quit as Minister. Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee said there remained a status quo as regards Mr. Adhikari’s status as an MLA as the matter was still under consideration and the resignation had not been accepted. BJP State president Dilip Ghosh said Mr. Adhikari was welcome to join the BJP. The Trinamool Congress leadership said Mr. Adhikari was on the way to joining the very party [the BJP] that had played the Narada news sting videos of him ‘accepting cash’ in their party office and demanding his arrest. “We think his decision is out of fear, not love for the BJP,” TMC leader and spokesperson Kumal Ghosh said. After Mr. Adhikari’s resignation, a number of block and district-level leaders also came forward to tender their resignation from the party and the posts they occupied. During the day, Mr. Adhikari participated in a public event in Purba Medinipur district but refrained from making any political comments. Another party leader, Diptangshu Chaudhary, who was the chairman of the South Bengal Surface Transport Corporation, also resigned.
18 December 2020||SIDDIPET,||Online loan claims life of Telangana agri officer||In a shocking incident, K. Mounika (23), an agriculture extension officer (AEO), working in Siddipet district committed suicide by consuming pesticide on Monday night and she died at Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday night. She was a victim of instant loans being offered online. According to police, Mounika is staying Bharat Nagar in Siddipet town and took loan through ‘Snap It’ application. Due to personal reasons, she was unable to repay the loan and those who extended the loan called her and abused her. They also branded her as ‘loan defaulter’ and circulated her photo on social media platforms and WhatsApp groups. Family members of Mounika lodged a complaint with the One Town police demanding action against those running ‘Snap It’ App. “My sister Mounika working as AEO at Khata village took loan through Snap It App. As she was unable to pay, a representative from the company branded her as loan defaulter and send messages to all contacts in her phone. Unable the bear the insult, my sister committed suicide by consuming pesticide. We first took her to the government hospital at Siddipet and then shifted to Gandhi Hospital where she breathed her last. Please take action against those responsible for her death,” said the family members in a complaint lodged with the police. Police are checking the call data in Mounika phone and taking the legal opinion to proceed against those responsible for her death. Finance Minister T Harish Rao visited Mounika’s family and consoled them. This is not the first case of people becoming victims for online loan sharks. A few weeks ago, similar complaints were reported from Alladurg in Medak district and Patancheru in Sangareddy district though no suicide cases were reported.  Someone is always there to listen at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni : 040-66202000.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Deputy SP found dead in Bengaluru house||A Deputy Superintendent of Police with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) was found dead at a friend’s house in Annapoorneshwari Nagar on Wednesday night. The deceased, Lakshmi V., had gone to her friend’s house for dinner. The friend, Manu, who is a Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike contractor, told the police that there were two other guests in the flat when the incident occurred. Based on a complaint filed by Lakshmi’s father Venkatesh, the police have registered a case of suspicious death. “There are contradictory statements from her friends. We have seized their mobile phones for analysis while an FSL team is conducting a spot investigation to ascertain the cause of her death. We will wait for the post-mortem report,” said a police officer. The trio have been taken into custody for questioning. Senior officials visited Victoria hospital to supervise the post-mortem. “The body was taken to her home in Kolar for the last rites,” said a source. A 2014 batch officer of the Karnataka State Police Service, Ms. Lakshmi was appointed as a Deputy SP in 2017. This was her first posting.  (Those in distress or those having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph: 104 for help)
18 December 2020||Hyderabad,||OU engg. college gets extension of ISRO project||The Space Applications Centre (SAC) of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has renewed its Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for another three years on the “Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS) Receiver Field Trial and Data Collection”, a prestigious National Mission Project of ISRO. The project was given to the University College of Engineering in September 2016 for a period of two years initially. The MoU was based on the research project proposal by associate professor, Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE), P. Naveen Kumar. As per the MoU, state-of-the-art equipment IRNSS receivers were installed at ‘Advanced GNSS Research Laboratory’ (AGRL) in UCE. The receivers are used to evaluate the performance under various conditions before they are used for commercialised applications in mobile phones, aviation sector, transportation, and agriculture, among others. Dr. Naveen Kumar said that IRNSS system is also known as Indian GPS and was renamed as NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) by the Central government. This AGRL laboratory was inaugurated by former ISRO chairman A.S. Kiran Kumar in April 2017 during the centenary celebrations of OU. OU registrar Ch. Gopal Reddy congratulated the team.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka to reopen schools for Classes 10, 12||Schools in Karnataka are likely to resume classes on January 1 for X and XII students who are preparing for their board examinations. This was the recommendation of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), whose members met with officials from the Department of Health and Family Welfare and the Department of Primary and Secondary Education on Thursday to discuss the reopening of schools. In what appears to be a staggered approach to the reopening of schools, the committee said that after observing how these classes are conducted for two weeks, regular classes for students of IX and XI can be held from January 15 onwards. The committee has also recommended that the Vidyagama programme, which the government is set to re-launch on January 1, not be conducted for lower primary students (classes I to V). Under the new format, applicable to government, private and aided schools, students can come to campus in small batches and attend classes. The committee has however said that Vidyagama can be conducted for students of VI to IX from January 1 onwards. The government will, in all likelihood, follow these recommendations. “In our submission to the High Court, we have said that Vidyagama will be started from January 1 for students of I to X. But, we will in all probability follow the TAC’s recommendation,” a senior official of the Department of Primary and Secondary Education said. On Wednesday, the department issued an order for Vidyagama to be relaunched from January 1. The programme which began on August 8 was put on hold on October 10 after a few students and teachers who attended them allegedly contracted COVID-19. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar in a press release stated that a decision will be taken after consulting Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The Department of Primary and Secondary Education has said that students who have symptoms such cough, cold, and fever should not attend classes. Those children who have COVID-19-like symptoms cannot attend classes.The press release issued by the department states that once these students recover they have to bring medical reports before attending school. However, despite this, many private schools affiliated with the central board that The Hindu spoke to said that they will not conduct Vidyagama and will continue with online classes. “Once the State government issues an official order regarding this, we will consider conducting practical classes for X and XII students,” said the principal of a CBSE school in Bengaluru.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi Assembly passes resolution rejecting laws||He said the farmer laws were made to “fund” the BJP’s election campaigns. “More than 20 farmers have been martyred in the protest. I want to ask the Centre, how many more lives will you take before you listen to the farmers of the country? Each farmer has become a Bhagat Singh at the protest site,” he said. “These [agricultural] laws are not made for farmers, but for funding for the BJP to fight elections,” Mr. Kejriwal added, and later tore up copies of the farm laws inside the Assembly. Meanwhile, BJP MLAs opposed the resolution and Leader of Opposition and BJP MLA Ramvir Bidhuri said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had won multiple elections after the farm laws were notified, which was because of the laws. He also attacked the Delhi government for notifying one of the three farm laws in Delhi. “Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s government on November 23, 2020 notified one of the three farm laws [in Delhi]. And said that they will discuss the other two. If it’s a black law, then why did you notify it? We request a clarification on this from the Chief Minister,” Mr. Bidhuri said in the Assembly. The point was raised later in the day by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi, who called Mr. Kejriwal a “chameleon”, and indulging in “opportunistic politics”.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Mamata refuses to allow officers to go to Centre||The three officers are Inspector General (South Bengal) Rajeev Mishra, Deputy Inspector General (Presidency Range) Praveen Kumar Tripathi, and Diamond Harbour Superintendent of Police Bholanath Pandey. Ms. Banerjee said such a move before the elections was against “the basic tenets of the federal structure”. “This act is nothing but a deliberate attempt to encroach upon the State’s jurisdiction and demoralise the serving officers in WB. This move, particularly before the elections is against the basic tenets of the federal structure,” Ms. Banerjee tweeted. “We wouldn’t allow this brazen attempt by the Centre to control the State machinery by proxy! West Bengal is not going to cow-down in front of expansionist & undemocratic force,” the Chief Minister tweeted. The Union Home Ministry had summoned the West Bengal Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police (DGP) to participate in a meeting on the law and order situation in the State in New Delhi on December 14. The Chief Secretary wrote back to the Centre seeking an exemption from attending the meeting. Political parties in the Opposition, particularly the BJP, have been raising the issue of political violence, including killing of party workers regularly. The Union Home Ministry had on December 11 asked for the central deputation of the three IPS officers who were responsible for Mr. Nadda’s security on December 10. The State government refused to give its consent, following which the Union Home Ministry came out with an order sending the three officers on central deployment.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers have the right to continue protest: SC||“Yes, there is a protest that is going on... Yes, the protest is constitutional as long as it does not damage property and lives. It is an absolutely perfect protest. But their [farmers’] purpose cannot be realised if they continue to sit without talking,” the CJI observed. The court reiterated its suggestion of forming an “impartial and independent committee” of experts in agriculture to hear both the farmers and the Union government on the laws. “If their [farmers] protest has a purpose other than just to sit in protest, we are thinking of an independent committee before whom both sides can state their case while the protest goes on... The committee can give its opinion after hearing them. We expect parties [farmers and government] to follow the committee's opinion. Meanwhile, the protest will continue without causing violence or damage,” the CJI suggested. The court cautioned the government against trying to “instigate” violence. The CJI stressed that as fellow Indians, the judges too understood the farmers’ problems. But Attorney General K.K. Venugopal strongly objected to the farmers’ conduct. He said the farmers cannot corner the government into a ‘yes or no’ to their demand to repeal the laws. The government was ready for discussion on the laws. Senior advocate P. Chidambaram aid the farmers wanted Parliament to discuss amendments.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Strengthening ties with Bangladesh a priority: PM||He greeted Bangladesh on the occasion of the centenary of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. A joint statement issued at the end of the summit said that the filming of a biopic on Bangabandhu would begin under the direction of Shyam Benegal in January 2021. The document also pledged to name the road from Mujib Nagar to West Bengal’s Nadia as “Shadhinota Shorok”. It was in Mujib Nagar that a government in exile was formed in 1971. Mr. Modi accepted an invitation from Dhaka to be present at the 50th anniversary of independence of Bangladesh in March He reiterated that removal of obstacles to land connectivity and growing trade had changed the texture of India-Bangladesh relationship. The Chilahati-Haldibari rail link was last operational in 1965. Upgrade of the old lines was carried out before the inauguration. The two sides also concluded seven agreements covering areas such as hydrocarbon, High Impact Community Development Projects, elephant conservation, solid waste management, agriculture, and terms of reference of the India-Bangladesh CEOs forum. Ms. Hasina said, “Bangladesh has stepped into the 50th year of its independence. Our relations is also stepping into the 50th year. We have chalked out programmes for the entire coming year that will jointly mark our collaboration in the Liberation War”. Both sides agreed to hold an early meeting of the Joint Boundary Conference to prepare a new set of strip maps along the stretch of the Icchamati, Kalindi, Raimongol and Hariabhanga rivers from Main Pillar 1 to Land Boundary terminus. This exercise will help in fixing the international boundary on that stretch.
18 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Two Congress workers injured as man opens fire||An unidentified man opened fire at two Congress workers at Yamakanamaradi village in Hukkeri taluk of Belagavi district on Wednesday night, injuring them. One of them has been injured severely. The injured persons have been identified as Kiran Rajput and Bharama Doopadale. According to sources, Bharama Doopadale has received severe bullet injuries and is being treated in a hospital, while Kiran Rajput is said to be out of danger. The unidentified man, who had worn a face mask, opened fired at the two reportedly from a distance of around seven feet. The police suspected that the attack might be related to the ongoing gram panchayat elections. Yamakanamaradi Police, who have registered a case, have launched a manhunt for the assailant. Condemning the attack on the Congress workers, KPCC Working President and Yamakanamaradi MLA Satish Jarkiholi has urged the police to take up impartial investigation and arrest the accused at the earliest. Hacked to death In another case, a man was hacked to death at an open plot near Ambedkar Galli in Old Belagavi on Wednesday night. The deceased was identified as Jayapal M. Garani (35), a driver. According to preliminary investigation, a few friends reportedly took him away on Wednesday night and subsequently, he was found dead. Market Station Police have registered a case.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Siva reads our thoughts||Saint Thirumoolar refers to Lord Siva as Nandi in many verses of his Thirumantiram. His verses are part of the sacred Saivite literature known as Thirumurai. In the first thantram of his work, Thirumoolar establishes the supremacy of Lord Siva, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. Siva knows all the thoughts that arise in our minds. Nothing can be kept secret from Him. Yet there are many in this world who do not think of Him. While they do not focus their thoughts on Him, they are quick to complain that He has withheld His grace. The truth is that Siva is always with those who think of Him. To them, His grace is guaranteed, assures Thirumoolar. The hearts of His devotees are the temples where He likes to reside. It is wrong to say that He does not exist. One should have no doubts about His existence. Look at the marvels of the world. How can one explain them? The waves of the ocean dash against the shore, but they do not go beyond that. Who marked this as their boundary? It is none other than Siva. The mind misleads us, and we take the wrong path as a result. Keep the mind unwavering. This then will automatically lead us towards the right path. Thirumoolar says that he has no relative but Lord Siva. He calls out to the Lord to come to him. He says he will not hesitate to embrace Him when He arrives. Thirumoolar says that Siva is as indispensable to him as the linchpin is to a wheel. Siva has no birth. He is also deathless. He never turns away those who approach Him. If one worships Him, then one can get rid of ajnana. Forgetting Him is ajnana. Such a fate will never befall one who is devoted to Him. If one worships Siva, who is known as Nandi, He will walk into that person’s heart and reside there gladly.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Court orders release of Sudhakaran||The City Civil Court at Bengaluru, on Thursday, ordered the release of V.N. Sudhakaran, disowned foster son of J. Jayalalitha, who is in central prison of Parappana Agrahara since February, 2017. However, Sudhakaran has to remain in prison for some more time since he is yet to pay the fine amount. Murthy Rao, advocate for Sudhakaran, submitted before the court that he had served over 90 days in prison in Tamil Nadu before the case was transferred to Bengaluru. The family members are now busy arranging the fine amount to be paid in the court before getting the release orders from the court, Mr. Rao said.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||CWC refuses to take up preliminary appraisal of RLS||The Central Water Commission (CWC) has expressed its inability to take up even preliminary level appraisal for determination of techno-economic feasibility of Rayalaseema Lift Scheme (RLS) stating that the report submitted by the Water Resources Department of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose lacks “even the most basic and fundamental parts of any DPR.” In a latter addressed to the Engineer-in-Chief of WR Department of AP on December 16, Director of Project Appraisal (South) of CWC N. Mukherjee stated that they had received a proposal for RLS “to supplement 3 tmc ft water per day from Sangameshwaram (located on the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir, a joint water storage facility of Telangana and AP) to Srisailam Right Main Canal downstream of Pothireddypadu Head Regulator.” The proposal was submitted on November 16 through electronic Project Appraisal Management System (e-PAMS). Later, two hard copies of the proposal were also submitted to the Directorate on December 12. After going through the proposal, the Directorate observed: “On perusal, it emerges that in the 46-page report submitted, even the most basic and fundamental parts of any detailed project report (DPR) namely hydrology, inter-State matters, irrigation planning and design and cost estimate have not been covered.” Further, the Director stated that in view of lack of basic details in the proposal, the Directorate was not in a position to take up even preliminary level appraisal for determination of techno-economic feasibility of the project. The Directorate has suggested the ENC to refer “guidelines for preparation of DPRs for irrigation and multi-purpose projects 2010” available on the CWC website.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||India expects more talks with China||India on Thursday hoped that further discussions with China would help both sides reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement in all friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a media briefing that the two sides continued to maintain communication through diplomatic and military channels. On reports that at least one member of the Chinese Community Party was recruited by the Indian consulate in Shanghai, Mr. Srivastava said he was not in a position to independently verify it. To a media query, a Chinese Embassy spokesperson said the allegation was “groundless”.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Is Facebook lying to India, asks Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asked if Facebook is “lying” to India and its Parliament about the contents posted by members of the Bajrang Dal, a member of Sangh Parivar, on the social media platform. He took to Twitter to point out alleged contradictory positions taken by the company on Bajrang Dal contents. “Facebook US says Bajrang Dal content is offensive and should be banned. Facebook India tells our Parliamentary panel that Bajrang Dal content is not offensive. Is Facebook lying to India and its Parliament?” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. He tagged the screenshot of an investigation carried out by The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) last week in which it mentioned how supporters of the Bajrang Dal in June had posted videos of an attack at a Pentecostal church in Delhi. On Wednesday, however, Facebook India’s head Ajit Mohan and the company’s Public Policy head, Shivnath Thukral, told the Parliamentary Committee on Information Technology that contents did not violate their policies and did not necessitate a ban.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Absolute distress due to pandemic’||Business and industry sectors, seeking an extension of moratorium or even waiver of interest on loans, told the Supreme Court on Thursday that the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) must collect empirical data on the financial stress caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate Ravindra Shrivastava, representing one of the petitioners, said there was a need for a calibrated policy to be implemented under the Disaster Management Act. Resolution of financial debts cannot be left solely in the hands of individual banks and their policies, he submitted in his rejoinder. Absolute distress was prevailing at the moment... Huge profits being made by banks, he submitted. The court reserved the case for judgment.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nod for six early warning IAF aircraft||The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) on Thursday approved procurements worth Rs. 28,000 crore, which include six additional Airborne Early Warning and Control (AEW&C) aircraft for the Indian Air Force to be designed and developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation. “An earlier proposal to develop two bigger early warning aircraft based on Airbus A330 aircraft has now been converted to six AEW&C platforms mounted on Airbus A-320 aircraft which will be procured from Air India,” a defence source said. “The A320s, which are already with us, will be converted by Airbus based on the requirements, and this will save on overall cost of the project,” the source stated. The project was expected to be completed in six years. These platforms would be much more capable than the existing Netra AWE&C aircraft, offering 360 degree coverage, the source added.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases on the decline after marginal increase for 2 days||After marginal increase in COVID-19 cases in Telangana for two days, the number of positive cases detected in a day is on the decline again. Despite comparatively high number of tests, less COVID-19 cases were detected from December 1. However, experts suggested to use sero surveillance, and sewage surveillance, to ascertain if the virus is declining, or if it is the same as earlier months. Facts speak Comparison of the data from September will help to know the declining trend in numbers mentioned in media bulletin issued by the State Health department. In September, when 51,000 to around 60,000 people were examined in a day, over 2,000 were diagnosed with coronavirus. From December 1 to 16, 48,000 to around 56,000 samples were examined in a day, and barring December 7 and 8, the daily cases did not cross 650. On December 7 and 8, 682 and 721 positive cases were identified, which is a marginal increase compared to other days of the ongoing month. Thereafter, cases started to decline again. However, experts said that method adopted to test the samples is important. The State Health department uses Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) and RT-PCR to detect coronavirus. However, the break-up of tests between the two methods is not mentioned in the media bulletin. Director of CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) Rakesh Mishra had earlier said that since sensitivity or Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) is low (50% to 60%) compared to RT-PCR, we may not detect all cases using RAT. Sero surveillance can be used to ascertain if the cases are on decline, or, if the situation is otherwise. In sero surveillance, antibodies against the virus present in a particular number of people are the measures to estimate the prevalence. The CCMB director also suggested sewage surveillance to know the prevalence.  Figures Speak In Sept., when 51,000 to around 60,000 people were examined in a day, over 2,000 were diagnosed with coronavirus.  From December 1 to 16, 48,000 to around 56,000 samples were examined in a day, and barring December 7 and 8, the daily cases did not cross 650.  On December 7 and 8, 682 and 721 positive cases were identified.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Two potential missile-linked items seized in 2019-20||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, the Customs and domain experts recently seized two items possibly linked to missiles, says the Smuggling In India Report 2019-20 of the DRI. One was a consignment of chemicals that could be used as missile propellant. The second seizure was an auto-clave.
18 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||2 armed intruders shot along Pakistan border in Amritsar district||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Thursday shot down two armed Pakistani intruders along the Pakistan border in Amritsar district of Punjab. An official statement said the BSF troops also seized three packets of contraband of approximately 3.25 kg, suspected to be heroin.
18 December 2020||Srinagar,||Hizbul militant injured in gunfight, arrested||A jawan of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and a Hizbul Mujahideen militant were injured in two incidents in south Kashmir on Thursday. The police said the militant, Zaheer Abbas Lone, a resident of Pulwama, was arrested during an encounter, while the jawan was injured in a grenade attack.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,||CM launches Bengaluru Mission 2022||The projects taken up under Bengaluru Mission 2022 for upgrading the city’s infrastructure to address the growing population and number of vehicles will receive budgetary allocation and will be reviewed every six months for progress, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said here on Thursday. A task force will be set up to supervise the projects. “There will be no shortage of funds and adequate provision will be made in the ensuing Budget,” Mr. Yediyurappa told presspersons here after launching Bengaluru Mission 2022. Projects have been identified in four key areas — mobility, clean Bengaluru, green Bengaluru, and digital services — to improve infrastructure, environment, and government services over the next two years. According to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) administrator Gaurav Gupta, the four key areas for development were taken up after identifying eight pressing issues in the city. “All the projects are achievable, discussions with change leaders have been held, and partners have been identified. Some projects that have long gestation may take a little longer. A task force will be set up to monitor the work,” he said. Simultaneously, there will be other projects taken up by the BBMP and other civic agencies, he added. To a question on accountability in progress of work, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “I assure you that the project’s progress will be reviewed once every six months. I will inspect the projects every six months.” Explaining the mission, Mr. Gupta said, “Over the past 30 years, the number of vehicles has increased four-fold while open space in the city is 78% lower than the prescribed standard. Nearly 65% of the city’s population is under the age of 35 and is tech-savvy. For them, public services need to be digitalised.” Lacking in specifics While Mr. Yediyurappa promised adequate funding through budgetary provisions, when asked about the quantum of funds required, the officials did not provide any specifics. Additional Chief Secretary Rakesh Singh said, “Finances are connected for all the projects. The State and Union governments will fund the projects.” Many of the projects that were announced as part of the mission also lacked specifics, and some of them were old projects brought into the mission now. Projects will also be taken up under the public-private partnership model. Asked if the government had all the details on raja kaluve encroachments, Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar said that on the 800-km stretch of raja kaluves , about 2,500 encroachments have been identified and about 1,500 encroachments removed. “Removal of the rest of the encroachments was stopped because of a court order and COVID-19. The High Court has now permitted their removal,” he said. On the status of whitetopping of roads, Mr. Gupta clarified that what has been started will be completed, while new whitetopping projects would be reviewed.     Over the past 30 years, the number of vehicles has increased four-fold while open space in the city is 78% lower than the prescribed standard. Nearly 65% of the city’s population is under the age of 35 and is tech-savvy. For them, public services need to be digitalised Gaurav Gupta,BBMP administrator
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||Drugs case: NCB issues notice to Karan Johar over viral video||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has issued a notice to Bollywood filmmaker Karan Johar over a viral video allegedly showing drugs being consumed at a party at his house last year, NCB sources said on Thursday. The notice has been sent to Mr. Johar to check the video’s veracity, an NCB official said. The Central agency is conducting an anti-drugs probe that began in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year. The video, which also shows several top stars, is being investigated as part of the NCB’s probe, the official said.
18 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Another farmer dies during protest||A farmer from Tungwali village in Punjab died on Thursday during the ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws in Tikri (Delhi-Bahadurgarh border). The 37-year-old Jai Singh was declared brought dead at Bahadurgarh civil hospital. “Initially, for doctors who attended to him in the emergency department, it appeared to be cardiac arrest. However, the final cause of death would be ascertained after the post-mortem report,” Sanjay Dahiya, chief medical officer of Bahadurgarh government hospital, told The Hindu . “I woke him [Jai Singh] around 4 a.m for tea, but he didn’t respond. After routine work [ seva ], we had slept in the makeshift tent,” said Viker Singh, a farmer. Jai Singh is survived by his wife and three children. He owned a two-acre plot in his village, said Viker Singh. He had joined the protest at the border on December 15.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Modi condoles death of Nawaz Sharif’s mother||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has condoled the death of Shamima Akhtar, mother of former Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif. In a letter on December 11 to Maryam Nawaz, Mr. Modi expressed his “heartfelt condolences”.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India ranks 111 out of 162 countries on personal freedom index||A global ranking of personal, civil and economic freedom released on Thursday placed India at 111 out of 162 countries. The Human Freedom Index 2020 ranked India 110 in terms of personal freedom and 105 on economic freedom, with an overall score coming to 6.43 out of 10.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC decision in Kunal Kamra case today||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it would pass orders on Friday on pleas to initiate contempt proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra and cartoonist Rachita Taneja for scandalising the court and the highest judiciary with their tweets. “Heard [the petitions]. We will pass orders tomorrow,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan said.  In the case against Mr. Kamra, law student Shrirang Katneshwarkar’s counsel Nishant Katneshwarkar submitted that his tweets were scandalous.  Appearing for the petitioner against Ms. Tameka, senior advocate P.S. Narasimha said there was a clear opinion from the Attorney General that her cartoons intended to undermine the judiciary.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||India in contact with Chinese authorities on stranded sailors in 2 ships||The Indian Embassy in Beijing is in contact with the Chinese authorities on the condition of the Indian sailors on board bulk cargo vessel m.v. Jag Anand and m.v. Anastasia, stranded in the Jingtang and Caofeidian ports for several months.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru/Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Bengaluru court orders release of V.N. Sudhakaran||The city civil court in Bengaluru on Thursday ordered the release of V.N. Sudhakaran, the disowned foster son of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, who has been in the central prison at Parappana Agrahara since February 2017 in a disproportionate assets case. Jayalalithaa’s former close aide and Sudhakaran’s aunt V.K. Sasikala and her sister-in-law Ilavarasi are the co-convicts. However, Sudhakaran has to remain in prison for some more time since he is yet to pay the fine imposed by the trial court. Murthy Rao, advocate for Sudhakaran, submitted before the court that he had served over 90 days in prison in Tamil Nadu before the case was transferred to Bengaluru. Since the imprisonment was for the same case, it was concurrent, and the number of days of the sentence should be reduced. The family members were busy arranging the fine amount to be paid in the court, Mr. Rao said. The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption had accused Jayalalithaa and the other three accused of having entered into a criminal conspiracy and accumulated movable and immovable assets worth Rs. 66.65 crore (revised to Rs. 53.6 crore by the trial judge), disproportionate to their known sources of income, during 1991-96. The trial was conducted by a special court in Chennai and then transferred to Bengaluru on the Supreme Court’s order. In September 2014, trial judge John Michael D’Cunha convicted Jayalalithaa and the other accused and sentenced them to four years in jail and imposed a penalty on them. The following year, the Karnataka High Court acquitted all. But in February 2017, the Supreme Court upheld the trial court’s verdict. Since Jayalalithaa had died, it held that the charges against her would abate.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Motorists fall in line at ‘zero traffic violation’ junctions||All vehicles at Spencer Plaza signal could be seen stopping behind the stop line on Wednesday. The policemen stationed at the junction took aside motorists without helmets and told them to follow traffic rules for their own safety. This is one of the four ‘zero traffic violation junctions.’ Anna Arch, Madhavaram roundtana and Thiruvanmiyur junction are the other three. At these junctions, 10 police personnel from the traffic wing and 10 more from the Armed Reserve and Tamil Nadu Special Police would be deployed everyday from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. to educate motorists about traffic rules and road safety. To make it comprehensive, the grids have been painted and CCTV cameras have been made functional. Signboards displaying the rules have been put up. Later this week, the police will start levying fines on rule breakers. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal had been inspecting these junctions every day since the launch of the project last Saturday and had given various instructions to improve the road traffic system, sources said. Ensuring compliance Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic, N. Kannan told The Hindu , “The objective is to ensure compliance of traffic rules voluntarily. Previously one or two policemen were posted at these junctions and they were unable to nab the hundreds of violators. Now, we have more strength in the junctions to identify violators. We are not punishing them at these junctions. We are trying to make them realise their mistake and giving them an opportunity to correct themselves.” “After a week, we will begin penalising them and thereafter will extend similar junctions to other areas,” he added. Viewing the menace of riding in triples and rash driving by youngsters seriously, the Chennai traffic police, along with the law and order wing, will nab those who create a ruckus on city roads. Mr. Aggarwal has issued necessary instructions to the law and order units to take strict action against youth who indulge in triple riding.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||210 students of colleges in five southern zones test positive||At least 210 students of colleges in five southern zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) have tested positive for COVID-19 in recent days. The results in respect of 2,361 of the 6,344 students who have been tested are yet to be received by officials of the 15 zones of the GCC. GCC Commissioner G. Prakash said 3,773 students had so far tested negative. While around 200 students in the Adyar zone have tested positive, in Valasaravakkam only five cases have been reported. A student each from Alandur and Perungudi have tested positive, while in Sholinganallur, three students have been infected. Colleges in the 15 zones sent more samples on Thursday. Most zones sent over 1,000 samples. GCC officials were focusing on testing in colleges that reopened partially recently. When officials visited a college at Periamet, students were not on the premises as classes were being conducted only online. The 40 teachers who were present tested negative. GCC officials on Thursday inspected the colleges and directed them to close all recreation rooms. “We have asked the colleges to increase the timings of canteens to prevent crowding. Colleges should focus on physical distancing,” said an official. Isolation rooms Colleges have been asked to keep two isolation rooms ready in hostels for students with symptoms. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said public health officials would focus on an information, education and communication-driven approach instead of a target-driven approach in colleges. “Testing of all students may not be required for all the places. The management should take the lead. Most of the colleges have around 30% attendance. They should ensure that the Standard Operating Procedure is followed to prevent the spread of COVID-19,” he said. A GCC official said no fresh clusters were reported from any college.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State logs 1,174 new infections, 11 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 1,174 new cases of COVID-19 and 11 deaths on Thursday. Of these, Chennai accounted for 342 cases, including two imported ones, followed by Coimbatore with 120. A majority of the remaining districts — numbering 24 — registered under 20 cases each. With the fresh cases, Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 8,03,615. Another 1,214 persons were discharged after treatment. Till date, a total of 7,81,745 persons have been discharged from various facilities and 11,942 persons have died of the infection. In Chengalpattu, 76 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while Tiruvallur and Salem reported 59 and 58 cases respectively. There were 50 cases in Tiruppur, 47 in Erode and 41 in Kancheepuram. The least number of cases were reported in Ariyalur and Perambalur, both recording one new case each. Six returnees — three from Kerala and one each from Delhi, Karnataka and Jharkhand — tested positive for the infection in the State. As of date, 9,829 persons, including 3,054 in Chennai, 1,064 in Coimbatore, 560 in Tiruppur and 510 in Chengalpattu, are under treatment for COVID-19. Of the fatalities, Chennai recorded four. Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Madurai, Salem, Theni, Tiruvallur and Tiruvannamalai reported one death each. All of the deceased were aged 60 and above. One of them — a 60-year-old from Madurai — did not have co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on December 11, and died on December 15 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. As many as 75,532 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,32,35,354. One more private laboratory — the Gem Laboratory in Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. There are now a total of 233 testing facilities in the State — 67 government laboratories and 166 in the private sector.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Double whammy for MTC, post lockdown||Since its inception in 1972, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) said it had never faced such unprecedented levels of low occupancy as recorded during the COVID-19 period. Being the city’s only public bus operator, the MTC had gained the confidence of the masses. More than 35 lakh people travelled daily before the COVID-19 pandemic struck, leading to the shutting down of services from March 25 to September 1. The MTC had a healthy average of 60% to 65% occupancy rate before the pandemic struck. Amidst the pandemic, the government permitted the operation of 200 buses for the transportation of essential and government staff.  Low occupancy Though normal services resumed on September 1 with safety guidelines, the confidence level among commuters reached the nadir with the occupancy rate registering 14% at one point and averaging at 10 lakh passengers per day. The MTC is going through a crisis of sorts, including poor occupancy, loss of public confidence, financial constraints and operating buses, and to top it all off, one-third of the fleet has been kept idle due to a lack of commuter strength. Regular commuters pointed out that the MTC had become an undependable transport operator. The transport corporation was criticised in the past for scrapping a number of regular bus routes citing poor patronage, irregular operation of buses against scheduled timings and stoppage of multi-modal small link buses. A comparison of the data before and during COVID-19 presents a clear picture of MTC’s current situation. The body pays an average of Rs. 100 crore as salary and wages per month. It has sustained expenses of over Rs. 450 crore towards salary alone without operating buses for five months (April to August), leading to mounting financial losses. A senior official of the MTC, confirming the poor patronage level, said the occupancy rate had improved from 30% in October to 41% in November. Raghavan, a resident of Nanganallur, said thousands of commuters from localities like Keelakattalai, Madipakkam, Moovarasampet, Ullagaram-Puzhithivakkam and Adambakkam, depended on bus services to reach their offices, as there were no other public transport facilities. Private transport After the lockdown was relaxed, owing to the absence of bus services people have begun switching over to private transport. He said, “At present only a few buses including 18R (Nanganallur to Broadway) and 45V (Nanganallur to Ice House) are operated at a frequency of two hoursI have started using my two-wheeler to reach the Metro station at Guindy.” While the State government announced allowing 100% occupancy of passengers in MTC and the seven State Transport Undertakings (STUs) from Monday, commuters pointed out the relief measure was too late for people to switch over from their private vehicles. Sivasubramaniam, of ITDP India, said the Karnataka government operated the public buses including air-conditioned buses during the peak COVID-19 period, boosting the confidence of the commuters. M. Shanmugam, president of the Labour Progressive Front (LPF) and the transport trade union affiliated to the DMK, said more than 7,000 of the eight STUs, including 1,000 buses of the MTC, could not be operated because of non-payment of road tax. He said the STUs should create confidence among the public by operating more buses, as keeping the buses idle would serve no purpose. A senior official of the State Transport Department denied that the MTC could not operate the full fleet because of non-payment of road tax and added that poor patronage was the actual reason.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pipe laying work begins at Nemmeli desalination plant||Earlier this week, Metrowater started laying a 49 km-pipeline to carry water from the under construction desalination plant in Nemmeli to various areas till Pallavaram. Like many others, the pandemic has affected the progress of the project to build a third plant in Nemmeli. The Rs. 1,259.38 crore project to build another desalination plant along East Coast Road may get delayed by a few months beyond its December 2021 deadline. In a bid to complete the project on time, the agency is constructing the plant, with a capacity to treat 150 million litres of seawater daily (mld), and is laying the distribution pipeline simultaneously. Preliminary work “We have laid the pipeline for about 150 m so far at Nemmeli after preliminary work in the past few days. It will carry treated seawater till Akkarai where an underground sump is under construction. We plan to provide additional water supply to areas such as Thiruvanmiyur, Injambakkam and Velachery through this network,” an official said. The pipeline’s diameter will vary between 1,200 mm and 1,400 mm. It will travel through areas such as Kalaignar Karunanidhi Salai, Sholinganallur and Medavakkam to reach Pallavaram. Treated sea water will be supplied to several localities such as Nanmangalam, Keelkattalai, Moovarasanpet and St.Thomas Mount and also IT industries. Nearly 9 lakh people are expected to benefit from the new project partly funded by the German Development Bank KfW. About 10% of the work had been finished so far to construct the plant in the 10.5-acre space on the same premises in Nemmeli that has the 100 mld plant, the official said. At present, only 50 mld is being treated and distributed from the existing plant as Metrowater was drawing more resources from reservoirs for city supply. While JWIL Infra Limited, New Delhi, has been engaged for pipeline laying work, Cobra Spain-Techton Engineering would build, operate and maintain the plant for two decades. Four units Of the 20 treatment units planned in the new facility, work is on to build four units, including sumps to store seawater, clarified water and treated product water. A concrete batching plant is also being set up now. The new plant will have additional pre-treatment units such as dissolved air flotation and ultra-filtrationThe production cost of the treated water has been worked out to Rs. 42 per kl. Officials said they aimed to complete the project by March 2022.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Menstrual Hygiene Programme extended to urban areas||Sanitary napkins will be provided for adolescent girls in urban areas and women in-patients in government medical institutions under the State government’s Menstrual Hygiene Programme. The scheme that covered adolescent girls in rural areas has been extended to the urban areas as well. The Menstrual Hygiene Programme was initially implemented for adolescent girls in rural areas. First extension Then it was extended to cover post-natal mothers in government hospitals, women prisoners and female in-patients of the Institute of Mental Health, Chennai. According to a Government Order dated December 9, the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine sent a proposal for extension of the programme to the urban areas and scaling it up to cover women in-patients in 781 government medical institutions. As per the proposal, sanitary napkins will be procured for adolescent girls in the age group of 10 to 19 years in the urban areas at a cost of Rs. 34.74 crore, and for women in-patients in government hospitals, including 24 medical college hospitals, 31 district headquarters hospitals and 271 sub-district hospitals, at a cost of Rs. 9.41 crore through the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation. Following this, the government approved the extension of the scheme to adolescent girls in urban areas and women in-patients in the reproductive age group of 15 to 49 years at a cost of Rs. 44.15 crore. The sanitary napkins will be delivered directly to government schools for adolescent girls. The urban health nurse will go to the ICDS centre every Saturday and along with the anganwadi workers distribute the products to those who are not covered by government and government-aided schools.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prosthesis, rehabilitation at KMC helps teen regain mobility||Rehabilitation has helped a 19-year-old gain back mobility after he underwent below the knee amputation of both legs more than a year ago. After being confined to a wheelchair, the teenager, who received a custom-made prosthesis at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, has got near-normal movement with the help of training. Prathap, a resident of Sithathur Thirukai village, Kandamanadi post in Villupuram district, was electrocuted and sustained injuries to both his legs and chest in March 2019. He was referred from the government hospital in Villupuram to the Department of Plastic Surgery of KMC, where he underwent bilateral below knee amputation and was confined to a wheelchair, according to P. Vasanthamani, dean of KMC. He was later admitted and rehabilitated under the Comprehensive Amputee Rehabilitation Programme of the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. This was covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. The rehabilitation process involves psychiatric consultation and prescription of prosthesis by taking into consideration the functional ability, exercise capacity, age, occupation, prosthetic demands, energy expenditure and potential of the patient, assessment of complication and comorbid conditions during hospital stay, Dr. Vasanthamani said, in a press release. A below-knee prosthesis was readied for him. Physiotherapy played a crucial role in the rehabilitation and included stump care, exercise to improve strength and range of motion of the existing limb. Presently, he was able to carry out his daily activities independently and was looking forward to resuming his education, the dean said.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City’s 139th police station opened at Perumbakkam||The 139th police station in the city — S-16 Perumbakkam — was inaugurated by City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal at the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements at Perumbakkam. After the inauguration, Mr. Aggarwal inspected the arrangements at the station, which functions out of the 91st block of the tenements. Vast area Before the station was opened, residents of the locality were served by the S-10 Pallikaranai station, which was started in 1987. The area under the station was vast, with a dense population. People living on the banks of the Adyar and the Cooum were shifted to the newly constructed eight-storey tenements. So far, 75,000 people have been resettled in 21,000 houses. Therefore, Mr. Aggarwal said, there was a need for bifurcation of the Pallikaranai station limits and for the creation of a new station to handle the workload effectively. “Accepting our recommendation, the government ordered the creation of a new station,” he said. With the formation of the new station, the workload of the Pallikaranai station would be reduced, and special attention would be paid to areas attached to the new station to prevent crimes. The station will function under the upervision of the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Madipakkam range. Places in the panchayats of Perumbakkam and Sithalapakkam and adjoining areas, such as Arasan Kazhani, Nookampalayam and Sankarapuram, have been brought under its jurisdiction. Inspector Ranjithkumar has been posted as the Station House Officer. Residents can share their grievances with the inspector through the mobile numbers 9840619597 and 9498143067.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Idol Wing CID probes alleged theft from Thiruvattar temple||Officers of the Idol Wing CID have started an investigation into the alleged theft of carved stone pillars from the Adikesava Perumal Temple at Thiruvattar in Kanniyakumari district, which is one of the 108 Divyadesams. A senior officer said, “Following information about the theft of stone pillars, we conducted a preliminary investigation. It revealed that an attempt was made to remove four antique pillars with carvings between 1992 and 1995. Of the four, two pillars were removed and stolen from the temple. They were illegally transported to Chennai.” “Now, we have formally registered a case and intensified the investigation into the theft. We have also zeroed in on the whereabouts of two pillars and will seize them soon,” the officer said. The temple is famous for its beautiful sculptures and ‘Otraikkal Mandapam’, made of a single stone, three feet thick. The ancient temple has a great heritage value, having inscriptions, copper plates, sculptures containing the temple history. The temple was handed over to the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department, Tamil Nadu, after the reorganisation of States. Last year, a Nagercoil court convicted 23 persons of the charge of theft of gold ornaments, precious stones and a diamond crown from the temple.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Will the AIADMK front see a change in composition?||The ruling AIADMK, which has been reiterating its stand that the composition of the alliance, formed by it at the time of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, is intact, is also receptive to the idea of taking more allies. Though a cross-section of leaders of the party does not state publicly the factors influencing their organisation’s thinking, they are not oblivious to recent developments, such as veteran actor Rajinikanth’s decision to launch his party in January and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan’s outreach to the former. A few days ago, D. Jayakumar, Fisheries Minister and the party’s organisation secretary, went on record, stating that even some parties from the DMK alliance might cross over to his party’s camp. K.P. Munusamy, deputy coordinator, when asked about the possibility of more parties joining the AIADMK-led front, replied that “circumstances and time would determine the situation.” On Wednesday, Chief Minister and party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami made it clear that “none of the parties [allies during Lok Sabha polls] have left us.” Yet, the question regarding the retention of the current combination of the AIADMK-led front keeps coming up in public discourse, time and again, in the absence of an assertion by some of the major allies of the AIADMK, in this regard. Even BJP State unit president L. Murugan, who said the relationship with the AIADMK continues, pointed out that the national leadership would take a call on the alliance and seat sharing for the Assembly election. No assertions As far as other major allies are concerned, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) and the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) have not made any categorical statements regarding the continuance of the alliance. DMDK treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant was reported to have said at a party meeting, recently, that the party’s position would be finalised at the general council meeting, to be held in January. The Puthiya Tamilagam (PT), another ally of the AIADMK at the time of the Lok Sabha poll, is apparently not satisfied with the State government’s decision of recommending the retention of seven castes within the list of Scheduled Castes, and the provision of a generic name to the castes, if the post of its president K. Krishnasamy, on his Facebook account, is any indication. PT, which has been agitating for the deletion of the castes from the SC list, is, however, yet to spell out its stand in the Assembly election. As for the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar), the party seems to be sticking to its tie-up with the ruling party.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Haj pilgrims worried about new set of rules||Haj pilgrims in the State are worried about the new set of rules of journey to the birthplace of Prophet Mohammed in August 2021. The last date for submitting application forms for the journey is said to be January 10, 2021. Arif Ahmed, a resident of T. Nagar, who planned to make the trip in 2020, had to drop the idea because of the pandemic. “I then thought I could go in the coming year but we hear that the cost has more than doubled and with business being down this year, I just cannot afford it. The stay has become costlier due to their insistence on star category,” he said.  Age restrictions Haj group organiser and Millath Haj Services CEO Fathima Muzaffer said the journey per head was likely to cost close to Rs. 5 lakh instead of the usual Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh. “We hear that there are age restrictions too, meaning senior citizens aged above 60 cannot go. But usually seniors form a large chunk of travellers. This journey is an once-in-a-lifetime thing and the prohibitive cost would mean lesser numbers can only travel,” she said. Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah said that the Centre had reduced the number of boarding points and had removed Chennai from the list. “They are stating COVID-19 as a reason. If all these people flock to Kochi, it would only crowd that place. The government should increase the number of boarding points,” he said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami recently wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre to reconsider it’s decision to remove Chennai from the list of boarding points. The Centre’s decision would cause inconvenience to Haj Pilgrims from the State, the Chief Minister said in his letter.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC rejects plea of wind, solar energy developers||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has rejected the appeal by wind and solar energy developers to roll over the time-frame for adjusting excess power generation. Under normal circumstances, wind energy consumers utilise the power generated from their captive power plants and bank the unutilised energy every month which is carried over till the end of March of a financial year. At the end of the financial year, the unutilised banked energy is sold to Tangedco at 75% of applicable tariff fixed by TNERC. In case of wind projects commissioned from April 1, 2018, the banking facility is for a period of one month. In case of solar power, the unutilised energy is sold at 75% of applicable tariff at the end of each billing period. In three separate petitions, New Delhi-based National Solar Energy Federation of India, Coimbatore-based Southern India Mills Association and Dindigul-based Tamilnadu Spinning Mills Association had sought relief in terms of extending the period of banking the energy as they could not utilise the energy due to the lockdown imposed to curb COVID-19. TNERC also noted that Tangedco’s revenues have also been affected by the pandemic. Economic distress “When the whole country has been suffering economically, particularly weaker section of the society and every citizen is sharing the economic distress of the nation proportionate to their standard of living, it is not only unreasonable but unconscionable and unethical on the part of the petitioners to claim such benefits involving public exchequer as in the prayer specially when the Commission has already allowed them to pay 20% minimum demand charges during the pandemic period,” TNERC replied.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Port Trust official booked on graft charges||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked an official of the Chennai Port Trust on charges of taking Rs. 97 lakh from a retired employee after promising a job for his son. In his complaint, N. Devaraj, 63, of Vyasarpadi, who retired as a senior technician in the Hindustan Petroleum, said he met the official, K. Poobathy, on a train journey four years ago. Introducing himself as the personal assistant to the chief engineer, CPT, he promised to get the job of assistant traffic manager to the complainant’s son. However, he said a sum of Rs. 1 crore would have to be paid for getting the job. Believing in his words, the retired employee gave Rs. 97 lakh to Mr. Poobathy from his savings, retirement benefits, and mortgaging gold/property documents, by way of cheque and cash in December last. When the job offer was not forthcoming and the accused official evaded phone calls or personal meetings, the complainant suspected foul play. The complainant also alleged that in February this year some persons claiming to be associates of Mr. Poobathy threatened him to give in writing that all his money was returned. It was after this that Mr. Devaraj realised that he was cheated and lodged a complaint with the Chief Vigilance Officer of the CPT which resulted in the interim suspension of the accused. Besides receipts of cheque payments, cash transactions, and mortgage documents, Mr. Devaraj also submitted audio conversations in support of his complaint. The CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch registered a case against the accused under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Preliminary enquiries revealed that Mr. Poobathy was designated as personal assistant to the Deputy Chairman but was working as PA to the chief engineer. CBI officials conducted searches on the premises of the official at three places in Chennai and seized 22 incriminating materials/ documents.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Frame of Mind’ film fest today, tomorrow||The ninth edition of “Frame of Mind”, a film festival aimed at raising awareness on mental health-related issues, organised by the Schizophrenia Research Foundation will be held on December 18 and 19. According to a press release, the winners of the competitive section of this event that was conducted on the theme “Coping with the new normal - Mental health during COVID times” will be announced on December 19 at 7.30 p.m. Cinematographer Rajiv Menon will announce the winners. As many as 100 entries were received for the event, both from within and outside India. During the festival, the 13 shortlisted films will be screened. Two panel discussions will be held. On the first day, a discussion on the film House Owner , which deals with the challenges in taking care of a person with dementia, would be held. The second day will see discussion on the “Portrayal of mental health professionals in regional cinema, in recent times — its impact on public attitude”. Registration link for Frame of Mind 2020 ishttps://zoom.us/ webinar/register/ WN_FdB8J-DGQa22Zx5yw_OY6A For details, call 9444027388 / 9677116059.  As many as 100 entries were received for the event. During the festival, the 13 shortlisted films will be screened
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nagaswarams made of stone still in use||The Thanumalayan temple at Suchindram in Kanniyakumari district, the Nellaiappar temple in Tirunelveli and the Polinthunindrapiran temple in Alwarthirunagari have stone pillars that can produce music. But the artisans of ancient Tamil Nadu went a step further and produced a nagaswaram made of stone. There are two such nagaswarams — one in the Adi Kumbeshwarar temple in Kumbakonam and another in the Alwarthirunagari temple. “We do not have details about when the instruments were made,” said historian Kudavasal Balasubramanian. The instrument is similar to the ‘timiri’, or the shorter version of the nagaswaram, that was used before Thiruvavaduthurai T.N. Rajarathinam Pillai designed the ‘paari’ version of the nagaswaram. “The uzhau — the middle pipe of the instrument — is made of stone. The front portion, known as the anusu or the volume enhancer, and the end portion where the reed is fit while playing are made of brass,” said Swaminthan, the nagaswaram player at the Kumbeshwaran temple. He also plays the stone nagaswaram. But unlike other nagaswarams, the stone nagaswaram only has six holes. “When we handle this instrument, we consciously choose particular scales and ragas conducive to its structure and body,” Mr. Swaminathan said. “For instance, we take time in the lower octaves and often choose ragas with the prati madhymam, or the sharper variant of the note ‘ma’, like in Kalyani , Shanmugapriya and Panthuvaralai, ” he added. Though it is a rare instrument, there is no particular occasion during which the instrument is played. “The last time I played the instrument was in 2017 during Saraswathi puja ,” said Mr. Swaminathan. “The actor Prabhu had once visited the temple and wanted to listen to the instrument as his father Sivaji Ganesan, a connoisseur of music, had told him about the instrument. I played it for him then,” said Mr. Swaminathan.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MBBS management quota counselling from tomorrow||Counselling for admission to MBBS/BDS courses under management quota will be held from December 19. According to the schedule released by the selection committee, Directorate of Medical Education, the counselling would be held on December 19 and 21 to 23 at the Nehru Outdoor Stadium, Periamedu. Candidates can download the call letters for counselling fromwww.t nmedicalselection.organdwww.tnhealth.tn.gov.in. No individual calls letters would be sent. Candidates should produce a demand draft payable at Chennai for Rs. 1,000 drawn in favour of ‘Secretary, Selection Committee, Chennai-10’ at the time of counselling as processing fee. Those who are selected should pay Rs. 1 lakh as registration fee by means of demand draft only at the time of receipt of allotment order. After receipt of joining report from the deans of the respective colleges, this amount would be transferred to the colleges. Tentative vacancy position would be displayed in the two websites. Following representations from candidates, the selection committee has postponed the counselling for NRI candidates to December 18. The counselling was scheduled to be held on December 17.
18 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Haj pilgrims worried about new journey rules||Haj pilgrims in the State are worried about the new set of rules for their once-in-a-lifetime journey to the birth place of Prophet Mohammed in August 2021. The last date for submitting filled-in application forms for the journey is said to be January 10, 2021. Arif Ahmed, a resident of T. Nagar, who had planned to make the trip in 2020 had to give up the idea due to the pandemic. “I then thought I could go this coming year but we hear that the cost has more than doubled and with business being down this year, I just cannot afford it. The stay has become costlier due to their instance on star category,” he said. Haj group organiser and Millath Haj Services CEO Fathima Muzaffer said that the journey per head is likely to cost close to Rs. 5 lakh instead of the usual Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh. “We hear that there are age restrictions too, meaning senior citizens above 60 cannot go. But usually seniors form a large chunk of travellers. This journey is an once-in-a-lifetime thing and the prohibitive cost would mean lesser numbers would only travel,” she said. The Manithaneya Makkal Katchi president M.H. Jawahirullah said that the Centre had reduced the number of embarkation points and had removed Chennai from the list. “They are stating COVID-19 as a reason. If all these people flock to Kochi, it would only crowd that place. The government should increase the number of embarkation points,” he said. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had recently written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the Centre to reconsider it's decision of removing Chennai from the list of embarkation points. He said it would inconvenience Haj Pilgrims from the State.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Mini Clinics to be opened in 44 more locations in the city||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch 44 Amma mini clinics in various parts of the city shortly. The civic body has already launched mini clinics in Vysarpadi, Royapuram and Mylapore. The Corporation is planning to take up work on the development of mini clinics in 44 locations at an estimated cost of Rs. 5 crore. Funds are expected to be released by the Health Department for the purpose, according to officials. Each of the zonal officials have been asked to identify suitable buildings for development of mini clinics to offer services for poor residents at a walking distance. The mini clinics will have a doctor, a nurse and additional staff member from 8 a.m. to noon and 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. A senior official of the Corporation said the new mini clinics were planned to be launched by the end of this month. At least 200 mini clinics were proposed for the city by the government. The number of mini clinics to be developed in the next phase would be finalised soon, the official said. Recruitment of doctors and nurses would also begin shortly. Officials said the number of patients who visited the mini clinic in Vysarpadi crossed 70 on Thursday. Mini clinics in Mylapore and Royapuram reported over 50 patients. The services are offered for free.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers want clarity on syllabus||Teachers from State Board schools have called for an announcement to be made at the earliest about the specifics of the portions that are to be reduced from the syllabus. The Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association, in an appeal to School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, sought clarity on the reduced syllabus, at least for senior classes at the earliest. “While we welcome the announcement about the syllabus reduction, better clarity on the same will ensure that students who are taking up the board exams will not have to wait till the last minute. An announcement regarding the portions which have been deleted will also give students better direction and make them more serious about their preparations,” said P.K. Ilamaran, association president. The government had announced in June that a committee would be looking into the reduction of the syllabus.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CPI(M) meet discusses poll preparation||The CPI(M) State executive committee met on Thursday and discussed preparations for the upcoming Assembly elections and farmers’ protest among others. “We are holding a meeting after nine months. We discussed our poll campaign and preparation of manifesto,” said State secretary K. Balakrishnan.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM writes to PM on release of fishermen||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday seeking his personal intervention and direction to the Ministry of External Affairs to secure the release of Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu held by Sri Lankan Navy. Frustration In his letter, Mr. Palaniswami said that on December 14, 36 Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu belonging to Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts, along with five mechanised fishing boats, were apprehended by the Sri Lankan Navy. “The Sri Lankan strategy of not releasing the boats of our fishermen is causing great frustration amongst the fishermen of Tamil Nadu,” he said and sought the Prime Minister to urgently intervene in the issue.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held under POCSO Act||The All-Women police, Villivakkam, on Thursday arrested a 23-year-old man for allegedly raping a minor girl. The police said the victim was 17 years old and was studying in Class X. She went missing on December 11. On a complaint from her mother, the police traced her to Salem where she was staying with a youth. The police arrested the offender, identified as Vimal alias Vimalraj, 23, of Karumalai Koodal, and learnt that he had befriended the victim over social media. He took her to his native place after promising to marry her. Then he allegedly raped her. The police rescued the girl. The offender was booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and was remanded in judicial custody.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TTV urges CM to hand over land for AIIMS||Expressing shock over reports that the State government had not handed over land for the the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai, to the Centre, yet, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Thursday called upon Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to ensure that the land is immediately given to the Union government. In a separate tweet, Mr. Dhinakaran wanted district central co-operative banks to extend the tenor of jewel loans to one year, from the existing six-month window. The AMMK leader made the demand in the light of the current loans’ tenor expiring by the end of this month.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Cancelling winter session condemnable’||DMK Parliamentary party leader T.R. Baalu on Thursday said it was unacceptable that the BJP government had unilaterally cancelled the winter session of the Parliament, without consulting the DMK, the third largest party in the Parliament. “It a matter of great concern that the BJP government was not ready to hold the session, at a time vital issues, including the farmers’ protest and the deteriorating relationship between India and China are staring at the country,” he said. In a statement in Chennai, he said the decision to cancel the session on the pretext of the pandemic was highly condemnable.
18 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM writes to PM seeking fishermen release from Sri Lanka||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday seeking his personal intervention and direction to the Ministry of External Affairs to secure the release of Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu held by the Sri Lankan Navy. Mr. Palaniswami in his letter said on December 14, 36 Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu belonging to Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts, with five mechanised fishing boats, were apprehended by the Sri Lankan Navy. “The Sri Lankan strategy of not releasing the boats of our fishermen is causing great frustration amongst the fishermen of Tamil Nadu,” he said and sought the PM to urgently intervene in the issue.
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former PWD engineer to supervise work on Jayalalithaa memorial||The Tamil Nadu government has appointed a retired Superintending Engineer from the Public Works Department as a Special Officer, on a temporary basis, to monitor and co-ordinate the construction of a memorial for former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the Marina. The government announced on Thursday that it had appointed R. Pandiarajan for a period of three months on contractual basis. The appointment was made after the Engineer-in-Chief, Water Resources Department, and Chief Engineer (General), PWD, stated that there was an emergent need for a specialist or expert in the field of construction, who had retired from the PWD to monitor and look after the project for three months since the work had to be completed within the stipulated period.
18 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||India will regain fastest-growing economy status: Venkaiah Naidu||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday expressed confidence that India will regain the position of “fastest-growing emerging economy” in 2021 despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Delivering the 41st convocation address at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) in Coimbatore, he noted that the agriculture sector performed well during the lockdown even while other sectors were affected. The area under cultivation and the food grain production for the kharif season had seen an increase this year notwithstanding the COVID-19 crisis, he said. “Let us not let the impact of COVID-19 dampen our spirits and thoughts for tomorrow,” Mr. Naidu told the graduands. Common market Growing population, land degradation, changes in consumption pattern and climate change were some of the major challenges that agriculture faced, he said. Stressing the need for a “common market” for farmers, he gave the example of the electronic National Agriculture Market (eNAM). “Farmers must be allowed to sell their produce anywhere they like,” Mr. Naidu said, adding that institutions such as Parliament, NITI Aayog and the media must pay more attention to agriculture and address its problems. “The need of the hour is to make agriculture climate-resilient, profitable and productive, while ensuring food and nutritional security to millions of people,” he said. He commended TNAU for adopting technologies such as genome editing and nano-technology for crops and called for a “technology-led sustainable agricultural development”. Food production Governor of Tamil Nadu Banwarilal Purohit, who is the Chancellor of the University, administered the pledge for the graduands and awarded medals to 10 of them for excellence in academics, during the ceremony. Minister for Higher Education and Agriculture K.P. Anbalagan, who is the pro Chancellor of TNAU, noted in his address that Tamil Nadu’s foodgrain production exceeded 100 lakh tonnes six times in the past eight years. Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan and TNAU Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar were also present at the ceremony. TNAU officials said that 2,942 graduands received their undergraduate, postgraduate, Ph.D and open distance learning degrees on Thursday. This included 1,385 graduands attending in person and 1,557 in absentia. The ceremony was organised at the Play Ground Stadium on the university premises as per the COVID-19 precautionary measures.
18 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Governor advises residents to continue wearing masks||Governor Banwarilal Purohit made an unplanned stop near Selvapuram, en route to Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) here, to interact with the residents. According to police sources, Mr. Purohit visited the Patteeswarar Temple in Perur on Thursday morning, following which his convoy was heading towards TNAU, where he was scheduled to attend the annual convocation. At around 11 a.m., he asked the convoy to stop at Indira Nagar near Selvapuram. The Governor then proceeded to interact with the local shop owners and residents outside the shops. After making general enquiries, speaking in Tamil and English, he requested them to continue wearing masks and adhering to physical distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Purohit then boarded his car as the convoy headed to TNAU, the sources said. Mr. Purohit’s interaction with the residents lasted less than five minutes and was entirely unscheduled, the police sources noted. Upon landing in Coimbatore on Thursday morning for the convocation ceremony, Mr. Purohit first visited the temple in Perur. He left the temple within 30 minutes, the sources added.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Manufacturers have revised prices, say traders||At a time Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore have accused local traders of revising prices of raw materials on a daily basis, the latter are blaming manufacturers of revising the prices regularly. The traders added that commodity prices are up internationally and this is resulting in higher manufacturing costs. A steel trader said the price of steel products has risen over 25% in the last four or five months. The steel manufacturers cited increased input costs for the upward revision. The prices can be controlled only with the intervention of the government and policy level decisions on exports, etc., he said. The local traders normally have one to two month stocks and sell to customers on credit, which goes up to three months. Industrial demand for raw materials has gone up since most of the units exhausted the inventory with them in March. So, after lockdown relaxations, when industrial activity picked, they had to purchase raw materials. For the traders, manufacturers have increased prices twice or thrice a month too and some manufacturers sell at the point of production it self. "When the demand is high and supply is tight, the traders tend to increase prices," he said. In the case of bearings, China has hiked prices by nearly 30 %. While domestic manufacturers have not gone in for major revision, they are expected to do so shortly, said a trader. Another major raw material affecting the engineering and construction sectors is PVC. There are just 10 to 15 globally major players and some of them stopped production because of the spread of COVID-19. They are just resuming operations. Hence, globally, there is shortage in availability of PVC and it has led to higher costs, the trader said.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industry associations to form consortium for purchase of raw materials||Industry associations in Coimbatore that have members in the engineering sector have decided to form a consortium for purchase of raw materials directly from the manufacturers in bulk. This was decided at a meeting held by the associations here on Thursday with government officials and representatives of SAIL and Vizag Steels. A press release from Coimbatore District Small Industries Association (CODISSIA) said that following the steep hike in raw material prices in the last few days, the units were unable to sustain production. Hence, it was decided on Thursday to form a consortium. This will benefit the units in the long-term too. The associations have been asked to talk to the member units and submit details of the raw material requirements within three to four days. “We will pool the requirement data, with specifications, talk to the manufacturers, and source the raw materials in bulk. It will be distributed through the SIDCO yard. The National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) will provide bank guarantee,” M.V. Ramesh Babu, president of the Association, told The Hindu . The CODISSIA plans to sign an agreement with SAIL to take forward this proposal, he added. The industries also submitted their demands to the District Industries Centre, which will present it to the State government. The associations sought re-introduction of the system of allocation of raw materials to MSMEs at subsidised prices as done earlier through nodal State government distribution systems. The SAIL yard here should be re-opened, the associations said. Meanwhile, the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations decided that its members will support the indefinite shutdown of small foundries here by participating in the strike next week, if it continued.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two Amma Mini Clinics opened in Coimbatore||Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani on Thursday opened two Amma Mini Clinics here at Nesavalar Colony near Singanallur and Sivananda Colony. Mr. Velumani said the Chief Minister introduced Amma Mini Clinics for people from economically weaker sections in villages and urban areas to have easy access to healthcare. The clinics, offering free checkup and medication for various ailments and health conditions, were also aimed at reducing the money and strain people bore and the time they spent to access healthcare services, he said. A total of 70 Amma Mini Clinics have been allotted for Coimbatore district, including five mobile clinics. The two Clinics opened on Thursday are among the seven clinics that will become functional within the Corporation limits in the first phase. Rural parts of the district will get 30 clinics in the first phase. A clinic will have a doctor, nurse and a health worker. The clinics will function from 8 a.m. to noon and from 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. in villages and town panchayats. The evening service will be extended to 8 p.m. in clinics within the limits of municipalities and Corporations. Mr. Velumani also gave away nutrition kits to 11 antenatal mothers at the events.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SIMA-CDRA focuses on coloured cotton seed development||The Southern India Mills Association - Cotton Development and Research Association (SIMA-CDRA) has ventured into development and multiplication of coloured cotton seeds and is promoting cultivation of Extra Long Staple (ELS) cotton. R. Ravichandran, Director of Veejay Yarns and Fabrics, who is the newly-elected chairman of SIMA-CDRA, said the Central Government is looking at increasing production of high quality ELS cotton, organic cotton and naturally coloured cotton under the AtmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan Scheme. The research team of the association is also gearing up to develop various cotton seeds to mitigate the challenges of Bt cotton, herbicide, water scarcity, etc. Shakthi BT and SIMA Platinum, developed by the association, were certified recently and are ready for commercial multiplication. The SIMA -CDRA, the CITI-CDRA, and the Cotton Corporation of India have successfully conducted ELS cotton trials in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu and plan to expand the area. The association has also identified farmers and areas to multiply the pure organic cotton under contract farming the next season and some of the leading textile mills have come forward to venture into the pilot project. Further, the SIMA-CDRA has already developed brown colour and green colour cotton seeds and brown colour cotton seed is ready for commercial multiplication. Naturally coloured cotton will be organic and an ultimate solution for textile processing. The naturally coloured cotton will also be more skin-friendly. With sustained physical and chemical properties, it will have tremendous market opportunities, he said. He appealed to the Centre to launch the Technology Mission on Cotton 2.0 at the earliest. G. Venkatramachandran, Managing Director of Laven Technoblend, and S.K. Sundararaman, Managing Director of Shiva Texyarn, were elected Deputy Chairman and Vice-Chairman respectively for the year 2020-2021 at the annual meeting of the association. Outgoing chairman R. Elango said the SIMA-CDRA has supplied 199.925 tonnes of ELS cotton seeds to Cotton Corporation of India for distribution to farmers in Tamil Nadu through the State Agriculture Department. The association has also entered into an agreement with the Cotton Development Organisation and National Agricultural Research Organisation of Uganda to share technical know-how in improving cotton production, farm practises, farmers’ earning, etc in Uganda and improving the gin out turn in India. This initiative is supported by International Trade Centre through its SITA Project (Supporting Indian Trade and Investment for Africa).
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man trampled to death by elephant||A 63-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant in Coimbatore district late on Wednesday. The Forest Department has identified the deceased as M. Somasundaram from Mariamman temple road at Chinna Thadagam. He is the 17th person to have been killed in the attack of wild elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division this year. Officials with the Department said Somasundaram had been working as a security guard with a hollow block manufacturing unit at Varapalayam. The incident took place when Somasundaram was heading to the hollow block unit on his bicycle on Pannimadai - Varapalayam road around 9 p.m. on Wednesday. As he reached Sri Nagar, he had an encounter with a wild elephant which crossed the road. “The elephant pushed Somasundaram and trampled him. He died on the spot,” said a forest official. People who heard the man’s cries found him dead and alerted the Forest Department which in turn informed the Thadagam police station. The body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. The frontline staff of the Forest Department tracked down the elephant and drove it back to the nearest forest.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. places cage to trap leopard near Sirumugai||The Forest Department has placed a cage to trap a leopard that has been frequenting villages near Sirumugai in Coimbatore district. The trap was placed near Chennamalai Karadu, a hillock inhabited by small animals and surrounded by villages within the limits of the Sirumugai forest range, on Wednesday evening. D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer of Coimbatore Forest Division, gave the nod to place the trap after people complained to the Forest Department that a leopard had been frequenting their villages. D. Senthil Kumar, Forest Range Officer of Sirumugai range, said a goat belonging to a farmer was attacked by a carnivore three days ago and the carnivore was identified as a leopard from the bite mark. Also, many people claimed to have spotted the leopard on the move in villages including Karattumedu and Arivoli Nagar. According to Mr. Kumar, Chennamalai Karadu, which comes under Odanthurai beat of Sirumugai range, is home for small animals including spotted deer. The Forest Department had captured a male leopard from the locality in August 2018 and a female leopard in June 2019. Both animals were released within the limits of the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve.
18 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘No ideology can exist apart from Left and Right’||On actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s centrist approach, CPI State Secretary R. Mutharasan asserted on Thursday that only two ideologies – the Left and the Right – could exist in politics across the world. Participating in a two-day CPI State Committee meeting held at Tiruppur, Mr. Mutharasan told mediapersons anyone could form a political party, but there could not be a third ideology. He added that a vehicle could not travel in the middle of the road at all times, which would lead to accidents. Mr. Mutharasan condemned the attack on Dharmapuri MP S. Senthilkumar by the PMK cadre at Nathamedu on Wednesday. Further, Mr. Mutharasan alleged that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was forced to support the three farm laws due to political pressure.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for chain snatching||The Kattoor police arrested a 27-year-old man who snatched a gold chain of a woman at Gandhipuram here on Wednesday. The arrested has been identified as M. Ruban of Tiruvannamalai, who has been residing at Bharathi Nagar near Kavundampalayam. The police said the man snatched 1.5-sovereign gold chain of M. Sivagami (45) of 9th street at Gandhipuram. The accused followed the woman when she was walking to her workplace around 5.30 a.m. on Wednesday. Though he man managed to snatch her chain, he was caught by onlookers. They handed him over to the Kattoor police. In another incident, S. Prabhu (20) of Krishnagiri district was caught by the public while trying to run away with a mobile phone he snatched from a man at Saibaba Colony on Wednesday. The police said the accused snatched the mobile phone of B. Gowtham from Thoppampatti who works as an ambulance driver in a private hospital on Narayana Guru Road. He was handed over to the Saibaba Colony police.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Injured Egyptian vulture rescued||An injured Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus), one of the nine vulture species found in India, was rescued by a Zoology student from a place near Sulur in Coimbatore district recently. The sub-adult vulture, right wing of which had a fracture, was shifted to the aviary of the Forest Department in Coimbatore for care. C. Vijayakumar, a third year BSc Zoology student of Kongunadu Arts and Science College, Coimbatore, rescued the injured vulture from Sri Kumaran Nagar at Pappampatti near Sulur on December 13. He took the vulture to R. Venkitachalam, assistant professor with the Department of Zoology at Kongunadu College, who did his PhD on vultures. “Egyptian vulture is an endangered species as per the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. Its population has declined in India due to usage of Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on cattle,” he said. According to him, juvenile and sub-adults of Egyptian vulture are known for taking long flights from their preferred habitats. The veterinary team of the Forest Department has taken an X-ray of the fractured wing to examine the injury and decide on the treatment.
18 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||The TiE, Coimbatore, has invited start ups to register and pitch their ideas at The Pitch to be held on January 8 and 9 as part of Coimbatore Vizha Festival 2021. The Pitch, 2021, is co-hosted by TiE Coimbatore, NativLead ,CII - Young Indians, and PSG STEP. The last date for registration is December 25. For details, log on tohttps://forms.gle/vqa6kkPvX41QwXjt5    The PSG College of Arts and Science and AIC-NIFT TEA Incubation Centre for Textiles and Apparels signed a Memorandum of Understanding recently. The aim is to develop innovative products in the sector and help students identify problems faced by the industry and arrive at solutions. The incubation centre also provides seed capital to select start-ups. The centre will also conduct awareness camps for students on the facilities available. The centre has signed agreements with several universities too.     The Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI), New Delhi, has signed an agreement with Bharathiar University under the “ICSI Academic Collaborations”. As part of the programme, an online panel discussion was organised on the topic “Strategic Plan for Implementation of NEP in Universities and Professional Institutes”. According to a release, the objective of the MOU is to bring together the efforts of the two institutions to impart knowledge and hone the skills of students, academicians and professionals of both the institutions. Ashish Garg, president of ICSI, said the agreement would promote executive education programmes. P. Kaliraj, Vice-Chancellor of Bharthiar University, said the MoU would help develop the skills of students.    The South India Hosiery Manufacturers Association has appealed to the government to fix minimum support price for cotton based on quality. In a memorandum to the Centre, it said the spinning mills should have uniform and stable price for yarn. Similarly, the Cotton Corporation of India should sell cotton at a fixed rate to retail and bulk buyers.
18 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Officials told to cooperate with Public Accounts Committee||The government-appointed committees comprising elected representatives should be taken seriously by officials especially heads of departments, said S. Durai Murugan, Chairman, Public Accounts Committee, here on Thursday. The committee held a review meeting at the Collectorate. Collector M. Vijayalakshmi and senior officers were present. The members were MLAs T. Udayasuriyan, R. Natraj, P.T. R. Palanivel Thiagarajan, T.R.B. Raja and Assembly secretary K. Srinivasan. Mr. Durai Murugan said the committee toured the districts at periodic intervals and reviewed the works. The officials must be very careful as they were handling public money and were accountable to the committee. He urged them to cooperate with the committee in detailing the works undertaken. The officials should participate in the meeting and give the details to the members during inspection, he said. Later, the committee members inspected a new building coming up at a Kallar Reclamation School in Chennamanaickenpatti near here at a cost of about Rs. 1 crore with NABARD funds. Dindigul MP Velusami, MLAs R. Chakrapani, Andi Ambalam and I.P. Senthil Kumar and DRO K. Govindaraj were present.
18 December 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Restriction on digital payment irks visitors||The restriction of paying entry fee to Rock Fort, an important tourist attraction in Dindigul district, through digital payments irks tourists and visitors. The Rock Fort, which was closed to the public for the past nine months since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, was reopened to the public on Wednesday. Although many visitors were eager to visit the Rock Fort, the introduction of digital payment as the only option to buy entry ticket causes inconvenience to the visitors. The digital payment option was introduced in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many of the visitors do not have either smart phones or digital payment options on their phones. Even though the ticket fare was reduced from Rs. 25 to Rs. 20, many visitors were unable to enter Rock Fort due to the restriction of digital payment option. Currently, elderly persons, children and pregnant women are not allowed inside the Rock Fort in view of the pandemic. All visitors are allowed only after they undergo thermal scanning and disinfect their hands.
18 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Labour Welfare Board introduces online payment facilities||The Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board has introduced online payment facilities for organisations to remit contributions towards Labour Welfare Fund. A press release said that the board was constituted for the implementation of various labour welfare schemes for the workers and as per Section 2 (d) of Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972, employees working in factories, motor transport undertakings, plantations and five or more employees working in the catering and shops or establishments should contribute for the fund. The employee share is Rs. 10 while the employer’s share is Rs. 20. Hence, a sum of Rs. 30 per employee should be paid towards Labour Welfare Fund in Form-A, for the year 2020 on or before January 31, 2021. The release said that payment of contribution to the fund is mandatory under Section 15 of Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act, 1972, and online payments can be made atwww.lwb.tn.gov.inor through demand draft, drawn in favour of “The Secretary, Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board, Chennai - 6”, and should be sent to the Secretary, Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board, Teynampet, Chennai 600 006.
18 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Forest watcher, volunteer trampled to death at STR||A forest watcher and a volunteer were trampled to death by a wild elephant at the Vilamundi forest range in the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) on Thursday. The incident took place at 4.30 p.m. in the Singamalai forest area, near Thengumarahada, when a six-member team, comprising forest guard Ponganesh, forest watcher Satheesh Kumar, volunteer Prabakaran and three anti-poaching watchers (AWPs), were involved in a survey. The elephant chased the team and trampled Satheesh Kumar and Prabakaran to death. Ponganesh suffered injuries. Officials alerted The other staff alerted senior officials. An ambulance shifted Ponganesh to the Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam, where he is undergoing treatment. The deceased were shifted to the hospital for post-mortem. The six-day survey began in all the 10 forest ranges of the STR on Thursday, in which over 300 forest staff, volunteers and college students are participating.
18 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Undisclosed income of Rs. 700 crore detected||The Income Tax Department on Thursday detected Rs. 700 crore in undisclosed income and seized Rs. 21 crore in unaccounted-for cash at the end of searches on the premises of a construction company in Erode and Chennai. Nearly 30 officials of the Income Tax Department carried out the searches from December 14 on the offices of Sri Pathy Associates Private Limited, located on Thangaperumal Street at Kallukadaimedu, and on the houses of its three directors. An official statement, without naming the company, said the searches were carried out on 15 premises. The group is a leading civil contractor for government works. It specialises in erecting seawalls. It is also running bus transport services and marriage halls and making food masala.  The release said the group inflated the purchase and other expenses, and the inflated payments, made to the suppliers and sub-contractors, were received back in cash. The unaccounted-for income was invested in real estate and business expansion. The directors had admitted to having an undisclosed income of Rs. 150 crore.  The I-T Dept. carried out the searches from December 14 on the offices of Sri Pathy Associates Private Limited
18 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Seeman receives copies of charge sheet in 2008 case||Naam Tamilar Katchi chief coordinator Seeman appeared before the Judicial Magistrate Fast Track Court here on Thursday and received copies of the charge sheet in a case related to making inflammatory speech in support of banned Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam while addressing a public meeting here in 2008. On December 14, 2008, Tamil Desiya Pothu Udamai Katchi, led by its general secretary Maniarasan, organised a meeting in which Mr. Seeman and Periyar Dravida Kazhagam president Kolathur Mani participated. The then Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.V. Thangkabalu claimed to support the LTTE and also spoke against the sovereignty and integrity of the country. A complaint was lodged with Karungalpalayam police who registered a case under Section 13 (1) b of The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 and under Section 505 (creating rumours against the state and army) of the IPC. The three were arrested and lodged at prison. The judge had asked Seeman, Kolathur Mani and Maniarasan to appear in the court on December 17 to receive copies of the charge sheet. The three appeared before the court and received the copies of the charge sheet. The judge S. Vadivel asked them to appear in the court on January 5, 2021.
18 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Increase number of seats in medical colleges: MP||Krishnagiri MP A.Chellakumar has called for admissions to the upcoming new 11 government medical colleges with borrowed infrastructure of government headquarters hospitals of their respective districts until full infrastructure was in place. The State government plans to open 11 medical colleges in Ramanathapuram, Krishnagiri, Virudunagar, the Nilgiris, Dindigal, Namakkal, Tiruppur, Thiruvallur, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur and Kallakuruchi. These medical colleges are only in their construction stage. According to Dr. Chellakumar the government should announce admissions to the medical colleges for 2021-22 in these new colleges. For the initial period, the students can avail government headquarters hospitals for learning. This would help rural students from government colleges to aspire for medical colleges in their districts, the MP has said in a statement. He also called upon the government to increase the number of seats in medical colleges to 250 each, in all private and government medical colleges that have fewer seats here in the State. In a press release, the Congress MP has called for increasing the number of seats in private and government colleges that were currently operating between 100 and 150 in the State. According to Dr. Chellakumar, there were four government medical college hospital in the State with 250 seats each. There are nine government colleges, including Annamalai University medical college with 150 seats each. Apart from this, there are 13 medical colleges in the State with only 100 medical seats. Of these, 15% of the seats are reserved for all India quota students. According to the MP, the government should increase the number of seats in MBBS and BDS courses in such private and government medical colleges to 250 each. This would enable access to medical education for students from government schools
18 December 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||‘7.5 % quota for govt. school students an achievement’||Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan distributed renewed licenses to nursery and primary schools of three districts here on Thursday. Nursery and primary schools form Krishnagiri, Salem and Dharmapuri, whose school licenses needed renewal, received their licenses. Over 232 nursery and primary schools had their licenses extended for another period of three years. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sengottaiyan said the AIADMK-led State government had passed the 7.5% quota for government school students in medical education, which was a feat. Further, over nine students from government schools in Krishnagiri had gained admissions to medical colleges this year. According to the Minister, NEET coaching offered by the government had enabled students to take the exams with adequate coaching. Collector V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy and officials were present on the occasion.
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Why atomic minerals were not tapped: HC||Taking cognisance of an advocate commissioner’s report, who submitted that there was substantial percentage of atomic minerals present along the Tamirabarani river, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the State to carry out an inspection and preserve sand or mineral excavated from the river. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the presence of atomic minerals like Garnet, Ilmenite, Rutile, Zircon, Leucoxene, Sillimanite, Kyanite and Monazite in the Thamirabarani river was detected way back in 1942-43 during the British regime, yet no steps were taken by the government to tap the minerals, the court said. The court observed that the Atomic Minerals Concession Rules was enacted in the year 2016, thereby allowing the erosion of such valuable minerals for the past 75 years. The advocate commissioner K. Kalaivanan who has also served as a geologist submitted that the atomic minerals can be regulated only by the Central government. The court suo motu impleaded the Centre: Secretary to the Department of Atomic Energy, the Director of the Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research and the State: Secretary to the Industries Department and the Secretary to the Public Works Department. The court sought a response from the newly impleaded respondents. Any mineral or sand or whatever excavated from the Thamirabarani river, even for construction purposes shall be preserved till the inspection and a report is filed in the case, the judges said. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Balakrishnan of Thoothukudi district who sought a direction to the authorities to prevent illegal sand mining in the river. After the counsel representing the petitioner submitted before the court that the petitioner faced life threat and was intimidated to withdraw the petition, the judges directed the Thoothukudi Superintendent of Police to provide adequate police protection to the petitioner. The case was adjourned till December 21 for further hearing.
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaigai water flows through Nilaiyur channel||Water from the Vaigai is being discharged through the Nilaiyur channel and is filling tanks in southern part of the district. The rising water level in tanks is helping farmers who have undertaken cultivation of paddy and banana. A senior Public Works Department official said that water was being released through the Nilaiyur channel since Sunday. “Currently, a total of 450 cusecs of water is being discharged through the Nilaiyur channel,” he said. Out of the 22 tanks that receive water through the channel, in 16 tanks the water level is around 90% of their total capacity. “The water level in the remaining tanks is now around 50% of their total capacity. The district received good rainfall which also helped to improve the water storage levels in the tanks,” he added. All these tanks which are part of the old Vaigai system have an ayacut area of around 4,500 hectares. Water will be released through Nilaiyur channel for a total of eight days, he said. Nilaiyur, Madakulam and Thenkal tanks are some of the major tanks that are being filled up through the Nilaiyur channel. The PWD is constructing a bed dam at Kodimangalam to store water and supply to Melamathur, Thuvariman and Madakulam tanks. “Once the bed dam is constructed, the dependence on Nilaiyur channel for supplying water from the Vaigai will reduce,” said the PWD official. Due to rapid urbanisation most of the tanks have lost their ayacut area, said K. Rajendran, a farmer from Tirupparankundram who is the district secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers' Association. “So, tanks like Madakulam and Thenkal are considered important to improve the groundwater level in residential areas of the city,” he said. The recharge of groundwater table will also help to improve the water level in wells through which cultivation is undertaken in many parts of the old Vaigai system, said Karunanidhi, a farmer undertaking cultivation near Nilaiyur tank. Over the years, many farmers have shifted from cultivating paddy to banana cultivation due to lack of availability of sufficient water, he added. “Most farmers are dependent on water from wells to cultivate banana,” said Mr. Karunanidhi. But, many of the tanks in the Vaigai old ayacut are plagued by a number of issues. At Thuvariman tank, indiscriminate sand mining has lowered the level of the tank by several metres, resulting in dysfunction of supply channels even when the flow is normal, said N. Murugesan, president of Thuvariman Farmers’ Association. “It is important to remove encroachments inside the water spread area of the Madakulam tank”, said N. Prabhakaran, a farmer from Madakulam. “The officials must conduct a survey and based on it they must identify the boundary of the tank,” he added.
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SI aspirants file writ appeal||A group of Sub-Inspector of Police aspirants preferred a writ appeal before the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday against a single bench order that had concluded that the Indian currency was devalued thrice since 1947. The single bench had directed 0.5 marks be awarded to two petitioners who had challenged the expert committee’s answer: four times. The contention was the answer to the question: How many times the Indian rupee was devalued since 1947 ? that was asked in Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board examination. While in the preliminary answer key it was given out as three times, in the final answer key it was given out as four times by the expert committee. The single bench hearing the writ petition filed by two SI aspirants had held that the expert committee apart from the devaluation of the currency thrice has also taken into account the demonetisation of (Rs. 500 and Rs. 1000) currency in 2016. Therefore, the expert committee had concluded that the answer was four times instead of three times, the single judge had observed. The appellants who had answered the question as four times appealed against the order of the single judge and sought permission to take part in the interview that was scheduled to commence this week. The court was informed that the interview for the selection to the post of Sub-Inspector of Police would go on for three weeks. In order to bring a conclusion to the issue, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi suo motu impleaded the Ministry of Finance as a respondent in the writ appeal in order to ascertain the facts. The judges adjourned further hearing till December 21.
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Honour appointment given by courts: HC||Emphasising the need to follow a certain discipline and a reasonable timetable, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday observed that the Bar and the litigants need to realise that every time courts give a posting for hearing their case, it is an appointment given to them that should be honoured and made use of. Justice N. Seshasayee asked as to whether they would miss their appointment with their physician. It is time they realised courts are doctors of injured rights. When litigants do not miss a train, plane, social events, examination or interview, what makes them believe that their appointments with courts alone should figure least in their priorities. The institution of courts are available for remedying a wrong done to the right for the justly aggrieved. The courts do not invite the litigants to its premises, but merely make a remedial forum available and keep their doors open to those who seek remedy. It is an invitation by appointment for those who have a reason to access the courts for justice, the judge said. It is their choice. But, once approached they need to follow certain discipline and reasonable time table. Is it a problem of inadequate professionalism of the Bar or plain irresponsibility of the litigants or the unmindful generosity of courts that they themselves chose not to take the appointments that they have given the litigants seriously? the judge asked. The courts may not be solely responsible for this, but it cannot seek an exemption either. With pain it has to be stated that for the sin of a section of the Bar and the litigants, courts are forced to carry the cross all alone, struggling to explain the delay for the disposal of cases to the citizens of the country all the time, the judge said. Also, taking into account that procedural laws have its inherent elasticity and flexibility to accommodate multi various circumstances, the judge observed that courts cannot afford to assume a disciplinarian attitude and obstruct litigant’s aspiration for securing justice. Watch, weigh and value may be a reasonable approach for balancing justice in individual cases. “May the Bar and the litigants be now told firmly, but not impolitely, that the appointment which the courts give them is as precious as an appointment a physician gives his patient, for the courts are doctors of bleeding rights”, the judge said while dismissing a civil revision petition of a litigant who had wasted considerable time of a civil court The court was hearing the petition filed by Fathima of Madurai who had challenged the order of the Principal District Munsif Court, Madurai. The court observed that the trial judge reasoned how the petitioner had abused the appointments. The attitude of the petitioner was plainly and painfully nonsensical and somewhere the game had to end, the court said.
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Inspector convicted on corruption charges murders wife, ends life||S.P.S. Perumalpandian, a former Inspector who was part of the vigilance and anti-corruption wing in Madurai and was recently convicted on charges of corruption, ended his life after murdering his wife Uma Meenakshi near Sellur on Thursday. According to police sources, Perumalpandian hit his wife with a hammer on her head in their house near Thathaneri. The police found him dead in the house as well. The couple has two sons. On Monday, the Special Court  for Trial of Cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act here sentenced Perumalpandian to three-year rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 on him. Another accused, Namachivayam, was also convicted in the case, and was sentenced to two-month simple imprisonment, with a fine of Rs. 2,000. Perumalpandian was arrested by a special team of the vigilance and anti-corruption wing from Tiruchi while he was accepting Rs. 1.2 lakh as bribe from an individual in a disproportionate assets case.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)   He was arrested while he was accepting Rs. 1.20 lakh as bribe, from an individual, in a disproportionate assets case
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Inspector convicted on corruption charges murders wife, ends life||A former Inspector, part of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption wing in Madurai, S.P.S. Perumalpandian, who was recently convicted on charges of corruption, allegedly committed suicide, after murdering his wife Uma Meenakshi, near Sellur on Thursday. According to police sources, Perumalpandian, a 1996-batch Sub-Inspector of Police, hit the head of his wife with a hammer in their house near Thathaneri and then hung himself to death. The couple have two sons - a graduate and a boy studying in 9th standard. On Monday, the Special Court  for Trial of Cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act here had sentenced Perumalpandian to three-year rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 2,000 on him. Another accused, Namachivayam, was convicted in the case, and sentenced to two-month simple imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 2,000. Perumalpandian was arrested by a special team of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption wing from Tiruchi while he was accepting Rs. 1.20 lakh as bribe from an individual in a disproportionate assets case. A police officer said that the couple had been quarrelling for sometime. While the younger son was at his grandparent’s house in Theni district, the elder son had gone out when the crime took place. On his return, the boy found the front door of the house locked from inside and there was no response even after he kept knocking. The neighbours broke open the door to find Perumalpandian hanging in the hall while his wife was found dead with her skull broken. Her throat was also cut with a kitchen knife. The woman was working as a teacher in a Corporation school. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)  He was arrested while he was accepting Rs. 1.20 lakh, as bribe, from an individual, in a disproportionate assets case
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Garbage overflows from bin at Nakshatra Nagar||The residents of Nakshatra Nagar 4th Street (ward 3) complain that it is common to find garbage overflowing from a dumper bin placed in their street. The residents have urged the Madurai Corporation officials to remove the dumper bin from their street. Thenmozhi, a resident, said that around 10 months back the dumper bin was placed on a vacant land in their street. “The residents have to endure severe hardship while crossing the overflowing dumper bin which raises a stink. The mosquito menace has also worsened because of the overflowing bin,” she added. Despite complaining several times to the Corporation, no action has been taken to address the issue, she said. “The officials must remove the dumper bin from the street to solve the problem,” she added. A Corporation health official said that many residents from other areas dump the garbage in the bin. “We are strictly monitoring to ensure that garbage is regularly cleared from the dumper bin,” he said.
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Minister inspects temple being built for Jayalalithaa||A temple is being constructed for late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa at Tirumangalam block in Madurai by the Amma Peravai. Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar inspected the progress of construction work at the site on Wednesday. He said that Jayalalithaa was an exemplary leader who dedicated her life for the welfare of the public. The temple will have life-size bronze statues of both Jayalalithaa and late Chief Minister M. G. Ramachandran. Arrangements will be made to ensure that the public can ‘offer worship’ at the temple. The construction work is expected to be completed soon and the public will be allowed after kumbabishekam is held, said the Minister.
18 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||None can stop establishment of AIIMS: Minister||Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar on Thursday said none can stop the establishment of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Thoppur in Madurai. After inaugurating the Amma mini clinic at Thirumangalam, he told journalists that some people under the guise of activists were misleading the public on the project. “It would be wrong to say that the AIIMS will not come near Madurai...or it would not be correct to state that the Tamil Nadu government had done nothing towards this project,” he said. The Minister recalled that the foundation stone for the AIIMS was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2019. The land parcel, which was earlier assigned to the Tuberculosis Hospital, had now been handed over to the Revenue Department as per the guidelines. The team from Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) conducted an inspection and only after this, the preliminary works began. Mr. Udhayakumar attributed the delay to the COVID-19 pandemic. “Only now the government has been relaxing certain norms. The works will pick up pace from here onwards,” he asserted. He charged that with the Assembly election in mind, the DMK and other parties were attempting to defame the AIADMK and the government. “We have our progress card, which would be enough to show that the promises [we made] have been kept. Whether it was on development projects or welfare schemes or the recent cyclones/floods, the Edappadi Palaniswami-led government had stood with the people,” he said.
18 December 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||No move to privatise electricity department, says Thangamani||Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani dismissed reports that electricity department would get privatised. He said only certain jobs have been outsourced. Talking to reporters, Mr. Thangamani said, “examinations have been held for hiring 10,000 gangmen. However, the appointments got delayed since certain trade unions have moved High Court in this connection. 10,000 persons would get jobs if trade unions withdrew their case.” Mr. Thangamani said that works have been outsourced in sub-stations where there are more than 50% vacancies to ensure continuance of services and to ensure continuous power supply. The Minister said that no government entity would be privatised by State government. “The outsourcing services would be continue only till gangmen are hired”, he said. He said that false news is being spread by opposition parties that free electricity provided to farmers would be discontinued by State government, but Chief Minister has clearly said that the free electricity scheme would continue.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Work on to facilitate release of 36 fishermen in Sri Lankan custody’||The Government of India attaches “high priority” to 36 Indian fishermen who were apprehended along with 5 of their fishing vessels by Sri Lankan Navy on December 14 and 15, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs on Thursday. Early release “The Government attaches high priority to this issue. We are in close touch with the Government of Sri Lanka through our High Commission in Colombo and the Consulate in Jaffna to verify the information to ensure consular access and facilitate the early release of the fishermen and their boats,” said Anurag Srivastava, Official Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs.    The Hindu had reported earlier that the Sri Lankan Navy had suspended such arrests for months fearing Indian fishermen could be carriers of COVID-19 but resumed its “raids” from earlier this week. The Indian official reminded that both India and Sri Lanka have a “common understanding” to handle the matters related to fishermen in a humanitarian way. “There are well-established bilateral mechanisms between India and Sri Lanka for discussions and cooperation on the issue of fishermen. Since these could not be convened due to ongoing Covid-19 related restrictions, it has now been mutually agreed to hold a meeting of the bilateral Joint Working Group (JWG) on Fisheries through the virtual format on December 30,” Mr. Srivastava said.
18 December 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||‘School reopening only after cases dip’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said the government would consider reopening schools only after the incidence of COVID-19 comes down. After reviewing COVID-19 preventive measures and developmental works in Perambalur, Mr. Palaniswami told mediapersons that parents and the Opposition parties were not in favour of reopening of schools. The Chief Minister said the government would wait until cases came down in other districts and not rush into reopening schools as it was a matter of lives and the government had to handle it cautiously. Controlling spread Earlier, in Ariyalur, he attributed the mini-COVID-19 cluster at IIT-Madras to a failure to adhere to the standard operating procedure. Efforts had been made to control the further spread of the virus on campus, he said. The Chief Minister, who also inaugurated an Amma Mini Clinic in Lathuvadi, Salem district, denied the Opposition’s charge that the State had failed to control the spread of the infection. It was because of the government’s sincere and pro-active steps that the transmission of COVID-19 had been brought under control to a large extent in the State. The Prime Minister had urged other States to emulate Tamil Nadu in COVID-19 control, Mr. Palaniswami said. “We have successfully brought down the COVID-19 fatality rate. Earlier, the Opposition criticised us and asked us to see Delhi and Kerala. Today, cases are increasing in Kerala and Delhi, and the Opposition is silent,” he said. Asked about the delay in handing over land for the construction of the All-India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Thoppur, Madurai, he said the State had made it clear that land would be provided and the process of classification of land had to be done. The Central government had taken steps to get financial assistance for implementing the project. Steps were taken to clear all issues and the land would be handed over in time, the Chief Minister said. Mini clinics On the naming of mini clinics in English, instead of Tamil, he said the word “mini” was widely used by people, like “cycle”. The name was meant to reach the people and there was no intention of avoiding Tamil, Mr. Palaniswami said. Mr. Palaniswami, accompanied by government chief whip Thamarai S. Rajendran and Collector D. Rathna, reviewed COVID-19 control measures and development works in Ariyalur district.  (With inputs from Salem)   The government will not rush into reopening schools as it is a matter of lives and the government has to handle it cautiously Edappadi K. Palaniswami Chief Minister
18 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Hard work, self-belief crucial for success, says Parthiban||Actor-director R. Parthiban on Tuesday quoted his own experiences to underscore the value of hard work and self-belief. The actor was speaking after receiving the Sankaradas Swamigal award, instituted by the Puducherry government for his film Otha Seruppu Size 7 from Revenue Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan at the Indian Panorama Film Festival here. Mr. Parthiban, who has been signed to play a pivotal role in Mani Ratnam’s magnum opus Ponniyin Selvan, recalled his own struggles and several failures before gaining the present stature in the film field. Not being bogged down by his film missing an Oscar nomination, the actor hoped that his next film, Iravin Nizhal, would make the cut. Lamenting the recent instances of actors committing suicide, Mr. Parthiban stressed the importance of artistes remaining mentally strong as by nature they tend to be sensitive as their “heart rules over the mind”. On film personalities joining politics, Mr. Parthiban said in half-jest that he too was toying with the idea of launching his own party. He would even name it “Puthiya Paadhai” after his directorial debut. K. Lakshminarayanan, Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister, and Lise Talbott Barre, French Consul General, were present.
18 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rainfall throws normal life out of gear||Intermittent rains lashed Puducherry on Wednesday night. The region recorded 113 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, said a Revenue Department official. The Education Department declared holiday for high schools due to the rain on Thursday. There were minor inundations in low-lying areas such as Chellan Nagar, Pavanan Nagar, Indira Gandhi Square, Reddiyarapalayam, Mudaliarpet and Villianur. Meanwhile, heavy rain lashed various parts of Cuddalore and Villupuram districts on Thursday. The incessant rain threw normal life out of gear in the coastal districts. Thunderstorm likely The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted thunderstorm with heavy rainfall at isolated places in Cuddalore district in the next 24 hours. Cuddalore district received an average of 68.54 mm in the last 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. While Kudithangi recorded 129 mm of rainfall, Vanamadevi and Cuddalore recorded 115 and 103 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours. Villupuram district recorded an average of 85.82 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday. Manampoondi recorded a maximum of 174 mm while Anandhapuram and Mugaiyur recorded 164.40 and 160 mm respectively.
18 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Task force to draft action plan for mass vaccination in U.T.||The State-level Task Force meeting will be held on Saturday to draft the action plan for coronavirus mass vaccination programme in the Union Territory, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said on Thursday. After a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation at the Raj Nivas, the Lt. Governor said the mass vaccination plan for the Union Territory would broadly incorporate the operational guidelines of the Government of India in chalking out a strategy for the roll out. A comprehensive plan will be evolved to regulate the crowd that converges at the beach promenade on New Year eve. Modalities will be evolved for online registration and determination of the carrying capacity of beach promenade to ensure a Covid compliant and safe New Year celebration, Ms. Bedi said. The policy on home quarantine of positive patients has been arrived at in consultation with the ICMR. Following the Covid war room flagging a threat of infection from cases coming from outside Mahe, border checks at Mahe have been strengthened, the Lt. Governor said. Meanwhile, the Union Territory logged 40 new cases while no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The death toll remained at 622. The overall tally stood at 37,622 while recoveries aggregated to 36,693 patients. Of the new cases identified at the end of the examination of 3,144 samples, Puducherry reported 21, Mahe 13, Karaikal five and Yanam one. The test positivity rate was 1.27%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.5%. After 32 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours, the active cases in the Union Territory stood at 307. Of these, 204 were in hospitals and 103 in home isolation. As many as 4.44 lakh samples were tested so far and 4.02 lakh were found to be negative.  8 positive in Cuddalore Cuddalore district reported eight fresh cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the district’s tally to 24,473. While 24,110 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 48. In Villupuram district, 14 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 14,826. Kallakurichi district reported five positive cases, taking the overall tally to 10,747.
18 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G denies role in posting of officials for poll duty||Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Thursday said her office has nothing to do with posting of officers for election duty in the Union Territory. Responding to a representation by the CPI (M) to the Election Commission of India accusing Ms. Bedi of interfering in the posting of officers, the Lieutenant Governor said the former Collector (T. Arun) tested positive for COVID-19. He has gone on earned medical leave. “The Election Commission of India directed him to be replaced in view of the electoral work in progress. Not the Lieutenant Governor’s office. Request the alleging parties to refrain from spreading misinformation,” Ms. Kiran Bedi said in a WhatsApp message. The Lieutenant Governor said the Union Territory was battling COVID-19. The region faced a cyclone with grit and determination, Ms. Bedi also said. “It’s because of everyone's collective work. The team work at its best. The news is all out to create fissures in this team work,” she said.
18 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry CM slams LPG price rise||Slamming the Centre for resorting to serial hikes in LPG prices, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Thursday said the BJP, which had hit the streets with protest when the previous Congress regime resorted to a price hike of fuel or LPG cylinders by even a rupee, had jacked up LPG prices at least 18 times this year while in power at the Centre. Addressing a press conference, Mr. Narayanasamy urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene and roll back the hike of Rs. 100 immediately. The BJP-led government at the Centre which had completely abolished the cylinder subsidy had hiked LPG prices twice in December alone, raising it from Rs. 610 to Rs. 710, he said. In contrast, when the Congress was in power the crude oil prices were USD 130 per barrel and the corresponding price of LPG was Rs. 350, he said. “Now, when global crude prices had fallen to USD 60 per barrel and LPG prices had also gone down, the Central government had excessively hiked the prices of petrol and diesel and LPG. During the coronavirus pandemic when people were struggling to sustain their livelihoods, this thoughtless price hike was a grave injustice to the common man. It will escalate costs of essentials and put additional financial burden on the people,” he said. The Chief Minister also urged Mr. Modi to negotiate a settlement with the farmers agitating in Delhi demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws. On the issue of obtaining 50% MBBS seats in private medical colleges for the government quota, Mr. Narayanasamy alleged that Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi had forwarded the file to New Delhi after a delay of 45 days and there were some clarifications sought by the Centre. The government had given reply to the queries but there was no response after that from the Centre, he added. Mr. Narayanasamy pointed out that a government order of 2009 issued in this regard was neither properly worded nor implemented. Further complicating the issue, two private medical colleges had claimed minority status as a means of avoiding the 50% norm. In 2015, the then AINRC government had signed an agreement with the Venkateshwaraa Medical College to accept less than 50% seats. It was citing these circumstances that the Madras High Court had dismissed a writ petition filed by some students from here. “The government will go for an appeal against the order,” he said. Regarding the proposal for 10% horizontal reservation to government school students in medical education, Mr. Narayanasamy said the relevant file was forwarded to the Centre by Lt.Governor and there was no word yet after that. Meanwhile, a petition filed in court by a girl student from Puducherry on 10% horizontal reservation to government school students in MBBS admissions would be taken up tomorrow, the Chief Minister said while hoping that the issue would be sorted out. Slamming news reports about a difference of opinion among the Chief Minister, Ministers and other Congress leaders, Mr. Narayanasamy appealed to the journalists to refrain from publishing such pieces. He maintained that there was no difference of opinion among them and the party had already launched works for the upcoming Assembly election. Dinesh Gundu Rao, party-in-charge for Puducherry has invited PWD Minister A. Namassivayam, PCC President A. V. Subramanian and himself to Bengaluru to have discussions about the election and there was no difference of opinion among them, he added. In Puducherry, the Congress, DMK and other allies would hold a fast near the Anna statue on Friday in response to the call for a one-day fast by the DMK and allies in Tamil Nadu to express solidarity with the farmers. Mr.Namasivayam and K. Lakshminarayanan, Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister were present at the press conference.
18 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Village-level eye camps under way in Pudukottai’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Thursday said that eye screening camps were being organised at the village level in the district to identify people with defects and visual impairment at an early stage and provide treatment. Inaugurating camps organised jointly by the Public Health Department and CVB Trust at Kodumbalur, Poiyyamani, Thengaithinnipatti and Kasavanur in Viralimalai panchayat union, Mr. Vijayabaskar said steps had been taken to perform surgery too. Spectacles from reputed optical firms would be provided through CVB Trust. They were being provided free of cost to those who were screened at eye camps held earlier, a release said. The main objective of holding the camps in association with eye hospitals was to identify at an early stage defects and visual impairment in the population at the village level in order to provide treatment. He appealed to the public to utilise the camps well. New primary health centres had been established in Viralimalai assembly constituency and government hospitals upgraded for the benefit of the people, he added. District Rural Development Agency, Project Director, M. Santhoshkumar, Deputy Director, Public Health, Kalaivani, and members of CVB Trust participated.
18 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Price hike: Collector issues warning to fertilizer traders||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Thursday warned traders that their licence would be cancelled if they sold fertilizers at a higher price. There was adequate stock of fertilizers required for the samba crops at cooperative institutions and private outlets in the district, the Collector further said in an official press release here. Ms. Uma Maheswari said paddy had been raised on 84,884 hectares in the district during the current samba season. Fertilizers such as urea, ammonium sulphate and complex were being sold to farmers through agricultural cooperative and credit societies and private outlets. Fertilizer traders should display information regarding the stock and price every day on the information board to enable farmers know about them. Fertilizers should be sold at the price mentioned in the bags. Action would be initiated against defaulting traders in case of complaints by farmers or during inspection, the Collector said. Farmers must carry their Aadhaar card during purchase. They could lodge complaints if fertilizers were being sold at higher price and if they were being forced to buy other farm inputs to the office of the Assistant Director - Agriculture at their taluk, or to the office of the Joint Director - Agriculture, Pudukottai, or to the Assistant Director - Agriculture (Quality Control), the press release added.
18 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Maintain vigil in COVID-19 cases’||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan inspected various facilities available at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Thursday. He also inspected the COVID-19 block, post-COVID-19 treatment centre, obstetrics and gynaecology department, cardiology department and interacted with doctors. The Health Secretary advised doctors to continue vigil in COVID-19 activities. Doctors here have requested for OP block and increase in number of seats at medical college. Dr. Radhakrishnan assured them that necessary measures would be taken. Dr. Radhakrishnan advised the public to adhere to various guidelines issued by government during religious festivals and follow the standard safety protocols. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, P.V.Dhanapal, S.Rani, Resident Medical Officer and other senior doctors were present.
18 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Rotational tests on to prevent IIT-like situation: Health Secy.||Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has said that rotational tests for COVID-19 are being done at colleges and market places to prevent IIT Madras-like situation. Dr. Radhakrishnan told presspersons in Salem on Thursday that colleges have been advised to provide take away food and to maintain toilets clean. “Till date, about 16,000 tests have been done across the State and no cluster similar to that identified at the IIT has been reported. However, we are continuing our vigil and the public should wear masks and maintain physical distance in public places”, he said. Dr. Radhakrishnan said the death rate in the State had reduced and the aim was to bring it to zero. Regarding complaints of overcharging by private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment, he said immediate action would be taken if complaints were received.
18 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Rotational tests being taken at colleges’||Health Secretary J.Radhakrishnan said that rotational tests for COVID-19 are being taken at colleges and market places to monitor IIT-Madras-like situation. Dr. Radhakrishnan told presspersons in Salem on Thursday that measures had been taken to conduct rotational tests once in 15 days at colleges and other places. Colleges had been advised to provide takeaway food and to maintain the toilets clean. “Till date, about 16,000 tests have been taken across the State and no cluster similar to the one identified at IIT-Madras has been reported. However, we are continuing our vigil and people should wear masks and maintain physical distances at public places,” he said. Dr. Radhakrishnan said that death rate in the State had reduced and the aim was to bring it to zero.
18 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Set up solar fence along Western Ghats: farmers||Close to 200 coconut trees and crops on several acres raised by farmers in the foothills of Western Ghats here had been destroyed by elephants and other wild animals in the last one year alone, said farmers from the Kadayam block on Thursday. Speaking at the monthly grievance meeting through the video conferencing facility arranged at the respective agriculture offices, they said that the government should help them by setting up solar fence and ensure that the crops were saved. Many farmers were under constant threat to their lives as well due to movement of wild animals here. Collector G. S. Sameeran said the administration would examine the modalities and take steps to protect the crops. The government had given incentives only to a few farmers for raising paddy crops this pisanam season in the region. The Collector should intervene and get the incentive of Rs. 5,000 each to all farmers who had raised paddy on 4200 hectares with the help of machines under the System Rice Intensification method. Farmers from Karuthapillaiyur said that low lying HT lines posed problems in many of the fields as they could not bring in machines. The Collector should direct the TANGEDCO to study the problem and help raise the height of lines immediately. The DPCs should be opened in many blocks especially in Mela Ambur, Sivasailam, Alwarkurichi and in Puliyarai, Vasudevanallur and Sivagiri as the harvest time was coming close. In the event of any delay, the farmers may be forced to sell at a price dictated by merchants and brokers. The Collector said that he would discuss the issue with officials concerned and take measures at the earliest. He informed that steps had taken to recover arrears from Dharani Sugars from 2018-19 for the sugarcane growers.
18 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Convene meeting to discuss paddy procurement process: delta farmers||Delta farmers have urged the State government to convene a tripartite meeting usually convened in October-November every year to discuss and chart out a plan for paddy procurement for the current season. Details of procurement of paddy raised as samba , thaladi and summer crops in delta districts are discussed by Revenue and Civil Supplies officials and farmers at the meeting chaired by Agriculture and Food Ministers. Since harvest is set to begin from the third week of December, the annual meeting must be convened as early as possible, they said. In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Secretary to the Tamil Nadu government and other senior officials heading the concerned departments involved in procurement process, Sundara Vimalanathan, secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, has urged the government to convene the meeting immediately in order to enlighten farmers about preparations made by officials for procurement of paddy during the Rabi season. Incentive amount The farmers are eagerly waiting to know the amount to be offered as ‘incentive’ by the State government over and above the minimum support price announced by the Union government and also whether the Civil Supplies Corporation willl reintroduce the facility for procurement of paddy from near the fields during this season, he added. The State government had offered an MSP of Rs. 1,865 per quintal for common variety and Rs. 1,905 per quintal for grade A (fine) variety paddy ,including the incentive amount, during 2019-20 procurement season (October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020). From October 1, 2020, onwards the procurement price for both varieties was increased by Rs. 53 per qunital taking the MSP for common variety to Rs. 1,918 per quintal and for fine variety to Rs. 1,958, official sources said. Meanwhile, G. Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam, a progressive farmer, says the governments must procure agriculture produce from farmers and sell them to traders or other entities contemplating or engaged in the business of producing value-added products of various agriculture produces including paddy. The plea, according to him, is an offshoot of the ongoing nation-wide debate over the positive and negative impacts of the three new farm laws recently enacted by the Union government. Pointing out that hitherto the government alone procured the paddy at the MSP and traders/businessmen procure the produce at a lesser rate, he says farmers fear that the trend may continue in future too. Traders/business houses may take refuge under the ‘quality’ norms and cut down the procurement price. Further, there is also a fair chance of agriculture fields turning infertile if corporate/business houses insist the farmers go in for hybrid varieties even as farmers are turning their attention towards cultivation of traditional varieties under organic farming, Mr. Srinivasan adds.
18 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||NTK to contest all 234 seats||Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman has reiterated that his party would field its candidates in all the 234 constituencies in the forthcoming Assembly elections. The NTK would have no truck with any party, he said. Talking to reporters here on Thursday, Mr. Seeman said the party had already identified the candidates for all the constituencies and started election-related works. Stating that the party would construct a memorial for Emperor Raja Raja Cholan once it comes to power, Mr. Seeman said nothing would change in Tamil Nadu politics even if actors Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan were to forge an electoral alliance.
18 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||NTK to contest all 234 seats||Naam Tamilar Katchi leader Seeman has reiterated that his party would field its candidates in all the 234 constituencies in the forthcoming Assembly elections. The NTK would have no truck with any party, he said. Talking to reporters here on Thursday, he said the party had already identified the candidates for all the constituencies and started election-related works. Stating that the party would construct a memorial for Emperor Raja Raja Cholan once it comes to power, Mr. Seeman claimed that nothing would change in Tamil Nadu politics even if actors Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan were to forge an electoral alliance.
18 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni gets eight Amma Mini Clinics||Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam dedicated various projects to the people, including the recently launched Amma Mini Clinic at eight locations across the district, on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion at Palanichettipatti in Bodi constituency, he said the objective of the Amma Mini Clinic was that needy people, especially in rural pockets, can be diagnosed early. Trained doctors and para-medical team were available at the doorstep of the people. With the support of doctors and para-medical teams, the COVID-19 had been brought under control in Tamil Nadu. After having learnt lessons from the pandemic, the government felt that healthcare was very important and hence Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami launched Amma Mini Clinics at 2,000 locations across Tamil Nadu. In Theni district, it had been planned to open 16 clinics in the four Assembly Constituencies, he said and appealed to the people to make the best use of the clinics. A majority of the completed projects worth about Rs. 2 crore were dedicated to the people in the Bodi Assembly Constituency which included a Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant at Rasingapuram and Nagalapuram, anganwadi centres, a veterinary hospital. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, Theni MP P. Raveendranath, MLA S.T. K. Jakkayan and senior officials from the departments of revenue, rural development, public health and animal husbandry participated.
18 December 2020||Thoothkudi,TAMIL NADU||Sterlite Commission may summon Rajinikanth in January||The Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission, which is probing the police firing on anti-Sterlite protesters, may summon actor Rajinikanth for appearance in January 2021, according to the panel’s advocate, Arul Vadivel Sekar. As many as 13 persons were killed in the firing and hundreds injured. In an informal chat with reporters in Thoothukudi, he said so far, 586 people had deposed before the Commission, and as many as 775 documents had been submitted. Mr. Rajinikanth had visited the injured persons in hospitals and expressed concern over the demise of the 13 people in the firing, then. Relaxations in norms After relaxations in COVID-19 norms, the Commission had, again, started examining witnesses, and in the present sitting, which started on December 14, of the 49 persons summoned, 42 had appeared and recorded their submissions, the advocate said. He added that the Commission might summon the actor during its next sitting.
18 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||If rain is here, can potholes be far behind?||Many arterial roads in the city have been battered by the recent rain brought by the northeast monsoon, leaving commuters vexed and frustrated. The bad quality of roads is exposed through several potholes and trenches formed as asphalt breaks away after being weakened by the rain. While Tiruchi Corporation claims to be ready with all preparatory measures to handle the monsoon, the roads in the city tell a different tale. “The authorities are apathetic towards the road quality and claim they cannot do anything until the monsoon is over,” says M. Sekaran, Chairman, Citizen's Forum. The quality of the material used to lay the roads are so poor that they chip off within a few months. Newly laid stretches and patchwork in Woraiyur, Thanjavur Road, Karur Bypass Road have all become damaged, he adds. Motorists complain that taking their vehicles out, be it two-wheelers or cars, is a risk during the rain. “Even cars are getting damaged due to the road condition, let alone two-wheelers. We do not know where potholes might be, and in the night, the problem is worse,” a motorist says. An auto-driver says he is always apprehensive of his vehicle overturning in one of the huge craters or potholes, injuring him and his passengers. “We are just starting to get customers after a long-drawn break due to COVID-19. I cannot afford any such issues.” Meanwhile, interior roads connecting residential areas too, are no better. The civic body has undertaken underground drainage work in several areas, causing roads to become unusable. “Why are they doing UGD work in the monsoon season? It is illogical. The roads become slushy and the residents are forced to navigate them”" said Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist. Mr. Baig himself slipped on one such bad road on the way to Anbilar Nagar in Chettiappatti, Edamalaipatti Pudur. Mr. Sekaran says as per regulations, the contractors must dig up area sufficient to lay pipelines and close it and lay concrete soon after the work is completed. However, large earthmovers are being used to dig up the roads and close it too. “The soil is loosened and all it requires is one small shower to flood the road.” In several areas such as Sanjeevi Nagar and Lakshmipuram, the roads are yet to be relaid even a year after completion of UGD work.
18 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||108 fresh cases in central districts||The central districts on Thursday recorded a slight spike in COVID-19 cases with 108 patients testing positive for the viral infection. No death was reported in the region, according to the bulletin released by the State Health Department. Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts reported an increase in cases reporting 33 and 28 fresh cases. Tiruchi had reported 25 cases on Wednesday, while Thanjavur 16. Patients in both districts were primary contacts, isolated cases and those with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, 13 patients who were undergoing treatment at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovery. All other seven districts in the region reported below 20 fresh cases on Thursday. Nagapattinam reported 17 cases and Karur 12. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Vegamedu, Pugalur and Sakkarapalayam. In Tiruvarur, 10 patients reported positive, while Pudukottai reported a further drop in cases with only six fresh cases. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. Patients suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses also tested positive. Ariyalur and Perambalur reported one fresh case. Meanwhile, 193 throat swabs were lifted in Ariyalur and sent to the COVID-19 testing facility for processing.
18 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Duraimurugan undergoes medical check-up||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary Duraimurugan underwent a medical check-up and treatment briefly at a private hospital in Tiruchi on Thursday after he complained of shivering, fever and fatigue. Mr. Duraimurugan, in his capacity as Chairman of the Assembly Public Accounts Committee, attended a review meeting at the Collector’s office in Tiruchi on Wednesday and visited various places in the district to inspect the ongoing development works . He had gone to Dindigul and attended various programmes there on Thursday. He had reportedly felt tired and feverish but had later left for Chennai by road. However, as there was apparently a rise in his body temperature en route, he was taken to Maruti hospital in Tiruchi. Doctors at the hospital checked and treated him. Later in evening, Mr.Duraimurugan resumed his journey to Chennai by road.
18 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Quality and productivity vital to sustain growth’||Continuous improvement in quality and productivity is vital to sustain growth, and Quality Circles help achieve organisational goals and improve employee satisfaction, said T. S. Murali, General Manager and Head, BHEL, Tiruchi, here on Thursday. Presenting certificates to Quality Circles that won prizes at BHEL’s inter-unit annual Quality Circle Summit, conducted virtually, Mr. Murali observed that Tiruchi was a pioneer in the Quality Circle movement in India. Mr. Murali said productivity improvement projects had also secured a large number of national and State awards for employees every year including Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskars, Indian National Suggestion Scheme awards and BHEL’s own Excel awards besides prizes at various Quality Circle meets. At this year’s virtual summit, ‘Dynamic’ Quality Circle of the High Pressure Boiler Plant Unit-1, Boiler Production, bagged the first prize for best presentation in major units category .
18 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Protest held||Fifteen members of Jananayaga Samooga Nala Kootamaippu on Thursday staged a demonstration at Ariyamangalam demanding repeal of new farm laws. The stir expressed solidarity with farmers staging a protest near Delhi opposing the farm laws.
18 December 2020||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||Action against 10 private schools for charging high fees: Sengottaiyan||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan on Thursday said that action has been initiated against 10 private schools that were found guilty of charging high fees in Tamil Nadu. “We got complaints about 14 schools and action has been taken against 10 of them. People can inform us through mail or send letters if they find any school charging excessive fees,” the Minister said. He was addressing media persons at an event held in Tirupathur to distribute renewal and recognition certificates to 460 private nursery and primary schools in Tirupathur, Ranipet, Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts. There are a total of 5,946 private nursery and primary schools functioning in 37 districts across the State. The district education officials provide the institutions the renewal and recognition certificates once in three years. Nine zones The 37 districts have been divided into 9 zones and 2,900 nursery and primary schools will be given the certificates in the coming days. On December 11, 120 nursery and primary schools in Chennai and Tiruvallur district were issued the certificates and on December 14, 121 schools in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu district got them. The Minister said that measures are being taken to improve toilet facilities in schools before they reopened. “In all new schools toilet facilities have been provided. In some schools, where the number of students are more, steps are being taken to increase the number of restrooms,” he said. More opportunities Speaking about the outcome of reserving 7.5% seats in undergraduate medical admissions for government school students who qualified NEET, he said that more than 400 such students will become doctors due to this initiative. “The government has ensured that all departments function for the welfare of the people. Due to the Kudimaramathu scheme, all rivers and water bodies are brimming with water after the monsoon. Farmers are happy,” Mr. Sengottaiyan said.  We got complaints about 14 schools. People can inform us through mail or send letters if they find any school charging excessive fees  K.A. Sengottaiyan School Education Minister
18 December 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman rescued from well||Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services personnel rescued a woman who accidentally fell into a 50-ft.-deep well in Tiruppur on Thursday. Tiruppur South Fire Station Officer A. Shanmugam said Muthulakshmi (53) fell into the narrow well in her residence on Dharapuram Road, which had water for a depth of around 30 feet. A team from the South Fire Station rescued her and she did not suffer any injuries, Mr. Shanmugam said.  DMK stages demonstration Members of the DMK staged a demonstration condemning the slushy roads at Andipalayam (Ward No. 39) within Tiruppur Corporation limits on Thursday. Former Minister M.P. Saminathan led the demonstration and warned of a larger protest if the Corporation did not take any action to fix the roads.
18 December 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Tiger census on in Tiruppur||The post-monsoon tiger census in the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) is under way at four forest ranges in Tiruppur district. Forest Department officials said on Thursday that 100 staff members such as rangers and foresters were involved in the census at Amaravathi, Udumalpet, Kozhumam and Vandaravu forest ranges. It was being carried out under the supervision of Tiruppur District Forest Officer and ATR Deputy Director P.K. Dileep along with Assistant Conservator of Forests (Tiruppur Division) K. Ganeshram. The census, which will end on December 21, will use direct and indirect observation (such as pug marks) to enumerate the number of tigers. The staff will wear masks as part of COVID-19 precautionary measures.
18 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Kandoori festival begins at Muthupettai dargah||The Kandoori festival commenced at Muthupettai Dargha in Tiruvarur district on Tuesday. The traditional festival began with the hoisting of the holy flag on the dargha premises. The main event of ‘sandal paste pot’ procession would be held on the night of December 24 . The sandal paste would be applied on the tomb at the dargha during the early morning hours of December 25. The festival would come to an end with lowering of the holy flag on December 28, according to the dargha authorities.
18 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Operation to capture Gudalur elephant extends to fourth day||Forest Department’s operation to tranquillise and capture a male wild elephant nicknamed Shankar in Gudalur in the Nilgiris extended to the fourth day as veterinarians did not get the tusker in a conducive condition in close range on Thursday. Though the tusker was seen at Cheppanthodu, near Cherambadi, around 11 a.m. on Thursday, veterinarians could not fire the tranquilliser dart as it moved along with a herd of nine elephants. The elephant, aged around 50, then moved to a forest patch after which the trackers of the Department could not trace it till evening. According to I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, the elephant is known for making frequent visits to the Kerala side and trackers suspect that the animal could have moved to Kottaimalai on the order. “The elephant was guarded by two female elephants after a tranquilliser dart was fired at it on Wednesday. The tusker was seen mating with one of the female elephants a few days ago. The continuing presence of the herd, which also consists of adult male elephants, and the difficult terrain surrounded by human habitations demand extra care while tranquillising the elephant,” he said. He said 25 camera traps were installed in several locations to track the movement of the elephant. On Thursday, the Department employed four kumkis namely Bomman, Wasim, Kaleem and Vijay to track the tusker. Drones were also used to locate the elephant which did not yield results. Officials said three teams of trackers would remain vigilant to observe the elephant’s movement in the night and the operation would continue on Friday morning.
18 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore logs 23 new cases||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,909 with 23 new cases reported on December 17. While a total of 19,282 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 289. The district's death toll is 338. In Ranipet district, 11 cases were reported positive taking the total number of cases to 15,802. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,359 with four new cases on Thursday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 12 new COVID-19 cases were reported, taking the total cases to 18,964. Out of this, 18,591 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 95 .  In Tiruvannamalai district, 12 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,964
18 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||College Principals told to strictly follow guidelines||College Principals were advised to scrupulously follow the State government guidelines on prevention of COVID-19 after re-opening of colleges for final-year students. Chairing a meeting convened in this connection, Collector R. Kannan said that even as the district administration was fully focused on COVID-19 preventive action, final-year students were allowed to attend classes in colleges amid increased relaxation of lockdown rules. He advised the Principals to ensure that only one student stayed in each room of the hostel. Similarly, sanitizer should be provided at all vantage locations. Besides, making all basic amenities available for the students on the college premises, students should be provided protein-rich food. Wearing of masks and social distancing should be ensured among students. The kitchens and toilets should be kept clean. Classes can also be taken on online mode. If the colleges brought to the notice of the administration about any hindrances for classroom education, officials were ready to provide all necessary help, he said. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Joint Director of Medical Services R. Manoharan, Deputy Directors Palanisamy and S. Ram Ganesh took part in the meeting.
18 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||EVMs arrive from Maharashtra||A total of 2,730 control units, 370 ballot units and 3,000 VVPAT units that would be used for the 2021-Assembly Elections in Tamil Nadu have arrived from Maharashtra to Virudhunagar district on Thursday. Collector R. Kannan inspected the electronic voting machines which arrived from Jalna and Aurangabad districts in Maharashtra. As many as 433 control units, 3,762 ballot units and 403 VVPAT units were already kept at the Agricultural Regulated Market godown. With the new arrival, the district has 3,163 control units 4,132 ballot units and 3,403 VVPAT units. The first-level checking of the EVMs and VVPATs by engineers from BEL, Bengaluru, has started in the district and it would go on till January 8. DRO R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Special Tahsildar (Elections), Ayyakutti and representatives of political parties were present.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 120 new cases||Coimbatore district on Thursday reported 120 new cases of COVID-19, taking the number of active cases to 1,064. The Health Department said that a 77-year-old man from Coimbatore died of the infection, taking the toll so far in the district 633. According to the department, 108 persons recovered from the infection and got discharged from different treatment centres on Thursday. Tiruppur district reported 50 fresh cases, raising the tally to 16,445. A total of 560 patients are active cases, and 57 persons were discharged from various treatment centres on Thursday. The Nilgiris district saw 19 new cases on Thursday. The total number of cases so far is 7,739, out of which 7,551 have recovered and 146 are active cases. Thirteen person were discharged on Thursday. Salem reported 58 new positive cases and the death of a 78-year-old man. According to health officials, 57 cases were indigenous, including 31 in Salem Corporation limits. One patient has returned from Namakkal. Twenty-three fresh cases were reported in Namakkal district. Two patients had returned from Chidambaram and Salem. Erode district reported 47 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,220. While 52 persons were discharged, 340 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded eight new cases, while eight persons were discharged. The new cases took the district’s tally so far to 7,696, and the number of active cases to 150. Dharmapuri reported 15 new cases and 11 discharges. The total number of cases in the district so far is 6,279 and the 100 persons are still under treatment.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work on drinking water project for Perambalur to begin soon: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday said that a drinking water supply project for Perambalur municipality would be implemented soon at an estimated cost of Rs. 300 crore. The water scheme would have its source on the Coleroon. Works on the scheme would commence shortly, Mr. Palaniswami said after reviewing the COVID-19 measures and developmental works undertaken in the district. A new combined drinking water project covering 73 village habitations in Veppur panchayat union would be implemented through the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board at an estimated cost of Rs. 22.84 crore soon. Steps were being taken to acquire lands for establishing a new industrial estate on an area measuring 7.6 acres near Elambalur. The Chief Minister earlier laid the foundation for four new projects at an estimated cost of Rs. 19.25 crore and inaugurated eight projects completed at a cost of Rs. 24.41 crore. He gave away welfare assistance to the tune of Rs. 23.58 crore to 1,614 beneficiaries. Earlier, while replying to a query on a long-pending demand for a rail link for Perambalur during a press conference, Mr. Palaniswami quipped that a person from Perambalur district belonging to the DMK ( a veiled reference to A. Raja) was a Union Minister for several years and wondered why the question was not posed to him then. The AIADMK had cordial relations with the Centre but was not in the Union cabinet, he said but added that the State government would look into the issue.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kamal can’t do good to people: Chief Minister||“MGR [the former Chief Minister] spread messages through his songs. Has Kamal Haasan sung any song for the good of the people? If families watch his films, they will be ruined,” he said, adding that actors like MGR and Jayalalithaa had sacrificed themselves for the larger good of society. Later, in Perambalur, to a question on Mr. Haasan invoking MGR’s name repeatedly in his campaign, he said it amounted to the actor admitting that he had no influence of his own.  All leaders had to use the name of the AIADMK founder to garner votes. Mr. Palaniswami said that except the AIADMK, nobody had the moral right to use the name of MGR. Reacting to the Chief Minister’s comments, Mr. Haasan tweeted, “I am happy that even the CM is watchingBigg Boss.” Earlier in the day, Mr. Haasan had tweeted about the DVAC seizing cash, gold and diamonds and alleged, “The officials were only following the footsteps of the government.” In response, Mr. Palaniswami said the MNM leader was misleading people and pointed out that the DVAC was a unit of the State government. It was with the aim of cleansing the administration that such actions were being taken against erring officials, he said.  Except AIADMK, nobody had the moral right to use the name of MGR Edappadi K. Palaniswami Chief Minister
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two held for duping Bengaluru firm of Rs. 98 lakh||The District Crime Branch (DCB) of Coimbatore Rural Police on Thursday arrested two persons, who along with seven others, allegedly duped a Bengaluru-based firm of Rs. 98 lakh. The arrested have been identified as Geetha Agarwal (37), resident of an apartment at Kavundampalayam, and Vijay Balaji (37) from S.S.K. Nagar at Sulur. DCB officials said that it had registered a case against the duo and seven others namely Vinooj, Noon Muhammed, Leena, Agarwal, Gurujeet, Ganesh Kumar and Abilash based on a complaint lodged by administrative director of Bengaluru-based ACME Fitness Pvt Ltd C. Rohit (54). The accused supplied used and substandard nitrile gloves to the Bengaluru firm, officials said. The arrested were produced before the sixth judicial magistrate court and remanded in judicial custody.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Meenakshi School of Fine Arts: Online workshop on portrait drawing, 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.  NAMAKKAL   KSR Institute for Engineering and Technology: Guest lecture on post COVID-19 opportunities and changes in the industry, 10.30 a.m.  Excel Engineering College: AICTE sponsored online six-day short terrm training programme on recent trends in machine learning and big data analytics using python programming, 10 a.m.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Religion||Thiruvenktavan Charitable Trust: Margazhi prayers, Sri Venugopal Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.     Adithya School of Business Management: Online valediction programme of EPP Leadership Excellence, Nithyanandan Devaraaj, Executive Director, AMEX Alloys, chief guest, 3 p.m.  Jansons Institute of Technology: Cyclothon Event, 3.30 p.m.  Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Online talk on ‘Waste Not Want Not’, 6.29 p.m.  Coimbatore Press Club: Release of book Kaadar, 10 a.m.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18-12-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2020, Chennai. Open-Air Live Programme up to 19.12.2020 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Rajaji Vidyashram Campus, No.6, Kilpauk Garden Road, Kilpauk, Chennai-600 010. Sri Rajhesh Vaidhya ( Veena ) with Sri Mohana Raman ( Mrudangam ), Sri Praveen Narayan ( Tabla ) and Sri Sai Hari ( Ghatam ). Tomorrow 19th at 6.00 pm : Dr. Pantula Rama ( vocal) .. Programme supported by : Sriram Group, Ramco Cements & Ramco Industries, AVA Cholayil Health Care ( Medimix ), Larsen & Toubro, Seshasayee Paper & Boards, MGM Health Care, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Kauvery Hospitals., Nalli Silks, Sri Krishna Sweets, Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L & T ), Dhanvantari Nano Ayushadi, Newry Properties & Indian Oil Corporation. Admission subject to following S.O.P. Temperature check, Hand Sanitizing, Wearing Mask and Distance Seating. Drive-in-facility available. NO TICKETS. Watch Live:http:// krishnansons.com/bhavans-art- festival-2020 RASIKA RANJANI SABHA (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai-600 004 Today Music Concert at 4.00 P.M.Apoorva Ramaseshan, Neela Jayakumar. 5.30 P.M. Nisha Rajagopalan, L.Ramakrishnan, Patri Satishkumar, S. Krishna-Webcast Link - https://www.livewebcast.in/rrsabha.Website: rasikaranjanisabha.org.E.Mail: rasikaranjanisabha1929@ gmail.comPHONE: 044-24641767
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Those detained had no role in violence’||Activists and trade unions on Thursday questioned the detention of several contract workers claiming that their involvement in the recent violent protest at the Wistron Infocomm Manufacturing Ltd. facility in Narasapura in Kolar district is questionable. One of the people the police had detained was Kolar taluk president of Students’ Federation of India, Srikanth, who was interrogated on his alleged role before he was released on Thursday. According to Varalakshmi from the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Mr. Srikanth had no part to play in the protest at the facility, which manufactures iPhones for Apple. “Many of the workers have been detained for over 36 hours. There is no information of whether FIRs have been filed against them or if they have been sent to jail. Parents of these workers are just waiting outside the office of the Superintendent of Police in the hope of getting some information about their children,” she said. Thousands of contract workers, allegedly led by an armed group of men who broke into the facility early Saturday morning, ransacked the premises demanding their wages, which were pending for three months. They were also protesting 12-hour-long shifts without overtime pay. She said that most of those working at the plant were aged between 18 years and 24 years. “With colleges shut, students had joined the facility to earn what they could so that they could pay their fees. When the salaries were not being disbursed properly, students had formed a group on WhatsApp. Here, they were discussing the next course of action, which included a protest at 11 a.m. on December 12,” she said. However, the unrest started early on December 12 around 3 a.m. and took a violent turn. Earlier in the day, members of the Joint Committee of Trade Unions said that Wistron had failed to adhere to labour laws while also blaming the government for failing to keep a check. “The factory did not provide minimum wages, overtime pay, or security measures for women workers in night shift,” they alleged and demanded that the government recognise this as a case of extreme violation of basic rights of workers. They also demanded withdrawal of all cases against the workers and their release, apart from ensuring peace by taking the workers into confidence.  With colleges shut, students had joined the facility to earn what they could so that they could pay their fees Varalakshmi, Centre of Indian Trade Unions
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Service charge for collection of garbage rolled back||On Thursday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) administrator Gaurav Gupta, while speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the launch of Bengaluru Mission 2022, said, “There is no proposal to collect additional money from citizens for solid waste management.” However, senior officials in the BBMP, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said that no decision had been taken on either levying a service charge or not collecting it. BBMP had even written to Bescom seeking help in collection of the service charge. Senior officials said that Bescom was yet to respond to the proposal. An official said the Solid Waste Management (SWM) bylaws, approved by the government earlier this year, allow the BBMP to levy and collect service charge for door-to-door collection of waste. This service charge, which is separate from SWM Cess that is collected along with property tax, ranges from Rs. 200 to Rs. 14,000 a month. The cess, mandated by the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, is for the general upkeep of the city, clearing black spots and street cleaning. Service charge, on the other hand, is for the delivery of a specific service. In this case, door-to-door collection of different streams of waste. There has been lot of opposition from several quarters to the proposal to levy a service charge. On Wednesday, Congress workers had staged a protest against the proposal.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC orders inspection of roads||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the secretaries of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) and Bengaluru Urban District Legal Services Authority to set up teams to inspect the condition of roads in the city and submit a report by February 5. The court directed them to identify roads for inspection and depute paralegal volunteers and advocates on the legal aid panel of KSLSA to conduct the inspection and take photographs. Paralegal volunteers are volunteers chosen from different walks of life and imparted with legal training by the legal services authorities. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions while hearing some PIL petitions filed in the court since 2015 complaining of the poor state of roads and the failure of civic authorities to maintain them properly. ‘Hold meeting’ Both the secretaries have been directed to also hold a meeting with the petitioners and their advocates to identify roads for inspection. The order was issued after it waspointed out by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) counsel that the civic body did not appoint Indian Institute of Science (IISc) to conduct an audit on repair works on the city’s streets as the IISchad submitted a proposal stating that the audit would cost Rs. 5.4 crore. The court had, on February 6 this year, directed the BBMP to entrust the task of auditing road repair work to the IISc to ascertain whether the work on repairing/refilling potholes was being done scientifically and whether the streets were in reasonably good condition.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. college enrolments pick up as students’ choices change||The number of students enrolling in government degree colleges has seen an increase over the past few weeks as students are choosing them over private colleges because of the lower tuition fee. Many parents have been unable to afford high fees in private colleges on account of circumstances resulting out of the pandemic. According to data provided by the Department of Collegiate Education (DCE), 1.28 lakh students were admitted in the first year for UG programmes in the 2020-21 academic year. The number of students admitted in first year in the previous academic year too was 1.28 lakh. Pradeep P., Commissioner, DCE, said that though initially admissions to government degree colleges were low, they later picked up after principals and lecturers of all 430 government first grade colleges were asked to conduct enrolment drives. D.S. Prathima, principal, Government First Grade College, Malleswaram, said this year, 421 students had enrolled for UG programmes for the first year, an increase from 353 last year. She, and other principals, pointed out that one of the reasons students preferred government colleges was the reasonable fee. While the annual fee is around Rs. 4,000 for UG programmes, in private colleges it is in the range of Rs. 20,000 to Rs. 45,000 B. Chandrashekar, principal, Government First Grade College, Vijayanagar, said 1,200 students were admitted in the first year this academic year — the same as last year. “This year, we received around 2,000 applications, which is an increase from the previous year. We were not able to accommodate around 400 students who wanted to enrol in the B. Com programmes as we have only a few classrooms and run the college on a shift system,” he said. The principal of a city-based private degree college admitted that admissions were low as many students were unable to afford the fees. “We have even given students the option to pay the fees in three instalments. But, many students said they’ll be unable to pay as their parents have lost jobs or seen huge pay cuts.”
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court notice to State on creation of caste corporations||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a public interest litigation petition questioning constitutional validity of creation of separate development corporations in the name of Maratha, Brahmin, Veerashaiva-Lingayat, and Aryavysya. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on the petition filed by the Karnataka State Backward Castes’ Federation and J. Srinivasan, a retired bureaucrat and founder president of the federation. Also, the Bench directed the government to furnish the notifications of setting up boards and corporations in the name of individual castes and communities while ordering that all further steps to be taken by the government in relation to these corporations would be subject to the final order to be passed by the court. The petitioner has sought a direction from the court declaring establishment, financing, and administration of all the development corporations in the name of caste, community, and religion, except, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Development Corporation, Karnataka Maharshi Valimiki Scheduled Tribe Development Corporation, D. Devaraj Urs Backward Class Development Corporation, and the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporations, as illegal and unconstitutional. Also, the petitioner sought a direction to the government to not establish, finance or administer any boards or corporations in the name of caste, community, and religion except the four corporations. Contending that these boards and corporations were created without the basis of any law, the petitioner has said that creation of boards for the a few chosen castes and communities amounts to arbitrary as only a few selected groups are benefited from these corporations leaving out a large number of other castes and communities. The petitioner has alleged that the creation of recent corporations in the name of castes and communities is politically motivated and announcement of some of these castes were made targeting voters belonging to particular castes and communities during the recently concluded byelections, and ensuing byelections to the Lok Sabha and the State Legislative Assembly.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC sets deadlines for holding polls to city corporations||Taking note of the delay in holding elections to various local bodies, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday set deadlines for delimitation of wards, fixing caste-based reservation, publication of voters’ lists, and announcing the calender of election for Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, and Kalaburagi city corporations. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition initiated suo motu by the court on the issue of violation of constitutional provision owing to non-holding of elections to several local bodies despite expiry of tenure. Reservation of wards In case of Belagavi City Corporation, the Bench gave two months to the government to notify reservation of wards while directing the State Election Commission (SEC) to announce the calender of events within 45 days after the publication of the final voters’ list. For Kalaburagi City Corporation, the Bench directed the government to complete the process of delimitation of wards and fix reservation within two months thereafter. Also, the Bench directed the SEC to make public the final voters’ list in three months after completion of delimitation of wards and announce the election schedule within 45 days from the publication of the electoral rolls. Similarly, the Bench also directed the government to complete the process of delimitation of wards in Hubballi–Dharward City Corporation within six weeks and fix reservation for wards within two moths thereafter. The SEC has also been directed to finalise the voters’ list in three months from delimitation and issue the calender of election within 45 days from publication of the electoral rolls. Meanwhile, the Bench asked a single judge Bench at the Dharwad Bench of the High Court to take up for hearing petition related to Ballari City Corporation ward reservation out of turn and decide at the earliest on an application filed by the government for vacating stay on reservation notification. Earlier, the SEC pointed out to the court that apart from these citycorporations, the elections for 10 city municipal councils, six town municipal councils, and two town panchayats spread over 10 district are still pending owing to pendency of petitions before the court.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State signs MoU with British Council on higher education, climate change||Karnataka and the British Council on Thursday signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to further bilateral cooperation in higher education as well as climate change. “The two are signing a first of its kind three-year MoU involving collaboration on leadership development in higher education institutions. The United Kingdom has been a very important Global Innovation Alliance (GIA) partner for Karnataka and 38% of the U.K. investment into India in 2017-2018 came into Karnataka,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on the occasion. The MoU was signed in the presence of the Chief Minister and U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab. Mr Raab on Thursday concluded his three-day visit to India. The Chief Minister also welcomed the establishment of the tech hubs and tech clusters programme as well as ‘Go Global’ programmes that take innovative startups from India to the U.K.  Mr. Raab, in Bengaluru, also met research staff at the Indian Institute of Science working on a project which will deliver two demonstration buildings in India capable of meeting their own energy needs at the same time as supplying energy to the local grid.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DPI directed to remove content from textbooks||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Thursday directed Department of Public Instruction (DPI) officials to remove content from school textbooks that had allegedly hurt the feelings of the Brahmin community. The Karnataka State Brahmin Development Board had written to the Chief Minister alleging that State syllabus textbooks of classes six and nine contained material that was “insulting” to the community. “The Mantralaya Mutt seer had called and informed me about this. I had clarified to the seer that this was introduced in textbooks even before our government came to power,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar in a press note. Officials have been asked to issue a corrigendum and remove the “objectionable content” from the textbooks this academic year itself. The Minister has also directed that an expert committee that will include teachers and subject experts be set up to look into such issues in textbooks.
18 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ayanur seeks action against 5 Cong. MLCs||Bharatiya Janata Party MLC Ayanur Manjunath has written to Legislative Council Chairman K. Prathapchandra Shetty appealing to him to take action against five Congress MLCs, including party whip Narayanaswamy and Nazeer Ahmed, for allegedly affecting the sanctity of the House through their “unruly behaviour” of manhandling the Deputy Chairman who was in the chair. Squarely blaming the Chairman as being responsible for such an episode, Mr. Manjunath demanded that he should at least initiate action to send a message that such a behaviour would not be tolerated. “Such a message should reach both the incumbent legislators as well as those aspiring to become legislators,” he said. He said that Mr. Narayanaswamy, Chandrashekhar B. Patil, Srinivas Mane, Mr. Ahmed, and Prakash Rathod were allegedly involved in the attack on the Deputy Chairman. Mr. Manjunath accused Mr. Shetty, against whom a no-confidence motion has been initiated by the BJP with the support of the JD(S), of giving importance to “protecting his own post” rather than making efforts to uphold the dignity of that post.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,236 new cases, 10 deaths||Karnataka on Thursday recorded 1,236 new COVID-19 cases and 10 fatalities, taking the total cases to 9,05,901 lakh and toll to 11,981, according to the Health Department bulletin. As many as 689 among the new cases and seven out of 10 deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. The district tops in the total positive cases, with 3.80 lakh infections, followed by Mysuru with 51,605 and Ballari with 38,585. The bulletin said that out of 15,205 active cases,14,976 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 229 are in ICUs. Testing A total of over 1.27 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,06,356 were tested on Thursday. As many as 13,666 among them were rapid antigen tests.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Foreigner held for tampering with ATMs||The Upparpet police have arrested a Colombian for allegedly tampering with ATMs to affix skimming machines. He was caught while planning to plant one such device in an ATM in Gandhi Nagar on Thursday morning. “The accused, identified as Cristiano, 34, was roaming suspiciously around an ATM near Sapna Book House. Alert bank staff stopped him, but he tried to flee. Passersby and vendors caught hold of him and handed him over to the police,” said a police officer. When they checked his bag, police found a skimming machine. The accused was handed over to the cybercrime police.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘PM worried’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said on Thursday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “very much worried” about the violence at the Wistron plant. “We have taken action. It is a very important foreign company and this (incident) should not have happened. The Prime Minister is also very much worried about this development,” he said. “...We will give full support to that company, without any problem let them continue production,” he added.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||I-T searches on premises of Bengaluru group||Income Tax sleuths on Thursday searched a number of premises belonging to a leading Bengaluru-based group with interests in power plants, hospitality sector, real estate, and educational institutions. Sources said that the searches revealed huge discrepancies in payment of taxes in power plants. The search which commenced on Thursday morning went on till late in the night. The searches also covered a multi-service operator. Sources said that instances of tax evasion have been detected, and several documents pertaining to the groups financial operations have been seized for further investigation.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||R.N. Shetty passes away||Businessman and philanthropist R.N. Shetty ( in picture )passed away on Thursday here following a cardiac arrest. He was 92. Born on 1928 in the coastal town of Murudeshwar, he founded the R.N. Shetty and Company in 1961 and ventured into construction and other infrastructure sectors. Later, he entered the hospitality and education sectors as well. Many, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and heads of trade bodies, have mourned Mr. Shetty’s death. In his condolence message, the Chief Minister hailed him as a man who was born in an agrarian family who went on to make a mark in the industrial sector.
18 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Get voters’ list printed only at govt. press: DKS||Stating that there were widespread complaints about names of certain categories of voters getting deleted from the final list of the voters, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Thursday requested the Chief Electoral Officer to get the voters’ list printed at the Government Printing Press only. In a letter to the CEO, he said it was alleged that certain outfits affiliated to a political party,through various means, manipulate the lists at the time of printing and see that the names of certain categories of voters were omitted in the list. “As political parties do not get an opportunity to set right the anomaly, the entitled voters are deprived of the right to vote. This manipulation occurs when the Election Commission engages private agencies to print the voters’ list,” he said. To ensure no manipulation takes place in the printing of voters’ list, the commission had to take the precaution that private operators do not sneak into the system, he said. “We therefore appeal to you to kindly do not engage any private operators in getting the voters’ list printed and ensure that the lists are printed only at the government press,” he said.
18 December 2020||BENGLURU,KARNATAKA||Kannada version of ‘Mahad’ to be released tomorrow||The Kannada translation of Mahad: The Making of the First Dalit Revolt , written by human rights activist Anand Teltumbde, will be released online on Saturday by Kannada writer Devanur Mahadeva. The book has been translated into Kannada by Abdul Rehaman Pasha in two volumes. Writer and former Kannada Book Authority chairman Banjagere Jayaprakash will speak about the book. Seminar On the occasion, a seminar has also been organised on ‘What Dalit movement can learn from Mahad’ and ‘Lessons of Mahad for Dalit Left movement’. The book centres around the events of 1927 when B.R. Ambedkar led a movement to allow “untouchables” drink from a public tank at Mahad.
18 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||GP election: Prohibitory orders issued||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in the rural areas of Shivamogga, Bhadravati, and Thirthahalli taluks between 5 p.m. on December 20 and 5 p.m. on December 22, owing to the gram panchayat elections. Polls on Dec. 22 The gram panchayats in these taluks will go for polls on December 22. The order prohibits the public from taking out processions, protests, and gathering of more than five people, besides carrying lethal weapons. However, it does not apply to events like marriage, religious programmes, funeral and those events being conducted with prior approval of the police concerned.
18 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Protesting teachers end their agitation||Following a letter from the Primary and Secondary Education Minister which was personally handed over to the protestors by Minister for Mines and Geology C.C. Patil, teachers and other employees of various aided and unaided educational institutions, who were on a relay hunger strike led by the former Minister Basavaraj Horatti, ended their agitation on the 13th day here on Thursday. Visiting the protest site outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office premises, Mr. C.C. Patil handed over the official letter from Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar on considering their demands to Mr. Horatti. Mr. Patil appealed to the protestors to withdraw their protest as the government was considerate about their demands and would make honest attempts to resolve the pending issues in the next three months. He also told the protestors that the government had an open mind on the issue and it would positively respond to their demands. Led by Mr. Basavaraj Horatti [MLC], members of the Madhyamika Shala Noukarara Sangha and members of various other organisations related to private, aided and unaided educational institutions launched their relay hunger strike on December 5. Mr. Patil said that the government would take steps to prepare a report on the financial implications of extending “Jyoti Sanjivini’ scheme to employees of aided educational institutions and providing notional increment. On the demand for job security to teaching and non-teaching staff of the unaided private educational institutions, he said that the government would issue a strict circular and would also take steps to set up a vigilance system. Responding to the Minister’s plea, Mr. Basavaraj Horatti said that since the Minister had personally come to the protest venue and assured them of a positive response from the government, the relay hunger strike would be suspended. Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil and office-bearers of the various organisations, including R.G. Bhat and Shyam Mallanagoudar, and others were present. On the 12th day of the agitation on Wednesday, the protestors had taken a decision to continue the agitation till an official communication from the Minister concerned arrived. Office-bearers R.G. Bhat and Shyam Mallanagoudar had told the agitating teachers and other employees that in the meeting called on December 14, Mr. Suresh Kumar had positively responded to the 13 main demands and other issues. “After Mr. Horatti explained to the Minister the pending issues and technicalities, the Minister promised to resolve them within the next three months. However, we are not satisfied yet with the outcome and we will not remain satisfied with a mere assurance. Only if a written communication comes from the Minister, we will consider withdrawing the agitation,” they had said.
18 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||After CBI interrogation, Indi is now in judicial custody||After the CBI completed questioning the former Minister Vinay Kulkarni’s uncle Chandrashekar Indi alias Chandu Mama, the CBI Special Court remanded him in judicial custody till December 28. The court had, on December 15, allowed the CBI to take him into custody for further questioning for two days and directed it to produce the accused before the court by Thursday evening. Accordingly, after interrogating Mr. Indi for two days at the Dharwad Suburban Police Station, the CBI officials produced him before the court at 5 p.m on Thursday. CBI Court Judge C.M. Gangadhar remanded him to judicial custody till December 28. Mr. Indi was arrested by the CBI team on Sunday and produced before the court on Monday. The court had awarded 14-day judicial custody to him, and on the next day permitted the CBI to take him into custody for two days. Meanwhile, the CBI team has continued questioning close aides of Vinay Kulkarni in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. On Thursday, it questioned Nataraj, who works in dairy owned by Vinay Kulkarni and Basavaraj Muttagi, another accused in the case and a close aide of the former Minister. According to sources, questioning went on for over four hours. Vinay Kulkarni, whose bail plea was rejected by the CBI Special Court, has approached the High Court of Karnataka Dharwad Bench questioning the lower court’s order. This bail plea is yet to come up for hearing. The former Minister is now lodged in Hindalga Jail in Belagavi.
18 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Tributes to R.N. Shetty||Members of the Hubballi Dharwad Buntara Sangha paid tributes to industrialist and founder-president of the sangha R.N. Shetty who passed away in Bengaluru on Thursday. At a condolence meeting held on the premises of the Hubballi Dharwad Buntara Sangha, the former sangha presidents Satishchandra Shetty, S.B. Shetty, Mahesh Shetty, Ratnakar Shetty, members Satish Shetty and Sudhakar Shetty mourned his demise.
18 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Women will be the first victims of farm laws’||The three farm laws recently enacted by the Union government, against which the farmers are protesting across India, especially on the Delhi border, would adversely affect women involved in the farm sector more than anyone else, said K. Neela, State vice-president of Akhil Bharatiya Janwadi Mahila Sanghatan. Addressing a gathering on the third day of a demonstration at Jagat Circle here on Thursday in support of farmers protesting on the Delhi border, she said that women, who managed over 45 % of the farmers families in the country, would be victimised by the laws, in the first place. “More than 45 % of farmers families are led and managed by women who are involved in all sorts of agricultural labour, right from sowing to harvesting. The women’s condition is already pathetic in the country and the new laws would worsen that. The laws that are introduced to help big corporate companies involved in the farm sector would devastate the country’s rural economy and women would be the first among the rural population to starve, suffer and come to the street losing everything,” she said. Strongly opposing the anti-cattle slaughter Bill passed recently in the Legislative Assembly, Ms. Neela said that the provisions in the Bill would also hit hard the women economically as a considerable portion of women in the rural areas were involved in dairy farming and allied activities. “We should understand that a sizeable chunk of women in the rural areas are involved in farming, especially in dairy farming and activities involving cattle. The anti-cattle slaughter Bill passed in the Assembly would devastate the rural economy and the women would be at the receiving end,” she said. To register their opposition to the three farm laws enacted by the Union government and the anti-cattle slaughter Bill passed by the State Assembly, the agitating activists disfigured the images of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and industrialists Mukhesh Ambani and Gautam Adani with blank ink. M.B. Sajjan from All India University Employees Confederation, Sangayya Halladamath from Samudaya Sanghatane, Pramod Panchal from Aland Young Writers Association, Jagadevi of Janwadi Mahila Sanghatan and others participated.
18 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||MLA takes exception to reduced KKRDB funds||Taking exception to the reduction in funds allocated for Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) and the inordinate delay in releasing the approved funds, Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge has said that BJP legislators from Kalyana Karnataka were silent when the State government was meting out injustice to the region. As per information provided by Mr. Kharge, the government had made a budgetary allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore to KKRDB, but recently approved only Rs. 1131.86 crore for release, of which Rs. 282.97 crore was released in the first instalment and Rs. 261.06 crore in the second. Upon the government’s directions, he added, the KKRDB submitted action plans only for Rs. 952.22 crore, though the allocated amount was Rs. 1,500 crore and the approved amount Rs. 1,131.86 crore. “There is a pending amount of Rs. 662.71 crore allocated in the previous year. The government dues to KKRDB have thus risen to over Rs. 2,000 crore. The Congress has been demanding that the government release the allocated amount to KKRDB. The BJP legislators from the region have, however, been maintaining silence over the issue. If they are afraid of their leaders, I ask them to take us along with them to the Chief Minister and we will demand the funds for the region,” he said, addressing a media conference at the Congress office in Kalaburagi on Thursday. Mr. Kharge also questioned the inordinate delay in the release of the approved amount.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Padubidri End Point Beach thrown open to visitors||The Padubidri End Point Beach in Udupi district, which has bagged the coveted eco-label ‘Blue Flag’ from the international agency Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark, was thrown open for visitors on Thursday. It is among eight beaches in the country, including Kasarakod near Honnavar in Uttara Kannada, which have got the Blue Flag certification. According to the Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, a ‘Blue Flag’ beach is an eco-tourism model to provide tourists clean and hygienic bathing water, facilities/amenities, safe and healthy environment and sustainable development of the area. The certification is awarded by the Denmark-based agency based on 33 stringent criteria in four major heads that is environmental education and information, bathing water quality, environment management and conservation and safety and services in the beaches. The beach has a grey water treatment plant, solid waste management plant, disabled-friendly equipment to enable them to enter seawater, seating arrangements, clean drinking water, washroom, changing room, bathing facility, disabled-friendly and general toilets, parking facilities, solar power plant, solar lighting, and the like. The 500-m stretch of the Padubidri beach has been developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 10.68 crore over the past two years. The beach has a 200-m-long safe swimming zone. A tourism department official said that a visitor will have to pay entry fee, parking fee and separate fee fixed for using some facilities created on the beach. The entry fee will be Rs. 30 per adult and for children aged above five years, it will be Rs. 20 per head. The parking fee for public transport vehicles like buses and vans will be Rs. 50 for two hours and for cars, autorickshaws and electric vehicles, it will be Rs. 20 up to two hours. There will be fees for playing volleyball and using recliners. The changing room fee per use will be Rs. 20 per person. There is no fee for using drinking water, swimming and using toilet facilities. There is a provision for daily pass. The fees payable for using the facilities at the beach are yet to be introduced, the official said.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Waste collection hit in city as workers resort to snap stir||Door-to-door collection and transportation of solid waste in the city was affected after many sanitary workers of Antony Waste Handling Cell Pvt. Ltd., which handles solid waste for Mangaluru City Corporation, resorted to a snap stir on Thursday. According to an official in the health section of the corporation, the workers were mainly demanding from the company bonus. They were also angry that they did not get their salary for November till date. The official said that about 250 workers, which included drivers of about 120 vehicles transporting solid waste and sanitary workers who pick up waste from people’s doorsteps, took part in the strike. But street sweeping went on smoothly. The official said that after the company executives and the corporation officials held talks with the striking workers, many of them returned to the work after 2.30 p.m. and began collecting and transporting waste. Narayana Shetty, president of Association of Safai Karmacharis, said that there are issues relating to the maintenance of vehicles collecting and transporting solid waste posing a threat to the safety of drivers and workers. It has not been addressed. Women workers do not have proper toilet facility. There are issues relating to salary reduction, Provident Fund, issue of identity cards and irregular salary. He said that a senior corporation official assured that he would ensure that the workers got their salary by the 10th of every month and the company should submit the salary bill to the corporation by the fifth of every month. He assured them of taking up other matters related to the workers with the company.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Average of 100 people tested at District Court daily||In the last two months since its operation, the CoVID Testing Centre on the District Court premises here has been testing an average of 100 persons every day for free. The CoVID Testing Centre has been functioning from a room at the old office of the Principal District and Sessions Judge. It started operations on October 19 when the courts started to record evidence. Mangalore Bar Association president N. Narasimha Hegde said that all witnesses whose evidences are to be recorded and accused, whose presence is necessary during evidence, for the day, will have to undergo Rapid Antigen Test for COVID-19. Only those with COVID-19 negative certificate will be allowed inside the court hall after temperature screening, he said. The RAT test is being done free, he added. Two personnel from the Department of Health and Family Welfare do the RAT test. The tests are carried out between 9.30 a.m. and noon. Five court staff are posted at the centre. While two court staff members do the registration and record contact details, the remaining three members regulate the visitors and distribute COVID-19 negative certificates. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bairy said that similar testing centres have been opened at court complexes in Moodbidri, Sullia, Belthangady, Bantwal and Puttur. On an average, 50 persons are tested every day at these centres. Transparent shield has been placed at the witness stands of all courts to prevent direct contact between the judge and the witnesses. Dr. Bairy said that in the tests done so far at the courts, only one COVID-19 positive case has been found.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Venkaiah Naidu to deliver today Kamath Endowment Lecture||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu will deliver the sixth M.V. Kamath Endowment Lecture from 10.30 a.m. to 11 a.m. on Friday, albeit in the virtual mode. The event will take place at the TMA Pai Hall on the third floor, Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal. Pro-Chancellor of MAHE H.S. Ballal, Vice-Chancellor M.D. Venkatesh and other dignitaries from the university will participate. The event will happen through CISCO and will be live telecast by Rajya Sabha TV and Facebook live page of Manipal Institute of Communication. Late Madhav Vittal Kamath was a journalist and chairman of Prasar Bharati. He worked as the Editor of The Sunday Times for two years from 1967, as Washington Correspondent for The Times of India from 1969 to 1978 and Editor of The Illustrated Weekly of India. He had written numerous books and was conferred with the Padma Bhushan in 2004. In 2009, Kamath co-authored a biographical sketch of Narendra Modi titled “Narendra Modi: The Architect of a Modern State”. A newer version of the book has been published later as “The Man of the Moment: Narendra Modi”. Kamath was a board member of Manipal Academy of Higher Education. He was instrumental in the setting up of Manipal Institute of Communication in 1997 and was also the Honorary Director of the Manipal Institute of Communication, a release said.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dharmasthala Yakshagana troupe to begin tour today||The Dharmasthala Manjunatheswara Krupaposhita Yakshagana Mandali, which is more than a century old, will commence on Friday its annual Tirugata (tour), presenting Bayalata (open air theatre show) in various districts. It will present short duration shows from 7 p.m. to midnight in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga districts and in Kasaragod of Kerala. The troupe began its shows for this season in Dharmasthala itself on November 19. After being stationed in Dharmasthala for one month, till December 17, the mela will launch its season’s tour that will go on till May 23, 2021. All the shows will be Seve Bayalatas. The troupe will end its tour by returning to Dharmasthala.
18 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Upalokayukta coming||Upalokayukta B.S. Patil will be in the city on Friday. He will visit different government offices and hold a meeting with district-level officials from 10.30 a.m. to noon to review the pending cases.
18 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Now, get MUDA approval for building plans within a day||In a relief to those planning to construct houses, the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) on Thursday launched a new initiative – “Namme Mane, Namma Licence” – that assures approval of building plans within a day. If documents of the property are clear, then they are assured of the sanction of the licence for constructing their dream house in layouts coming under the MUDA limits. Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar launched the single-window over-the-counter service (OTC-S) kiosk on the MUDA premises. MUDA chairman H.V. Rajeev and MUDA Commissioner D.B. Natesh were present. Applications submitted before 1 p.m. are verified and licence would be issued for building construction if the documents are in order. The list of documents and the fee for the plan approval are available at the kiosk. The kiosk, located on the first floor of MUDA office on JLB Road, has a dedicated team of officers and staff who will be overseeing the approval process. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said such an initiative had been launched for the first time in the State. This can be model for other cities to replicate. Such an initiative is not available even in the Bengaluru Development Authority, he claimed. Those wishing to build their dream houses need not have to run from one pillar to the other as the new initiative has made the approval process hassle free. People need not to have to wait for one-and-a-half months for getting their building plans approved, the Minister said. “If all documents are in order, the plan can be sanctioned in one day,” the Minister said, adding that this will overcome the difficulties faced by the public in this process.  The Minister announced that MUDA will be freed from middlemen menace and a task force in this regard would be constituted soon. Warning of action against those who encourage middlemen on the premises, including the staff, he said Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj has issued directions in this connection. MUDA Township Disclosing MUDA’s plans of building township on the city outskirts, Mr. Somashekar said plans are afoot to take up vertical development and inspection of suitable locations in the MUDA developed layouts had been done. The MUDA delegation would be visiting Bengaluru soon to study how such projects had been implemented by the BDA. Taking all factors into the consideration and the opinion of the people of Mysuru, MUDA will be taking up the new projects, he informed.
18 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru takes up Centre’s ‘Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge’||Mysuru is among 242 cities in the country that have taken up the “Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge-2021”. The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, Government of India, launched the challenge themed “Manhole to Machine-hole transformation” last month to encourage more number of cities and towns to adopt mechanised cleaning of sewers and septic tanks, and motivate smaller cities to replicate. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) banned manual scavenging in 2011, but it had started to use machines for cleaning sewer lines since 2009. Safety first Given that the mandate of Government of India is to ensure safety and well-being of every citizen, the Ministry launched the national challenge and also announced awards in different categories for performing cities based on their population. MCC falls in the category of the population of 3-10 lakh. The first prize in this category is Rs. 10 crore, while the second and third prizes are Rs. 5 crore and Rs. 2.5 crore respectively. “The MCC is striving hard to provide best services and create good sanitation system besides providing safe working environment to Safai Mitras (UGD workers). It needs public support and also their involvement for emerging at the national level as the best in the challenge,” a release from MCC said. Also, in an attempt to generate awareness about the initiative and to reinforce appreciation towards Safai Mitras, the Ministry had launched a contest asking the participating cities to design uniform for Safai Mitras so that it could be worn by all Safai Mitras across the country, carrying the logo of Safai Mitra Surksha Challenge. The MCC took up the opportunity to engage the public in the initiative and encourage them to participate. It announced the contest of designing uniform last month. Six persons have submitted their designs. The best design was selected by a committee chaired by MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde. The design of Asha Jayakrishnan, principal, Queens School of Design, Kuvempunagar, bagged the cash prize of Rs. 10,000. At the national level, it has been found that only seven cities took part in the design contest. Mysuru is the only city in the State that took part and submitted its design to the Ministry, the release said.
18 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Risk of heart emergencies significantly higher in winter’||In the year 2018-19, a total of 53 patients were admitted to Manipal Hospital on Old Airport Road in Bengaluru with Acute Coronary Syndrome (ACS) during April, May and June. However, the number of patients admitted to the same hospital with ACS during November, December and January rose to 74, marking an increase of about 40% in the winter. A webinar organised by Manipal Hospital in association with the Mysuru District Journalists’ Association (MDJA) sought to lay emphasis on the increased risk of heart attack and cardiac arrest in winter, especially among the elderly population and those with pre-existing heart conditions. Independent risk factor During the webinar, Ranjan Shetty, consultant for Interventional Cardiology at the hospital, said cold weather is an independent risk factor for heart emergencies. “Mounting evidence suggests that the risk of suffering a heart attack and cardiac arrest increases significantly in winters, especially in the elderly population and those with pre-existing heart conditions such as coronary artery disease, heart rhythm problems, and congenital heart diseases. A family history of coronary artery disease or presence of risk factors such as cigarette smoking, obesity, hypertension, diabetes, and hypercholesterolemia can also increase one’s chances of suffering a sudden heart problem considerably in the winter season,” he said. Physiological changes Several physiological changes to keep our body warm during the cold season can be blamed for the increased risk of heart problems in winters, he said. “First of all, our heart has to work harder to keep our body warm in the winters. This increases the blood pressure and heart rate and also increases the oxygen demand of the heart itself for efficient functioning. Though a normal healthy heart can adjust to these changes, a person with a diseased heart may find it difficult to cope up with this extra workload,” said Dr. Shetty. Evidence also suggests that our blood flow is sluggish in the winter months, with a higher propensity for blood clots and cholesterol build up inside the vessel, an important cause of artery blockage and heart emergencies, he said. Dr. Shetty suggested that keeping oneself warm, without the risk of being overheated, is one of the best ways to keep heart problems at bay. “Engaging in strenuous exercise increases the workload of the heart suddenly and the blood flow to the heart might fall significantly in a patient with blocked arteries,” he warned, before advising patients to stay indoors as much as possible, besides exercising indoors, avoiding strenuous exercise, and wearing caps, socks and gloves to keep themselves warm. Regular check-up Dr. Shetty also pointed out that the number of patients dying from heart disease at home has also increased drastically during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic as many were keeping away from the hospital despite experiencing symptoms of heart trouble. Hence, he said patients with established risk factors or heart problems should not stay away from regular check-ups if they had been skipping them during the pandemic.
18 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Penalise MLCs who violated COVID-19 norms’||Minister for Co-operation S.T. Somashekar has favoured imposition of penalty on members of the Legislative Council who violated the COVID-19 restrictions during Tuesday’s chaotic developments. When asked about several MLCs not wearing masks and violating social distancing rules in the House, he said the law is the same for common man as well as legislators. “We talk about social distancing and wearing masks where we go, besides emphasising on sanitising of hands. But, all this was not seen (in the House). Whoever has violated the rules, should be penalised,” Mr. Somashekar said on Wednesday. He also made it clear that he was not accusing members of only one party. “It is wrong even if our party members have violated the law,” he said. Mr. Somashekar said it was up to the Chairperson of the Council to impose a penalty on erring members.
18 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||KRRS calls on actors, Mutt heads to back farmers’ stir||The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Hasiru Sene have called upon film artists and heads of Mutts in Karnataka to back the farmers’ protest against the farm Bills. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, president of KRRS and Hasiru Sene Badagalapura Nagendra sought to question actors whether they were not bothered about the difficulties faced by farmers. He said the heads of Mutts, who arrange “Anna Dasohas”, should also come forward and back the farmers. Mr. Nagendra said the farmers’ strike had received support from not only NRIs, but also a string of eminent personalities and sportspersons, who had returned Padma awards as well as other national awards.
18 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cash prize||The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has announced cash prizes for cities that perform well in the Safai Mitra Suraksha Challenge. A city of more than 10 lakh population can get a maximum cash reward of Rs. 12 crore as first prize. The second and third prizes are Rs. 6 crore and Rs. 3 crore respectively. For a town or city having population upto 3 lakh, the cash award ranges from Rs. 8 crore (first) to Rs. 2 crore (third). The second prize is Rs. 4 crore. Other cities Lucknow, Rajkot, Port Blair, Latur, Chhattisgarh, Indore, Kota (South), Moradabad, Goa, Dhanbad, Meerut, Dewas, Lehragaga, and Abohar have also taken part in the competition for designing the uniform for Safai Mitras.
18 December 2020||Mysuru/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Why do we need Upper House, ask farmers’ leaders||The unprecedented chaos witnessed in the State Legislative Council on Tuesday, over the issue of no-confidence motion against the Chairman, has led to a demand for the abolition of the Upper House of the State legislature by farmers’ organisations. President of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) and Hasiru Sene Badagalapura Nagendra said he would shortly write to both President Ram Nath Kovind as well as Governor Vajubhai R. Vala to abolish the Council. He contended that the Council, which was meant to serve as a forum for intellectuals, had now degenerated into a “rehabilitation centre for disgruntled politicians”. The Council has become a “white elephant” and the government should abolish the House, he said. He said members of the Council were oblivious to the fact that their “shameful Tuesday’actions” would be shown to the world through the media and said the present members of the august House should learn a lesson or two from the proceedings of village panchayats, which were “bereft of such goondaism and use of unparliamentary language”. He held the members of all the three political parties responsible for the pandemonium. Echoing Mr. Nagendra’s views was president of the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association Kurubur Shanthakumar. “The Legislative Council is no longer a House of the elders,” said Mr. Shanthakumar, who is also president of the Confederation of Farmers’ Associations in Karnataka. He alleged that money power fetches seat in some cases, which in turn gives such members protection from law. Karnataka would not only save crores of rupees, but also its honour if the Upper House was done away with, he said. Contending that people of the State were hanging their heads in shame after witnessing the uproarious scenes in the House on Tuesday, Mr. Shanthakumar pointed out that neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu do not have Legislative Councils. Taking the same line, president of another faction of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Kodihalli Chandrashekhar asked, “What is the point in having a House whose members indulge in behaviour which makes everyone hang their head in shame?” He pointed out that the Upper House was constituted with the intention of bringing a finer sensibility into politics and to sensitise the political system on various issues by bringing in reputed personalities as its members. “But such a thing is not happening,” he said. He too said that it was better to abolish the Upper House and reduce the financial burden on people. ‘No such plans’ Meanwhile, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekhar, who is also Minister in charge of Mysuru district, told reporters that there was no proposal before the government to abolish the Council. “No such discussions has taken place in the government,” he said.
18 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Kodekal, Yallagi GPs elect all their members unopposed||The verbal assurance given by Dattatreya Patil Revoor, Kalaburagi South MLA and chairman of Kalyan Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB), that each panchayat which gets its members elected unopposed would be sanctioned a Rs. 1 crore special package under KKRDB grants, has created a political sensation in Yadgir district with two gram panchayats already getting their members elected unopposed. Kodekal Gram Panchayat in Hunsagi taluk under Surpur Assembly constituency and Yalagi Gram Panchayat in Surpur taluk under Shahapur Assembly constituency are the panchayats that have elected their members unopposed after they saw no contest, with only 22 and 17 members filing nomination papers, respectively, to them. It may be recalled that Mr. Patil, while addressing a gathering during an election campaign in Kalaburagi district, assured them that each gram panchayat would get a special package of Rs. 1 crore in five phases if they get their members elected unopposed. He said that the grant should be utilised for the development of villages coming under such gram panchayats. By making such an announcement, being the chairman of board, Mr. Patil landed in a controversy as president of the District Congress Committee Jagadev Guttedar and the former MLC Allamprabhu Patil filing a written complaint before the State Election Commission stating that Mr. Patil had violated the election code of conduct and seeking immediate legal action against him. Responding to the complaint, the Election Commission wrote to the Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi seeking a detailed report. Meanwhile, the question whether the two gram panchayats of Kodekal and Yalagi would get the promised Rs. 1 crore special package remains to be answered. Talking to The Hindu , Narasimha Naik, MLA and Chairman of Karnataka Urban Drinking Water Supply and Drainage Board, said: “I will speak to Mr. Patil in order to get Rs. 1 crore special package for the gram panchayats.”
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Put Xmas, New Year party plans on hold||In the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, the State government has banned special parties, dance programmes, and gatherings among other public events from December 20, 2020, till January 2, 2021. This puts to rest speculations over whether or not parties organised around Christmas and New Year in Bengaluru city and elsewhere in the State will be held this year. Big gatherings to celebrate New Year in public places and roads, where maintaining social distance is difficult, has also been banned. The prohibition on hosting parties in clubs, pubs, restaurants, and open places, where a large number of people are likely to gather, came through an order of Chief Secretary T.M. Vijaybhaskar on Thursday that sets the guidelines for Christmas and New Year celebrations. The order, however, said clubs, pubs and restaurants can open and function as usual. The Chief Secretary’s order is in tune with the Ministry of Home Affairs order of November 25, which was followed by the State government order of November 27, both of which pointed out that there is a need to keep the celebration simple. The two orders had banned parties in public places, housing complexes and places where big gatherings were likely. No handshakes, hugs While asking churches where big crowds are likely during Christmas to maintain social distance, the order has also banned handshakes and hugs during the festival. The order equips Police Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners to increase curbs on identified public places and roads. Asking those above 65 years and children below 10 years to remain at home, the order said that as per the November 21 order, maintaining social distance, wearing face masks, and use of thermal scanning and sanitisers at hotels, malls, pubs, restaurants, and similar places remain compulsory. The order has asked owners of hotels, pubs, restaurants, and malls to have an online pre-booking facility to prevent crowding.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A successful union of public and private sectors is need of the hour||The COVID-19 pandemic has taught us that a country is only as strong as its healthcare infrastructure. In India, it exposed and further widened the existing fault lines in our delivery systems. Most importantly, in a country like ours, where about 70% or more of healthcare is in the private sector, we have learnt that public-private partnerships are the need of the hour in a crisis like this. We need to strengthen our primary and public healthcare infrastructure significantly and increase both – spending as well as manpower in these areas – so that we can effectively combat the second and third wave of COVID-19, and future pandemics. One more aspect which is absolutely important and needs to be implemented is universal healthcare for citizens. Even though the government has already taken steps to implement the Ayushman Bharat scheme and its extended programs, we need to further extend it to cover the missing middle, i.e., the middle class, especially in the self-employed and informal sectors. That said, our experience over this year has improved our ability to deal with such similar situations should they arise in the future. We learned that the success in dealing with the pandemic was very much dependent on how well the public-private partnership between the government and the private sector was managed. The private and public health sectors have learned to work well together during this pandemic, though there were some initial hiccups. The government taking a tough stand on hospitals failing to make beds available in accordance with the rules, through consensus and dialogue rather than coercion helped the situation. What we got right Ever since the first few cases of COVID-19 were diagnosed in the State in March, the government took some early steps with an effective lockdown. It set up multiple committees and a task force, and held fruitful meetings with the private sector to increase our diagnostic capacity, which is the foundation for the effective management of any pandemic. Very early in the course of the pandemic, dialogues were held with the private sector to take care of the expected rise in cases when the lockdown was phased out. One of the very novel ideas implemented by the government was setting up of EICU and virtual consults with specialists in the private sector from Bengaluru with hospitals in all the district headquarters. We are proud that by using tele-medicine technology, there was a significant improvement in the care of these patients and an almost 50% decrease in the fatality rates in these areas. Demand for beds Initially, government hospital capacity and beds were upgraded and earmarked for COVID-19 cases. But when the numbers started increasing, it was found that the beds were filling up rapidly. Following this, about 50% of beds in the private sector were dedicated to COVID-19 care. For patients whose symptoms were not severe, COVID-19 Care Centres were set up by the public and private sectors. We developed a system of home care for asymptomatic patients, which started to free up beds. Though there were some hiccups in the beginning, which was to be expected in tackling a pandemic of this scale, they were streamlined rapidly. By and large, most patients got the appropriate care, though intensive care is still a challenge. Bengaluru has around 400 high-end ICU beds and an equal number of high dependency beds, and Karnataka probably over 900. Fortunately, there has been a significant decrease in the number of new cases by almost 70% and a significant decrease in the case fatality in Karnataka. I would imagine this is because of the right efforts and a working public-private partnership model. Citizen participation Effective management of COVID-19 needs citizen participation. The decline in numbers that we are seeing would not have been possible without compliance from citizens and massive awareness campaigns. Such campaigns, along with punitive action, helped in slowing down the spread of the disease. The hurdles that we faced were not limited to hospitals and beds, but to adjunct sectors also. One lesson learned was the need for a high concentration and flow of oxygen in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. The demand resulted in problems of oxygen supply to many of the hospitals, both in the private and government sectors. But with the efforts of all concerned, it was soon sorted out. As of now, there is no real shortage of oxygen though at times, its supply and cost have been issues that need to be resolved. All in all, Karnataka has done well and certainly better than many other cities and States. It could be considered as a model State in the management of COVID-19. However, we have to ensure that we do not let our guard down.  Dr. H Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman, Manipal Hospitals and member of State’s COVID-19 Expert Committee
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Court notice to State on regularising encroachments||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the government on a PIL petition questioning the legality of the amendment made to the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) for regularising certain types of illegal occupation and constructions on land owned by the BDA. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order on a petition filed by Vijayan Menon and four others. The BDA (Amendment) Act, 2020 “detrimentally affects the residents of Bengaluru” as the new law incentivises land-grabbers to illegally occupy government lands as the said illegal occupation would later on be legalised and regularised The petitioners have also questioned the legality of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act, which would allow an increase in the floor area ratio for buildings by mere payment of premium charges to the government. The amendments to the BDA Act and the KTCP Act were made when the petitions questioning Akarama-Scheme of 2014 were pending in the Supreme Court, which had stayed implementation of the scheme, which was introduced by amending the KTCP Act, the petitioners have contended. The petitioners sought a declaration that the amendments made to regularise the illegalities are violative of Articles 14 (equity before law) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Constitution of India. Also, the petitioners have contended that amendments were violative of Article 243ZE as no consultations were made with the Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee, which is the apex body to plan the Bengaluru metropolitan area.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Colleagues worried about missing health officer||Colleagues and health workers from Hosakote taluk held a protest on Thursday demanding that the police intensify the search for health officer Dr. Manjunath who was reported missing on December 15. “He disappeared under very mysterious circumstances,” said a health officer. He left his office that evening after work but never reached home. His car, too, is missing, the police added. His colleagues and family members tried to call him on his mobile phone but found that it was switched off. After searching for him, they filed a missing person complaint. According to his family members, Dr. Manjunath had raided a private hospital on December 10 and seized medicines worth Rs. 10 lakh that were stored in the premises and sold illegally. “Family members and colleagues claimed that he became very tense after the raid. He was seen having confrontations and arguments with people. He would get calls late at night,” said a police officer. The police stepped up their efforts to trace him.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||21 bonded labourers rescued in Shivamogga||Two work supervisors — Modavth Hunia and Eshwaraiah — also natives of Mahabubnagar in Telangana, brought these people after paying them advance. Mr. Prasanna told The Hindu that the two paid each person an advance ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh and made them work to clear the amount. Not allowed to go out The workers would get a salary of Rs. 5,500 per month, which would be adjusted to the advance paid. They were provided with food and shelter but never allowed to go out of that place. The officer said the workers were paid an advance and forced to work for wages lower than the minimum wages. “This act attracts the provisions under the Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976”, said the officer. The Sagar Rural police have registered a case against the two supervisors. The Department of Women and Child Development and the police were involved in the rescue operation. The State government would be paying compensation of Rs. 20,000 each to the released labourers. The workers along with their eight children travelled to Telangana on Thursday, the officer added.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police net Rs. 26 lakh in fines||Motorists were caught off-guard when the traffic police on Thursday launched a drive under the banner ‘Operation Surprise Check’ at 174 spots across the city, and booked 5,672 cases of traffic violations. In two hours, they collected Rs. 26.28 lakh by way of fines. The special drive was launched in areas where an increasing number of accidents are being reported, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, adding that traffic violations is the major factor for endangering the lives of road users. “The special drive was launched at these black spots in order to reduce accidents and ensure road discipline,” he said. To keep motorists on their toes, the police plan to hold surprise checks in areas that they don’t normally monitor.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Deadline for roadworks||Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj on Thursday said all major roadworks under the Smart City project would be completed by March-April 2021. Acknowledging the delay in completion of works because of rains and COVID-19, he said he has been regularly reviewing their progress. “All major roadworks will be completed in March-April 2021,” he said.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Repurposing PSU land||A large green space in the now-defunct Mysore Lamps factory and NGEF is being planned to be developed for other purposes. The Bengaluru Culture, Heritage and Crafts Museum has been planned at NGEF along with a contemporary public recreational space and cultural event hub. There are also plans tohouse Itihaasa, Bengaluru’stechnology history — an interactive digital show-case of the city’s journey — at Mysore Lamps factory.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nominations||As many as 5,273 people have filed nomination papers for the second phase of GP polls to be held on December 27. Arasikere, Belur, Alur, and Holenarsipur taluks are going to polls. In a release, Additional Deputy Commissioner Kavita Rajaram said 5,273 have filed the papers for 1,648 seats of 120 GPs in the four taluks.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Clean precincts||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||12-year-old boy bludgeoned to death||A 12-year-old boy was found bludgeoned to death on Wednesday night at a construction site in Jnana Ganga Nagar. His mother, who was also beaten badly, sustained severe injuries, said the police. “Her husband, Basavaraj, works as a watchman. He lives in a makeshift shed on the site with his wife and two children. He is absconding,” said a police officer. Neighbours, on Wednesday night, saw his younger child — a two-year-old — wandering on the road withoutany adult supervision. “Suspecting something was amiss, they went to the shed. They found the boy and his mother on the floor bleeding. Next to them was a blood-stained concrete brick,” theofficer said. The two were taken to a hospital, where doctors declared the 12-year-old as brought dead. The police are waiting for the mother to recover so that they can talk to her. “We suspect Basavaraj attacked his wife and son. Efforts are on to trace him,” the police officer said.
18 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||500 acres of paddy lost in bund breach||The outer bund of the Kanakassery paddy polder in Kainakary breached on Thursday. It is the fourth time after the floods of 2018 that the outer bund of the paddy polder has breached. The latest breach destroyed paddy cultivation in around 500 acres. According to officials, the outer bund breached around 12 p.m. It further resulted in the breach of outer bunds of Valiyakari and Meenapally paddy polders. The ‘puncha’ paddy cultivation was in progress in all the three fields at the time of the breach.
18 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Tourism banks on Christmas-New Year||Grappling to sustain amidst an unprecedented crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the tourism industry is looking forward to the Christmas-New Year period for revival. As a sign of improvement, houseboats, hotels and resorts are seeing an surge in bookings, though nowhere near the pre-COVID-19 times. Houseboat tourism, one of the mainstays of the sector, anticipates the upcoming festival period will kick-start the long journey towards normalisation. “The houseboat industry is not out of the woods yet. With no foreign tourists, we now depend entirely on domestic tourists. The majority of them come from different parts of Kerala, while a small number arrives from other States. Usually, the sector does brisk business during the Christmas-New Year period with tourists from other States and foreigners arriving in good numbers. This year, there is no such rush. However, there are signs of revival,” says Kevin Rozario, general secretary, All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samiti. Houseboats have introduced special packages and are offering discounts to attract tourists during the festival period, Mr. Rozario said.  Industry insiders say lack of tourists from abroad is hurting the sector as foreigners tend to stay for a much longer duration than domestic tourists. Slow process “We can say that the sector is on the path to revival, but it is a slow process. The most important thing is survival. We are offering rooms at discounted prices. Although the volume of bookings is less compared to the earlier times, it is picking up ahead of the Christmas holiday season. However, the normalisation is still several months away,” says Radhakrishna Shenoi, general manager, Marari Beach Resort. Rise in footfall According to the Tourism Department, the district is witnessing an increase in tourist footfall since the sector opened in October. “Houseboat operations have started to gather steam with an increase in tourist arrivals, especially during holidays and weekends. A large number of houseboats have already received bookings for the festival period. Overall, things are getting better in the tourism sector in the district,” says M. Malin, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council. Houseboat owners have sought relaxation in COVID-19-related restrictions. They call upon authorities to do away with a cap of 10 passengers in a boat and two persons in a room.
18 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Lone NDA man to head LDF-led panchayat||When a party or a front gets a majority in a grama panchayat, the perception is that its selected member will become the president. Not so in the Kanchiyar grama panchayat in Idukki district. Here, the lone elected National Democratic Alliance (NDA) member will become the president, though the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has got an absolute majority in the local body elections. Out of the 16 seats, the LDF got nine, United Democratic Front (UDF) six, and NDA one. The president’s post is reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SCs). Suresh Kuzhikattu of the NDA won from Ward 8 reserved for the SCs. He got 88 votes more than his immediate rival, a UDF candidate, who got 300 votes. The LDF candidate got less than 200 votes. When a post is reserved for a particular community, only an elected person belonging to that community can hold the post. When a seat is reserved, only those belonging to the reserved category can contest from there. However, there is one option for the majority party. It can ask a candidate elected from a general seat to resign and field one from the reserved category there. If elected, that person can hold the post. In Upputhara too In the Upputhara grama panchayat, the UDF got the majority but an LDF member, James K. Joseph, who won from Ward 7, will become the president. He defeated the UDF candidate by 40 votes. The ward was reserved for the Scheduled Tribe community. The UDF has nine seats and the LDF eight in the 17-seat panchayat.
18 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Violence erupts in many parts of Kannur, Kasaragod||Soon after the election results were declared, sporadic incidents of violence were reported from many parts of Kannur and Kasaragod districts on Wednesday. Incidents of clashes were reported from Dharamadam, Panoor, Kaivelikkal, Kidanchi and Maykunnu during the victory celebrations. About 30 activists of various political parties were injured in the clashes. Some police personnel too were injured. In the Kidanchi-Maykunnu area, 20 CPI(M) and United Democratic Front activists were injured in similar clashes. Many houses were attacked in the area. Similarly, CPI(M) and BJP workers clashed at Kaivelikkal injuring four persons. The BJP observed a hartal here following the attack. In another incident, a victorious UDF candidate in Kuttali panchayat was attacked and his car was damaged. The victim C. Manoharan suffered injury in the attack that occurred when he went to thank the voters. He was rushed to the Thalassery Indira Gandhi Hospital. At Taliparamba, Sreeja, who contested for UDF from ward 4 of Cheriyoor, was threatened and her house was attacked. The assailants forcibly entered the house and damaged the window panes and furniture.  In another incident, a bomb was hurled at the house of BJP candidate in Ambilode K.K. Shijin. In the impact, the glasses of windows were damaged. The police took two CPI(M) activists into custody. In Kasaragod district, the house of BJP candidate P.V. Madhavan was attacked. The BJP leadership alleged that CPI(M) activists were behind the incident. The BJP office in Arai was also attacked. Incidents of violence were reported from many places. District Collector D. Sajith Babu imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Cr.PC at various places in Kasaragod district.
18 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Vayalkilikal leader attacked||Suresh Keezhattoor, who came into the limelight for leading the Keezhattoor Vayalkilikal protest against the government decision to take over agricultural land for laying a bypass road, was allegedly assaulted by a five-member gang. They allegedly waylaid him on Wednesday night and beat him up with steel rods. Mr. Suresh was taken to a private hospital at Taliparamba with grievous injuries. He had fielded his wife Lata Suresh in the local body election. However, the ward was won by LDF candidate V. Vathsala. The police have registered a case.
18 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Talks on for chairperson candidates||Both the major political fronts have kick-started unofficial discussions on potential candidates to head the councils where they have managed simple majority, though neither is in a hurry, since the election of chairpersons is not expected before December 28. At last count, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) has won Eloor, Thripunithura, Piravom, Kothamangalam and Koothattukulam municipalities decisively, while the United Democratic Front (UDF) has Maradu, North Paravur, Angamaly and Aluva municipalities in their kitty. In Maradu, INTUC district vice president and four-time panchayat member and councillor Antony Asanparambil has emerged as the front-runner. Belonging to the Congress ‘A’ faction may also serve him well, since 15 of the victorious UDF councillors owe allegiance to the faction, thus reserving the chairman’s post to them, going by the trend in the faction-ridden Congress. In Eloor Municipality, A.D. Sujil, the second-term councillor and CPI(M) area committee member, may get to lead the municipality, though it is subject to the district committee’s approval. Multiple names are in contention in North Paravur Municipality, where the chairperson’s post is reserved for women. Jessy Raju, Beena Sasidharan, V.A. Prabhavathy, and Shyamala Govindan are among the names in the air, though a final call will be dependent, among others, on caste and community factors. In Kothamangalam, K.K. Tomy’s name is being talked about, though the local leadership remains tight-lipped about sharing names of potential chairperson candidates. Senior Congress leader and KPCC executive committee member M.O. John is in all likelihood to become the chairman for the third time in Aluva. Julie Sabu of the CPI, a former district panchayat member, and Eliamma Philip of the CPI(M), a former panchayat member, are being speculated as potential chairperson candidates in Piravom, even as the local leadership declined to reveal anything without the imprimatur of the party district leadership. Reetha Paul, a five-time councillor, has a distinct advantage in Angamaly, though the name of Reji Mathew is also being thrown around. Both are from the ‘A’ faction that claims to have a majority among the victorious Congress candidates. In Koothattukulam, Jigi Shanavas and Vijaya Sivan, vice chairperson in the last council, seem to have emerged as probable chairperson candidates. Several women candidates are eligible for the chairperson’s post in Thripunithura, though no one has emerged as a favourite with the party local leadership yet to make a call.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Mango symbol provides food for political thought||Social and political commentators are not lost for words in explaining the surge in support for Kizhakkambalam Twenty20, a charity outfit that has swept to power in the panchayat for the second five-year term. The formation, accused of being backed by Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds, led by ‘neo-feudal tendencies’ and an ‘unsustainable economic model,’ is no longer a political pushover. Twenty20 was confronted by two established political fronts, but they faded away in the face of popular choice. The mango symbol won 18 seats in the 19-member Kizhakkambalam grama panchayat; all 14 seats in the neighbouring Aikaranad panchayat, which was under Left Democratic Front rule; 13 of the 19 seats in the Mazhuvannoor panchayat; 11 of the 18 seats in the Kunnathunad panchayat; and eight of the 23 seats in the Vengola panchayat. The formation also won nine block panchayat divisions and two district panchayat divisions in Ernakulam. “The Twenty20 victory has raised a big question before the people of Kerala,” says Joseph C. Mathew, social and political commentator. The victory is a clear indication that the voters have lost their faith in the established political fronts, according to A. Jayashankar, lawyer. K.K. Krishnakumar, senior fellow of the Centre for Socio-Economic and Environmental Studies in Kochi, asks whether the rise of the ‘apolitical foundation’ is a setback to the democratic process. “Is it feudalism coming back in new colours?” he asks. But Sabu Jacob, head of the Twenty20, dismisses such talks. “People are happy not only because of welfare measures. They are happy that the panchayat has worked hard to ensure their peace of mind. Crime rate and alcohol abuse have come down and quality infrastructure is in place,” he said on Thursday. Distorted version of AAP Mr. Jayashankar feels that the Twenty20 is a distorted version of the Aam Aadmi Party. Mr. Mathew says the entire State will have to sit up and take notice of the questions raised by the model. The Twenty20 has already declared its intentions to extend its reach. “Should we vote for welfare measures from which we benefit? Or should we consider the stand of a political party on various issues? It will be good if the Twenty20 comes up with a political agenda too,” he adds. Mr. Krishnakumar says the victory is a reminder that the democratic process has to be protected. Grama sabhas, the cornerstone of decision-making in a panchayat, appear to have been neglected by the Twenty20.
18 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Internal rumblings get louder in Cong.||Internal rumblings have become louder in the Congress after the party failed to retain power in the Kochi Corporation. Senior Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, MP, fired the first salvo by accusing district leaders of failing to recognise the writing on the wall. Mr. Muraleedharan, also a former KPCC president, took a dig at Hibi Eden, MP, who contested the Parliament election after being elected as legislator from the Ernakulam Assembly constituency. It was by denying sitting MP K.V. Thomas a seat to contest that Mr. Eden was brought in to contest. The Assembly bypoll that followed witnessed the majority of the party plummeting to around 3,000 votes from the earlier 22,000 votes, he said at a press conference in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday. He alleged that many senior leaders were sidelined and the party affairs were being controlled by a few. Tickets were denied to eligible candidates, forcing them to contest as rebels. Party leaders are now after rebels, as the UDF lacked the required numbers in the council. The rebels are likely to support the ruling LDF, and it was likely to come to power in Kochi and Thrissur corporations, he observed. Interestingly, those close to Mr. Thomas too echoed the sentiments aired by Mr. Muraleedharan. Prof. Thomas, who enjoyed popular support in Ernakulam, especially the coastal villages of Chellanam and Kumbalanghi and the West Kochi region, was kept out of the local body election scene, and many of his supporters were denied seats. The inept handling of the political situation in the district led to the debacle in polls, they said. At the same time, Mr. Eden said he wished not to comment against Mr. Muraleedharan, as he was too small a fry for him. However, Mr. Eden said he contested the Parliament election as demanded by both the ‘I’ and ‘A’ factions in the party, as the CPI(M) fielded P. Rajeev in the constituency. “As in the case of Mr. Muraleedharan and Mr. Adoor Prakash, it was the Congress leadership that asked me to contest,” he said. Though the party lost the two Assembly seats held by Mr. Muraleedharan and Mr. Prakash, the Congress won the Ernakulam Assembly seat, he said. Kochi Corporation Mr. Eden said the party candidates had won 31 seats in the Kochi Corporation election by braving the strong anti-incumbency factor. Party functionaries had to really work hard to overcome the negative factors. The inner squabbles in front partners and rebels robbed the party of power in the Kochi Corporation. However, the party put up a good show in most local bodies in the district, he claimed.
18 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||481 new cases in Ernakulam||A total of 481 new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Ernakulam district on Thursday. Of them, one person arrived from another State, while 357 are cases of local spread, said a communication from the district administration. There are also 114 cases in which the source of infection is not known. Nine health workers are among the newly infected. A total of 565 people were cured of the disease on Thursday, while 1,074 people were brought under observation in their own homes. At the same time, 1,582 people were released from home observation on the day. Now, there are 29,098 people under observation in the district, and of them, 28,369 are in their own homes, 19 in COVID-19 care centres, and 710 in facilities for which they are paying. As many as 163 people were admitted to first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) on Thursday, while 111 were discharged from various hospitals and FLTCs. There are 7,464 people under treatment in the district now. Of them, 109 are at the Kalamassery Medical College, 21 at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, 52 at PVS Hospital, 22 at the Muvattupuzha General Hospital, and five at the Aluva hospital.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New civic body members to take oath on Dec. 21||The oath-taking ceremony of the newly-elected members of the civic bodies will be held on December 21. The function will be held as per the COVID-19 protocol. Those who would like to attend will have to register their names. Special counters will be set up at the office of the civic bodies. The programme will start at 10 a.m. In grama panchayats, the senior-most member will take the oath first. That member will administer the oath to the remaining members in the order of their respective wards. District Collector S. Suhas will administer the oath to the members of Kochi Corporation and Ernakulam District Panchayat. A decision on the chairperson for corporation and municipalities will be taken on December 28. The election of their deputies will be held in the afternoon while the president of the block panchayats and grama panchayats concerned will be held on December 30. The vice-president for these local bodies will be elected in the afternoon.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One externed under KAAPA||The Ernakulam rural police have banned Vishnu, 24, of Vengoor, from the rural limits under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention Act (KAAPA). Vishnu has five cases against him at Kodanadu, Muvattupuzha, and Kuruppumpady police stations. He has been slapped with charges including assault, rioting, trespassing, criminal intimidation, and illegal possession of arms. He has also been charged with attempt to murder by hurling a bomb. KAAPA was invoked against the accused as part of Operation Dark Hunt being carried out as per the orders of the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. So far, 24 persons have been banned from entering the rural limits under the operation while another 21 have been arrested. The public can alert either the Kodanad police station (0484-2649015) or the district special branch (0484-2623540) if he is found to have entered the rural police limits in violation of the ban.
18 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UDF woos Congress rebels to wrest power||The United Democratic Front (UDF) remains confident of decisively wresting power in four municipalities in Ernakulam, where it had fallen short of a simple majority, with the help of Congress rebels who won as Independents. The UDF fell tantalisingly short of majority in Thrikkakara, Perumbavoor, Kalamassery, and Muvattupuzha municipalities. If the UDF manages that feat, its tally of municipalities will rise to eight to the Left Democratic Front’s five. In Thrikkakara, the UDF is two short of the magic figure of 22 in the 43-member council. However, of the five victorious Independents there, four are Congress rebels. “We are fully confident of bringing them back to the Congress fold unconditionally before the chairperson’s election on December 28,” said a Congress leader who was in charge of the campaign. In Kalamassery Municipality too, the UDF has pinned its hopes on wooing in the sole Independent, a Congress rebel, to make for the shortage of one seat, to attain the simple majority. Maiden contest Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) general secretary Zakeer Hussain, who in his maiden contest wrested a division that was with the LDF for more than two decades, has emerged as the front-runner for the chairman’s post. In Kalamassery Municipality, two of the three Independents are Congress rebels, and the local leadership remains confident of wooing them back. Seema Kannan is likely to head the municipality, where the chairperson’s post is reserved for woman from the Scheduled Caste. Notwithstanding the presence of Congress rebels among Independents and three short of the simple majority, the Left Front is also trying a crack at wresting power. In Muvattupuzha Municipality too, the UDF’s hopes hinge on the sole Congress rebel who won as an Independent, in which case, P.T. Eldhose, District Congress Committee (DCC)general secretary, may edge past P.S. Salim Haji, block president, on account of community balancing.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Drug seized, nine held||The Maradu police arrested nine youngsters, allegedly with 143 grams of Mescaline, a psychotropic substance, worth Rs. 1.5 lakh, on Thursday. They were arrested from near Vyttila. The seized drug, police said, was often used as a substitute for more popular recreational drugs like LSD. The accused were suspected to be engaged in selling the drug in the city and the suburbs.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Former Deputy Mayor dead||V. V. Michel, 94, former Deputy Mayor of the Kochi Corporation, has passed away. The funeral will be held at Kaloor St. Francis Xavier Church at 9.30 a.m. on Friday. He is survived by his wife and four children.
18 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Periyar action plan by February||The State government has assured the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that it will prepare a comprehensive action plan for the restoration of the Periyar river by February, 2021. The southern bench of the tribunal, comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, had asked the Chief Secretary and the Principal Secretary, Environment, in November to come up with a proper action plan against pollution of the river. Tribunal report In a report filed before the tribunal, the Chief Secretary had pointed out that a comprehensive action plan for the Periyar would be evolved with the active participation of all the departments / authorities concerned.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||2 more dogs join Customs squad||Cochin Customs inducted two dogs into its K9 squad maintained at the Cochin International Airport Ltd to check illicit drug trafficking. Two dogs of the Cocker Spaniel and Labrador Retriever breeds with ability to identity NDPS substances were inducted in the presence of K. R. Uday Bhaskar, Principal Commissioner, Central GST, on Thursday, according to an official release. The Customs already has two dogs at the airport specialised in tracking NDPS substances.
18 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC asks DEOs to examine CBSE schools’ expenses||The Kerala High Court on Thursday asked District Education Officers (DEOs) to scrutinise the income and expenditure of the CBSE-affiliated schools under their jurisdiction to find out whether the fee fixed by them included surplus or profits and file a report before the court. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the directive when a batch of petitions relating to complaints of excess fee demanded by certain CBSE schools came up for hearing. The court had last time asked the government whether a special authority could be asked to scrutinise the income and expenditure of the CBSE-affiliated schools to find out whether they were charging a fee in excess of the actual expenditure and had made provisions for surplus or profits. The government submitted that the DEOs could be tasked with the scrutiny of the income and expenditure of the CBSE-affiliated schools. The CBSE submitted that it was for the State government to regulate the fee of CBSE-affiliated schools. A CBSE school could only charge a fee to the extent of meeting the expenses for running the schoo, CBSE counsel submitted.
18 December 2020||KOCHI/THRISSUR,KERALA||LDF to rule Kochi, Thrissur Corpns.||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has consolidated its position both in the Thrissur and Kochi Corporations by roping in Independent candidates. With the two Corporations added to its kitty, the LDF will control five of the six Corporations in the State, leaving just Kannur to the United Democratic Front (UDF). The front won the Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Kozhikode Corporations with comfortable majorities. T.K. Ashraf, former councillor of the Indian Union Muslim League, has offered his support to the LDF in Kochi to take the tally of the alliance to 35 in the 74-member council. The five members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may keep off the Mayor election as it cannot enter into any electoral trucks with the LDF or the the 31-member UDF. With the BJP abstaining from the election, the effective strength of the council will be reduced to 69 and CPI(M) councillor M. Anilkumar, with the support of Mr. Ashraf, is likely to get elected as Mayor. Mr. Ashraf met C.N. Mohanan, CPI(M) district secretary, to formally offer his support. In Thrissur, M.K. Varghese, the UDF rebel candidate, who won from the Nettissery division, has expressed his willingness to support the LDF. With his support, the LDF will have 25 seats in the 55-member council and the UDF, 23. In talks “My legal adviser is discussing the terms and conditions of the support with the LDF,” said Mr. Varghese, while expressing his wish to get the Mayor post. CPI(M) district chief M.M. Varghese welcomed the gesture of the Independent councillor.
18 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||505 cases in Kottayam||As many as 501 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the new cases, all but four contracted the virus through local contact. The cases included 42 children and 66 persons aged above 60. With 99 cases, Pala municipality witnessed a sharp surge in cases, followed by Kottayam with 62 cases. Changanassery municipality reported 32 cases while Vazhappally witnessed 25 cases. With 576 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5652 active cases. In Pathanamthitta, 432 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday, of whom 390 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Four deaths The contact sources of 56 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Kadambanad reported 27 cases, followed by Pandalam-Thekkekara with 21 cases. The infection claimed four more lives. The deceased were identified as a 50-year-old Thiruvalla native, 86-year-old Aruvapulam native, 60-year-old Ezhamkulam native, and 75-year-old Adoor native. With 194 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3273 active cases. 418 recoveries Kollam reported 346 new COVID-19 cases, three deaths, and 418 recoveries on Thursday. Those who tested positive include 339 local contact cases, one NRI, one person from another State, two health workers and three persons with no known source. The district currently has 13,893 persons under observation. While 1,901 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 1,29,345 primary and 11,778 secondary contacts of the patients. A total of 5,24,328 samples have been collected in the district. 330 cases in Alappuzha Alappuzha district logged 330 COVID-19 cases and recorded four deaths related to the infection on Thursday. Of the new cases, 304 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 15 people remains unknown. Seven people who came from other States and four from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 484 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 3,888.  (With inputs from   Pathanamthitta, Kollam, and Alappuzha bureaus)
18 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kappan contests KC(M)’s ‘big win’ claim||Riding on the shoulders of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] led by Jose K. Mani, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) may have achieved a remarkable turnaround in his fortunes in Central Travancore for the moment. But the rumblings within the coalition following the regional party's inclusion, however, are getting shriller. Amidst the continuing jubilation over its historic win at the Pala municipality, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Pala MLA Mani C. Kappan on Thursday sprang a surprise by publicly contesting the claims of the KC(M) group on its ‘big win’ in Pala. According to him, this time the LDF could not match the performance it had achieved during the Assembly byelection in Pala last yea “The KC(M) has lost the Ramapuram and Mutholi panchayats and the LDF has not won the Melukavu, Munnilav and Thalappalam panchayats either. The Mani faction which had 17 seats in the Pala municipality got only 10 seats this time,” Mr. Kappan pointed out, reiterating his claim to the Pala Assembly seat. Contrary to this, the LDF had taken a clear lead in nine of the 13 panchayats and one municipality in the Pala constituency during the recent Assembly bypoll, he said. The NCP, a long-standing ally of the CPI(M)-led coalition, had to make some major adjustments in its position within the LDF, especially in Central Travancore, following the entry of the KC(M). Against the 26 seats it had contested during the previous local body polls in Kottayam, the party was allotted just seven this time. The impressive performance of the Mani faction in the local body polls in places including the Pala municipality is expected to help the outfit consolidate its position further within the LDF, while also raising its stakes over the Pala Assembly seat. Besides Pala, speculations are also rife about the KC(M) staking a claim to Kanjirappally, a seat currently allotted to the Communist Party of India (CPI). On inclusion in Cabinet  Meanwhile, Jose K. Mani sought to dispel the rumours over his inclusion in the State Cabinet. Confirming that he would soon resign from the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Mani attributed the delay in his resignation to a legal advice in connection with the dispute over the party symbol ‘two leaves.’
18 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Joseph denies setback||The setback it suffered in Kottayam notwithstanding, Kerala Congress (M) factional leader P.J. Joseph said on Thursday that the party’s performance in Pathanamthitta and Idukki was much better than in the past. Mr. Joseph told reporters that the candidates fielded by the party had won in the traditional strongholds of the Kerala Congress. He also spoke of the plans to adopt Chenda (drum) as the party symbol. “Two leaves (party symbol of the Mani group) represents failure. Let Jose K. Mani take it,” Mr. Joseph said.
18 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Major fronts take stock of poll outcome||The CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) says a combination of factors have worked in its favour in Kozhikode district in the three-tier local body polls. The induction of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the Indian National League (INL) has helped the Left coalition electorally overcome the anti-incumbency factor. The LDF increased its tally in the Kozhikode Corporation to 51 from 47 and in the Kozhikode District Panchayat from 16 to 18 seats. It also captured a block panchayat, increasing the number to 10, leaving the remaining two to the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). A major achievement for the Left front was capturing three divisions — Beypore, Beypore Port and Marad – in the Kozhikode Corporation from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) by systematically doing its homework and fielding the right candidates. However, CPI(M) leaders are studying the failures in municipalities such as Ramanattukara, Feroke and Payyoli. The LDF also did not retain the Mukkom municipality which threw up a hung council this time. It could retain only two municipalities — Vadakara and Koyilandy. Another electoral embarrassment for the LDF was the victory of controversial businessman Karat Faisal, who stood as an Independent candidate after he was denied a seat, in Chundappuram ward in Koduvally. Here, the INL nominee Abdul Rasheed polled no votes. Nothing to cheer about The results of local body polls brought no cheer for the UDF which faced the polls without the Janata Dal (United), which later metamorphosed as the LJD. Its seat tally in the Kozhikode Corporation was reduced to 17 from 19. Likewise, in the Kozhikode district panchayat, the number of UDF seats went down from 11 to 9. Rich dividends However, its electoral association with the Welfare Party of India, the political avatar of the Jamaat Islami Hind, paid rich dividends in the municipalities and a few grama panchayats. The UDF moderately increased the number of grama panchayats it won to 27 from 24 last time. Hopes dashed The BJP district leadership, which pinned its hopes on several Central schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana and Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, failed to strike a chord with the rural electorate. The steep increase in prices of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders during the polls also added to the angst of voters. The party leadership can take solace in the fact that the BJP won 35 seats including seven seats in Kozhikode Corporation. In the 2015 polls, the party had won 27 seats. The local leadership is examining the defeat of its nominees in three wards in the erstwhile Beypore grama panchayat. In the tri-cornered contest in the corporation, BJP candidates finished second in 22 divisions.
18 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fronts may go for political reboot quite soon||With the Election Commission of India preparing for the Assembly polls in five States, including Kerala, mainline political parties leading the three fronts in the State will soon be reworking their political strategy for the elections due in April-May. For the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), the just concluded three-tier local body polls was a morale booster, particularly the unexpected victories against the background of a barrage of issues, including the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. It bagged an additional municipal Corporation, three more district panchayats and 32 block panchayats compared to the 2015 local body polls. However, its leaders seem to take into account the lose of 33 grama panchayats and nine municipalities. When converted to overall seats, LDF nominees won only 10,340 seats despite the LDF inducting the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M), Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and Indian National League (INL) into the coalition. The leaders do feel the discomfiture in the loss of seats as the dynamics of the Assembly polls would change in another four months. The strategy of the CPI(M) to gain at the expense of a disarrayed Congress or fielding Independents may not work in a different matrix. The State Election Commission is yet to publish the vote share of the individual parties and the fronts. In the 2015 polls, the vote share of the LDF was 37.36% while that of the Congress-led United Democratic Front was 37.23% and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance 13.28 %. CPI(M) on strong footing But unlike the Congress, the CPI(M) is on a strong footing without any organisational mess after the deft removal of its State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan citing health reasons before the local body elections. However, a possible decline in its vote share will compel it to reboot its electoral strategy on a wider canvas for the Assembly polls. The realignment of political forces has visibly dealt a serious blow to the Congress in these elections. And now with the internal bickering in the party coming into the open, its major partner, the Indian Union Muslim League wants the national leadership to intervene and sort out the crisis. Similarly its vote base has coasted to the BJP in many civic bodies and may have to gird its loins for the Assembly polls. Factionalism in BJP With the BJP, a vertical factionalism in the State leadership of the party has impacted its prospects in the local body polls. The party national leadership feels that the State office-bearers should stop daydreaming about coming to power and gauge the ground realities in Kerala.
18 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||CU gears up for NAAC assessment||Calicut University is expecting to improve its position to ‘A plus’ in the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) grading due in September next year. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj said on Thursday that right now the university had been given ‘A’ grade by the NAAC. An internal self-assessment had indicated that there was every chance of a higher grade. NAAC score Calicut University had been been given a score of 3.13 by the NAAC earlier. The authorities are planning to improve it to 3.26. Existing vacancies “The existing vacancies of faculty members in various departments was one of the reasons why we didn’t get a better grade last time. Interviews to choose new faculty members are going on now. They are expected to be over by March next year,” Mr. Jayaraj added. The university has stepped up the activities of its Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), which is mandatory to sustain the quality of its various works, as per the National Action Plan of the NAAC. “A building is being built for the IQAC by spending Rs. 3 crore,” P. Sivadasan, its director, said. A job placement mechanism had been put in place through which the university would provide qualified professionals to recruitment agencies. More research projects were being taken up and papers were being published along with seeking patents. Portals had been set up for students and alumni, which, Mr. Sivadasan claimed, were facilities exclusively given by the university. Digital enquiry “Suvega, the 24x7 digital enquiry system, is turning out to be helpful for students. Any student can now make a call to the system, which would be recorded and the grievance or query forwarded to the concerned section for prompt redressal,” he pointed out. Hostel buildings for students and a biogas plant were some of the other projects coming up. The university was in a better position now (54) in the National Institute Ranking Framework ranking of the Ministry of Human Resource Development. “We are also expecting budgetary help from the State government, which will help us better our performance,” Mr. Sivadasan added.
18 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||RMPI proves its mettle again||Despite some unexpected setbacks, the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) has managed to prove its political significance again by putting up a strong fight against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the local body elections. The formation of ‘Janakeeya Munnani’, which also had the support of the United Democratic Front (UDF) leadership, helped it challenge politically strong rivals even in their strongholds. The victory in Eramala panchayat was the most significant one for the new RMPI-UDF alliance this time. It was the political differences in Eramala panchayat in 2008 that led to the formation of the RMPI and its growth under slain leader T.P. Chandrasekharan. The reason behind the split was the handing over of Eramala panchayat president post to a Janata Dal nominee ignoring protests by Communist Party of India (Marxist) local leaders. Following the disagreement, T.P. Chandrasekharan and N. Venue quit the party and formed the RMPI. RMPI leaders said the local alliance also made commendable feats in Onchiyam, Azhiyur and Mavoor panchayats. “Azhiyur and Mavoor were CPI(M) strongholds. ‘Janakeeya Munnani’ candidates could easily win over them and make our presence stronger,” they said. According to them, the support of an RMPI member will be crucial for the UDF to assume power in Mavoor. 21 representatives “We now have 21 local body representatives in Kerala, which clearly explains our growth and voters’ support for our political stance,” said RMPI leader K.K. Rema. According to her, the Loktantrik Janata Dal, which had strong influence in Vadakara area, miserably failed to make any advancements in the local body elections. Ms. Rema, wife of Chandrasekharan, also claimed that the results were pointing to voters’ protest against the CPI(M)’s alleged political cruelties, favouritism and corruption. “We are happy that we could prove ourselves as expected in this election. The possibility of having a similar alliance in the upcoming Assembly election will be discussed at a later stage,” she said. Meanwhile, the failure of two RMPI candidates in two major seats in Onchiyam panchayat came as a setback for the party. Those were seats earlier represented by Onchiyam grama panchayat president P.V. Kavitha and vice president P. Jayarajan. This was apart from the failure of another candidate supported by the UDF in Kallamala block panchayat division.
18 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police continue vigil in sensitive areas||Considering the tense situation in some of the politically sensitive rural areas in Kozhikode, security measures adopted by the local police to tackle post-election violence will be maintained as such for a few more days. Night patrol has been intensified in Nadapuram area, where Communist Party of India (Marxist) and Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) workers locked horns many times over election results. Meanwhile, District Police Chief (Kozhikode rural) A. Sreenivas said prohibitory orders would not be extended. “As a precautionary measure, we have decided to continue vigil in all the sensitive areas,” he told The Hindu . To prevent election-related violence, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao had issued prohibitory orders covering all the sensitive rural areas of Kozhikode district. The orders issued on the eve of counting were in force till Thursday evening.
18 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||585 fresh COVID cases, 780 recoveries in Kozhikode||The active COVID-19 case load in Kozhikode district declined to 5,838 on Thursday when 585 fresh cases and 780 recoveries were reported. According to the District Medical Officer, there were 545 locally acquired infections and the source of 23 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation had 123 cases of local transmission, Kunnamangalam 26, Thamarassery 24, and Kakkodi 21. As many as 6,584 samples were tested from the district. Meanwhile, six deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Wednesday and Thursday. 515 cases in Malappuram Malappuram district recorded 515 new COVID-19 cases and 520 recoveries on Thursday. While 467 of the new cases contracted the virus through local contact, the source of infection could not be traced in 30 cases.
18 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Rights panel dismisses plea on pension benefits||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has rejected a review petition submitted by the Deputy Director, Panchayats, against the decision to grant gratuity and other pension benefits to a junior superintendent in the department who retired in 2018. The benefits were reportedly denied to Dharmarajan, a native of Feroke in Kozhikode district, due to a criminal case against him related to allotment of building numbers. Commission judicial member P. Mohanadas said that there was no merit in the Deputy Director’s argument that the authorities had the right to curtail the pension benefits, a release said on Thursday. Mr. Mohanadas said that the court order cited by the official to justify his action had been set aside by a full Bench of the Kerala High Court. Mr. Dharmarajan was the junior superintendent in Unnikulam grama panchayat in Kozhikode. The commission had, on 2018 September 13, directed the authorities to grant him pension benefits and the review petition was filed against this order.
18 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||BJP leader hurt in intra-party clash||A local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader suffered stab injuries during a clash among a few BJP workers at Mukkom on Thursday. Kozhenchery Mohanan, who sustained injuries in the clash, was admitted to a government hospital. According the Mukkom police, the clash broke out between BJP workers following a dispute over the distribution of local election funds to various booth committees. It was an internal dispute and no one sustained serious injuries, they said.
18 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Parleys on to find new heads of local bodies||Parleys have begun at local level within the winning political parties over formation and leadership of the next local bodies. Even when parties are busy selecting leaders, talks have begun between them in several panchayats over change of guard as the results have yielded a hung council. As many as nine panchayats have no clear majority for any front. Independents and the BJP can play a crucial role in deciding the ruler in the Koppam, Kappoor, Kuzhalmannam, Mankara, Parali, Nemmara, Muthalamada, Kavassery and Puthussery grama panchayats. Parties are banking on the support of Independents to lead the local bodies. In Kappoor, both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) have nine seats each. A draw of lots will decide the leader there. In the Koppam grama panchayat, the LDF and the UDF have eight seats each and the NDA has one seat. In Puthussery, the LDF has 10 seats and the UDF nine seats. The two NDA seats and two independents here will decide who will rule in Puthussery. In Kavassery, both the LDF and the UDF have eight seats each, and the NDA has one seat. In Parali, both the LDF and the NDA have got eight seats each. The UDF has three seats in Parali, where an independent member too matters. In Muthalamada, the LDF has nine seas, the UDF six seats and the NDA three seats. Two Independent candidates in Muthalamada will matter. In Nemmara, the LDF and the UDF have nine seats each and the NDA has two seats. In Kuzhalmannam, the LDF and the UDF have eight seats each and the NDA has one seat. In Mankara, the LDF and the UDF have six seats each. The NDA has one seat, apart from an Independent member in Mankara. NDA decision The decisions of the NDA and the Independents in those local bodies will be crucial to determine the ruler. All fronts claimed that they made gains in the election in Palakkad. In the last elections, the LDF ruled 70 panchayats out of total 88, and the UDF ruled 17 and the RBC one panchayat. But the UDF improved its position by winning 21 panchayats. However, both the UDF and the LDF ate dust in some of their ruling panchayats in the election held on December 10 in Palakkad.
18 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Protest against Jai Sriram banner||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has filed a complaint against the Bharatiya Janata Party for hanging a giant banner proclaiming Jai Sriram from the municipal building here in the wake of the BJP victory to the municipality. Sangh Parivar workers celebrating the BJP victory had climbed atop the municipal building on Wednesday and hung a banner that read Jai Sreeram and shouted slogans proclaiming Hindu nationalism. CPI(M) municipal secretary T.K. Noushad said in his complaint that the workers had attempted to create communal embitterment with the support of BJP leaders. He has sought action against the BJP for “deliberately trying to create communal tension” in the Palakkad municipality.
18 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||A quiet campaign pays rich dividends||Babu John, a 59-year-old who represents Ward 1 of the Ezhamkulam panchayat in Pathanamthitta, won the election by one of the biggest margins ever in the history of the local body. Of the total 966 votes polled in the ward, he received 705 while the candidate who came second got just 139 votes. The huge win notwithstanding, spotting the face of this LDF candidate among a flurry of posters and flex boards in his ward would be impossible. Convinced that turning to posters and graffiti for campaigning will only help add to the pollution, he ran an election campaign all by himself. Having been in the public sphere for long now, Mr. John was never worried that his subdued campaign would mar his prospects. “I visited all 425 houses in my ward and had a very personal interaction with the voters. By avoiding posters and flex boards, I wanted to send out a message to my voters. It worked very effectively,” he said. In view of the COVID-19 guidelines, Mr. John chose not to take his supporters along while campaigning. Announcements through loudspeakers too was avoided. His poll managers were very active on social media, though. A champion of organic farming, yoga and natural life, he also was the private secretary of CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby. He is also known at various levels as a writer, researcher, historian, film actor, and public figure.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||It’s back to classrooms for college students||The State’s higher education sector is set to make a gradual transition to a blended mode of learning with the government deciding to resume offline classes in a phased manner from January 1. A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday decided to permit final-year undergraduate and postgraduate classes of arts and science colleges and related universities in the initial phase with half the student strength at a time. Restricted attendance The Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies and Kerala Agricultural University have also been permitted to function, but with restricted attendance. Classes will also begin at medical colleges affiliated to the Kerala University of Health Sciences for students from the second year upwards, it was decided at the meeting. Draft schedule APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, which had considered reopening classes on December 28, is now likely to push its schedule by a week to January 4. The academic council had recently prepared a draft schedule for contact classes for one semester at a time, sources said. While the government has mooted conducting of classes in different shifts to prevent crowding, the Education Department is expected to issue detailed guidelines early next week to provide clarity. Virtual limitations According to official sources, offline classes are being resumed to enable colleges to conduct practical classes, internal assessments, and discussions of those topics that require closer interaction and have been put off thus far owing to the existing limitations of the virtual classroom. “In spite of its limitations, we can no longer phase out online learning. Each university has evolved plans to retain the benefits of the web-based learning even while targeting a return to physical classes. Higher education institutions would do well to adopt a blended form of learning here on,” an official said.  Offline classes are being resumed to enable colleges to conduct practical classes and internal assessments
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||In a rerun of 2015, LDF scouts for Mayor||After the local body elections of 2015, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) that emerged victorious in the Thiruvannathapuram Corporation was faced with a major problem. All of its senior leaders, who were considered as Mayor candidates, had lost. The CPI(M) leadership made a gamble and zeroed in on 34-year-old V.K. Prasanth to helm the Corporation, making him the youngest to hold that post. The decision paid off as he lived up to the hope entrusted in him, after an initial learning curve.  Twin losses Five years later, the LDF is faced with a similar situation with two of its candidates, who were considered for Mayorship, losing the elections. S. Pushpalatha, an experienced councillor who has helmed multiple standing committees over the years, lost from Nedumcaud. A.G. Oleena, another Mayor candidate, lost from the Kunnukuzhy ward.  Now, the only one left among the initial choices for the Mayorship is Jameela Sreedharan, daughter of veteran Communist leader N. Sreedharan and a former member of the Public Service Commission, who won by a comfortable margin from Peroorkada. It is still not clear whether the CPI(M) will opt for her or go in for one of the many younger faces who have won this time. The names of some of these young councillors are now floating around as the possible choices. Party sources say that the defeats of experienced councillors is a cause for concern, even when there is the confidence of having a simple majority. An inexperienced Mayor might find it tough to handle the Opposition, which has several experienced councillors among its ranks. This has also made difficult the task of choosing the various standing committee chairpersons. The LDF, with its majority, is in a position to take control of all the standing committees. As for the Deputy Mayor, a post which is not reserved for women this time, the Communist Party of India (CPI) has several choices from among the senior district leaders who have won. Though Rakhi Ravikumar, the Deputy Mayor in the previous term, has won from Vazhuthacaud this time, there is a possibility that the other leaders, including S. Vijayakumar, C. Harikumar, or P.K. Raju could be considered for the post.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vaccine: health workers’ registration complete||The registration of health-care workers who are being enrolled for receiving COVID-19 vaccine, as and when it becomes available in the State, is nearly complete and is in the final stages, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. In a statement here on Thursday, she said district-level registration of health-care workers in 4,064 institutions in the public sector and 81% of the 4,557 institutions in the private sector has been completed. The registration of health-care workers in private health institutions in Thiruvananthapuram, Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, and Kannur districts have been fully completed. Private health sector employees in other districts should complete their registration as soon as possible, the Minister said. Ms. Shylaja said that in the initial phase, all health-care workers in public and private sector and medical students have been prioritised to receive the vaccine. All permanent and temporary employees in modern medicine, Ayush, and homoeopathy departments will be included in the priority list. Approximately 27,000 Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) in the Sate have also been included on the list. Medical, dental, nursing, and para medical students also figure in the priority list. Guidelines regarding the same have already been issued. Apart from health-care workers, Integrated Child Development Services or 33,000-odd anganwadi workers in the State have also been included on the list and their registration is also complete. An expert committee has been set up at the State level for guiding and monitoring the administration of COVID-19 vaccination. Nodal officer The Health Department said that it had made elaborate arrangements for the introduction and administration of vaccination and that a State-level administrator and nodal officer have been engaged for overseeing vaccine distribution. District nodal authorities have been engaged in all districts under the State-level nodal officer. This apart, special nodal officers have been appointed under Ayush and homoeopathy departments also. The details of employees from all divisions are being collected with the coordination of all these officials. Standard data sheet has been prepared for data collection and given to all districts, which will be sent to all private and public sector institutions in the respective districts.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Neyyar and Ponmudi set to reopen for visitors||Bringing cheer to large sections who have been exploring options for short getaways amid the COVID-19 restrictions, the Forest Department has decided to open up more of its ecotourism destinations nine months after they were closed during the lockdown. The tourist spots in the Neyyar Wildlife Sanctuary are set to reopen on Friday while the scenic hill station of Ponmudi will receive visitors from Saturday. The move comes amid growing clamour among local residents and travel enthusiasts to permit entry to the destinations that usually brim with crowds during the peak season. The ecotourism centres come under the purview of the Neyyar-Peppara forest development agency. The elephant rescue and rehabilitation centre at Kottoor nearby has been receiving large numbers of visitors since it reopened on October 24. According to Sandeep Kumar, assistant wildlife warden, Neyyar Wildlife Sanctuary, the department will operate ecotourism packages at Neyyar in accordance with COVID-19 guidelines. The lion safari park package will involve a 20-minute boat cruise from the Neyyar information centre near the Neyyar dam to Kombai, from where visitors will be taken through the lion safari park on a bus. They will also be provided guided tours in the crocodile rehabilitation centre and the deer park before concluding the visit. The rates for the package are: Indian adult: Rs. 415, child: Rs. 210, foreign adult: Rs. 585, child: Rs. 335. A bus jumbo safari package will also include a visit to the elephant rehabilitation centre at Kottoor along with the aforementioned spots. The popular 6-km trek to the scenic Meenmutty falls (at rates of Rs. 965 for Indian citizens and Rs. 1,379 for foreigners) from Neyyar will also get under way. Entry will be permitted to the facilities from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on all days except Mondays. No night-stay The night-stay programme offered by the department will remain suspended until the renovation of huts in the interior forests is completed in January. Forest officials have permitted access to the Ponmudi hilltop under stringent conditions to prevent crowding in the area. Visitors will be able to go through the Ponmudi check-post from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. and will be required to leave the station before 6 p.m. Vehicles will be examined for liquor, tobacco products, and narcotic substances. Palode range forest officer Ajith Kumar B. said that the Ponmudi Vana Samrakshana Samithi (VSS) would streamline the influx of visitors and ensure that the pandemic norms were met. The entry time would be cut short for the rest of the day if and when crowds became uncontrollable, he said.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply to be disrupted in capital on Saturday||Water supply to several areas in the capital city and outskirts will be disrupted on Saturday as the 86-mld water treatment plant at Aruvikkara is being shut down for interconnection works on the new 75-mld water treatment plant, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) has said.  To be restored by Sunday Water supply is expected to be restored in the low-lying areas by Sunday morning and in the high-line areas by Sunday night, the KWA said. The 86-mld plant will be shut down from 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. on Saturday. Supply to the following areas in the Peroorkada, Kowdiar, Pongumoodu, and the Kazhakuttam KWA sections will be completely hit: Vazhayila, Indira Nagar, Peroorkada, Oolampara, Swami Nagar, Soorya Nagar, Pypinmoodu, Jawahar Nagar, Golf Links, Kowdiar, Devaswom Board Junction, Cliff House, Nanthencode, Kuravankonam, Charachira, Plamoodu, Pattom, Kesavadasapuram, Gowreesapattom, Paruthippara, Muttada, Ambalamukku, Choozhampala, Mukkola, Nalanchira, Mannanthala, Sreekaryam, Gandhipuram, Chempazhanthy, Powdikonam, Keraladityapuram, Manvila, Manakunnu, Alathara, Cheruvaickal, Njandoorkonam, Trippadapuram, Chenkottukonam, Kazhakootam, Technopark, CRPF camp, Pallipuram, Pottakuzhi, Murinjapalam, Kannamoola, Mulloor, Prasanth Nagar, Pongumoodu.   Alternative supply The KWA informed here that as alternative supply will be arranged for the Government Medical College Hospital, supply to the following areas will only be partially disrupted: Karikkakom, Kumarapuram, Njettikunnu, Chellilode, Dalawakunnu, Poonthi Road, Venpalavattom, Anayara Road, IAF headquarters, Veli, Vettucaud, Shangumugham, Barton Hill, Varambassery, Vazhuthacaud, and Edapazhanji.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nod for declaring IIST as institute of importance||The Space Commission has approved a proposal to declare the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST), Valiamala, as an Institute of National Importance akin to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) and the National Institutes of Technology (NITs), K. Sivan, chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), has said. The proposal will be forwarded to the Cabinet shortly, Mr. Sivan, who is also secretary, Space Commission, said. He was addressing the eighth convocation of IIST via videoconference on Wednesday. (The coveted status of Institute of National Importance is given to an institute “which serves as a pivotal player in developing highly-skilled personnel within the specified region of the country/state.” Formally inaugurated in 2007, IIST functions as an autonomous body under the Department of Space). Global space economy “India’s space programme has a very important role in the global space economy of $370 billion. Recent reforms in the space sector will stimulate the economic growth of the country,” Mr. Sivan said, urging the IIST to be part of the emerging activities of the ISRO. The newly formed INSpace will act not just as a regulatory body but also as a liaison between the ISRO and the private sector, he said. Shekhar C. Mande, Director General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, who delivered the convocation address, underlined the importance of developing a scientific outlook and fostering the connect between science and technology and the society. Mr. Mande urged the premier research and development institutions to work together for the betterment of the country. Science also teaches us that as the dominant species, human beings have a responsibility to live responsibly and not use natural resources unnecessarily, he said. IICT Chancellor B.N. Suresh, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre director S. Somanath, and IIST director V.K. Dadhwal spoke. In all, 230 degrees were awarded on Wednesday. This included 119 BTech degrees, 20 degrees in the dual degree programme, 70 MTech degrees, and 21 PhDs.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||4,969 new cases, test positivity rate 8.17%||The State reported 4,969 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday when 60,851 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 6,88,409 cases. Test positivity rate went below 10 and stood at 8.17%. The State also reported 4,970 recoveries on the day, taking the active case pool of the State to 58,155 cases. The cumulative recoveries reported by the State till date is 6,27,364 . Death toll With the addition of 27 more deaths to the official list on Thursday, the State’s cumulative toll stands at 2,734. Pathanamthitta reported seven of these deaths, Alappuzha and Kozhikode four each, Kollam and Malappuram three each while Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam, Iddukki, and Kannur reported one death each. Official figures put the number of critically ill COVID patients in the State who are currently undergoing treatment in ICUs in various hospitals at 827, with 220 requiring ventilator support. Of the 4,969 new cases reported on Thursday, 4,870 are locally acquired infections, with the authorities unable to trace the source of infection to a known source in 541 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 47. In 99 cases, the authorities have reported a history of travel outside the State. Among the districts, Kozhikode reported 585 cases, Malappuram 515, Kottayam 505, Ernakulam 481, Thrissur 457, Pathanamthitta 432, Kollam 346, Alappuzha 330, Palakkad 306, Thiruvananthapuram 271, Kannur 266, Idukki 243, Wayanad 140, and Kasaragod 92 cases.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSRTC special services||To clear the rush during Christmas and New Year, the KSRTC has decided to operate special inter-State services from Bengaluru to various places in the State from December 21 to January 4, 2021. The special services will be to Kozhikode, Kannur, Payannur, Sulthan Bathery, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram, and Kottayam using super express and super deluxe buses. There will be one special service from Chennai via Tiruchirappalli, Madurai, and Nagercoil to Thiruvananthapuram.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Avoid arrears under Aswasakiranam: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed that the Aswasakiranam project under which those looking after patients in need of full-time care are given an aid of Rs. 600 be implemented without incurring arrears in payment. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic also sought that more funds be allocated for the scheme when more segments of people were brought under it. The commission’s direction comes on a case registered by it suo motu on the basis of a media report that no aid had been distributed for 17 months and over 1.13 lakh people were facing hardship. The Kerala Social Security Mission executive director informed the commission that as the number of beneficiaries increased, more funds than allocated in the Budget were needed. The commission said caregivers of the bed-ridden could not got for work. A scheme meant to provide relief to people below the poverty line should not be in arrears of payments
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||271 new cases, 265 recoveries in capital||The district recorded 271 COVID-19 cases and 265 recoveries on Thursday as the number of active cases remained almost stable at 3,396. The death toll rose to 607 with the death of a 62-year-old Nagercoil native being attributed to the disease. While the tally is almost double that of Thrissur (303) that is currently second, the case fatality ratio in Thiruvananthapuram stood at 0.78. While almost all of the new cases have been attributed to local transmission, five health-care workers are among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district administration placed 1,578 people under quarantine on the day
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four of a family found dead at Chirayinkeezhu||Four members of a family were found hanging in their house at Chirayinkeezhu on Thursday. The Chirayinkeezhu police identified the deceased as Subi, 51, who hails from Sivakrishnapuram, near Mudapuram; his wife Deepa, 41; and their children, a 17-year-old son and a 13-year-old daughter. A neighbour sensed that something amiss when the lights of the house remained switched off even by 7 p.m. On finding a window open, she looked inside and found the boy hanging from the ceiling of a bedroom. The police were alerted and the bodies of the others were found in different rooms. Their pet dog was found poisoned. The police said a suicide note recovered from the house suggested that the family resorted to the extreme step after facing financial difficulties. The note also apparently urged that a packet, which was later recovered, be opened in the presence of certain relatives. Lockdown impact Subi, who used to work abroad, had returned to his native place two years ago. He then took a lodge on lease at Kazhakuttam. The family fell into hard times during the COVID-19-induced lockdown when the business yielded no revenue. Two months ago, the family had set up a vegetable shop at Kurakkada, near Chirayinkeezhu. The bodies were shifted to the Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital, the police said. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056)
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF likely to retain power in Varkala||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is likely to retain power in the Varkala municipality with the support of two of three Independents who won in the local body polls. The presence of three Independents had turned crucial in the municipality with none of the fronts managing to obtain a simple majority. The LDF, which claims to have the support of two of the Independents, is likely to stake a claim for the municipality. Both the LDF, which won 12 of the 33 seats, and the NDA, which won 11 seats, were in talks to garner the support of the Independents. The United Democratic Front (UDF), which had won 12 seats in 2015, witnessed a deep fall in its fortunes this time. The UDF managed to pocket only seven seats. Independent candidates won in Puthenchantha (Sudarshini), Ramanthali (Amina) and Perumkulam (Shreyas N.). In 2015, the LDF had captured the municipality by winning 18 of the seats.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New members to take charge on December 21||The members elected to the local bodies in the district will take charge on December 21. Of the 1,299 members in the grama panchayats, 637 belong to the Left Democratic Front (LDF), 402 to the United Democratic Front (UDF), and 194 to the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA). 66 wards were won by Independents. Of the 155 block panchayat wards, 117 were won by the LDF, 30 by the UDF, six by the NDA while two wards were won by others. LDF won 20 of the district panchayat divisions while UDF candidates were elected in six. Of the 147 wards in the four municipalities, LDF won 75, UDF 38, NDA 31 and others in three. In the 100 wards in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, LDF won 51, UDF 10, NDA 34 and independents, five. LDF won 51 grama panchayats, UDF 18, and NDA 3 in the district. Of the block panchayats, LDF won Athiyannur, Chirayinkeezhu, Kilimanoor, Nedumangad, Nemom, Parassala, Perumkadavila, Pothencode, Vamanapuram, and Varkala. UDF won Vellanad block. Of the district panchayat divisions, LDF won Chemmaruthi, Navayikulam, Kallara, Venjaramoodu, Anad, Aryanad, Poovachal, Kunnathukal, Parassala, Mariyapuram, Venganoor, Pallichal, Malayinkeezhu, Karakulam, Mudakkal, Kaniyapuram, Murukkumpuzha, Kizhuvilam, Chirayinkeezhu, Manambur. The UDF won Kilimanoor, Palode, Vellanad, Vellarada, Kanjiramkulam, and Balaramapuram.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC to resume normal operations from today||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resume full-fledged operations suspended since March 25 following the COVID-19-induced countrywide lockdown from Friday. All unit officers of the transport undertaking across the State have been asked to take steps to ensure full operations from December 18 and it will take one week to normalise the schedules, said Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar on Thursday. However, fast passenger (FP) services will be restricted to two districts and super-fast services to four districts for the time being. Long-distance travel The restrictions that are already in place will be a hurdle for long-distance travellers as they will have to board two buses if they want to commute between six districts. The KSRTC is providing 25% discount in fares for some of its services.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two held on charge of assaulting woman||The Vizhinjam police arrested two persons on charge of assaulting a woman and attempting to sexually harass her. The police identified the accused as Jalastin, alias Sajin, 27, and Ousef, 29, of Vizhinjam. The duo allegedly barged into the woman’s house, manhandled her, and attempted to rape her. The attack was purportedly in retaliation to her complaints against the youths who used to often consume liquor and create a ruckus near her house. They were remanded in judicial custody after being produced at a local court.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RKI aid pact to be signed on Monday||An agreement will be signed on Monday for the second tranche of financial aid being extended by Germany to the Rebuild Resilient Kerala Initiative (RKI) through the German Development Bank KfW. Official sources said on Thursday that like the first tranche of the €170 million extended by Germany in two phases, the aid would reach the State through the KfW on the basis of an agreement to be signed between India and Germany in New Delhi. The German aid is to be used for drinking water supply, cleanliness, climate-resilient urban development and disaster financing and insurance. Of the €170 million financial assistance provided earlier, €90 million (Rs. 720 crore) was a reduced-interest loan to promote climate-resilient reconstruction of the transport infrastructure.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala women start-up inks pact with UN agency||For the first time, a Kerala-based women’s start-up, which helps in identifying energy-efficient drivers and adopting viable action plans, has signed an agreement with United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles. Thiruvananthapuram-based Vydyuthi Energy Services (VES) has signed the pact. Out of the 170 companies from India which had signed up for United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles, 64 are from the private sector, a company statement said here. VES is the 65th company from India and the first from Kerala to enter into such a pact with the UN. Kerala is already in the top list of the NITI-Aayog for implementing the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles. The Women’s Empowerment Principles offer practical guidance to business and the private sector on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace, and community. With the signing of the agreement, VES would establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality, and treat all women and men fairly at work, among several other things, the company statement said.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Free taxi rides for crime survivors||Women and child survivors of crimes can now avail themselves of free trips on Uber taxis. Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja, in a statement, said the government had issued an order that women and children in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam districts who had survived crimes could use free Uber taxi services for availing themselves of psychological, medical, and legal support and for conducting rescues. The free trips were being arranged as part of the corporate social responsibility programme of Uber, the statement said. The Minister said that the trips were being allowed following demand from officials of the Women and Child Development Department and the police.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister inaugurates ICA seminar||Minister for Cooperation Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the international research conference of the Asia Pacific Region of the International Cooperation Association (ICA) and delivered the keynote address online on Thursday. Representatives of 32 countries are attending the conference with the theme ‘Addressing climate change through cooperative enterprise’. The Minister also released the book Cooperatives and Social Innovation . The conference, which was scheduled to be held in the State capital under the aegis of the Agricultural Cooperative Staff Training Institute, is being held online owing to COVID-19.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man held for bike theft||A habitual offender was arrested by the Fort police with alleged possession of a stolen motorcycle that he rode with a fake number plate. The police identified the accused as Girilal, 30, of Ulloor. He was apprehended during a vehicle check by a team led by Fort sub-inspector Saju Abraham at Puthen Street in Manacaud on Wednesday. The police sensed something amiss on seeing the registration number printed unclearly on the number plate. While the accused was subsequently taken to the police station, it later came to light that the registration number was a non-existent one. After it also emerged that the accused allegedly tampered with the chassis number, the accused purportedly confessed that he had stolen the vehicle from Alappuzha.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New members to be sworn in on Monday||The newly elected members of the local bodies in the State will be sworn in on December 21. The State Election Commission has issued detailed guidelines for the procedure. In the three-tier panchayats, the returning officers will administer the oath of office to the eldest member. He/she in turn will administer the oath to the remaining members. In the Corporations, the District Collectors will administer the oath to the eldest member. In the municipalities, officers assigned by the commission will act as returning officers. In the grama panchayats, block panchayats, district panchayats and municipalities, the ceremony will begin at 10 a.m. on December 21. In the Corporations, it will begin at 11.30 a.m. Council heads The chairpersons and Mayors of the municipalities and municipal Corporations respectively will be elected at 11 a.m. on December 28. The Deputy Chairpersons and Deputy Mayors will be elected at 2 p.m. on the day.The presidents and vice presidents of the three-tier panchayats will be elected at 11 a.m. on December 30, and the deputy heads at 2 p.m. The returning officers concerned will supervise the elections in the panchayats. In the Corporations, the Collector will be in charge of the proceedings. In the municipalities, officers specially assigned by the commission will oversee the elections. The elections will be based on an open ballot system. The voting member should record his name and signature on the back of the ballot paper. However, if there is only one candidate, he/she will be declared elected without a formal voting. The elections should be held in accordance with the COVID-19 protocols, the commission said.
18 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rs. 1.42 lakh sanctioned for Abhayakiranam||The Women and Child Development Department has sanctioned Rs. 1.42 lakh for the Abhayakiranam scheme under which relatives who provide accommodation and a family environment to widows are given financial aid. The amount has been sanctioned for four beneficiaries in Idukki district and 26 beneficiaries in Alappuzha district who had not received the financial aid earlier. An amount of Rs. 1,000 a month is given to the person responsible for the family that provides accommodation to widows. An amount of Rs. 99 lakh had been sanctioned recently for the 900 beneficiaries of the scheme for this financial year.
18 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Exotic species - regn||The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has extended deadline for voluntary disclosure and seeking registration for import and possession of exotic live species to March 15. The Chief Wildlife Warden has informed that the applications for registering possession of such species, named under Appendices I, II, and III of the Convention of International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), can be submitted onwww.parivesh.nic.in.
18 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||457 new cases, 440 recover in Thrissur||There are 457 new COVID-19 cases in the district on Thursday, while 440 people recovered from the disease. There are 5,681 active cases in the district and 141 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 67,647 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 61,475 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 446 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact. Of them, 62 patients are above the age of 60 and 29 children are below the age of 10. Home observation As many as, 3,850 patients are under home observation. On Thursday, 183 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19. In all, 6,100 samples were collected for the test.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||LDF rule to continue in Thrissur Corpn.||Ending a day of suspense and speculations, the stage is set for continuation of LDF rule in Thrissur Corporation. UDF rebel M.K. Varghese, who won from Nettissery division against UDF official candidate, has expressed his wish to support the LDF. Mr. Varghese, a UDF councillor in the outgoing council, was denied a seat by the DCC. The UDF fielded Byju Varghese as the official candidate. Protesting against the decision of the leadership, Mr. Varghese contested as a rebel candidate. Making his stand clear, Mr. Varghese said that he would like to support the LDF in the coming council. “No one from the UDF has approached me so far seeking support. My support is for the LDF. My legal advisor is discussing with the LDF camp about the conditions of support,” he said. Expressing his wish to get the Mayor post in the coming council, he hinted that the LDF was willing for any adjustment. Refuses to comment However, CPI(M) district chief M.M. Varghese, who welcomed the gesture of the UDF rebel, refused to comment on the Mayor post. The LDF had indicated the name of P.K. Shajan, who won from Lalur Division, as Mayor candidate during the campaign. Mr. Varghese alleged that the UDF cheated him by denying a seat. The UDF camp had campaigned strongly against me. Even State leaders, including former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, joined the campaign against me, he said. The possibility of the LDF winning the Pullazhi seat, where the election was postponed following death of the LDF candidate, also must have prompted Mr. Varghese to join the LDF camp. Pullazhy is a sitting seat of the LDF. With the support of the UDF rebel, the LDF will have 25 seats in the 55-member council. The UDF got 23 seats. The BJP, which got six seats, will not support either the LDF or the UDF. With this the Thrissur Corporation is rewriting a pattern of power this time. Like elsewhere in the State, people in Thrissur Corporation always used to shift their loyalty towards the UDF and the LDF every five years. But this time the stage is set for continuation of power in the civic body. Setback for BJP The BJP that campaigned with the slogan Mission 28-plus in the Corporation had to be satisfied with six seats, maintaining the status quo. They had six councillors in the outgoing council too. It won in Punkunnam, Patturiakkal, Kokkale, Thekkinkadu, Kottappuram, and Ayyanthole divisions. When it lost its sitting seats Kuttankulangara, Kannankulangara, and Chembukkavu, it gained three new seats Kokkale, Ayyanthole and Patturaikkal. Punkunnam, Thekkinkadu and Kottapuram were their sitting seats. The BJP even fielded its State spokesperson B. Gopalakrishnan in Kuttankulangara, a sitting seat, as Mayor candidate. It was a seat won by BJP’s A. Lalithambika with a margin of around 300 votes in the last election. However, BJP district president K.K. Aneeshkumar has claimed that the party could make advantage in the district. When there was a dip in seats and votes for the LDF and UDF compared to the 2015 election, the NDA has improved its position across the district, he said. “We could win around 200 seats and reached second position around 500 seats. It was a neck- and-neck fight in Kodungalloor municipality. We were just one seat away from the majority . The party could also retain the majority in Avisnissery Panchayat,” he said. He alleged vote trading by the LDF and UDF to defeat the BJP.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The buzz is back||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||When the crowds are gone||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ushering in Christmas spirit||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ritual uninterrupted||
18 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Social, economic conditions of Dalits still remain unchanged’||The social and economic conditions of Dalits in Andhra Pradesh has not changed to a large extent and some practices of social evil are still prevalent in some pockets of the district, according to Babu Rao Golla, Chairperson of Legislative Committee on Welfare of Scheduled Castes . Knowledge of constitutional rights of the citizens is a primary requirement and creating awareness through some innovative methods like creating ‘selfie spots’ in Anantapur district was a welcome measure, said Mr. Babu Rao formally declaring the first such spot open in front of the District Judge’s Bungalow on Thursday. Appreciating the efforts by District Collector Gandham Chandrudu to take up such innovative measures, Mr. Babu Rao said it was Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, who brought equality for all under the Indian Statue and ensured democratic voting right for all adults. “Remembering such an occasion for generations is a necessity,” he said and thanked Anantapur MP Talari Rangaiah for lending support to the project. The District Collector said “this kind of painting-- an appropriate selfie spot -- is being planned across Ananthapur on various subjects, which would serve as enlightening/educating pieces of art.” Mr. Babu Rao also formally opened a plaque at Ramnagar Flyover, which the Anantapur Municipal Corporation named as Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Flyover,
18 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gopuram found damaged||A portion of the gopuram of the sanctum sanctorum (garbhagudi) of the ancient Chennakeshavaswamy temple managed by the Endowments Department was damaged late on Wednesday night, leading to a political furore over the incident on Thursday morning. Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraraghava Reddy told The Hindu that at 12.30 a.m. on Thursday, the police were informed by someone staying close to the temple near the Tadipatri bus stand in the old city that a portion of the gopuram was found damaged. When the police personnel went up the ladder and saw the damaged portion, there was none in the vicinity. The limestone and brick structure was whitewashed for Vaikuntha Ekadasi till 5.30 p.m. on Wednesday and a police constable was stationed on the temple premises permanently after the East Godavari chariot incident, the DSP said. “There were no footprints to suggest someone from outside had come and did some mischief. We are also looking at all the CCTV footage available on the premises,” Mr. Veeraraghava Reddy said. There was a possibility that the painters while climbing down the gopuram would have held portions of the structure for support which could have come off, said the DSP. The police are questioning the four painters. The temple executive officer lodged a police complaint.
18 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||The Hindu FIC to conduct seminar on civil services||The Hindu Future India Club (FIC), in association with Sri Harini IAS Academy, Narasaraopeta, is organising a seminar for the public, civil services aspirants on “Why to choose UPSC Civil Services as Career”, at Narasaraopeta Town Hall on December 19. The programme will begin at 6 p.m. The programme will be an eye-opener for the civil aspirants and will help them in shaping their careers, especially for Civil Services.  Interactive session The chief guest will be Shrivas Nupur Ajaykumar, IAS, Sub-Collector, Narasaraopeta Revenue Division. Narasaraopeta Municipal Commissioner K. Ramachandra Reddy and Praveen Kumar Singh will be the guests of honour. P.N.V.D. Mahesh, former principal SS&N College, would be the guest speaker. The seminar will be followed by an interactive session wherein the queries from students will be addressed. P. Srinivasa Sai, A.V. Ramesh Babu will be present along with K. Narendra, Director, Sri Harini IAS Academy.
18 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No change in BJP stance on capital: Veerraju||Bharatiya Janata Party State unit president Somu Veerraju has said that the BJP has not changed its stance on the location of capital Amaravati, and ridiculed Telugu Desam Party natiional president N Chandrababu Naidu for doing little during his five-year reign rule as Chief Minister. Mr. Veerraju visited Guntur on Thursday where he garlanded the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at Lodge Centre. Later, he told reporters that the BJP had never changed its stance on the location of the capital and said that the party had launched agitations in the past. “It’s the BJP which can criticise on the location of the capital and not the TDP, as they have done little even after being given Rs. 7,200 crore by the Centre,” Veerraju added.
18 December 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed in road accident||A woman was killed and four others were injured when the autorickshaw in which they were travelling collided with a goods van at Sunkeshula Road junction on Thursday. While Golla Maheswari, 30, died on the spot, the injured were admitted to the Government General Hospital, here. They area said to be out of danger. Maheswari of Thakkasila village in Jogulamba Gadwal district, was travelling to Kothapalli in Kurnool district to attend a marriage.
18 December 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nivar loss in Nellore put at Rs. 618 crore||SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu on Thursday urged members of the central team to provide liberal financial assistance as the severe cyclonic storm Nivar left a trial of destruction in the district. Making a power-point presentation to a three-member central team, the Collector said the weather system caused damage to the tune of Rs. 618.53 crore in 177 villages of 29 mandals and eight urban local bodies. The only solace was that the district administration was able to ensure zero deaths due to the natural calamity by alerting the people in time and moving over 17,000 people living in vulnerable habitations to 155 relief camps. With better preparation and timely action, the damage was contained to a great extent, he explained. Standing crops in 24,702 hectares suffered severe damage as also horticulture crops in 3,043 hectares in the wake of heavy rains after 'Nivar' made a landfall in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The PR Department bore the brunt of the cyclone fury suffering damage to the tune of Rs. 313.17 crore, he said.
18 December 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No COVID-19 death in 24 hours in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh||In a welcome development, no deaths due to COVID-19 were reported in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning. While 40 persons tested positive for the disease out of the 12,000 screened in the region during the period, more than treble the number of patients returned home on recovery, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Recovery rate The number of cumulative confirmed cases rose slightly to 1,25,296 in the region. However, the recovery rate was a healthy 98.89% as 133 patients won the battle against the disease. As a result, the caseload dipped to 802 in the region, where 1,23,916 patients had been cured of the disease so far. The number of patients requiring hospitalisation declined to little over 100 in Prakasam district, which recorded zero deaths in the last 10 days. The number of patients requiring oxygen support came down to a mere 10 in the notified COVID-19 hospitals.
18 December 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Puja performed for erecting crest gates at spillway||Officials of the Polavaram project, Megha Engineering Infrastructures Limited (MEIL) and BEKEM performed puja on Thursday for erecting crest gates in the spillway. Chief Engineer B. Sudhakar Babu, Superintending Engineer M. Nagireddy, MEIL general manager A. Satish Babu and BEKEM director Kali Prasad participated in the ritual. A total of 48 arm girders, weighing 36 tonnes each, will be arranged to the trunion beams to fix the gates. The works were going on as per schedule and the project would be completed by December next, the officials said. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Sudhakar Babu said all the 48 gates would be erected by May next year. “As today is an auspicious day, arrangements have been made to fix the gate at 45th beam,” said Mr. Nagireddy. “Erection of gates is a major part in constructing the national project. We will complete it in time with the cooperation of MEIL and BEKEM staff,” said Mr. Sudhakar Babu. Hydraulic cylinders would be used to lift the gates, and they were being imported from Germany, said MEIL manager Murali.
18 December 2020||T irumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only protocol VIPs to get preference on Vaikunta Ekadasi||The TTD has resolved to attach preference only to the protocol VIPs arriving in person for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara on Vaikunta Ekadasi on December 25, with a rider that they should not exceed six in number. They should report at 3 a.m. at Vaikuntam queue complex-I for darshan in the route specified to them. Only two suites will be reserved for their accommodation. Briefing the media, the TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Thursday said arrangements for the 10-day Vaikunta Dwara darshanam were made in adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. The TTD will not entertain any kind of recommendation letters on Vaikunta Ekadasi and on January 1. On remaining eight days, a decision will be taken subject to the then prevailing conditions. Darshanam for donors The break darshan ticket is priced at Rs. 1,000 for VIPs as well as SriVani donors on all the 10 days. In a first, the TTD has also resolved to extend the darshan privilege to all the donors who contributed to various trusts and schemes and urged them to reserve their darshan slots online in advance. Devotees who have booked virtual Kalyanotsavams will not be entertained on December 25, 26 and January 1. Devotees with valid darshan tickets alone will be allowed to motor up to Tirumala and trek along both the footpaths during the 10 days. Tickets for locals  Offline tickets will be issued at five points at Tirupati for the benefit of local people on production of Aadhaar cards. The tickets for all the 10 days will be provided round the clock from December 24. The procession of golden chariot will be organised on Ekadasi while the Chakrasnanam on the following day will be performed in ekantham. Sanitising and thermal check will be done for all the devotees at Alipiri check point and accommodation centres, Vaikuntam complex, main temple and laddu counters. Prasadam The TTD will take 50% of accommodation from all the mutts at Tirumala. It will organise annadanam from 4 a.m. till midnight on all the days besides ensuring free distribution of food packets at Vaikuntam and Narayanagiri gardens for devotees.
18 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Car leaves TTD staff red-faced||The efficiency of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) vigilance and security once again came under the scanner on Thursday when a private vehicle with gospels of alien faith printed in bold letters on its rear windshield was spotted at Tirumala. There was a mild flutter among officials as the electronic media flashed the news on their channels. The vigilance personnel who rushed to the spot immediately covered it with newspapers. Mr. Prabhakar, who drove the car from Kurnool, said he was unaware that proselytisation of any kind is prohibited in the town.
18 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team visits cyclone-hit mandals||Central team on flood relief on Thursday visited Sodum and Somala mandals of Chittoor district, which were among the areas ravaged by the recent Nivar and Burevi cyclones. , The team inspected the battered crops, damaged roads, breached tanks, that suffered extensive damage in Punganur constituency, represented by Minister for Panchayat Raj Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy. The team inspected the damaged paddy crop in an extent of 1,454 acres in Somala mandal.
18 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD to promote cow-based products; panel to be formed||TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy said the temple management was committed to protecting the desi cow breeds and promoting the use of their products. “An action plan will be prepared soon on production and use of panchagavya products,” Mr. Reddy announced at a review meeting at his chamber here on Thursday. A team of panchagavya experts from Nagpur-based Govigyan Anusandhana Kendra screened a documentary and gave a presentation on the making, utility and future of panchagavya products. Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) member Sunil Mansinghka said that panchagavya, the amalgamation of five basic products – milk, curd, ghee, dung and urine – derived from the cow would command modern medicine in the days to come. Accompanied by Krishna Murthy, president of the Kamadugha Project in Karnataka, Mr. Mansinghka elaborated on the various uses of panchagavya in the fields of health and agriculture, apart from building resistance, rejuvenating cells and even controlling dreaded diseases like cancer. Mr. Reddy promised to form an expert committee to study in detail the uses of cow-based products.
18 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD auctions on Dec. 22, 23||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has announced to conduct e-auction of 6,000 tons of compost manure on December 23. The manure was produced at its solid waste management plant at Kakulakonda, Tirumala. Details can be had from the State government’s portal www.konugolu.ap.gov.in or by sending email to gmauctionsttd@gmail.com. Similarly, the ‘vastrams’ offered by devotees to various temples will be auctioned through tender process on December 22. For details on both auctions, the TTD marketing office can be contacted over 0877-226 4429 or www.tirumala.org.
18 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nurse set afire week before wedding at her house in Chittoor||In a ghastly incident, a woman was doused with petrol and set ablaze when she was asleep at her house in Chittoor district early on Thursday. The victim, Sumathi (24) of Guttakindapalli in Mulakalacheruvu mandal, was employed as a nurse in a local hospital. She was to get wedded in a week’s time, when the incident shocked the village. According to police, the woman was sleeping on a cot when unidentified miscreants poured petrol on her and set her afire. She raised an alarm with flames raging from her legs, when her father Sivanna and mother rushed to her rescue. She was taken to the Madanapalle Government Hospital for treatment and further to SVR Ruia Government General Hospital as her condition turned serious. She suffered burns on her legs and lower abdomen. The incident happened even as the house was teeming with relatives who had arrived ahead of the wedding. It is learnt that the two pet dogs at the house had been poisoned before the incident. Women’s panel reacts State Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma, who called on the ailing girl at the hospital, expressed concern over the recurrence of such disturbing attacks on women, even as the government was trying to instil confidence among them. She sought immediate action from the Collector and the Superintendent of Police in filing a chargesheet against the accused and initiating punitive measures.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure welfare schemes reached all eligible, CM tells chiefs of BC corpns.||The newly sworn-in chairmen and directors of various BC corporations have to keep in mind that their post is a responsibility and not power, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. Addressing them after they took oath at a programme called ‘BC Sankranti’ here on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “They should make all efforts to uplift those who have been left out of the welfare programmes. They must ensure that the welfare schemes reached all the eligible beneficiaries.” Quota for women The government had in October announced the appointment of chairmen for 56 BC corporations. Nearly 29 of the 56 corporations would be led by women in tune with the government’s decision to provide them 50% reservation. The government also appointed 12 directors to each of these corporations. Referring to the appointments, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “Establishment of the new corporations has proved the government’s commitment to the BCs. Of the 56 corporations, 29 will be headed by women. This apart, 336 directors of the total 672 are also given to women. The government has created history by taking a big leap for the development of women and the BCs.” ‘Backbone Classes’ In this context, the Chief Minister reiterated that BCs were not Backward Classes but ‘Backbone Classes’. “The previous TDP government had betrayed the BCs and broke their backs, while we are treating them as Backbone Classes,” he said. Dig at TDP In the run-up to the 2014 elections, the TDP government had made 118 promises to the BCs, and did not fulfil even 10% of them. The TDP government had promised to spend Rs. 10,000 crore every year for the welfare of the BCs, but spent only Rs. 19,329 crore during its five-year term, he observed. On the contrary, the YSRCP government had in the last 18 months spent Rs. 38,519 crore on the BCs alone, benefiting over 2.88 crore people. “If the SC, ST and minorities are included, a whopping Rs. 59,317 crore has so far been spent benefiting 4.45 crore people,” he said. Deputy Chief Ministers D. Krishnadas and Amzad Basha, Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy, Ch. Venugopala Krishna, B. Satyanarayana, G. Jayaram, Anil Kumar, M. Sankaranarayana, M. Srinivasa Rao, V. Srinivas, K. Venkateswara Rao, P. Venkataramaiah, K. Kannababu, A. Suresh, and S. Appalaraju, MPs P. Subhash Chandra Bose, M. Venkataramana, G. Madhav, and M. Bharat, MLA Janga Krishna Murthy, and Puducherry Minister Malladi Krishna Rao were present.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 534 new cases||The State has witnessed two COVID-19 deaths and 534 infections in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning. As a result, the infection tally increased to 8,77,348 while the death toll reached 7,069. The mortality rate remained 0.81%. The new deaths were reported in Anantapur and West Godavari districts. In the last one week, 22 deaths were reported in the State with Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reporting four each. There were no deaths in East Godavari, Kurnool, Prakasam and Srikakulam districts. In the last one day, 498 patients recovered, pushing the total recoveries to 8,65,825, which was 98.69% of the total infected persons. This left 4,454 patients under treatment at various hospitals and in home isolation. During the period, 63,821 samples were tested. The number of samples tested so far was 1.106 crore with a positivity rate of 7.93%. Chittoor again reported the highest single-day infections at 130. It was followed by Krishna (74), Guntur (54), West Godavari (51), East Godavari (45), Srikakulam (39), Visakhapatnam (31), Kadapa (27), Nellore (21), Prakasam (19), Anantapur (16), Vizianagaram (14), and Kurnool (13). The overall tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,23,166), West Godavari (93,574), Chittoor (85,196), Guntur (74,125), Anantapur (67,079), Nellore (61,869), Prakasam (61,861), Kurnool (60,444), Visakhapatnam (58,750), Kadapa (54,733), Krishna (46,934), Srikakulam (45,796) and Vizianagaram (40,926).
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Steps taken for uplift of BCs historic’||Puducherry Minister Malladi Krishna Rao has showered praise on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the way in which the YSRCP government is striving for the uplift of the backward sections of society. Addressing the gathering at the ‘BC Sankranti’ on Thursday, Mr. Krishna Rao said as a Minister hailing from the Backward Classes, I would say that what the Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh was doing for the welfare of the BCs was historic. “The BCs have been given utmost importance by the YSRCP government. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has kept his word on serving the BCs. I am ready to resign and work for the government as long as you are the Chief Minister,” Mr. Krishna Rao said. Chairmen of 56 BC corporations and 672 directors were sworn in on the occasion. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that the BCs had always been an integral part of society. The government had created history by setting up 56 BC corporations for 139 BC communities in the State. These corporations would help in the overall development of the marginal sections. ‘90% promises fulfilled’ “The government has accorded top priority to the BCs. In the last 18 months, 90% of the promises made have been fulfilled. The government has so far spent Rs. 38,519 crore on the BCs,” the Chief Minister said. He further said that 19.66 lakh BCs benefited from AmmaVodi, which would enter its second phase on January 9, 2021. Under the scheme, the government had spent Rs. 6,500 crore to benefit 82 lakh students and 43 lakh mothers, he added. Terming his government as pro-farmer, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said Rs. 6,750 crore was being spent on farmers under Rythu Bharosa scheme, under which a financial assistance of Rs. 13,500 was being provided to them annually. Under the scheme, 23.69 lakh farmers were identified as BCs. Similarly, under the housing for poor, the government would distribute 31 lakh house site pattas. A total of 15.92 lakh BC would benefit under the programme, he said. Under YSR Nethanna Nestham, nearly 81,000 families, all of them BCs, were benefited to the tune of Rs. 384 crore. The number of BC families that benefited from other schemes was as follows: YSR Matsyakara Bharosa (1.07 lakh), Jaganannna Chedhodu (2.27 lakh), YSR Aarogyasri (5.24 lakh), YSR Aarogya Asara (1.38 lakh), YSR Pension Kanuka (30.27 lakh), and YSR Aasara (42.60 lakh).
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Multi-lingual poets’ meet in city from tomorrow||The Cultural Centre of Vijayawada and Amaravati (CCVA), in association with the Centre of Excellence for Studies in Classical Telugu (CIIL), Department of Language and Culture, Andhra Pradesh, and Department of Language and Culture, Government of Telangana, is organising Amaravati Poetic Prism-2020, the sixth international multi-lingual poets meet on December 19 and 20. Event covener D. Viziabhaskar, at a press conference, said K. Siva Reddy, recipient of Saraswati Samman and Kabir Samman and member of the Central Committee for Kendra Sahitya Akademi, will inaugurate the meet and release the International Multi-Lingual Poetry Anthology e-book. Edited by Papineni Sivasankar and Mr. Vizaibhaskar, the anthology showcases 162 poems in 42 languages from 32 countries. The earlier editions of this anthology had been recognised by the India Book of Records and the Limca Book of Records. CCVA CEO E. Sivanagi Reddy said delegates were coming from countries such as Albania, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Austria, Bangladesh, Bosnia, Canada, China, Croatia, Cuba, France, Germany, Ghana, Greek, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mauritius, Nepal, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Spain, Sri Lanka, U.K., U.S., Uzbekistan and Vietnam. From within the country, the poets participating will present their works in Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Hindustani, Kannada, Karbi, Kashmiri, Konkani, Maithili, Malayalam, Marathi, Mizo, Odia, Punjabi, Santali, Sindhi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu.  Deepa Balasubramanian, CEO, The Sedibus and moderator of the programme, said the valedictory session scheduled at 7 p.m. on December 20 would be addressed by Kolakaluri Enoch.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers can exercise web options till midnight today||Education Minister A. Suresh on Thursday said the time for teachers to exercise their web options and make modifications, if any, was being extended till Friday midnight. At a press conference, Mr. Suresh said that in order to prevent closure of schools located in the remote areas due to shortage, or lack of teaching staff, a few vacant posts were blocked. The transfer orders for these posts would be given after completion of the web options on December 19, he said. The Minister said that web counselling being implemented for teacher transfers on an experimental basis was a major success. He said the dates for EAMCET counselling would be announced soon. Load on server Director of School Education Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu, in a statement, said to address the problem of excess load on the server that was causing delay in web options, district-wise servers had been arranged. Mr. Chinaveerabhadrudu said the process of transfers was initiated by issuing a schedule and, as on December 17, a total of 26,117 teachers who were to be transferred and 50,002 teachers seeking request transfers had submitted their options in the online mode. Following a request by the teachers, the last date for submission of web options was extended till December 18. He said some teachers had expressed apprehensions that the options were not visible. Explaining that once the data was entered in the online mode, modified from time to time and saved in the system would not be lost. He said there was excess load on the server because many teachers were modifying their options frequently and it was taking time to display the opted vacancies.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Streets for People Challenge’ held||In response to the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation’s call for the transformation of city streets into the Streets for People Challenge, an initiative taken up with the support of Central government and UN-Habitat, over 40 persons, including students, professionals, local representatives, ward secretaries and others took part in the walking audit orientation session at Vambay Colony near Ajith Singh Nagar on Thursday. This was the second walking audit. Led by VMC Additional Commissioner (Projects) U. Sarada Devi, the participants taking part in the design competition went through the street selected. UN-Habitat urban planner Imran Basha explained the walking audit process and asked the participants to focus on need-based interventions to create vibrant neighbourhood spaces in Vambay Colony. Ms. Devi said the designs submitted by the participants would be evaluated by the officials, local representatives and subject experts.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second Japan Industrial Township in State to come up in Chittoor||The State government proposes to develop a second Japan Industrial Township (JIT) in Chittoor, which is one of the nodes in the Visakhapatnam-Chennai Industrial Corridor, Minister for Industries M. Goutham Reddy has said. The government is offering special financial incentives to the Japanese companies setting up manufacturing facilities in the JITs (the first one is in Sri City), especially to those shifting their bases from China along with their suppliers. As on date, 25 Japanese companies are operating in the State. The government has already cleared the establishment of an off-highway tyre manufacturing unit by the Yokohoma Group. “These are some of the milestones in the partnership between Andhra Pradesh and Japan, which has strengthened since the new government led by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took over 18 months ago,” Mr. Goutham Reddy said in his special address to the CII session on ‘Promoting India - Japan strategic and economic cooperation during COVID and beyond’ on Thursday. The Minister said the collaboration with the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan External Trade Organisation, Japan Bank of International Cooperation, Japan International Cooperation Agency, and Kuni Umi Asset Management Company Limited was helping in transforming the industrial landscape of the State. The Minister said the government identified 10 focus sectors of interest for the Japanese companies, namely toys and furniture, footwear and leather, machinery and precision equipment, aerospace and defence, pharma, textiles, automobiles, electronics, food processing and petrochemicals.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan will pay the price for suppressing farmers’ stir’||TDP Polit Bureau member Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will pay a heavy price for “suppressing” the peaceful protests against the proposed three capitals. In a release on Thursday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was least bothered about the plight of thousands of farmers who had given their lands for the construction of the capital in Amaravati. “Farmers in Amaravati have been protesting against the ill-conceived concept of decentralisation, which is an excuse for shifting the capital to Visakhapatnam and relocating the High Court in Kurnool,” he added. Investments totalling about Rs. 4 lakh crore were squandered away in the last 18 months due to the retrograde policies of the government, he alleged. Attacks on BCs, SCs, STs and minorities had become the hallmark of the YSRCP government, the TDP leader alleged. He further claimed that 112 persons had so far died in the capital region due to the uncertainty created in Amaravati.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM hail ISRO for PSLV launch||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has hailed the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for successful launch of the PSLV C-50 from Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota and placing the Indian communication satellite CMS-01 in geosynchronous transfer orbit on Thursday. Mr. Harichandan said the second successful launch of the PSLV by ISRO scientists after COVID-19 lockdown period was an ample demonstration of their dedication and added another feather to the cap of India's robust space programme. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy congratulated ISRO scientists for the successful launch of PSLV- C 50 and wished them success in all their future endeavours.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||First set of vaccines expected to be administered by Pongal||The district administration is gearing up to administer the first round of vaccines in the district by Sankranti in January. The first set of people to be vaccinated will be frontline health workers, and the district administration has already identified 60,000 health workers in the district who will be given the vaccine. A 16-member task force committee headed by District Collector V. Vinay Chand is meeting on a regular basis to work out the final modalities. It is learnt that the State government is also working closely with the Union Health Ministry to give final touches to the roll-out plan and high-level talks are on regarding pricing and other logistic and economic aspects. According to a senior officer from the District Health Department, two vaccines manufactured by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna, are likely to pave their way to the district. The Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine is also getting ready and its third trial is yet to be cleared, Principal of Andhra Medical College Dr. P.V. Sudhakar said. According to District Immunisation Officer Jeevan Rani, the static refrigeration system in the district is ready and 1 lakh vaccines can be stored at any given point. “This apart, what is required is a dynamic and mobile cold chain and we are ready for it as we already have a regular ongoing immunisation programme,” said Dr. Sudhakar. According to him, the Moderna vaccine needs to be frozen at minus 20 degree Celsius, but they can be stored for 30 days in a refrigerator at 2 to 8 degree Celsius. “We are equipped with the static refrigeration system to store the vaccines, and our immunisation team that has been running various immunisation programmes such as DPT and polio, are trained to store vaccines in mobile freezer boxes and vaccinate people,” he said. “But the challenging aspect will be to identify new routes and employ more vehicles and vaccinators, as the vaccine needs to be given to a large number of people across a vast and diverse geographical area, and that too within a short period of time,” said Dr. Sudhakar. In the second phase, two lakh other frontline workers such as GVMC staff, sanitisation workers, police personnel and revenue officials, will be vaccinated. In the third phase, the vaccine will be administered to eight lakh people in the district who are in the 50-plus age group with co-morbidities.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC plans to eliminate all dumper bins from city limits||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is working towards eliminating dumper bins across the city in order to improve its ranking on the Garbage-Free Cities (GFC) list as part of Swachh Survekshan 2021. As part of a pilot project towards this initiative, the corporation will be removing 16-20% of dumper bins in the civic body limits. Solid waste is being collected from households in two ways under GVMC limits. In some areas, workers collect garbage from households, take the waste in a push-cart, and dump it in bins. In other areas, workers use hired vehicles to collect waste from houses and transfer it directly to heavy vehicles, which then shift the waste to the dumping yard. The GVMC now plans to remove bins in some of the areas where hired vehicles are being used to collect garbage. The problem with dumper bins is that garbage stays there till being cleared, attracting flies, insects and rodents. Explaining one of the aspects of GFC rating, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that when door-to-door garbage collection is strong, and transportation of waste is efficient, intermediate storage (such as dumper bins) is not required. Except litter bins, there is no need for compactor bins or dumper bins, she said. She said that wherever hired vehicles are being deployed to collect wastes from households, dumper bins can be removed from those places. Communication is key “This requires proper planning because sometimes the vehicles may not be able to collect garbage from houses due to vehicle breakdown or some other reasons. If this happens, where will people dump their waste? So when these hired vehicles fail to report to duty, they are being asked to inform us in advance so that we can send a GVMC vehicle in its place. Proper communication is essential,” she said. Ms Srijana said that the corporation has 250 hired vehicles working on door-to-door garbage collection. “We are going to remove bins in only a few areas, which will amount to removal of 16-20% of the total number of bins. If this works out successfully, we will extend this initiative in other areas also,” she said.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anti-drug drive yields results, SEB seizes 45 kg ganja in series of raids||The anti-drug drive by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) of the city police is yielding results in Visakhapatnam city. The SEB conducted raids at three places and arrested eight persons including two women while they were allegedly found with 45 kg ganja and hash oil, at various parts in the city on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference in the city on Thursday, Additional Commissioner of Police (SEB) V. Ajitha said that the SEB, along with City Task Force (CTF), raided a residence at Pendurthi. The teams found two women — P. Vasundhara (21) and K. Sireesha (21) — who procured the hash oil from Visakha Agency and were trying to sell it here. The seized hash oil is said to be worth around Rs. 1.5 lakh, she said. Police are yet to ascertain further details in the case. In another case, the SEB team arrested four persons — J. Balaraju (25), J. Durga Prasad (30), V. Kesava Rao (25) and S. Manmadha Rao (28), while they were transporting 38 kg ganja in an auto-rickshaw near Duvvada. The ADCP said that in order to escape from the police, the smugglers fabricated a cabinet by cutting open the bottom of an LPG cylinder, wherein they stuffed the five ganja packets of about 10 kg. Another 28 kg of ganja was hidden inside the seat covers of the vehicle. In the third case, the SEB teams arrested two youth identified as M.V. Sanju (26) and D. Sai Baba (26) of Hyderabad, while they were allegedly transporting 7 kg ganja in their bags to Hyderabad on a private bus. The SEB teams intercepted the bus near Rama Talkies and when checked thoroughly, seven kg ganja packets were found in four bags, she said. In all three cases, the accused had procured the ganja from interior places of the Agency in Visakhapatnam district, she added. “So far in this year, the SEB teams have seized 2,233.54 kg ganja from smugglers,” she said. Other cases Ms. Ajitha also said that the police have been conducting such drives apart from conducting awareness campaigns on the harmful effects of drugs. She also urged parents to monitor the activities of their children. The ADCP said that the SEB teams also conducted raids at several places where they caught banned khaini and gutkha products and liquor bottles on Wednesday. In one case, the SEB teams arested 32-year old A. Nageswara Rao while he was transporting banned khaini products worth Rs. 1.65 lakh in a private bus heading to Vijayawada. The accused confessed that he had procured the banned products from Berhampur in Odisha and was heading to Amalapuram in East Godavari district. The SEB teams seized 21,500 khaini sachets from him. In another case, two persons were arrested while they were transporting 138 liquor bottles, all of 180 ml quantity, in a vehicle near Gajuwaka.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ring nets banned||The Fisheries Department on Thursday announced a ban on the use of ring nets for fishing. Officials said that the decision has been taken after several fishermen staged protests and organised rallies alleging usage of ring nets by a few fishermen recently. The officials recently conducted a survey and identified that 83 fishermen have been fishing with ring nets. Officials warned that the government will cancel licences/boat registration if any fishermen are found to be using ring nets.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 15,000 devotees pray at SKML temple||As many as 15,000 devotees had darshan of the presiding diety at Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujupeta on the first Thursday of the Margasira month. Darshan began at 12.05 a.m. amid chanting of Vedic mantras after toli puja and panchamrutha abhishekam. Vizag South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar and temple executive officer S.J. Madhavi participated in the toli puja. Devotees were allowed for darshan after toli puja. Only those who took slot tokens were allowed for darshan. Arrangements have been made to ensure hassle-free darshan. Water was supplied by GVMC personnel to devotees in the queue lines. About 1,000 annadanam packets were distributed in adherence to COVID norms. Gayatri Hospitals rendered free medical service.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 trains cancelled for maintenance works||In view of safety related modernisation works and non-interlocking works at Gopalapatnam for commissioning of auto section between Gopalapatnam-Simhachalam North in Waltair Division, the following pair of trains will be cancelled on December 18 (Friday) in both directions: 08507/08508 Rayagada-Visakhapatnam-Rayagada special express and 08532/08531 Visakhapatnam- Palasa-Visakhapatnam special express. Railway officials said these works are essential for enhancement of passenger convenience and safety.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||36-year-old ‘ends life’||A 36-year-old man reportedly ended his life by hanging himself from a tree allegedly over family disputes at Golugonda mandal on Wednesday evening. The incident came to light after the police registered a case Wednesday late night. According to Golugonda police, V. Ramana Murthy, a resident of Narsipatnam Town, worked as a car driver. He allegedly had several family disputes. Ramana, who was reportedly depressed, left home on Wednesday leaving a message for his family on his phone. At around 5.30 p.m., he was found dead. Those struggling with suicidal thoughts are urged to contact 100 for counselling.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA takes up land mapping using GIS||VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao conducted a video-conference with ESRI to finalise the modalities of using GIS technology to map the lands belonging to VMRDA in the district, here on Thursday. He said that VMRDA owns land parcels spread over the two districts of Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram. “With constant urbanisation and changing topography, a practical tool to monitor the lands has been in the reckoning for the past few months. VMRDA is moving towards high-end technologies and web applications using accurate DGPS survey data and GIS software to monitor changes in its lands real-time, at the mere click of a button,” he said. The ‘Change Detection Software’ will enable Planning, Estate and Allotment wings of VMRDA to work in tandem, he said. A pilot project will begin from January 1, taking VMRDA land parcel of 108.91 acres at Pardesipalem, he said.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New PRSI body elected||Public Relations Society of India, Visakhapatnam Chapter unanimously elected Visakha Ads chief executive P.L.K Murthy as its chairman. Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (RINL) Corporate Communications general manager R.P Sharma was elected vice-chairman for the 2020-22 session. HPCL Senior Manager (Public Relations) M.K.V.L. Narasimham was elected chapter secretary, while Visakha Dairy PRO A. Govinda Rao was elected joint secretary. Gitam University PRO N.V. Narasimham was elected treasurer. PRSI national vice-president (South) U.S. Sarma and other chapter members congratulated the newly-elected body.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CREDAI-A.P. chairman Subba Raju dead||Chairman of CREDAI - Andhra Pradesh and promoter and managing director of KSR Developers and Fairfield Marriot, Visakhapatnam, K. Subba Raju, died here at a private hospital late on Wednesday night following a brief illness. He was the founder-chairman of CREDAI-A.P. after the bifurcation of the State. He had served as president of the Kshatriya Seva Samithi, Visakhapatnam. He was also chairman of the Visakhapatnam Apartment Builders’ Association. A native of Dirusumarru village in West Godavari district, Subba Raju is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna slams MLA over pending projects||Former Minister and Telugu Desam Party leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Thursday came down heavily on Narsipatnam MLA Uma Sankar Ganesh Petla over the latter’s remarks against the TDP. Releasing a video clip here on Thursday, Mr. Patrudu said that Uma Sankar had no right to level charges against the TDP as he himself had failed miserably in achieving any noteworthy progress for the people of Narsipatnam. Mr. Patrudu claimed that construction of TIDCO houses was initiated during the TDP regime, and 85% of the work was completed during their rule, and accused Uma Sankar of falsely claiming that the houses were built entirely by the YSR Congress government. The former Minister also found fault with the State government painting the houses in their party colours. “Moreover, even after being in power for 18 months, the houses are yet to be delivered to the people even as their construction was completed during TDP rule,” he said.
18 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former AU professor passes away||C.R.S. Sarma, retired professor of Linguistics at Andhra University, passed away at the age of 66 in Hyderabad on Thursday, according to a release issued by AU officials. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Prof. Sarma served as Founder Head and Chairman of the Board of Studies of Linguistics. Registrar of AU, Prof. V. Krishnamohan, condoled Prof. Sarma’s death and hailed his contributions to the field of linguistics.
18 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITDA to promote horticulture crops in Vizianagaram district||Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Parvatipuram, is keen on promoting horticulture crops in 25,000 acres by extending financial and technical assistance to the tribal families which are being given pattas under Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR). Under the distribution of land scheme, as many as 48,532 acres will be distributed to nearly 24,800 families. Each family will get at least two acres of land to get livelihood through agriculture activities. The government has already distributed 8,000 acres of land under various schemes in the last few years. ITDA Project Officer R. Kurmanath has been holding meeting with horticulture officials for selection of crops which grow quickly and ensure permanent livelihood to the beneficiaries. “Cashew, mango and other varieties grow up fast. Within four years, the farmers would get yielding and continuous income is assured if they are able to maintain crops with utmost care,” said Mr. Kurmanath. Aid for initial investment “MGNREGS will be linked to the promotion of horticulture crops. Each farmer will get around Rs. 50,000 financial assistance under various schemes to meet initial investment for raising crops. Fortunately, many farmers are growing horticulture crops. Their experiences would help others to raise crops,” he added. Under the Jagananna Thodu scheme, the banks will also suggest them to ensure loans in a hassle-free manner.
18 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Continue post-Matric scholarships, govt. urged||Dalit Bahujan Shramik Union State general secretary and senior advocate P. Chittibabu on Thursday urged the Union government to continue benefits of post Matric scholarships for the students of downtrodden sections to pursue higher education without any break. In a press release, he expressed concern over putting 90% burden on the State governments and Centre contributing only 10 % for continuation of the scheme. He said that nearly 62 lakh students of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were currently benefited under the scheme and changes in the policy would be detrimental to the students of poor families across the country. “Huge dropouts are already being reported due to lack of financial assistance to students of SC and ST communities. The Union government's decision will lead to more dropouts,” said Mr.Chittibabu.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keeping the tradition alive||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restricted zone!||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gearing up||
18 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Combing intensified in Agency areas||A large contingent of police force on Thursday launched a massive combing operation in the forest fringe areas straddling the Bhadradri-Kothagudem-Mulugu-Mahabubabad districts following specific information about the alleged movement of an armed squad of Maoist rebels in the forest region. Acting on credible information that the rebels led by the senior Maoist leader Bade Chokka Rao alias Damodar were moving in forest areas of Gundala, Karakagudem, Bayyaram, Pasra, Tadvai, Gangaram and Mangapeta mandals, a massive search operation has been launched in the forest belt to track down the ultras, said Bhadradri-Kothagudem district Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt. Meanwhile, the district police put up wall posters with the pictures of seven underground Maoist rebels, including that of Damodar, in several forest fringe villages. The posters titled “Samacharam Maaku – Bahumathi Meeku” sprang up in some remote villages situated on the periphery of the reserve forest in the district on Thursday, sources said. The police, through the posters, announced prize money to those providing information about the underground cadres of the outlawed outfit.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Anxious wait for employees as first PRC term is set to expire||With the term of the Pay Revision Commission, the first constituted after the formation of Telangana, set to expire by this month-end, employees are anxiously waiting to know the contents of the recommendations made by the Commission. The government has extended the term of the PRC till December 31 after assigning additional terms of reference to it. In addition to examining the pay revision related aspects of the employees, the PRC was mandated to study the existing business rules and staffing pattern at the district and mandal levels as the government wanted recommendations for more clarity and expeditiousness in the decision making process. The three-member Commission headed by retired bureaucrat C.R. Biswal was constituted in May 24, 2018 with a term of three months and the of the PRC was extended subsequently. Term extended It was in February this year, the government had further extended the term of the PRC till the year end asking it to study the impact of enhancing the age of superannuation of the employees and its fall out on the State’s finances. Employees are confident that the Commission has completed its study on the pay related aspects of the employees after it held negotiations with different stakeholders to understand their aspirations. The Commission members held discussions with employees unions, officials at different levels, especially those of the Finance department to understand the availability of funds for making the recommendations.  Fitment options The PRC members are reported to have favoured more than one option related to the quantum of fitment benefit that should be given to the employees at different levels as it would ease the burden on the exchequer at least to some extent. Given the precarious financial situation at present, section of employees feel that the implementation of PRC recommendations would be possible only next fiscal, April 1, 2021, after making allocation in the budget. “Pay revision has to be made with effect from July 1, 2018. There is no clarity yet on the payment of the arrears once the PRC recommendations are implemented,” a senior official said. Officials said that the government could announce notional arrears after fixation of the new pay scales and these could be credited into the employees accounts through different options available to the government like crediting part of the amounts to the GPF accounts in due course.  Notional arrears “Notional arrears are nothing new. Similar method was adopted in the PRCs constituted in the undivided State too,” an employees’ union leader said on the condition of anonymity. The constitution of the three-member Commission, instead of the traditional single member PRC, was itself aimed at speedily studying the situation at submitting the report. “Given the experience of the members, the report should have been completed quite some time ago. The extension given to the PRC is on other counts,” he said.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Risk Communication Cell to address rumours about COVID vaccine||Countering rumours and social media messages asking people not to take COVID-19 vaccine, will be the priority of Health department officials. In fact, such rumours are already circulating on social media platforms. Senior officials of the Telangana Health department said that a Risk Communication Cell would address the issue. In progress Director of the State Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao has earlier said that the vaccine might be rolled out in the middle of January 2021. Works leading to it are already under process. On December 11, the State Health and Family Welfare department’s principal secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi issued orders forming four committees for planning, execution, and other functions of the vaccination programme. The first among them is the State Steering Committee. One of the ‘Terms of Reference’ of the committee in the implementation phase is to ‘ensure tracking of social media and other platforms for possible misinformation and rumours about the coronavirus vaccine that could impact the community acceptance for vaccine’. Senior officials are anticipating resistance against the vaccine from a section of the medical community. Besides this, rumours on social media would be another issue they would be dealing with.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub initiatives to bring corporates, start-ups closer||T-Hub that contributes in multiple ways to innovation ecosystem has unveiled two programmes to bring corporates and start-ups closer as well as foster collaboration. Corporate Membership and T-Lex, the programmes, will equip the corporates with a wider pool of Indian and global technology solutions for various industries. They will enable them to effectively enhance innovation quotient for their companies and collaborate with start-ups, a release said. T-Hub CEO Ravi Narayan said, “Over the 5 years, T-Hub has enabled numerous corporates to initiate or redesign their innovation journey. This has helped them to either stay ahead of the competition or impact-fully survive in the market both pre and post-pandemic.” Innovative The primary aim to spark the importance of innovation among corporates is to support the right kind of technologies at the right time and that is possible when a beneficial collaboration occurs between start-ups and corporates for respective growth, he said. Corporate Membership, one of the programmes, functions on an annual subscription model, which will entail events and networking, branding, and employee engagement benefits. One of the component is the T-Connect, which is to help corporates plug into the start-up ecosystem and connect with global and local innovators while supporting the entrepreneurial community. T-Hub will screen start-ups from a domain/industry and connect them with the corporates. It will enable the corporates to understand the technology advancements and explore synergies with start-ups from diverse sectors based on their areas of interest. The other programme, T-Lex program, is a customised learning initiative by T-Hub which equips corporate employees with tools and frameworks used by the world’s most successful entrepreneurs and corporations to innovate and grow. It aims to “inculcate an intrapreneurial and innovative mindset among product managers, business owners, designers and developers and service designers working across levels, right from entry-level to leadership positions,” the press release said.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Study claims Chlorhexidine mouthwash kills 99.9% virus||A preliminary laboratory based research undertaken by Dr. HSJ Institute of Dental Sciences, Panjab University, with CSIR-Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH) shows that one of the most routinely used mouth rinses, Chlorhexidine, has proven to be effective against SARS CoV2. The study “Chlorhexidine: An effective anti-COVID mouth rinse” was supported by pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories and Design Innovation Centre, Panjab University. Studies have shown SARS CoV 2 virus colonises in oral and nasal cavities. Mouth rinses can be an effective way to reduce the colonisation and possibly reduce the transmission of infection. Public at large has become very conscious about oral hygiene in these COVID times so as to prevent SARS CoV2 infection, a release on Thursday said. Chlorhexidine is a gold standard mouth rinse due to its broad spectrum bactericidal and virucidal properties. This study was aimed at providing an insight into the effectiveness of Chlorhexidine 0.2% against SARS CoV2, through an analysis in a laboratory. It was observed that, chlorhexidine digluconate mouth rinses in 0.2% concentration kill more than 99.9% of SARS CoV 2 virus in minimal contact time of 30 seconds, the release said. Dr. Ashish Jain from Dr. HSJ Institute of Dental Sciences, author of the study, said, “Our study revealed that a mouth rinse with the required concentration of Chlorhexidine killed coronavirus within 30 seconds after being exposed in a laboratory. These are the initial results from the lab studies and need to be verified through clinical studies.”  Our study revealed that a mouth rinse with the required concentration of Chlorhexidine killed coronavirus within 30 seconds after being exposed in a laboratory. Dr. Ashish Jain Dr. HSJ Institute of Dental Sciences
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No surge after GHMC polls||The threat of surge in COVID-19 cases because of mass gatherings in the run up to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections and on the day of polling seems to be over. It has been 16 days since the local body elections were held on December 1, and 13 days since the results were announced on December 4, but the decline in cases continues. On December 2, a day after the elections were held, senior officials of the Health department had urged elected representatives, political leaders and party cadre who participated in campaigning and polling, to isolate themselves for a week to contain possible spread of coronavirus. Back then, the officials reasoned that it takes five to seven days to develop symptoms and if any of the leaders or cadre have COVID and mingle with family members or others, there is a chance for the virus to spread further leading to second wave of COVID. On many occasions during campaigning, politicians and party cadre had participated in mass gatherings without maintaining COVID-19 appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks, and maintaining physical distance. When the daily case numbers mentioned in the media bulletin issued by the State Health department are observed, there seems to be no surge in cases. Rather, the numbers have fallen. ‘Follow COVID norms’ However, people who participate in other mass gatherings such as marriages or other functions, continue to contract the infectious disease, clearly indicating that the virus is still prevalent. The Health officials on multiple occasions have stressed that cases could spike if people are negligent about wearing masks, do not maintain hand hygiene and physical distancing, and attend mass gatherings. In fact, officials said that people need to continue taking precautions for five weeks after taking the first dose of vaccine against COVID-19. The vaccine is given in two doses with a gap of 28 days between the two doses. Director of Public Health Dr. G. Srinivasa Rao, citing literature, said that antibodies against coronavirus would develop seven days after taking the second dose. This indicates the importance of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour to avoid spread.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aparna Enterprises to distribute Paffoni products||Building materials manufacturer Aparna Enterprises on Thursday said it has become the master distributor of Paffoni, a leading faucet manufacturing brand from Italy. Through this association, Aparna Enterprises will be bringing Paffoni to India for the first time. The products will be marketed under the brand’s retail division Aparna Unispace. The association is expected to grow Aparna Unispace division’s revenues by 20% in 2021-2022, a release from the company said. Established in 1953, Paffoni is an Italian brand primarily involved in manufacturing an extensive range of bathroom products. MD of Aparna Enterprises Ashwin Reddy said, “Paffoni has created a niche for itself in the European and Asian markets.While initially we will be selling Paffoni product through our retail division Aparna Unispace, we plan to spread distribution of these products across India through retail partners.” Under the new Paffoni range, Aparna Unispace will be introducing a range of products across categories like diverters, thermostats, shower mixers, sink mixers, basin mixers, health faucets, spouts and body jets.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC standing committee meeting clears 18 proposals||GHMC standing committee, during its meeting on Thursday, accorded approval for 18 developmental proposals, apart from the draft budget proposals for the financial year 2021-22 to the tune of Rs. 5,600 crore. A proposal for gifting high-end smart mobile phones for the standing committee members has been postponed for time being. The Apple iPhone 12 Pro Max mobiles with 512 GB internal storage cost close to Rs. 1.6 lakh each, and the proposal was for a total of 17 such phones, amounting to Rs. 27.24 lakhs. The committee has approved proposal for establishment of crematorium and grave yards for Hindu, Muslim and Christian communities near Fathullaguda of Nagole, in 6.2 acre land. An electrical crematorium will be built for the Hindu community, while graveyards will be for the Christian and Muslim communities, in two acres of land each. Several proposals for property acquisition with regard to road widening at various locations have received nod from the committee. Approvals have been accorded for acquisition of 15 properties for 60 feet road from St.Anne’s School up to NCL Enclave South, 87 properties for 60 feet road in Gajularamaram, and 210 properties for 60 feet road between Tukaram Gate Goods Track up to Shenoy Nursing Home via Adda Gutta. Also to be acquired are 15 properties for 100 feet road between NHDC in Financial District up to Nanakramguda Service Road in Narsingi, 16 properties for 120 feet road between Nagole and Bandlaguda, and five properties for 100 feet road near Hitech City. Among other proposals receiving clearance was one for three storm water drains in Kapra circle with an expenditure of Rs. 3.6 crore.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP questions government stance on Smart Cities project||The TRS government has been totally neglecting the ‘Smart Cities’ project and despite the Central government allotting close to Rs. 500 crore as its share for taking up civic infrastructure in the cities of Warangal and Karimnagar, the State had failed to allot the matching grant sending the entire scheme into limbo, charged the TS BJP on Thursday. “The Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao should either explain where these funds got diverted or should resign for failing to ensure these two cities civic infrastructure got developed. Warangal could have been spared of flooding if the storm water drain works were completed with these funds,” claimed official spokesman A. Rakesh Reddy at a press conference.  SPV not formed He claimed the TS government had spent just Rs. 32 crore — Rs. 23 crore for Warangal and Rs. 9 crore for Karimnagar — with no word on how the rest of the money was spent. “The government is supposed to have formed a special purpose vehicle and provided a matching grant to take up civic works but nothing of that sort had happened. Our efforts to ascertain where the funds were spent through the RTI was thwarted. We will now approach the courts to get to the root of the matter,” said Mr. Reddy. The Centre too has communicated to the Chief Secretary about the delays in forming of the SPVs for the last one year and having eliciting no proper response it wanted to remove both the places from the ‘Smart Cities’ list but the senior party leaders had prevailed upon the Ministry of Urban Development not to do so, he claimed. The BJP leader also questioned the silence of the elected TRS representative from both the places and said the promised Warangal-Hyderabad business corridor and the new IT hubs have not materialised.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Economists urge Centre to repeal new farm laws||A group of economists and senior professors have raised serious concerns over the impact of new farm laws on the agriculture sector, including farmers, farmworkers and consumers, and requested Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar to repeal the new legislations. In a letter addressed to the Union Minister on Thursday, the group of economists led by former professor of University of Hyderabad and National Institute of Rural Development D. Narasimha Reddy, explained the merits in their plea for repeal of the laws along with impact they would have on the country. The economists suggested the Union Minister to repeal the new laws stating that they were not in the best interests of small and marginal farmers and consumers in the country and also taking in view a broad section of the farming community had taken up an unprecedented agitation across the country, particularly around the nation’s capital. Stating that they were of the firm belief that improvements and changes were required in the agricultural marketing system for the benefit of millions of small farmers, they said the reforms brought in by the new laws would not serve that purpose. They were based on wrong assumptions and claims about why farmers were unable to get remunerative price, about farmers not having freedom to sell wherever they want under the previous laws and about regulated markets not being in the farmers’ interests. They explained in detail how the new laws would undermine the State governments’ role in markets, how they would help collusion of traders and market manipulation in the unregulated market space and how the experience in Bihar since the removal of its APMC Act in 2006 had left farmers with less choice of buyers and less bargaining power. Further, they also explained about the harms staring at the farmers with unequal players in the contract farming in the absence of mechanisms to protect their interests and the domination of big agri-business players would lead to consolidation of the market and the value chains in agricultural commodities in the hands of a few big players, as has happened in other countries. Professors Kamal Nayan Kabra, K.N. Harilal, Rajinder Chaudhary, Surinder Kumar, Arun Kumar, Ranjit Singh Ghuman, R. Ramakumar, Vikas Rawal and Himanshu, are the other signatories.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farm laws free ryots from middlemen: Laxman||Senior BJP leader and national OBC president K. Laxman found fault with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for supporting the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call shutting down the entire State but not bothering to raise the farmers issue during his recent visit to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. At a press conference on Thursday in the party office, the former party chief recalled that KCR had never let the Opposition or any organisation even hold a protest meeting in the last six years but had used the entire official machinery to enforce the bandh. “Why did he not utter a single word expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers in Delhi? People have now understood his duplicitous nature,” he remarked. If KCR is so concerned about the farmers welfare, he should first fulfil the election-eve promises of providing free fertilisers, loan waiver, removal of market cess, pay bonus for those growing fine rice variety to benefit the farmers of Telangana, he said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi took a historic and bold decision to bring out the Farm Acts to give freedom to the farmers from the middlemen. The Bills were thoroughly discussed in Parliament before being passed. Some misguided farmers and those under the control of the brokers running the market yards of Punjab and Haryana are agitating but the Government is trying to convince them,” he maintained. The new Acts will not only benefit the farmers by removing monopolies and restrict middlemen. “The Modi government wants the farmers to get the right price and not do distress sales. These reforms were forgotten by the Congress Party though it has indicated in its manifesto,” he added. In a separate meeting at Nizamabad, former MP and senior leader Vivek Venkatswamy claimed that the Central government was ready to buy the entire agriculture produce without causing any loss to the farmers and accused the Opposition parties of playing a political game.  ‘Sell fine variety’ “The Modi government has given Rs. 8 lakh crore in minimum support price in the last six years and the Centre is giving Rs. 6,000 as subsidy to every acre across the country. The new Farm laws are only meant to free them from brokers. Even TS farmers can sell the fine variety paddy anywhere since KCR government has cheated them by not giving any support price or bonus,” he said.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Karimnagar Dairy forays into fertilizer sales||The Karimnagar Milk Producer Company Limited, popularly known as Karimnagar Dairy, has forayed into sale of fertilisers to the milk producers through its milk procurement institute (MPI). The dairy, which made rapid strides in milk procurement and sale and emerged as number one in the State, has tied up with the Indian Farmers’ Fertilisers Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) for procuring and selling fertilisers at the doorstep of farmers. The fifth retail fertilizer store of the dairy was formally inaugurated in Suddala village of Sultanabad mandal on Thursday by its chairman Ch. Rajeshwara Rao. The company took up retail sale in Malkapet village initially and the facility was later extended to Kothagattu, Vilassagar and Eglaspur villages. In addition to Suddala, 10 MPIs of the dairy secured licences for selling fertilisers in their respective jurisdiction and the sale is expected to commence once the godowns are completed. Mr. Rajeshwara Rao said the fertilizer sale was intended to benefit farmers as they would be available at their doorsteps at lesser prices as compared to market prices. The presence of the retail outlets would help instilling confidence among farmers about the availability of fertilisers even during the peak season. The dairy was planning to enter into selling petroleum products in the near future and it had entered into an agreement with petroleum major HPCL in this direction. The petroleum station on the premises of the dairy would ensure supplies to the dairy vehicles besides assuring quality products to consumers. Karimnagar Dairy managing director P. Shankar Reddy, director Sudhakar Rao and others were present.
18 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dharani has only created confusion, says MLA||Registration department in Telangana is defunct and the government’s Dharani site has created nothing but confusion throwing the life of thousands of people in the real estate sector out of gear, Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy charged. At a press conference here, he alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was treating Registration department as a research centre and now it is being used to frighten people more than giving them confidence on their properties. Properties safety is the excuse being shown to the people to impose Dharani on them but the government should realise that people’s properties have been safe since the Nizam’s time. The MLA said officials who should guide the Chief Minister are actually misleading him thus causing enormous difficulties to the people. He demanded the CM to honour the assurance given by him on the Floor of the House on the issue.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||C-section followed by mitral valve repair||Doctors at Medicover Hospitals have performed caesarean section followed by emergent Mitral valve replacement on a 35-week pregnant woman, who was suffering from severe Mitral valve prolapse in December first week. The 22-year-old patient suffered from heart failure, severe Mitral regurgitation and severe anaemia. She had low blood pressure with low oxygen levels when she arrived at the hospital. “The patient was found to be unfit for less invasive procedures due to unfavourable valve anatomy. A decision for a rare simultaneous combined surgery was taken. This was a better option as she could not go through normal labour and was not fit for general anaesthesia,” as per a press note. The woman delivered a baby boy of 2.75 kg with minimal distress. The condition of both the mother and baby is good.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FTTH cable production at HFCL plant||HFCL (formerly Himachal Futuristic Communications Ltd) has commenced commercial production of fiber-to-the-home cables (FTTH) in Hyderabad. This follows the setting up of a state-of-the-art, automated high-speed FTTH cable facility with an investment of Rs. 40 crore at its optical fiber manufacturing plant here. The new facility is to ensure high throughput, economies of scale and highest quality standards, a release on Thursday said. With this fresh investment, Rs. 300 crore had been invested on the Hyderabad plant. HFCL together with its subsidiary HTL now has a capacity to manufacture 6 lakh kms (per annum) of FTTH cables. The manufacturing plant for optical fiber, which serves as the raw material for the cables, entailing an investment of Rs. 260 crore was commissioned in January. ‘Largest FTTH player’ HFCL managing director Mahendra Nahata said, “Our latest facility makes HFCL the largest FTTH player in the country.” India is seeing buoyant FTTH activity driven by private telcos and government’s thrust on rural network deployment. Expanding FTTH rollouts will not only boost 4G connectivity in the country, but will also enhance readiness for 5G. The momentum in penetration of high-speed internet, increasing investment in digital networks and growing demand for affordable access makes us excited to serve next generation communication needs, he said.
18 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||8-year-old boy drowns||A eight-year-old boy drowned in a water body at Moosapet of Kukatpally here on Thursday. The boy, Enni Naveen, son of Enni Venkat Rao from Pragathi Nagar, went for swimming with four of his friends behind Ranganatha Swamy temple in the area. According to police, the victim, a third class student of Panchsheel School, who did not know how to swim, entered the water and drowned around 10.30 a.m. Oher boys who were on the bank noticed him struggling to come out and alerted his mother, who brought him out with the help of locals, police said. He was pronounced dead at a hospital. A case was registered.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Complete projects, then ask for new ones’||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy said he was not privy to the conversation of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah during his recent visit to Delhi but advised the TRS government to complete the pending/ongoing works before seeking sanction for new projects. “As a Chief Minister he has a right to ask the Prime Minister for anything like any other CM. However, you have to ask him what he had discussed. I do not know if any memorandum was given as it was not shared with me. If KCR is seeking sanction for Kaleshwaram project he should first provide the detailed project report and answer the controversies surrounding the project. But, let me make it clear we continue to be political adversaries,” he asserted addressing media in New Delhi on Thursday. The Modi Government has taken a clear stand on not sanctioning any new works without completing the pending projects be it in railways or any other field, he maintained and said the Centre could consider funding the proposed second or even the third phase of the Hyderabad Metro Rail project provided urged the Telangana government to “complete the phase one in all aspects”. “The metro rail project conceived during the YSR government time should also be built from MGBS, Imlibun to Falaknuma. If the work is completed it will change the face of Old City The TRS government has also delayed the project seeking alternate routes and this led to cost escalation of Rs. 3,500 crore which the L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) has been often writing to the government seeking compensation. For MMTS Phase II, the Railways has spent more than its share and the project can be opened in two months if the TS government contributes its share,” he pointed out.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No immersion of idols in water bodies||The immersion galas nine days after Ganesh Navaratri and Dasara festivals may be a thing of the past if the orders issued by the Municipal Administration Department on Thursday are implemented in toto. The Municipal Administration & Urban Development Department has issued a circular to all the municipal commissioners in the State, citing orders by the National Mission for Clean Ganga for prohibition on immersion of idols, puja material and other items of religious offerings in rivers and other water bodies, especially during the festivals.  The ban has been imposed under the provisions of Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act 1986. The directions by the Mission came after an order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in September this year, asking the State governments to create artificial ponds for immersion if absolutely necessary.  The Hindu impact The NGT passed the orders responding to a news item published in The Hindu titled, ‘More river stretches are now critically polluted: CPCB’ - authored by Jacob Koshy. he orders by the National Mission have been conveyed through the Telangana State Pollution Control Board to the respective officials. While the municipal authorities have constructed immersion ponds separately at many sites, there would be no separate drainage to let the polluted water out. Besides, plaster of paris idols of gigantic proportions, including Khairatabad Ganesh idol, are immersed directly into various lakes such as Hussainsagar and Saroornagar tank.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||509 test positive in Telangana||With 509 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, the total number of positive cases in Telangana has reached 2,79,644. While 48,652 samples were tested, results of 717 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients have died. The new cases include 104 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 45 from Medchal Malkajgiri, and 42 from Rangareddy. From March 2 to December 16, a total of 63,06,397 samples were tested and 2,79,644 were detected with coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 7,172 were active cases, 2,70,967 have recovered, and 1,505 patients have died.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Natco Pharma launches anti-blood clot tablet||Drugmaker Natco Pharma on Thursday said that it has launched an anti-blood clot tablet, Rivaroxaban, in the country. An anticoagulant medication used to treat and prevent blood clots, Rivaroxaban is currently sold by Bayer under brand name of Xarelto in the Indian market. Natco said it has launched the Rivaroxaban molecule, under brand RPIGAT. It follows successful previous launches of DABIGAT (Dabigatran) and APIGAT (Apixaban) and is in line with the company’s mission of affordable medicines accessible to all. RPIGAT has been launched in four strengths - 20 mg, 15 mg, 10 mg and 2.5 mg. The MRP of 20 mg is Rs. 14 per tablet, a release from Natco Pharma said.
18 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three killed in accident||Three youngsters were killed and two others suffered severe injuries after a water-tanker-laden tractor they were travelling on was caught in a pothole and toppled at Chinna Devada village of Bichkunda mandal in Kamareddy district in the wee hours of Thursday. The victims - Tukaram (25), Sailu (24) and Shankar (25) from Madnoor and Daginda villages respectively, went to Chinna Devada to attend a marriage from the bridegroom’s side. The injured were identified as Chakali Sangu and tractor driver G. Maruthi. According to Bichkunda police, the accident took place around 4.30 a.m. when the victims were returning to the groom’s house after filling the water tanker from a nearby waterbody. As it was dark, the pothole was not visible. The driver, G. Maruthi from Chinna Devada, bumped the vehicle into a big pothole in the middle of the road. “The left front tyre of the vehicle got stuck in the pothole, as a result he lost control of the tractor and his hands were off from the steering,” the police said. Boy drowns A eight-year-old boy drowned in a water body at Moosapet of Kukatpally here on Thursday. Enni Naveen, son of Enni Venkat Rao from Pragathi Nagar, went for swimming with four of his friends behind Ranganatha Swamy temple in the area. According to police, the victim, a third class student of Panchsheel School, who did not know how to swim, entered the water and drowned around 10.30 a.m. Other boys who were on the bank noticed him struggling to come out and alerted his mother, who brought him out with the help of locals, police said.
18 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ASI annual conference inaugurated||Director of National Judicial Academy, Justice G Raghuram, inaugurated the 80th Annual Conference of the Association of Surgeons of India (ASI) on Thursday. The conference is being held on a 3D virtual platform from December 16 to 19.
18 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police Command Control Centre to be inaugurated next year||The Integrated Police Command Control Centre, coming up at Banjara Hills at a cost of Rs. 800 crore, will be functional next year, said Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Thursday. After inauguration the 200 community CCTV cameras in the limits of Golconda, Asifnagar, and Humayun Nagar police stations, Mr. Ali said that the first-of--its-kind Command Control Centre in the country would make Hyderabad more safer. “Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao laid a big platform for peace and security in the State, as part of which he provided adequate support to the police department. About 60 percent of the total cameras in the country are located in Hyderabad,” he said. He said that the department had strengthened the police force by adding 27,000 new personnel in two phases to fill the vacancies in the police department. “We have allocated 33 % of the recruitment of police candidates to women to ensure the safety of women while Rs. 700 crore has been allocated for patrol cars with the help of which the teams are able to reach the area within minutes of calling Dial 100,” he said. Stating that the crime rate in the State had seen a decline when compared to 2014, Mr. Ali said that “one cannot escape from police after committing a crime here.” Later Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said the CCTV cameras play a major role in prevention and identification of crime.
18 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||pAGE 3 - BRIEFS||Pramod K. Nayar, faculty in the Department of English, University of Hyderabad (UoH), has authored the book “The Human Rights Graphic Novel, Drawing it Just Right” that studies human rights discourse across a variety of graphic novels. This includes both fiction and non-fiction originating in different parts of the world, from India to South Africa, Sarajevo to Vietnam, with texts on the Holocaust, the Partition of the Indian subcontinent, the Rwandan and Sarajevan genocides, Vietnam War, Comfort women in World War II and the Civil Rights movement in the USA, a statement said.
18 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Wall art project takes off||In continuation of its wall art project to enrich public spaces, Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) has focused its attention on enlivening the exterior walls of the newly inaugurated public assets, including the IT hub and the NSP walkway, among other public places in the city, with eye-catching paintings both visually appealing and thought provoking. Giving an impetus to street art as part of its city beautification project, the civic body has roped in talented artists to accomplish the task. Thanks to the artistic endeavour, many public walls have virtually turned into art galleries showcasing the vibrant cultural heritage of Telangana and spreading socially relevant messages on varied topics including health, civic sense, sanitation and government welfare schemes. The imposing murals of inspiring personalities from various fields, including sports, adorned the exterior walls of the sport facilities at the SP Stadium and other public places much to the delight of art aficionados and other denizens of the city. The current phase of the wall art project is focused on enlivening the public places abutting the newly constructed mini tank bund and walkways along the NSP canal besides breathing new life into the old paintings.
18 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Central schemes not implemented in Telangana’||Union Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Sanjeev Kumar Balyan on Thursday said the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government was not implementing schemes launched by the Centre, and, it has been diverting the designated funds for other purposes. Mr. Balyan said the three farm laws are intended to improve the lives of farmers, and it was the TRS government that neglected farmers’ welfare by not implementing Fasal Bima Yojana and other agriculture support schemes. “The Fisheries Department has an allocation of Rs. 20,000 crores in the budget, but I was not able to help fish farmers of Telangana since I did not receive a single application,” he said. Minister Mr. Balyan was at Haliya here, to participate in a ‘Kisan Sammelan’ to explain the three farm laws to farmers. He said the legislation was being misread and leaders were spreading false information on it without a complete understanding of the laws. “These laws will help farmers earn more than the minimum support price, arrest farmer suicides and also reform the system,” he added. Mr. Balyan said that it was the TRS government, “run by KCR’s family and its corruption”, that has ignored Centre’s subsidy-driven initiatives in agriculture and horticulture.
18 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘8,000 atrocity cases addressed||State SC, ST Commission chairman Yerrolla Srinivas said that about 8,000 atrocity cases were addressed in the State so far out of the 10,500 complaints registered so far. Stating that the Commission has become a role mode for the nation, the SC, ST commission chairman, Mr Srinivas, said that speedy justice was being extended under Jana Adalat in the State and so far 50 out of 60 cases were addressed.
18 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BJP paying lip service to farmers, says Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that it was the Telangana government that had realised the dream of ‘Jai Kisan’ by implementing various schemes whereas it was lip sympathy by the BJP government at Centre. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating newly established Dhulimitta mandal office along with MLA M Yadagiri Reddy and Forest Development Corporation chairman Vanteru Pratap Reddy here on Thursday, Mr. Harish Rao said only Telangana was extending about Rs. 15,000 crore to farmers as investment assistance. “We have taken up Kaleshwaram project and it was completed. With this, the face of villages will be changed for better,” said Mr. Harish Rao. Stating that tanks were being filled with Kaleshwaram water, the Minister said ground water levels had increased across the State and drinking water was being provided through Mission Bhagiratha. He said the administration was brought much closer to the public by establishing additional districts and mandals. Dhulimitta was formed with eight revenue villages and 11 panchayats. Recalling the contribution of Dhulimitta during the statehood agitation, he said the dream of forming a mandal was realised after about 45 years. Government chief whip Venkateswarlu participated in the programme.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Easy catch||
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protesters prepare for long haul after Supreme Court’s directions||Many of the farmers at the Singhu border on Thursday said they are prepared to continue the agitation for a longer period as they are not convinced with the recent Supreme Court directions. However, several others said they would wait for their leaders to decide. ‘Dictatorship in India’ A protester from Punjab, Daljit Singh Gill, said the farmers are ready for the long haul. He said the farmers were saying that the nation is facing “dictatorship” instead of democracy. “The Prime Minister should realise that this movement is no longer restricted to being a farmers’ issue. It has become a jan-andolan [people’s movement] now and has spread across the country and beyond. Senior citizens, women, children and the youth are also braving the weather and fighting for their land,” said Mr. Gill. ‘Repeal the laws’ He added, “We want the three farm laws to be repealed. Going by recent events, we cannot solely depend on the apex court and its decisions. It is unlikely that any kind of judgment will be in our favour. In the end, we have to accept what the court says but till then people will continue the fight.” Taranjeet Singh, a resident of Fatehabad in Punjab, said: “This is no longer a democracy. In the recent past, we have also seen how retired Judges have been made members of the Parliament by the ruling government. How can we have faith in institutions after this?” However, another protester Sabar Singh, said: “We are not well-versed with what the Supreme Court has said. So we will wait for our leaders to decide.”  We want the three farm laws to be repealed. Going by recent events, we cannot solely depend on the apex court and its decisions Daljit Singh Gill A protester from Punjab
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||NEP implementation draws widespread criticism from DU teachers||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association said it was extremely unfortunate that the National Education Policy- 2020 was being implemented by the Delhi University without proper consultation. DUTA president Rajib Ray on Thursday said that the association would be meeting next week to discuss the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP). “Teachers and students across the country have opposed NEP as the thrust remains on commercialisation of the education sector. It is extremely unfortunate that instead of focusing on how best to reach out to students during pandemic, policies like the NEP are being bulldozed,” the DUTA said. It added that rushed, mindless restructuring has compromised the quality and harmed students’ time, with students being used as lab rats. The Democratic Teachers’ Front said that the NEP was being hastily implemented at the university without any deliberation with any of the stakeholders. “If the imposition of the farcical Open Book Exam was the first step in dismantling the credibility of the university system, the ongoing process of academic restructuring as per the diktats of the NEP is a great leap forward in fast-tracking the final dissolution of the university system,” the DTF said. It added that the NEP committee set up by the DU administration is attempting to implement it from the coming academic year (July 2021), which gives no time to teachers to deliberate on the recommendations. Teachers opined that the NEP was nothing but four-year undergraduate programme, which was withdrawn by the government in 2014 after a massive movement by the students and the teachers in a new form. “Exit points after first and second year, leading to a certificate and diploma respectively, are yet another attempt to throw away students with a false notion of achievement,” said Nandita Narain, former DUTA president.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||High Court declines petition seeking medical aid to farmers at the borders||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to entertain a petition seeking medical aid and security to the farmers protesting on the borders of the Capital, noting that a similar issue was before the Supreme Court. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also said its jurisdiction does not extend to areas outside the national capital territory. It said the same plea could have been filed in any of the High Courts of Rajasthan, Punjab, or Uttar Pradesh. Before dismissing it, the Bench observed that the plea was filed without doing any research or preparation. The court made the remarks after Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose said a similar plea was being heard by the Supreme Court. Advocate Ashish had in his plea claimed that most of the protesters are spotted without mask, which is a clear indication that they are not aware of their safety during the pandemic. The plea said it will also create a difficult situation for the residents of Delhi, as they are more likely to be affected if there are a larger number of COVID-19 affected protesters. The plea also said there was a possibility that “violent anti-national groups may see the good opportunity to convert the peaceful protest by the farmers into violent riots and create communal tension among the people”.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tremors felt in Capital||Tremors were felt in the national capital on Thursday night. However, the epicenter and the magnitude of the earthquake was not known immediately. A medium-intensity earthquake of magnitude 4.2 hit Alwar district in Rajasthan too, the National Center for Seismology (NCS) said.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia inaugurates electrical substation||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday inaugurated an electrical substation in Shashi Garden and also inspected an under construction underground reservoir (UGR) in Patparganj. “With this substation, thousands of consumers of Shashi Garden and adjoining areas will have access to reliable power supply. It will also eliminate low voltage issues. Lakhs of citizens will get water from the underground reservoir with its 11 megalitre water storage capacity,” Mr. Sisodia said. This reservoir, which is being built near Aster Public School, will double the existing water availability of this area. Underground reservoir Once completed, the underground reservoir will supply water to the residents of Patparganj Village, Shashi Garden, Pratap Nagar, Pandav Nagar, Mayur Vihar Phase One and Extension and other nearby areas, the Minister said. During the inspection, the Minister said that providing better infrastructure in the form of electricity, water facilities, and quality schools and hospitals is the government’s priority.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Will meet target date for road inauguration in Central Delhi’||The government informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that it will meet the target date of December 31 for inauguration of the stretch of road between Red Fort intersection and Fatehpuri Masjid in Chandni Chowk following its pedestrianisation. A Bench was informed by Delhi government's additional standing counsel Naushad Ahmed Khan that most of the work relating to the stretch of road was complete. Next date of hearing Taking note of the submission, the court posted the case for further hearing on January 27, 2021.
18 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Online news channel owner beaten up||A man running his own online news channel was beaten up with rods by around half-a-dozen men in Karnal, causing serious injuries in an attack a week ago. Five persons have been arrested in this connection, said the police. One of the accused, Gurmeet alias Ghelu, had allegedly threatened the victim, Akarshan Uppal, six months ago for reporting about the arrest of his brother in a drug-peddling case. Akarshan and his colleague Rinku were returning from a reporting assignment on December 7 when Gurmeet and his accomplices, accosted the duo near a canal on Kaithal Road and allegedly attacked them. Akarshan was hit on the head and right hand . During the attack, Gurmeet shouted that the duo would be taught a lesson for being journalists. The assailants allegedly tried to push Akarshan into the canal, said the First Information Report.
18 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. CM links farmers’ protest to Ram temple||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday accused the Opposition parties of “misleading” farmers and fuelling unrest because they could not tolerate that a grand Ram temple was being built in Ayodhya. Linking the ongoing farmer protests in an around Delhi to the Ram Mandir, Mr. Adityanath said those misleading the farmers were ones “who cannot tolerate that a grand temple of Lord Ram is being built in Ayodhya.” They are upset that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has even kickstarted the construction of the Ram Mandir, said the Chief Minister at a public event for farmers in Bareilly. “Should a Ram Mandir be built in Ayodhya or not, I would ask my farmer brothers? Did Modiji do the right thing? Do you support it,” he asked before urging the crowd to chant Jai Shri Ram twice. Mr. Adityanath also said that those who don’t like India’s progress were leaving no stones upturned in hatching conspiracies. He accused the Opposition parties of trying to fuel unrest and disorder in the country. “The theory of communism will never hold true...that if you speak a lie 100 times, it would become the truth,” he said. “You must have seen there is a dharna going on at at one place. And what is the demand made at the dharna? They want guarantee of MSP,” Mr. Adityanath said. “The Central government said we are already providing MSP, there is no question of taking it back.”  Dilution of Article 370 Apart from referring to the Ram Mandir and hitting out at Communism, Mr. Adityanath also said that those allegedly misleading the farmers were upset over the dilution of the Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir.
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra contemplates amending laws for farmers||While the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws continues on Delhi borders, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Thursday discussed the possibility of bringing in new Acts which will prohibit buyers from getting farm produce at rates less than the minimum support price (MSP). Public Works Department Minister and Congress leader Ashok Chavan has written to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who heads the Cabinet sub-committee on farm laws, saying Maharashtra may introduce farmer-friendly laws on the lines of Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Rajasthan. A meeting of the committee was held on Thursday where the possibility of bringing in amended farm laws was discussed. Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said the State was contemplating enacting laws that would strengthen the farmers. “Drafts of amended Acts in those three States  have put a cap on storage of farm produce by traders beyond the prescribed limits. It has been mentioned that no farm produce can be purchased below the MSP announced by the government. They have also given the option of approaching civil courts in case of farmers being duped by companies, which is not mentioned in the Centre’s laws,” the letter sent by Mr. Chavan said. Mr. Chavan said the draft of the amendment Bill by the Rajasthan government further mentioned imprisonment up to seven years and a fine up to Rs. 5 lakh. “Taxes will be applied to transactions outside the APMCs in the Punjab government’s amendment Bill,” he said.
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||High Court extends NGO trustee’s protection from appearing before ED||The Bombay High Court on Thursday extended protection to senior advocate Anand Grover, founder trustee of the NGO, Lawyers Collective, from appearing before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a petition filed by the NGO and Mr. Grover challenging the summons issued by the Central agency on November 6 which directed them to be present on November 26. The petition said that the current Prevention of Money Laundering Act proceedings initiated by the ED in relation to the Lawyers Collective, and the enforcement case information report were based entirely on the predicate FIR, and there was no new material with the respondents whatsoever. The court said due to the paucity of time, the protection from appearing before the agency would continue until January 6. On November 25, Mr. Grover had informed the same court that he had just recovered from COVID-19. The Bench had asked additional solicitor general Anil Singh representing the ED if the appearance before the agency could be deferred. The court said, “We have to respect humanity. We have to respect their age as well.” The case was filed by the ED after the Central Bureau of Investigation filed a case against them. On July 25, 2019, another Bench of the HC stayed coercive steps in the CBI FIR, and said, “There is no material against them.” The court had then noted that the CBI had relied upon the same inspection report of 2016 on the basis of which the NGO’s Foreign Contribution Regulation Act approval was cancelled.
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||NCP demands special session||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi convene a special session of Parliament to address the concerns of the agitating farmers. Speaking to reporters, NCP chief spokesperson Mahesh Tapase also called for bringing the PM CARES Fund under the ambit of public accountability, contending there is no explicit clarity about it.
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||State opposes plea on removal of Kangana’s Twitter account||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that a petition seeking permanent suspension of Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s Twitter account was not maintainable. The reliefs sought by petitioner Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh were “vague”, and the plea should be dismissed, government lawyer Y.P. Yagnik said. Mr. Deshmukh, a city-based lawyer, said in his criminal writ petition that Twitter should be directed to permanently suspend or disable Ms. Ranaut’s account to stop the “spread of hate in the country”. Twitter should be also directed to follow guidelines and laws of the country to prevent “misuse” of its platform, the petitioner said. He cited several controversial tweets by Ms. Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel .
18 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man who cheated 187 star hotels held||A 63-year-old man who allegedly cheated 187 star hotels across the country just to avenge the insults after he was fired from two hotel jobs was recently arrested at Ghodbunder. According to the Vashi police, Vincent John checked into Tunga Hotel in Vashi on December 12, posing as a businessman. “Mr. John asked the hotel to book the banquet hall for a workshop his company was planning to organise, and also wanted a laptop for some work. The way he presented himself — having dressed up in suits and speaking fluent English — staff believed his claims. When the banquet hall was not used at the schedule time, the officials realised that he had fled from the hotel with the laptop,” Suresh Mengade, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said. A case of cheating was registered at the Vashi police station. The police obtained CCTV footage and with the help of technical evidence, they found that Mr. John was a habitual offender. On December 15, he was traced to a hotel in Ghodbunder from where he was arrested. Senior police inspector Sanjeev Dhumal from Vashi police station said that Mr. John, who is originally from Tamil Nadu, was employed as a driver with a star hotel in Hubli and as a commission-based agent with a hotel in Madhya Pradesh. “He was fired from both the places because of his minor negligence. He had a grudge and hence he decided to cheat hotels across the country,” he said, adding that Mr. John intended to target 200 hotels by the end of this year. The accused is unmarried, and he has used names like Therinathan, Michael Joseph, Dileep Stephen, Michale Farnado, Vijay Karan, Rajeev Desai, Nirmal, S.P. Kumar, Sanjay Machado, Sanjay Rane and Ravi Anand to dupe hotels in Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||WHO to probe virus origins in China||A team of international investigators led by the World Health Organization (WHO) is likely to go to China in early January to study the origins of the COVID-19 outbreak, which first began in Wuhan, in southwestern Hubei province, late last year. WHO officials said on Thursday the composition of the team and where they would visit was being discussed with China. Babatunde Olowokure, the WHO’s regional emergencies director in the Western Pacific, said at a press conference that China was “welcoming” the team and the visit was likely to happen in early January. How much access the team will have, and whether the visit comes too late, has become a point of contention. China has resisted calls for an independent international inquiry into the origins but has said it would be open to a WHO-led investigation even as the organisation has come under fire, particularly from the U.S., over its handling of the outbreak in the initial stages. A team of 12-15 experts will likely go to Wuhan “to examine evidence, including human and animal samples collected by Chinese researchers, and to build on their initial studies”,Reutersreported. Thea Fischer, a Danish member, was quoted as saying the team would leave “just after New Year’s” for a six-week mission, which would include two weeks of quarantine on arrival. Initial attention into the origins of COVID-19 had focused on the Huanan seafood market in Wuhan, where an outbreak was first reported in December, although some Chinese health officials have since said the market may have not been the origin, but where the virus first spread. Focus on market The WHO investigation will likely focus on the market in an effort to reconstruct the outbreak, the South China Morning Post reported this week, noting that China had “released sparse details” about its studies into the market. Most scientists believe the SARS-CoV-2 virus, similar to the first SARS outbreak, likely came from a bat and was passed to humans via an intermediary host. Whether that was one of the live animals sold at the market is among the issues the investigation will look into. The WHO investigation, although at an early stage, has already become politicised, with China resisting what it sees as any outside interference, seeking to remain in control over how much access international scientists will have, and officials and State media there increasingly backing a narrative suggesting the virus came to China from elsewhere. The U.S. and several other countries, meanwhile, have criticised the WHO’s handling and called for more transparency and independence into the investigations. The report from the first WHO-China Joint Mission on COVID-19, which followed a visit by 25 Chinese and international experts to several Chinese cities between February 16 and 24, praised China’s initial handling of the outbreak and the lockdown of Hubei province for controlling the spread of the virus. The WHO mission report was widely cited by the Chinese media as underlining the success of the country’s response. The mission to China followed a visit by the WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to Beijing, who in a January 28 meeting with President Xi Jinping “praised the seriousness with which China is taking this outbreak, especially the commitment from top leadership, and the transparency they have demonstrated”. Initial cover-up Neither mentioned the initial cover-up by Wuhan authorities until mid-January, which resulted in the Communist Party leadership in February sacking the party chiefs of both Hubei and Wuhan, as well as two senior provincial health officials. That detail has, however, now become a footnote, with State media, ahead of the WHO team’s visit, increasingly emphasising China’s subsequent recovery, showcasing its effective response to stem the outbreak, and questioning the origins of COVID-19. On Thursday, the Party-run Global Times published an article questioning whether the virus came to Wuhan from overseas, citing recent local cases in China related to imported seafood and meat products. “As the mounting sporadic outbreaks in China were found to be related to imported cold-chain products, with other parts of the world, including Europe and the American continent, reportedly discovering signs of the coronavirus earlier than Wuhan, it begs a new hypothesis: did the early outbreak in Wuhan originate from imported frozen food?” the newspaper asked. China has, in recent weeks, stopped certain food imports, which it has blamed for new cases that have been reported even after local transmission had broadly been curbed by the end of the summer. Chinese scientists have also put forward studies suggesting the virus was circulating in other countries, such as Italy, before it came to China. One recent pre-print even suggested that the first human transmission took place on the Indian subcontinent, but it was subsequently withdrawn. That is not, however, the view of most international experts. Last month, Michael Ryan, the Executive Director of the WHO’s Health Emergencies Programme, said it would be “highly speculative” for the WHO “to say that the disease did not emerge in China”. “It is clear from a public health perspective that you start your investigations where the human cases first emerged,” he said, adding that evidence may lead them elsewhere. These remarks from the WHO did not, however, find wide mention in the Chinese media.
18 December 2020||Washington,||U.S. plans to unseal charges against 1988 crash suspect||The U.S. Justice Department plans to unseal new charges in the coming days in connection with the 1988 bombing of a Pan Am jet that exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland, killing 270 people, according to a person familiar with the case. The bombing of Flight 103, whose victims included dozens of American college students, spurred global investigations and produced sanctions against Libya, which ultimately surrendered two intelligence officials for prosecution before a Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands. The announcement of a prosecution against an additional individual would carry personal significance for Attorney General William Barr, who is leaving the position next week but held the same job when the Justice Department nearly 30 years ago revealed criminal charges in the U.S. against the two Libyans. Monday is the 32nd anniversary of the bombing. “This investigation is by no means over. It continues unabated. We will not rest until all those responsible are brought to justice,” Mr. Barr said at a 1991 news conference announcing the charges. “We have no higher priority.” The head of the Justice Department’s criminal division at the time was Robert Mueller, who went on to serve as FBI director and as special counsel in charge of the investigation into ties between Russia and the 2016 Trump campaign. Libya refused to extradite the men to the U.S. but ultimately agreed to a deal to put them on trial in the Netherlands. News of the expected criminal case was first reported by The Wall Street Journal and The New York Times . A person familiar with the Justice Department’s plan who was not authorised to discuss it by name confirmed it to  the Associated Press on the condition of anonymity. The New York-bound flight exploded over Lockerbie less than an hour after takeoff from London on Dec. 21, 1988. The attack, caused by a bomb packed into a suitcase, killed 259 people on the plane and 11 on the ground.
18 December 2020||ANKARA,||Won’t step back from S-400 deal with Russia, says Turkey||Turkey will not step back from its decision to deploy Russian air defence systems despite U.S. sanctions imposed on the country over the purchase, Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu said on Thursday. In an interview with Turkey’s 24 TV television, Mr. Cavusoglu also said Turkey was mulling steps it would take to reciprocate against the U.S. sanctions, but did not say what the steps could entail. The U.S announced sanctions earlier this week over Turkey’s procurement of Russia’s advanced S-400 system, under a U.S. law known as CAATSA, aimed at pushing back on Russian influence. The sanctions target Turkey’s Presidency of Defense Industries, the head of the presidency and three other senior officials. The penalties block any assets the four officials may have in U.S. jurisdictions and bar their entry into the U.S. They also include a ban on most export licenses, loans and credits to the agency. ‘Assessing impact’ “If we were to step back we would have done so before now,” Mr. Cavusoglu said. “Now we are assessing the impact of these sanctions in great detail ... and will take steps accordingly.” The Minister also described the sanctions as “wrong both legally and politically”, arguing that Turkey’s purchase of the Russian system in 2017 predated the CAATSA law. Mr. Cavusoglu said that an improvement of relations between Turkey and the United States would be conditional on President-elect Joe Biden’s ability to address Ankara’s grievances.
18 December 2020||KABUL,||Top U.S. General meets Taliban negotiators in Doha||The top U.S. general held unannounced talks with Taliban peace negotiators in Doha to urge a reduction in violence across Afghanistan, even as senior American officials in Kabul warned that stepped-up Taliban attacks endanger the militant group’s nascent peace negotiations with the Afghan government. Army Gen. Mark A. Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, met for about two hours with Taliban negotiators in Doha, Qatar, on Tuesday, and flew Wednesday to Kabul to discuss the peace process with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. Gen. Milley’s meetings came amid a new drawdown of U.S. troops, although under the current U.S. policy, a complete pullout hinges on the Taliban reducing attacks nationwide. “The most important part of the discussions that I had with both the Taliban and the government of Afghanistan was the need for an immediate reduction in violence,” Gen. Milley told reporters. “Everything else hinges on that.”  Army Gen. Scott Miller, the top commander of U.S. and coalition forces in Afghanistan, said in an interview at his military headquarters in Kabul on Wednesday that the Taliban have stepped up attacks on Afghan forces, particularly in the southern provinces of Helmand and Kandahar, and against roadways and other infrastructure. “My assessment is, it puts the peace process at risk — the higher the violence, the higher the risk,” he said. Gen. Miller meets at least once a month with Taliban negotiators as part of Washington's effort to advance a peace process.
18 December 2020||KANKARA,||‘We walked all night,’ says Nigeria abduction victim||It was late Friday night when Usama Aminu heard gunshots, at first thinking they had come from the nearby town. As soon as he and other students at the Government Science Secondary School in Kankara realised that there was a raid on the school, they scrambled out of their dormitory and scaled the school's fence in the pandemonium. The 17-year-old told AP about the attack on the school in Nigeria’s northern Katsina State, in which men armed with AK-47 rifles abducted more than 300 students from the boys’ school. The attack, claimed by Boko Haram, Nigeria’s jihadist rebels, has prompted an outcry in the West African nation against the government for not doing enough to stop attacks on schools. But Aminu was still not safe. “After we scaled the fence, we were hearing voices that we should come back.” The boys returned, “thinking they were police officers”. “Unknown to us, it was the bandits. They then gathered us at a spot. That was when we realised they were bandits, wearing military uniform,” he said. “We walked through the night in the bush, and at sunrise they found a place and asked us to sit down,” Aminu said.  In response to the abductions, Nigeria launched a rescue operation in which the police, the air force and the army tracked the kidnappers to their hideout in the Zango/Paula forest. “When the bandits heard the sound of the helicopter hovering above they asked us to lay down under the large trees with our face to the ground,” Aminu said. During their hike, Aminu said they met young boys in their teens, armed with guns. He said some were younger than him.  After dark, the boy decided to recite passages from the Quran. It was then that he managed to slip away unnoticed into the night and hide in a mosque. A local resident eventually found him coughing and offered him a change of clothes so that he could leave his school uniform behind, he said. He returned home at around 11 p.m. on Sunday.  To prevent other school abductions, Katsina State shut down all its boarding schools. The nearby states of Zamfara, Jigiwa and Kano have also closed schools as a precautionary measure. Boko Haram kidnapped the schoolboys because it believes Western education is un-Islamic, the rebels’ leader, Abubakar Shekau, said in a video claiming responsibility for the attack, according to SITE Intelligence Group. Residents of Katsina State plan to protest on Thursday, saying the government is not doing enough to protect its youth. Armed bandits have killed more than 1,100 people since the beginning of the year in Nigeria's northwest, according to Amnesty International. For over 10 years, Boko Haram has engaged in a bloody campaign to introduce strict Islamic rule in northern Nigeria. Thousands have been killed and over a million people have been displaced. Boko Haram has been mainly active in northeast Nigeria, but with the abductions from the school in Katsina State, there is worry that the insurgency is expanding to the northwest.
18 December 2020||Paris,||Macron tests positive for COVID-19||French President Emmanuel Macron tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, the presidency said, adding that he would now self-isolate for the next week.  Mr. Macron, 42, was tested after the “onset of the first symptoms” and will now, in accordance with national regulations, “self isolate for seven days,” his office said in a statement. “He will continue to work and carry out his activities remotely.” The result comes at a tricky time for Mr. Macron as he seeks to handle the pandemic in his own country while keeping a close eye on talks for a Brexit deal, and other international issues. Mr. Macron had attended an EU summit in Brussels last week and on Monday he was personally present at a conference in Paris organised by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. European Council president, Charles Michel, and Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez, who were also present in Paris for that meeting, have entered self-isolation.
18 December 2020||Moscow,||Hope to improve ties under Biden govt.: Putin||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday said that he hopes the administration of the incoming U.S. President Joe Biden will work with Russia to resolve disagreements between their countries. Mr. Putin told reporters at his annual end-of-year press conference that the two countries’ relations had become “hostage” to U.S. domestic politics and said he hoped that some existing problems “will be resolved under the new administration”. “We believe the U.S. President-elect will sort things out because he has both domestic and foreign policy experience,” the Russian leader said. Tougher stand Mr. Putin was one of the last leaders of major world countries to congratulate Mr. Biden on winning the U.S. presidential elections, saying earlier this week that he was ready for “collaboration”. Mr. Biden is expected to take a tougher stand against Russia than outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump, who he slammed during the campaign for having “embraced so many autocrats around the world, starting with Vladimir Putin”. The Russian leader said he believes Mr. Trump is unlikely to leave U.S. political life after his term in office ends, saying the outgoing President has “a large base” of support. Mr. Putin has already won four presidential elections and recently changed the constitution to allow him to remain President until 2036. Mr. Biden will be the fourth U.S. president since Mr. Putin came to power in 2000.
18 December 2020||Washington,||Cyberattack on govt. still going on: U.S. agencies||U.S. intelligence agencies have warned that a “significant” cyberattack on several federal departments uncovered over the weekend remains ongoing as the government rushes to assess the extent of the breach. “This is a developing situation, and while we continue to work to understand the full extent of this campaign, we know this compromise has affected networks within the federal government,” the FBI, the director of national intelligence and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) said in a joint statement late Wednesday. The March attack on software created by Texas-based IT company SolarWinds — in which hackers installed malware — continued for months until it was discovered by cybersecurity company FireEye. Both companies pointed fingers at hackers linked to the Russian government. Hackers reportedly breached software used by the U.S. Treasury Department and the Commerce Department, allowing them to view internal email traffic. The agencies did not confirm the targets of the cyberattack. U.S. Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, also pointed to Moscow on Monday, saying the Russian government had made repeated attempts to breach U.S. government networks. ‘18,000 customers’ SolarWinds said up to 18,000 customers, which included government agencies and Fortune 500 companies, had downloaded the compromised software updates, allowing hackers to spy on email exchanges. The content the hackers sought to steal, and how successful they were, remains unknown at this time.  After the attack was detected, CISA ordered federal agencies to power down the breached software. The agencies have created a coordination unit and talks are being held at the White House to discuss the government’s response. U.S. National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien cut short a trip to the Middle East and Europe this week to deal with the fallout from the hack.
18 December 2020||Shanghai,||Alibaba tech can recognise Uighurs: report||China tech giant Alibaba offered face-recognition software that could enable users to identify Uighurs, a report said, making it the latest Chinese company embroiled in the country’s controversial treatment of the Muslim minority. Alibaba’s website for its cloud-computing business showed how clients could use the software to detect the facial features of Uighurs and other ethnic minorities within images and videos, according to The New York Times . The references, later removed by Alibaba, appeared on web pages seen by U.S.-based surveillance research firm IPVM and shared with the newspaper, its report said. Alibaba said the function was only used in testing. “The ethnicity mention refers to a feature/function that was used within a testing environment during an exploration of our technical capability. It was never used outside the testing environment,” Alibaba Cloud said in a statement to AFP . Last week, IPVM said Chinese company Huawei was involved in testing facial recognition software that could send alerts to police when it recognised Uighur faces. Huawei has denied the claims.  China has come under intense international criticism over its policies in Xinjiang, where rights groups say as many as one million Uighurs and other mostly Muslim minorities have been held in internment camps. Beijing initially denied the camps’ existence but now calls them vocational training centres aimed at stamping out terrorism and improving employment opportunities. Surveillance spending in Xinjiang has risen sharply in recent years, with facial recognition, iris scanners, DNA collection and AI deployed across the province.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||What challenges do online classes pose?||With the pandemic forcing the teaching and learning process to migrate to the online mode, the education system has faced an upheaval like never before. This has posed several challenges to teachers and students in India. V. Madhurima and Gurumurthy Kasinathan discuss the challenges and possible solutions in a conversation moderated by Shubashree Desikan . Edited excerpts:  What are the key issues that teachers and students face? Are there solutions to these issues? V. Madhurima:For most teachers, shifting to online classes was rather sudden. With that move came a plethora of problems for which, for the most part, they had to find solutions by themselves. Ram Ramaswamy, Professor at IIT Delhi, mooted the idea of building a discussion forum for online teaching, which we have done. This acts as a virtual platform for teachers across India to interact and discuss specific issues. We conduct panel discussions and we have daily interactions through channels like Slack and Telegram. We conducted an anonymised pan-India survey among teachers. The respondents were primarily college teachers teaching undergraduate and postgraduate courses, but we did have some school teachers. The first point to come up was the lack of appropriate devices such as graphics tablets and webcams for conducting classes online. The second was the lack of adequate Internet bandwidth. The third was the fact that [you had to] basically bring your own device and software, which meant that in order to ensure that the quality of education that they were imparting was consistent, the teachers had to invest their own personal money to create that ambience through online teaching. Also, the lack of copyrighted material that could be easily dispersed to all the students [came up as an issue]. Gurumurthy Kasinathan:Infrastructure such as computer or Internet is expensive, and even a mobile phone costs Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000. If you’re talking about a solution for 1.6 million schools across the country, you are talking about something that is unaffordable. So, what we must understand is that it might work for only a very small percentage of elite institutions and communities. Research says this is around 10% or less. If the country believes that online education is the way forward, then 90% of the children are not a part of it. If education is a fundamental right, then the right to devices is included in that. On the one hand, we can’t rely on [online education] at this point in time. On the other, we must double up our efforts at making sure that it’s accessible to all. What problems do students face? VM:I agree that only about 10% of the students are able to access education on a larger screen [laptop]. Nearly 70% of the students are typically attending classes on their mobile phones. It’s nearly impossible for them to stay attentive. Also, if, for example, the screen should break, they cannot even afford to mend it since family incomes have gone down. The mental stress that they’re undergoing because of this is very high. The tendency to drift off is high. And this is something that affects teaching on both sides — the students drift off, and the lack of audio-visual feedback from the students is problematic for the teacher. The home environment is not always conducive for students to learn — either because it’s very noisy or because it is sensitive: not all students can switch on their video, even if they have the bandwidth, as the domestic circumstances might not be something that they want to show. There are also some advantages. Shy students, those who wouldn’t respond in the classroom, are responding much better through non-verbal communication such as through chat. GK:If we think that education is a fundamental right, public provision is necessary. In this aspect, Kerala is a trailblazer, and other States can follow. Provisioning of hardware and connectivity are both very critical. But when it comes to school education, the common system predominantly caters to the marginalised groups and the poor in society. It is absolutely essential that we have to look beyond online education. At ‘IT for Change’, we are also trying to persuade governments that some limited opening [of schools] has to be there. If you can unlock shopping malls and temples, and allow celebrations of festivals and weddings, but are completely closing down schools... I think the school system will need a hybrid solution. Online education cannot replicate the chalk-and-talk methodologies that teachers follow. Innovation in pedagogy is key. The innovations required now have already been discussed in the National Curriculum Framework of 2005. They emphasised a change of pedagogy even before the pandemic, which is to make learning more meaningful for the children, engage them in the process of learning, give them ideas which they can apply to real life, and not let the classroom become completely cut off from reality. How does digital education impact women and girls? GK:We are now changing our gaze from online education to digital education, which is a much broader canvas. In the last 15 years, we have worked with rural women from Dalit and other marginalised groups. We find that digital technologies can be greatly empowering, because one of the key things that they need is an empowering space. Empowerment happens when they come together and work together for a common interest. We started a community radio programme recently. We can actually have committed programmes because the connectivity requirements of those are fewer compared to online programmes. On the other hand, the digital space can be very dangerous. Our research shows that cybercrimes in terms of trolling, hate speech, cyberstalking and deceiving women are becoming extremely common. Public infrastructure in terms of regulatory frameworks is going to be absolutely essential in making sure that women feel safe to participate on social media. We are very far away from creating safe online spaces for women. VM:I agree completely. Though the fact that education can be done through mobile phones has been beneficial for many women, it is essential that we create a safe space. In homes where digital resources are scarce, girls are getting the short end of the stick. If a parent has to make a choice between giving the mobile phone to a son or a daughter, they seem to prefer giving it to the son. Also, for many women, hostels have been a safe haven from their sometimes violent homes. With the abrupt shutting down of colleges, they have lost that safety. The third thing that I’m seeing is that a few but not insignificant number of girls, especially from rural areas, since they are at home, are now being asked to get married and have children because teaching and learning is online. And I would add that in addition to women, I think the needs of the differently abled also have to be thought about. That’s something that has not been really been given enough attention. How do you make online education interesting? VM:I think I would replace the word ‘interesting’ with ‘effective’ to start with because ‘interesting’ is three or four steps down the lane. How do we effectively communicate? The first thing is to have a multi-channel communication: in addition to having a video conference call, typically, it’s good to have WhatsApp or a second means kept open, so that if a student does not have bandwidth, he or she can still participate without feeling left out of the class. The second is a multi-modal dispersal of learning material. We have to give them audios and videos and written texts, so that they can download it at a later stage. We need to necessarily balance between a synchronous and asynchronous class. The online class should not be more than, say, 30-40 minutes. You must give back material to the students so that they actually feel that they’re sitting down and learning, but that hand-holding has to happen. From being in control of the class, the teacher’s role has to go to being a facilitator for the transfer of knowledge. Teachers also need to have a lot of flexibility and empathy. They have to remember that the students are going through a lot to attend these classes. And I feel that the benefit of doubt should always be given to the students. If they say that they can’t attend classes for some reason, believe them. Many of us can learn from theatre when it comes to communicating over a smaller screen. Small tips like dressing well go a long way. Speak loudly, articulate clearly. Voice modulation is something that none of us have learned. A monotonous voice can kill a colossal 20 minutes. Speaking of colossal issues, there is the challenge of online assessment. How do you tackle that? GK:Portfolio assessment is one of the best ways of assessing students because when students are creating something based on their learning and understanding, it will give you a good sense of where their learning levels are. Whether it’s school or college, we encourage them to make things. Another important thing that we’ve been doing is teacher training. We teach a software that converts our computer to a graphing calculator, called GeoGebra. It works across school and colleges. VM:Before that, there are some points that have been raised that I want to re-emphasise. One is change in pedagogy, which is crucial. Also, training needs to be imparted both to teachers and students on how to handle an online platform. An online platform necessarily requires the students to be adult learners. So, training to be an adult learner is something that we have to impart to them. This also requires a change in syllabus — toning it down rather than focussing on completing it — and this is something we really need to pay attention to and as soon as possible. Online assessment is typically skill-based. So, it lends itself very easily to science subjects where you can have multiple choice questions or ask students to solve a problem and feed in a number. But online assessment for the humanities and social sciences, especially at the secondary and tertiary education levels, become very, very difficult. I don’t think we have a solution to this problem. Online assessment is conducive for formative assessment — when you’re checking whether the student has understood or not, it is okay. They are not conducive for summative as much as they are for formative assessment, which means we need to have a policy change where if we are going to be on online mode, we need to give more marks for continuous formative assessment. Also, how do you assess lab-based courses and fieldwork-based courses? I don’t think we have an answer to any of these questions. Online education has had a differentiated impact across educational levels and institutes, and between various student communities. We see that students are handling the situation with maturity and keeping up with their learning. If anybody had a doubt about how dedicated Indian teachers are, I think this is the time to look around. You will realise that they are there for the cause of teaching.  Many of us can learn from theatre when it comes to communicating over a smaller screen. Small tips like dressing well go a long way. Speak loudly, articulate clearly. Voice modulation is something that none of us have learned. V. Madhurima
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||In agri-reforms, go back to the drawing board||The purpose of agriculture reforms is to increase farmers’ incomes. Farmers want the laws (the Farm Bills) repealed. The Supreme Court of India has called for discussions between the government and farmers around the country. It is time to go back to the drawing board about the purpose and the process of agriculture reforms. Economists say fewer people must work on farms for farm productivity and incomes to be improved. Which begs the question how the millions displaced from farms will earn incomes. Indian industry is not growing much. There too, according to economists, humans should be replaced by technology for improving productivity. Flip side of productivity Landholdings are too small for mechanisation to improve farm productivity, economists complain. Their solution is to ‘scale up’ farms. Since mechanisation requires standardisation of work, mechanised farming on scale requires monocropping. Large-scale specialisation upsets the ecological balance. Reduced diversity of flora enables pests to spread more easily; soil quality is reduced; water resources get depleted. Solutions to these new problems require more industrial inputs, with more costs for farmers. The deleterious side-effects of this approach to improve agriculture productivity are very visible in Punjab now. Farm incomes have grown there while water resources have depleted and soils have been damaged. In Seeing Like A State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed , political scientist James C. Scott documents the history of ‘scientific forestry’ in Germany. The clearing out of other vegetation to plant a single variety of commercially useful tree in neatly spaced rows enabled mechanisation of timber production. However, the ecological imbalance made the trees more vulnerable to pests, and over time, the quality of the timber also reduced. Nature is a complex ‘self-adaptive’ system. It knows how to take care of itself. When Man tries to overpower Nature with his science and industry, without understanding how Nature functions, he harms Nature — and ultimately himself. Twenty-first century challenges of environmental degradation and increasing inequalities require that the economic calculus shifts from ‘economies of scale with standardisation’ to ‘economies of scope for sustainability’. This will make large-scale mechanisation more difficult. However, it will require the use of more ‘flexible’ human labour. In the long run, not only will this be good for the ecology, it will also increase employment and incomes for people in the lower half of the economic pyramid. Market access Farm incomes can increase with access to wider markets for farm produce, which is an objective of the agricultural reforms. The fear of Indian farmers is that they will not have adequate pricing power when pushed into large supply systems and less regulated markets. Connections into global supply chains can increase volumes of sales. However, the terms of trade will always favour the larger players in the supply chains who have easier access to capital. In her book, The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy: An Economist Examines the Markets, Power, and Politics of World Trade , economist Pietra Rivoli reveals how small cotton farmers in Texas, unlike farmers in developing countries, became progressively richer as well as politically powerful in setting the rules of global trade. Texan farmers formed collectives to own upstream processing and marketing linkages when they joined global supply chains. Thus, they could obtain larger margins in trade. And their collective voice swayed national politicians. Strengthen cooperatives Institutions for cooperative ownership and collective bargaining must be strengthened to give power to small farmers before opening markets to large corporations. The Indian dairy sector is a good example. Its ‘per person productivity is much lower than New Zealand and Australian dairy producers’. However, it provides millions of tiny producers with reasonable incomes which large-scale industrial dairy producers do not. Moreover, with its cooperative aggregation, the Indian dairy sector has also acquired political clout. It has compelled the Indian government to withstand pressure from trade economists who are urging it to join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (of which New Zealand and Australia are members) to connect the Indian economy with larger supply chains. The problem of low incomes in India’s agriculture sector is a complex systems problem which cannot be solved by agriculture experts alone. Experts from many disciplines must collaborate to find systemic solutions. Also, the intended beneficiaries of the new policies must be included in the designing of the new policies right at the beginning. Often they understand the realities of systems better than experts do with their abstractions in mathematical equations of inputs, outputs, and productivity. When policymakers say ‘the people don’t get it’ after the policy is announced and the intended beneficiaries protest, it is an indication that the experts didn’t get it. The reforms of the 1990s The stand-off in agriculture reforms, with farmers besieging the national capital demanding they be heard, has caused a flurry of discussions about democracy, consultation, and processes for economic reforms. Economists point, wistfully, to the firmness with which bold reforms were brought about in 1991, and how the government stood up to the ‘Bombay Club’ of industrialists who opposed them. They also complain that politics (and even democracy) comes in the way of good economics. This reveals an inadequate understanding of processes by which complex economic reforms are evolved. The immediate beneficiaries of the 1991 reforms were all Indian consumers, rich and poor, who would benefit from access to better quality products from around the world. The principal opponents of the reforms were a few large industrialists whose products citizens were not satisfied with. Governments have more power over a few industrialists than they have over the masses. With a stroke of the pen, policies could be changed in the early 1990s, the immediate benefits of which were clear to the masses. Hundreds of millions of citizens who hope to be beneficiaries of the ‘big ticket’ reforms, in agriculture, and in industry too, now want to earn better incomes, to earn enough to buy all the good stuff they have begun to aspire for, and even to make both ends meet. They cannot see how the bold reforms being pushed through will result in improvement of their incomes. A trickle down is promised. When will that ever happen, they ask? The 1991 reforms changed industrial licensing and trade policies — both subjects of the Union government. ‘Factor market’ reforms, in land, agriculture, and labour regulations, which are necessary to realise the full benefits of the 1991 reforms are State subjects in which States have jurisdiction too, and with good reason. They affect the lives of people on the ground, and differently, around the country. Therefore, the central government, no matter how strong it is, must not force these reforms onto the States. Silo experts cannot help India’s policymakers must improve their expertise in solving complex, multi-disciplinary problems. They must apply the discipline of systems thinking, and not rely on siloed domain experts. Moreover, citizens around the country must be listened to at the very beginning, and throughout the evolution of policies; not communicated to at the end by experts who then complain that citizens are being misled by political forces. Prof. Mark H. Moore says, in Creating Public Value: Strategic Management in Government , “We might think of (the process of making policy) as helping to define rather than create public value. But this activity also creates value since it satisfies the desire of citizens for a well-ordered society, in which fair, efficient, and accountable public institutions exist.” Trust is essential for a well-governed society. The lesson for India’s leaders is: good processes for making public policies build trust between citizens and their governments. Arun Maira is a former Member, Planning Commission and the author of ‘Transforming Systems: Why the World Needs a New Ethical Toolkit’
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Putting food at the centre of India’s nutrition agenda||The provisional verdict from the fifth round of the National Family Health Survey (NFHS 2019-20 factsheets (https://bit.ly/3qZyC77) on the burden of child undernutrition is not encouraging, with few exceptions. For the most part, this assessment has relied on the measure of a child’s anthropometry, i.e., children are defined as stunted, underweight or wasted if their standardised height-for-age, weight-for-age or weight-for-height, respectively, is more than two standard deviations below the World Health Organization (WHO) Child Growth Standards (https://bit.ly/3rd1IA7) median. However, undernutrition can also be measured by observing the adequacy and sufficiency of food or dietary intake among children. So how do Indian children fare when we bring a food measure to tell us about their nutritional status?  Diet-related undernutrition Across the 22 States/Union Territories for which the NFHS-5 has released the factsheets, the percentage of children (aged 6-23 months) who do not meet the minimum dietary adequacy (https://bit.ly/3aoc4a7) — as defined under the Infant and Young Child Feeding (IYCF) practices by WHO — is 83.9%; a decline of just over 2 percentage points from what was observed in NFHS-4 (2015-16). Thus, eight out of 10 children appear to be experiencing a dietary shortfall. It would not be surprising if this situation has worsened (https://bit.ly/3nrJloI) with the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing 2020 lockdown. Although 17 of the 22 States/Union Territories did experience a decline, the percentage of children not meeting the dietary adequacy norms increased in five States/Union Territories. Goa experienced the largest percentage point decline (11.1%), and Jammu and Kashmir observed the highest increase in its percentage of children not meeting dietary adequacy over the last three years (76.5% to 86.4%). While there are some variations, in every State more than 75% of the children do not receive the minimum adequate diet. Analysis (https://bit.ly/3pdd711) based on NFHS-4 has shown that consumption of protein-rich food as well as fruit and vegetables were substantially low. Since the disaggregated child-level data on consumption of various food groups has not been released, we will have to wait to see what specific aspects are children experiencing a dietary shortfall. Prevalence of anaemia Fortunately, the factsheets provide the percentage of children who are anaemic — an indication of iron deficiency (https://bit.ly/3nsPelf) — and the trends should raise concern. Across the 22 States/Union Territories, anaemia prevalence among children increased by about eight percentage points from 51.8% to 60.2%. The prevalence of anaemia in childhood increased in 18 of the 22 States/Union Territories. In the majority of the States, two out of three children have possible iron-deficiency. The State-wise trends for adults are mixed, although it is clear that women are substantially at a far greater risk for anaemia than men. The Prime Minister’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nutrition (POSHAN) Abhiyaan and, particularly, the Anemia Mukt Bharat (https://bit.ly/3r4pUEz), or AMB, Strategy was launched in 2018 with efforts to improve Iron and Folic Acid (IFA) supplementation, behaviour change and anaemia-related care and treatment across six target groups including pregnant women, lactating mothers, and children, and the provisional verdict is mixed for women and concerning for children.  Diet-related measures Viewing the burden of child undernutrition from a food or dietary lens is sobering, and raises serious concerns than what has been well-revealed by measures based on anthropometry. It is time that undernutrition is not only viewed simply through the measures of anthropometric failure, but is complemented through explicit attention to diet-related measures. A classification of nutritional status using a combined typology based on children who experience dietary failure and anthropometric failure is crucial. A recent NFHS-4 based study (https://bit.ly/3r5dVGR) using this typology found that 36.3% of children who experienced a dietary failure do not show anthropometric failure. Anthropometric-centric measures thus run the risk of omitting such children from policy discussions. A combined typology is also necessary to highlight groups that may need most immediate priority (e.g., children experiencing both dietary and anthropometric failures, 44%). Indeed, the prevalence of children who experience anthropometric failure only but no dietary failure was only 9.8%. Dietary factors can clearly be a major determinant of stagnancy in the nutritional status of Indian children. The true burden of child undernutrition thus may well be underestimated by the sole reliance on anthropometric measures. Besides, a child’s anthropometric status is a consequence of several complex factors, including inter-generational, which current policies and interventions cannot alter in the short term. Importantly, food and diet have an intrinsic importance, regardless of their impact on a child’s anthropometry. Therefore the nutrition agenda needs to be considered from “food as a right” (https://bit.ly/3qZA6hH) perspective. A disproportionate focus on anthropometric measures inadvertently precludes meaningful and direct engagement with strategies and data necessary to address diet and food security concerns. Data, available in a timely manner and in public domain, is empowering, as the NFHS has demonstrated over the last 25-plus years. But systematic and quality data on what Indians eat remains largely unknown. Data initiative needed It is important to emphasise that India does not have a dedicated nationally representative survey on the dietary intake and nutritional status of children or adults. A modern data initiative leveraging and combining aspects of the NFHS, the National Nutrition Monitoring Bureau and the National Sample Surveys that collected data on detailed household-level consumption and expenditure on various food items should be considered. In summary, decluttering our current approach to reducing the burden of child undernutrition and keeping it simple with a policy goal to providing affordable (economic and physical) access to quality food items, particularly for lower socioeconomic populations groups, should be prioritised. This may serve well as India tries to realise the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs 2 and 3) related to zero hunger and good health and well-being. S.V. Subramanian is Professor of Population Health and Geography, Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Cambridge, MA, U.S. William Joe is Assistant Professor, Population Research Centre, Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi. Inputs by Abhishek Kumar, a doctoral candidate at the Central University of Gujarat
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Converting waste to energy||On December 2, Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa laid the foundation stone for a 11.5 MW waste-to-energy plant near Bidadi. This plant is expected to process 600 tonnes per day of inorganic waste. Bengaluru generates close to 5,000 tonnes of waste daily, of which about 2,500 tonnes is organic, about 1,000 tonnes inert material (sweeping waste) and 1,500 tonnes inorganic. This inorganic material, which consists of bad quality plastics and used cloth pieces, can be processed as Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF). This material has a calorific value of more than 2,500 kJ/kg, and can be used to generate steam energy, which can be converted into electric energy instead of burning coal and other materials used in traditional waste-to-energy plants. A well-planned plant The waste-to-energy plants usually accept the RDF material generated in organic composting plants. They also segregate the wet and inorganic material near the plant, convert organic waste to compost, and inorganic waste to energy. Typically, about 50 tonnes of RDF generate 1 MW of power, which indicates that the plant at Bidadi has been appropriately designed. Eight organic waste processing plants are operational within the city in Kannahalli, Seegehalli, Chikka Nagamangala, Doddabidarakallu, KCDC, MSGP, Lingadeeranahalli and Subbarayanapalya, and they receive more than 2,000 tonnes of waste collected by households, commercial establishments and markets. Although about 30%-40% of the material received is segregated organic waste and the remainder is mixed waste, the latter consists of about 40% inorganic waste which can be converted into RDF. Handling inorganic waste that is not fit for recycling has always been a challenge. At present, these high-calorific materials are landfilled or left unhandled in waste plants and cause fire accidents. Attempts to send this material to cement kilns have not fructified. The proposed plant can source 600 tonnes per day of this RDF and generate 11.5 MW of power equivalent to 2.4 lakh units of power per day. This will reduce the city’s dependency on unscientific landfills, reduce fire accidents, and provide a permanent solution to recover value from inorganic waste. However, there are some challenges. Challenges Over the last decade, several Indian cities have been trying to set up such plants but a good demonstration model is yet to be established. Technology suppliers are international organisations who struggle with the change in quality and nature of waste generated in Indian cities. A few plants in India have stopped operations for this reason. The quality of waste generated in Bengaluru itself could be a hurdle. The plants require fine inorganic material with less than 5% moisture and less than 5% silt and soil contents, whereas the moisture and inert content in the mixed waste generated in the city is more than 15%-20%. Since segregation at source doesn’t happen in the city, the collected waste material needs to be sieved using 80mm-100 mm sieving machines, which lets through organic material with more than 80mm-100 mm particle sizes into the inorganic waste. In addition, the sticky silt and soil particles can also reduce the calorific value. The other big challenge for this plant is the power tariff. Generally, the tariff at which the power is purchased by such plants across the country is around Rs. 7-8 KwH which is higher than the Rs. 3-4 per KwH generated through coal and other means. This could be a serious challenge to KPTCL as the selling price of power cannot be increased corresponding to the purchasing price. If the plant eases the challenge of handling inorganic waste, the efficiency of organic waste processing/ composting plants would become better. If it is successful, the city would require three more waste-to-energy plants of similar size or six plants of smaller size considering the potential to recover 2,500-3,000 tonnes per day RDF in the coming years. Pushkara S.V. is a practitioner at the Indian Institute for Human Settlements, Bengaluru
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Shackles and ties||With the transition period of the U.K.’s exit from the EU (or Brexit) ending this month, the Boris Johnson government is beginning to firm up its partnerships outside its region, and British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab’s Delhi visit came with a declaration of immediate and longer-term goals for the India-U.K. relationship. His visit was also to prepare the way for Prime Minister Johnson’s India visit, as the chief guest at Republic Day, and to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the U.K. to the G-7 and the Climate Change (COP26) summits next year. Mr. Johnson will be the first head of government to visit India after the spread of COVID-19; this will also be his first bilateral visit anywhere after Brexit, signalling the importance India and the U.K. give to this chapter in ties. In what he called a “ten-year” road map for relations, Mr. Raab discussed with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Mr. Modi the upgrading of the 2004 India-U.K. Strategic Partnership to a “Comprehensive” Strategic Partnership, which will envision closer military ties, cooperation in Indo-Pacific strategies, counter-terrorism and fighting climate change. Now out of the EU, Britain is on a mission to secure free trade partners, and after wrapping up nearly 20 trade deals, including most recently with the U.S., Japan, and Vietnam that will take effect from January 1, Mr. Johnson would hope to announce the start of talks on an India FTA during his visit. The highlight of India’s relations in the next year will be closer cooperation on the coronavirus vaccine, with the Serum Institute set to produce and distribute the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine in India, and then as part of the COVAX project to other developing countries. The turn of a new page in ties, stagnant for the past five years due to Britain’s Brexit preoccupation, is welcome. The relationship has failed to progress in this time, despite visits by Mr. Modi and former British Prime Minister Theresa May. As a result, less important issues such as visas and the fate of fugitive Indian businessmen in the U.K. have been allowed to dominate the narrative. Over the past year, the MEA had responded sharply to protests at the Indian High Commission in London over the Article 370 move in Jammu and Kashmir, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. This month it was Britain’s concerns about the farmers’ protests that sparked responses in New Delhi about interference in India’s internal matters. Mr. Raab’s explanation that, sometimes, intense interest from the British Indian diaspora makes Indian politics a factor in British politics is a reminder of how closely linked the two countries remain. A new chapter in their post-COVID-19, post-Brexit relationship would necessarily entail the U.K. to be more sensitive to India’s concerns, and for India to be less sensitive when Britain expresses its concerns.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sanctions overreach||The U.S.’s decision to impose sanctions on Turkey over its purchase of the S-400 missile defence system from Russia further complicates the already troubled relationship between the two NATO members. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said earlier this week that the Trump administration was obliged to impose sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act, passed in 2017 and aimed at discouraging third countries from buying weapons from Russia. Earlier, the U.S. had suspended Turkey from its F-35 fighter jet programme which Washington feared would be undermined by the Russian system. President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has called the sanctions “an attack on Turkey’s sovereignty”. The U.S. decision will have implications for India as well, which has also ordered the S-400. The Trump administration has been non-committal on giving India a sanctions waiver. In the case of Turkey, Washington had said it would not invoke sanctions if Ankara did not activate the system. But why would Turkey have purchased this anti-missile system for billions of dollars if it did not want to activate it? In October, Turkey test-fired the system and in two months, sanctions are in place. The U.S.’s decision to suspend Turkey from the F-35 programme was well within its rights. It is up to Washington who it should sell the weapons to. But punishing other countries with sanctions for their decision to buy weapons from a third party is transborder bullying, if not meddling with their sovereignty. Each country takes decisions on defence buys based on its requirements and security challenges. The S-400, which has been deployed by Russia in Syria, along its borders with Eastern Europe and in the Arctic Circle, is seen as a highly advanced aerial shield. It is hardly surprising that Turkey, China and India, which are rising, ambitious powers with daunting security challenges, opted for the S-400. Punishing them is coercion sans strategic thinking. From a geopolitical point of view, the U.S.’s actions could drive Turkey further into the hands of Russia, despite their serious disagreements over crises such as Syria, Libya, and now Nagorno-Karabakh. That Mr. Erdoğan still chose to buy Russian weapons shows that there is a paradigm shift in Ankara’s strategic thinking. The U.S.-Turkey tensions, coupled with the war of words between French President Emmanuel Macron and Mr. Erdoğan and the Greece-Turkey spat over the Eastern Mediterranean region, point to cracks in NATO. The U.S. should ask itself whether it wants to widen these further or take a broader view of the changes that are under way in the global order. The 1990s unilateralism has already paved the way for a new multilateralism. There are many rising powers and their demands may no longer be dictated by the wishes of Washington.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A concert is more than just music||In the 1970s, when reports about civil strife in Sri Lanka raising its ugly head were published, vocalist M.L. Vasanthakumari was touring that country. I remember accompanying my father to the house of his friend, Chandramouleeswara Iyer then. As we entered the house, Iyer’s wife rushed to us and said, “I hope nothing will happen to MLV!” One could question her priorities. But such was M.L. Vasanthakumari’s reach and popularity that Iyer’s wife could only think of the singer’s safety. My basic lessons in Carnatic music and politics began at their residence. They had subscribed to Vaanoli — a magazine covering the programmes of All India Radio (AIR) — and that was where I came across names such as Alathur Brothers, G.N. Balasubramaniam, Madurai Mani Iyer, Madurai Somu, Palghat Mani Iyer, Palani Subramania Pillai, Vilvadiri Iyer and the present generation of musicians. She also kept a veena, shorn of all adornments. Again, it was at their residence that I first heard the word Isai Vizha , or the December Music Season, and listened to concerts broadcast by the AIR. My father kept a transistor in case of a power shutdown. The music, the name of the musicians, and the anecdotes about them stayed with me and came handy when I started my career as a journalist. Music critic Subbudu’s tongue-in-cheek writings were both amusing and educative. Visiting sabha after sabha  to cover inaugural functions as a junior reporter (only rookies would be sent) and seeing in blood and flesh the musicians I had heard and read about offered boundless joy. After the functions, I would meet the musicians on the pretext of clarifying my doubts about their speeches. I also enjoyed the free concerts in various sabhas  in the mornings and afternoons. If listening to music is one kind of experience, watching people enjoying it is an altogether different one. A head of an old rasika would sway like a snake in tune with the Raga Alapana in progress. Someone would cry ‘sabash!’ when a beautiful phrase was produced. A number of rasikas together would make a sound that sounded like a hundred lizards were in the room. A teacher would correct exam papers stopping in the middle to utter a few words of appreciation. Another would give running commentary about the concert to someone abroad much to the indignation of others. A lot of drama unfolded before my eyes during these concerts. “Bhatkavatsalama? Kokka? (He is Bhaktavatsalam and not a person to be taken for granted),” I remember a woman rasika saying when mridhangist Thiruvarur Bhaktavatsalam played a brilliant thani during the violin concert of Ganesh and Kumersh. Then of course there was the food. The taste of a crisp dosa that I ate with white vegetable kurma instead of sambar and chutney in one of the canteens still lingers in my mouth. But COVID-19 has taken away from rasikas all the finer aspects of the music season. Even though modern technology has made it possible to switch over to virtual concerts, the immediate rapport that a musician shares with a rasika during a physical concert is not available online. The only solace is that Chennai is able to uphold the tradition without a break. But this December will be remembered as a cruel month in the history of Carnatic music.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Dismal population outlook (From an Editorial)||The concern expressed by a Rajya Sabha member over the failure of the Government to face the growing population problem and fight it on a war footing will be shared by many. With even the original targets for lowering the birth rate in the Seventies too low to stem the tide of the fast rising population, scaling them down every now and then does invite the charge that the Government is treating light-heartedly the most explosive challenge of the times. As against the official claim of a fall in the birth-rate from 41.7 per thousand in the Fifties to 38.3 in 1969-70 is the frightening rise in the rate of increase of the population from 2.1 per cent in 1951 to 2.5 per cent at the end of this decade — which suggests that the problem is getting worse rather than better with each passing year. That is because the death rate is falling fast, while the fall in the birth rate is only marginal.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The light of history (From an editorial)||It is natural that after an exhausting world-struggle which has had no parallel in the past, thinkers and writers should speculate upon the goal of humanity, its future organisation and the trend of its future development. History has been appealed to in the past to throw its light upon the future of the world’s races and the directions in which the development of humanity may be expected. When Buckle wrote his “History of Civilisation” which aroused immense interest at the time, he did so to read partly the future of the races, in the light of the past development, interpreted with the aid of the generalisations based on environment and physical laws — generalisations whose validity, in the light of other facts, were seriously open to question. Buckle’s interpretation of history, were it true, would have made the East despair of its future; for, it was his view that placed as the tropics were nearer the Sun, the population of these vast areas were ultimately doomed to comparative weakness, langour and stagnation, although in the beginning of the world, the tropics were bound to be the cradle of early civilisations. Buckle, however, is not seriously considered now as a great historian; and his claim to memory is now chiefly that of a man of letters.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. plans $60-bn investment to bolster gas infrastructure||Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the government had planned a $60-billion investment for creating gas infrastructure in the country till 2024, and that gas’s share in the energy mix is expected to rise to 15% by 2030. Currently, gas accounts for 6% in the country’s total energy mix. Speaking at the Assocham Foundation Day Week 2020, he said, “We have envisaged a spend of $60 billion in creating gas infrastructure till 2024, including for pipelines, LNG terminals and CGD (city gas distribution) networks.” He further said, “We are ushering a gas-based economy by increasing the share of natural gas in India’s primary energy mix from 6.2% to 15% by 2030.” India’s first automated national-level gas trading platform was unveiled in June this year to promote and sustain an efficient and robust gas market and foster gas trading in the country. Coverage of CGD projects is being expanded to 232 geographical areas spread over 400 districts, with potential to cover about 53% of the country’s geography and 70% of population, Mr. Pradhan added. He also said, “We are adopting clean mobility solutions with greater use of LNG (liquefied natural gas) as a transportation fuel, including long-haul trucking. We plan to have 1,000 LNG fuel stations across the country.” This year, the country was able to fully fill all petroleum reserves with capacity of 5.33 million tonnes constructed at Visakhapatnam, Mangaluru and Padur. “We have [begun] the process of establishing another 6.5 MT commercial-cum-strategic petroleum storage facilities at Chandikol and Padur, under public-private partnership,” he added.
18 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Retail NPAs will be higher in second half of FY21: Axis Bank||Retail non-performing assets (NPAs) will be higher in the third and fourth quarter of FY21 and will go back to the pre-COVID-19 levels only in the new fiscal year, Axis Bank said on Thursday. The third-largest private sector lender, however, said that the asset quality situation was much better than what was feared initially, and stressed that it had adequate provisions to take care of the reverses. It may be noted that the damage to the economy because of the pandemic resulted in job losses or salary cuts, in turn impacting the loan repayment abilities in the otherwise resilient retail segment. Given the fact that a lot of people lost their jobs, some had to take salary cuts and some industries were badly affected, it will have some impact on delinquency and portfolio collections. “But these numbers are much lower than what we had anticipated,” head of retail lending Sumit Bali told reporters. He said loan repayments were improving every month, and the stock of sour debt from the past would lead to higher NPAs in the December and March quarters, before the situation improved to go back to the pre-COVID-19 levels in the new fiscal starting April 2021. In September, when the six-month moratorium on loan repayments ended, the bank had been experiencing higher bouncing on electronic fund collection mandates, but it was much lower than the industry’s averages, officials explained. On the restructuring introduced to take care of loan stress after the end of the moratorium, the bank had seen very few applications running into low triple digits, Mr. Bali said.
18 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Brazil’s Marcopolo to exit bus body making JV with Tatas||Brazil’s Marcopolo S.A., one of the world’s largest bus and coach manufacturers, has agreed to sell its 49% shareholding in Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd. (TMML) to joint venture partner Tata Motors Ltd. for Rs. 99.96 crore in cash. “After a successful venture in India, and as a consequence of its refreshed business strategy, Marcopolo S.A. has decided to exit from the JV and offered to sell its 49% shareholding in the JV to the company,” Tata Motors said in a statement. Post the purchase, TMML will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Motors and all technologies pertaining to existing bus body products will continue to vest with TMML. As part of the transition, Marcopolo will continue to license the ‘Marcopolo’ trademarks to TMML for a minimum of three years with a non-compete provision in India for a corresponding period, Tata Motors said. “The transaction will not result in any impact on TMML’s operations or the continued sales and service of Tata Motors’ customers. The company, Marcopolo S.A. and TMML intend to maintain an open channel for future collaboration opportunities around bus body designs and technical consulting services,” it added. TMML’s plants in Dharwad and Lucknow build bus bodies on chassis supplied by Tata Motors.
18 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Advance corporate tax inflows jump 49% in Q3’||Advance tax payments by companies has grown by 49% to Rs. 1,09,506 crore in the third quarter this fiscal, a CBDT source has said. The increase can be attributed primarily to the low base last fiscal, when the government had slashed corporate tax rates to a record low of 25% in Q3, leading to lower tax payout by companies. During the same quarter last fiscal, corporate advance tax stood at Rs. 73,126 crore. Gross tax collection stood at Rs. 7,33,715 crore, while net mop-up was Rs. 5,87,605 crore in the quarter, the source told PTI . During the quarter, the department had refunded Rs. 1,46,109 crore, or 8.1% lower from a year earlier. Overall advance corporate tax so far for the year had fallen 4.9% to Rs. 2,39,125 crore, as the first two quarters bore the brunt of the lockdown. Advance personal income tax on a year-on-year basis this quarter, declined 5.6% to Rs. 31,054 crore, the source said, adding the same so far this fiscal stood at Rs. 60,491 crore, 10.4% lower than a year earlier.  Overall advance corporate tax so far for the year had fallen 4.9% to Rs. 2,39,125 crore
18 December 2020||Chennai,||Webinar on MF investing experience||ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund and The Hindu BusinessLine will conduct a webinar on the topic ‘Improving your Mutual Fund Investing Experience’, on December 19 at 5 p.m. Experts from the industry will provide advice on mutual funds. The webinar will be a conversation between Abhijit Shah, Head of Marketing, Digital & Customer Experience, ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company, and Aarati Krishnan, Editorial Consultant, The Hindu BusinessLine.  To register for this free webinar, log on to: https://bit.ly/ICICIBL2
18 December 2020||MUMBAI,||GDP to contract 7.8% in FY21: ICRA||ICRA on Thursday forecast India’s GDP would contract 7.8% in FY21. Rising raw material and wage costs would partly counteract the positive impact of a modest rise in volumes in the industrial sector in the third quarter, resulting in a small 1.0% contraction, the rating agency said. “The recovery under way in the Indian economy in Q3 FY2021 is fragile, and appears prone to risks related to rising costs, as well as a reappearance of supply-side disruptions in some States,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist, ICRA.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Mrs Bectors Food Specialities IPO a huge hit among investors; subscribed 197 times||Mirroring a massive investor response, Mrs. Bectors Food Specialities IPO was subscribed 197.34 times on the last day of subscription on Thursday.pti
18 December 2020||ITANAGAR,||Gill begins campaign with a bang||Ace Indian rallyist Gaurav Gill (co-driver Musa Sherif) began his Champions Yacht Club-FMSCI Indian National Rally Championship 2020 with a bang, winning the Rally of Arunachal in style here on Thursday. Gill, driving on JK Tyres, took a total of 56:55.200s to complete eight special stages and win by a margin of 4:25.700s over Karna Kadur. Dean Mascarenhas finished third overall. The three-time APRC champion was at his best and even a flat tyre on the final stage could not stop him.  Other results:   INRC2: 1. Dean Mascarenhas & Shruptha Padival (1h:02:30.500s); 2. Sahil Khanna & Vidit Jain (1:03:25.900s); 3. Rahul Kantharaj & Vivek Y. Bhatt (1:06:34.300).   INRC3: 1. Maninder Singh Prince & Vinay Kumar (1:05:49.700s); 2. Fabid Ahmer & Eldo Chacko (1:06:05.700s); 3. Aditya Thakur & Virender Kashyap (1:07:07.700s).   INRC4: 1. Lanusanen Pongenar & H.J. Lokaranjan (1:18:03.200s); 2. Khyati Mody & Sagar Mallappa (1:22:53.500s); 3. Rohit Iyer & Manjunath (1:33:11.000s) .
18 December 2020||Liverpool,||Firmino heads Liverpool to the top||Roberto Firmino scored a 90th-minute header as Liverpool beat Tottenham 2-1 to climb to the top of the Premier League. Liverpool’s relentlessness was rewarded when the Brazil striker powered home a header from Andy Robertson’s corner with the clock ticking toward stoppage time on Wednesday. Earlier Mohamed Salah’s 26th-minute goal was cancelled out by Son Heung-min’s effort. Barcelona defender Jordi Alba scored one goal and set up another to spark a 2-1 comeback victory over Real Sociedad, depriving the Basque Country side of the Spanish league lead.  Important results:   Premier League: Arsenal 1 (Aubameyang 52) drew with Southampton 1 (Walcott 18); Fulham 0 drew with Brighton 0; Leeds 5 (Bamford 35, Rodrigo 61, Dallas 77, Alioski 85, Harrison 88) bt Newcastle 2 (Hendrick 26, Clark 65); Leicester 0 lost to Everton 2 (Richarlison 21, Holgate 72); Liverpool 2 (Salah 26, Firmino 90) bt Tottenham 1 (Son 33); West Ham 1 (Haller 55) drew with Crystal Palace 1 (Benteke 35).   LaLiga: Barcelona 2 (Alba 32, De Jong 44) bt Real Sociedad 1 (Willian Jose 28).   Serie A: Juventus 1 (Chiesa 29) drew with Atalanta 1 (Freuler 57); Inter Milan 1 (Lukaku 73-pen) bt Napoli 0; Genoa 2 (Destro 47, 60) drew with AC Milan 2 (Calabria 52, Kalulu Kyatengwa 83).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 2 (Lewandowski 45+1, 50) bt Wolfsburg 1 (Philipp 5); Hoffenheim 0 lost to RB Leipzig 1 (Poulsen 60); Cologne 0 lost to Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Weiser 8, Diaby 10, Schick 54, Wirtz 59).
18 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Pagnis appointed Mumbai head coach||Former Mumbai and Railways opening batsman Amit Pagnis was on Thursday appointed as the Mumbai senior team’s head coach for the forthcoming domestic season. Pagnis has been offered a short-term contract till March 31 next year. Pagnis will replace Vinayak Samant, whose two-year stint with the team was largely forgettable. The former left-handed batsman will be Mumbai’s sixth head coach in the last eight seasons. Despite representing Railways for a majority of his 95 First Class appearances during his 14-year career spanning between 1995-96 to 2008-09, Pagnis has been actively involved in Mumbai cricket for the last three years. After being the head coach of Mumbai Under-23 for two seasons starting 2017-18, he was the batting coach of Mumbai Cricket Association’s indoor academy last year. “It’s obviously a huge honour and even a greater responsibility. I hope I can justify the faith shown in me by everyone involved, including the Cricket Improvement Committee,” Pagnis told The Hindu . “Having been involved in the Mumbai cricket set-up for the last few years, I am no stranger to the boys and I hope we can make the short season sweet.” Task cut out With just three weeks remaining for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy to begin, Pagnis will have his task cut out. While the MCA hasn’t managed to organise any training camp so far, the selectors and coach have finally been appointed. But Pagnis wasn’t overtly concerned about the situation. “Yes, our task is definitely going to be cut out but I don’t think it’ll be too much of a concern. Almost a dozen Mumbai players were a part of IPL teams and five-six more were in UAE as net bowlers, so most of the boys are in shape,” Pagnis said. “We just have to make the most of whatever time we get together as a team and I am looking forward to working together with players and selectors.” Pagnis will on Friday have his first meeting of the season with the newly-appointed selection committee, headed by former India speedster Salil Ankola. The MCA has rescheduled the Annual General Meeting to December 27. The meeting was originally scheduled for December 18 but citing COVID-19 protocols, the state government had provisionally granted permission if the MCA could organise it in the last week of December.
18 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Bengal probables start training for the season||A preparatory camp involving 25 Bengal probables, for the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, began under the supervision of Vision 2020 consultant V.V.S. Laxman and head coach Arun Lal at the Jadavpur University ground here on Thursday. Seamer Ishan Porel, who is undergoing rehab at the National Cricket Academy in Bengaluru, will join later, while left-arm spinner Pradipta Pramanik, a late addition, will report on Friday. Bengal has been clubbed with Odisha, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Hyderabad in Elite Group B. The matches will be played here from January 10. “We had a lovely Bengal T20 Challenge tournament where each player got 10 matches to play, so I think we will be well prepared by the time the tournament starts. No slip-ups “We have got a pretty tough group. The problem is only one team qualifies from each group. You cannot have an off day. If you lose one match, your chance of qualifying is almost finished. So, you have to be on top of your game and win all the five matches,” said Lal. Bengal skipper Abhimanyu Easwaran said, “We are happy that the domestic season is starting. We are learning a lot under Laxman Sir. We will be playing the group matches at our home, which is good for us.”
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kirti Azad not called for DDCA selector interview||Former India captain Bishan Singh Bedi has taken up the issue of former National selector Kirti Azad not being called for the interview to choose the Delhi selectors. In a letter to the Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA) ombudsman Justice Badar Durrez Ahmed, Bedi called the move of the Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC) a violation of the Supreme Court judgement. The interviews, scheduled for Thursday and Friday, began without Azad being invited on the grounds that he was 60 years old and carried a higher risk of being a COVID-19 victim. In his letter, Bedi pointed out, “Despite being eligible in every respect, DDCA has chosen not to even invite Azad for an interview. In fact, DDCA’s CAC has invited five cricketers to appear for interviews today (Thursday). From available indications, the reasons they tout are that Azad is more than 60 years old and that he has been a selector in the DDCA for 6 years. Both these statements are blatantly false. “First, Azad was a National selector for only two years (Sept. 2002 to Sept. 2004) in the BCCI whilst simultaneously being a Delhi selector. Effectively, he has been a selector in the DDCA and BCCI for only two years. The Supreme Court’s judgement and the Lodha Committee guidelines have put the age bar on all administrators and selectors at 70 — and not 60.”
18 December 2020||MOSCOW,||Russia banned from Olympics, FIFA WC||The Court of Arbitration for Sport on Thursday upheld doping sanctions that will prevent Russian athletes from competing at major international events under the country’s flag, but halved the period of the ban to two from four years. The ruling will leave Russian athletes without their flag and national anthem at next year’s Tokyo Olympics and at the 2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar, a severe blow to Russian sport which has been tarnished in recent years by a string of doping scandals. Russians will still be allowed to compete in the Olympics, but only as neutrals. The Lausanne-based court said sanctions, which also bar Russia from hosting or bidding for major sporting events during a two-year period, would come into force on Thursday and end on December 16, 2022. Russian government officials or representatives will be banned from attending events such at the Olympics and World championships in major sports for a two-year period. Russians will also not be able to be appointed to or sit on committees or serve as board members at organisations that must abide by the World Anti-Doping Agency’s (WADA) code.  The CAS ruling will leave Russian athletes without their flag and national anthem at Tokyo Olympics
18 December 2020||Melbourne,||Australian Open to begin on Feb. 8||The Australian Open is set to begin on February 8, three weeks later than planned, as part of a pandemic-altered 2021 tennis calendar released by the ATP on Thursday. The ATP said men’s qualifying for the season’s first Grand Slam tournament is being moved to Doha and will be held from January 10-13. That will be followed by a period of about two-and-a-half weeks for travel to Melbourne and a 14-day quarantine period for players, coaches and support staff. A 12-team ATP Cup, the relocated Adelaide International and an additional men’s tournament will be held in Melbourne to give players a chance to prepare for the Australian Open. The ATP said the season would start with a tournament beginning in the first week of January in Florida. That event was contested in February this year, shortly before the coronavirus pandemic took hold. There also will be an early January tournament in Antalya, Turkey. More 2021 calendar plans for later weeks will be announced separately.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Cleiton seals it for BFC||Sunil Chhetri and Cleiton Silva scored their third goals of the season as Bengaluru FC defeated Odisha FC 2-1 in its Indian Super League match at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim on Thursday. With the contest tied 1-1, a long pass was headed into the path of Deshorn Brown by fellow BFC substitute Udanta Singh. Brown teed up Cleiton and the forward sealed the winner for the Blues in the 79th minute. In the ninth minute of the match, Odisha had a goal disallowed. Diego Mauricio released fellow striker Manuel Onwu upfront with a through-ball in the ninth minute. Onwu found the back of the net, but much to his dismay, the linesman raised the flag for off-side. However, replays showed that the Odisha player was clearly on-side. Breaking the deadlock In the 38th minute, Bengaluru broke the deadlock when Chhetri leapt higher than Odisha defender Shubham Sarangi and headed the ball past goalkeeper Arshdeep Singh. This was the Indian skipper’s 42nd goal in the league. Moments before the second-half cooling break, captain Steven Taylor equalised for Odisha. He made a darting run off a Jerry free-kick and beat custodian Gurpreet Singh with a full-stretch flick. Unfortunately for him and Odisha, it was Cleiton and Bengaluru who had the last laugh.  The result:   Odisha FC 1 (Taylor 71) lost to Bengaluru FC 2 (Chhetri 38, Cleiton 79).   Friday’s match: NEUFC vs Jamshedpur FC, 7.30 p.m .
18 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Second round of INMRC from today||The second and concluding round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship (INMRC) 2020 will be held from Friday at the MMRT with 29 races across 10 categories. Bengaluru’s Anish Damodar Shetty (Race Concepts), originally from Hubballi, dominated the 30-rider, premier Pro-Stock 301-400cc category with three wins from four starts for a 12-point lead over TVS Racing’s K.Y. Ahamed (one win). The position in the Pro-Stock 165cc is much tighter, with a straight fight between Eneos Honda Erula Racing and TVS Racing riders. Only 15 points separate the top four — Mathana Kumar (73, Erula), Ahamed (61, TVS), Rajiv Sethu (60, Erula) and Jagan Kumar (58, TVS). Going into the final weekend, Mohan Babu, a privateer from Chennai, and Bengaluru challenger Ullas Santrupt (RACR Castrol Power Racing) are tied on 68, with the latter having won two of the four races in the Novice (Stock 165cc) category that has a grid of 40 riders. Sparks Racing’s Ann Jennifer (50) enjoys a comfortable lead over Lani Zen Fernandez of Gusto Racing (36) in the girls’ category.  Anish Damodar Shetty (Race Concepts) dominated the premier Pro-Stock 301-400cc category with three wins from four starts
18 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Ahmedabad to host domestic T20 knockouts||Ahmedabad will host the knockouts of the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, the only tournament announced for the domestic season so far, from January 25 to 31. The inter-state T20 championship’s league stage will be played in Bengaluru, Kolkata, Vadodara, Indore, Mumbai and Chennai from January 10 to 19. The schedule was circulated to all 38 participating teams by BCCI secretary Jay Shah on Thursday. The itinerary also details the COVID-19 related protocols that each squad will have to undertake ahead of the tournament. All teams are expected to reach their respective destinations by January 2 and will be tested thrice in six nights of isolation. Once all three tests are cleared, the squads can train for two days leading up to the opening game.  The pools: Elite Group A (Bengaluru): Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Railways, Tripura.   Elite Group B (Kolkata): Odisha, Bengal, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Hyderabad.   Elite Group C (Vadodara): Gujarat, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Baroda, Uttarakhand.   Elite Group D (Indore): Services, Saurashtra, Vidarbha, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Goa.   Elite Group E (Mumbai): Haryana, Andhra, Delhi, Mumbai, Kerala, Puducherry.   Plate Group (Chennai): Chandigarh, Meghalaya, Bihar, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh.   Karnataka’s fixtures: Jan. 10: vs Jammu & Kashmir; Jan. 12: vs Punjab; Jan. 14: vs Tripura; Jan. 16: vs Railways; Jan. 18: vs Uttar Pradesh.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Losing Virat and Ajinkya was crucial, says Pujara||Cheteshwar Pujara admitted that India had slipped from an advantageous position on the opening day, but hoped the lower-order will help it recover. “We were in a very good position until we lost a couple of wickets. Losing both Virat and Ajinkya was crucial, but I know Ash (Ashwin) and Wriddhi (Saha) can bat,” said Pujara. “We still have a good chance of getting close to 275 for 300, and if our lower-order does well, we can get 350 also. “There was a stage where we were in a dominant position but after losing Virat and Ajinkya, they (Australia) have a little bit of an advantage. I still feel we are evenly placed in this Test. “When I had a partnership with Virat and then Ajinkya came in, both of them were cruising. There was a time when we were 190 for three,” Pujara said. “But this is what Test cricket is all about. When you lose a couple of wickets, the opposition has an advantage. But if we score runs on Friday, we will be in a commanding position.”
18 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Taimur takes South India 2000 Guineas in a thriller||Karthik Ganapathy-trained Taimur (A. Sandesh up) won the South India 2000 Guineas, the second Classic of the season here on Thursday (Dec. 17). The winner is owned by M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Cheittnad Charitable Trust. Taimur was racing second-last till the final bend when a confident Sandesh, without using the whip, pushed his mount brilliantly, with hands and heels, in the straight. The gelding responded well to the urgings to collar Vachan and Giant Star in a thrilling finish to register his maiden win.  1. NIJINSKY PLATE (1,000m), maiden 2-y-o only (Terms): ROYAL PEARL (Brisson) 1, Lady Solitaire (Nakhat Singh) 2, Sweet Fragrance (P.S. Chouhan) 3 and Subjucate (Umesh) 4. 2-3/4, 4-1/2 and 1-1/2. 1m, 2.04s. Owner: Mr. A.C. Muthiah. Trainer: B. Suresh..  2. CHESTER PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45: MAJESTIC WIND (Umesh) 1, Farewell (Brisson) 2, Penang (Yash) 3 and Grand Royal (Zervan) 4. 1/2, nose and 2-1/4. 1m, 29.57s. Owner: M.A.M Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Sebastian.  3. ORIGINAL VEL B. SAMPATH KUMAR MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): TIFOSI (Akshay Kumar) 1, Senora Bianca (Yash) 2, Divina (P. Trevor) 3 and Supreme Excelsior (Nakhat Singh) 4. 1/2, 2-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 15.55s. Owner: Mr. Angad Singh. Trainer B. Suresh.  4. SOUTH INDIA 2000 GUINEAS (1,600m), 3-y-o only (Terms): TAIMUR (Multidimensional-Tammy O) (A. Sandesh) 1 , VACHAN (Whatsthescript-Maun Vrat) (P.S. Chouhan) 2, GIANT STAR (Excellent Art-Sweeping Star) (Yash) 3 and ASHWA BRAVO (Leitir Mor-Shadow Roll) (Suraj Narredu) 4. Lnk, shd and 3. 1m. 40.15s. Owner: M.A.M. Ramaswamy Chettiar of Chettinad Charitable Trust. Trainer: Karthik Ganapathy.  5. P.M. ANTONY MEMORIAL CUP (1,200m), rated 60 to 85: NEVER AGAIN (P. Sai Kumar) 1, Oscars Thunder (P. Trevor) 2, Storm Flag (Yash) 3 and Rutbedaar (P.S. Chouhan) 4. 1, 1-3/4 and 1. 1m, 13.43s. Owner: Mr. M.A.M.R. Muthiah. Trainer: R. Ramanathan.  6. ONCE AGAIN PLATE (1,400m), rated 00 to 25: BETTY BOOP (Azfar Syeed) 1, Dream Run (Umesh) 2, Heart Of Gold (Shahar Babu) 3 and Velocity (Muzaffar) 4. 1, 1-3/4 and 1. 1m, 32.67s. Owner: Mr. S.A. Shehzad Abbas. Trainer: Raza Shehzad.
18 December 2020||KOLKATA:,||Aditya School of Sports announces tie-up||In an effort to popularise various sports among children, Aditya School of Sports on Thursday announced its association with LaLiga, NBA, Joydeep Karmakar Shooting Academy and Dola and Rahul Banerjee Sports Foundation for Archery. The Barasat-based school also announced its selection for the Khelo India Football Project, the only such tie-up in eastern India.
18 December 2020||SONEPAT:,||Chirag in last four||Top seed Chirag Duhan beat Aayush Gurnani 6-3, 6-3 to move into the semifinals of the Rs. 100,000 AITA men’s ranking tennis tournament here on Wednesday.   Second seed Radhika Vasudeva upset top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda 6-4, 7-5 to win the girls title in the under-16 championship series junior tennis tournament on Wednesday.     In the under-14 event, Daksh Khokhar and Bhavika Proacha emerged champions in the boys’ and girls’ categories respectively.  The results: At Sonepat (men’s ranking): Quarterfinals: Chirag Duhan bt Aayush Gurnani 6-3, 6-3; Amit Dahiya bt Shivam Dalmia 6-4, 6-3.   Fardeen Qamar bt Dhananjay Singh 6-1, 6-1; Sandesh Dattray bt Amandeep Singh 6-4, 6-2.   At Chandigarh (Under-16 championship series): Finals: Boys: Navya Verma bt Aryan Thakur 6-3, 6-3.   Girls: Radhika Vasudeva bt Harleen Kaur Dhanda 6-4, 7-5.   At Karnal (Under-14 championship series): Finals: Boys: Daksh Khokhar bt Pratyushraj Goel 5-7, 6-2, 6-3; Girls: Bhavika Proacha bt inaya Mittal 6-2, 6-3 .
18 December 2020||KOCHI:,||Kerala Blasters launches mobile app||Kerala Blasters FC has launched the club’s official mobile application to get closer to its fans. The app, developed in partnership with a Sweden-based sports marketing firm, will offer exclusive club content, live match updates, training footages, behind-the-scene coverage and interviews of fans’ favourite players and coaches. Fans will also the opportunity to communicate with each other. “The release of the Kerala Blasters FC app allows the club to better engage with our fans within the digital world. “We look forward to our fans enjoying the application while we are working hard to give them the best and advanced experience possible,” said Nikhil Bhardwaj, director, Kerala Blasters FC.
18 December 2020||BENGALURU,||No Tata Open in February||The Tata Open Maharashtra, India’s lone ATP 250 event, will not be staged in its original early February slot, the ATP confirmed on Thursday. Tournament director Prashant Sutar said a request had now been made for a window in the second half of the year. “If the dates suit us, we will hold the tournament. If not, we will skip this year,” he said. The Maharashtra government’s strict 14-day quarantine rule for international arrivals was not agreeable to the ATP, hence the decision to defer the tournament. “We could have created a bio-secure bubble. But it came down to the quarantine rules,” he said. If the tournament misses its date in 2021, it will snap a 25-year run of India hosting an annual big-ticket tennis tournament.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||India assured of four medals||India was assured of medals without a single blow being exchanged at boxing’s World Cup in Cologne, Germany after four pugilists found themselves in semifinals when draws were unveiled on Thursday even as a positive COVID-19 case among the support staff caused some anxiety in the contingent. Asian Games champion and world silver-medallist Amit Panghal (52kg) among men and Pooja Rani (75kg), Manisha (57kg) and Simranjeet Kaur (60kg) in the women’s draw will start their campaigns in the semifinals due to the small size of their respective draws. The team was hit by a positive COVID-19 case in a support staff member.
18 December 2020||Karachi,||Fed up with ‘PCB torture’, Amir quits||Pakistan fast bowler Mohammad Amir on Thursday announced a dramatic end to his international career, alleging he has been “mentally tortured” by the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB). The 28-year-old left-arm pacer made the surprise announcement in a video interview released by Pakistani website Khel-Shel . “I am quitting cricket this time because I have been mentally tortured. I can’t bear this torture. I had faced torture from 2010 to 2015, I remained outside cricket for whatever reason,” said Amir, who is currently in Sri Lanka, referring to the ban he served for his involvement in spot-fixing.  Amir claimed 119 wickets from 36 Tests after making his debut in 2009.  I feel tortured by this continuous talk that PCB has invested (in me)
18 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Rajeev Shukla set to be BCCI vice-president||Rajiv Shukla is set to be elected unopposed as BCCI vice-president while Brijesh Patel and Khairul Majumdar are set be retained as IPL Governing Council members on Thursday during its AGM on December 24. Thursday was the deadline for filing nominations for all the three posts. With BCCI members agreeing mutually for posts, only one application was submitted to the Electoral Officer for each post. While Shukla, who was barred from attending AGM last year, has earlier been a vice-president and IPL chairman, Patel is the incumbent IPL chairman. The appointment will be formalised on Friday upon scrutiny of applications and will be stamped in Ahmedabad.
18 December 2020||Belgrade,||Anshu Malik grabs silver||Anshu Malik won a silver in the 57kg category of the wrestling World Cup on Wednesday. She lost the gold medal bout 5-1 to Moldova’s Anastasia Nichita. Anshu beat Azerbaijan’s Alyona Kolesnik 4-2, Germany’s Laura Mertens 3-1 and Russia’s Veronika Chumikova by fall in semifinals.
18 December 2020||Gurugram,||Amandeep maintains lead||Amandeep Drall carded an even par to take sole lead at the end of the second day in the 9th leg of the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour here on Thursday. Amandeep is now one-under 143 and a shot clear of Hitaashee Bakshi, who was the only player with an under par round at 71.
18 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA:,||KDCA B-Div. League||Krishna District Cricket Association will organise the B-Division League championship soon. Interested teams can collect the entry forms at the KDCA office at Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium till December 25. Call Ram Kumar on 81061 44568 for details. Workshop Meanwhile, KDCA will organise a workshop for umpires and scorers at Siddhartha Medical College from 8 a.m. on Dec. 20. Call A. Sridhar on 83062 22333.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 10:23 IST,||Sudoku - December 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘ WW84 both celebrates and warns’||Pedro Pascal is a charmer, the kind that can switch to a deeply pensive mood in a split second. During a video call with the actor who plays the megalomaniac supervillain, Maxwell Lord, in Wonder Woman 1984 , his easy-going nature says anything but. The Patty Jenkins-directed movie is set to release in theatres on December 25, and Pascal is geared up to meet a whole new set of fans. The Chilean actor who has lived in New York City for more than 20 years is no stranger to the world of fandoms, playing the eponymous character in Disney’s The Mandalorian . And, of course, who could forget his portrayal of Javier Peña in Narcos and Oberyn Martell in Game Of Thrones ? The allure of playing the businessman in WW84 was always there, says Pascal. “I think we are afraid to admit we have something in common with someone like Maxwell Lord. I couldn’t believe how incredible an opportunity this was as the ‘villain’ in this film. To have that common understanding with Patty was a profound experience,” he adds. In fact, while prepping to play Lord, Pascal turned the script into a “pop-art scrapbook” as a means to get into the character’s mind. This ‘scrapbook’ was filled with vicarious speech bubbles of self-inflicted curses to reflect the character’s complex internal landscape. As a result, the actor was re-energised to tackle Lord each time Jenkins called ‘action!’ Part of Lord’s appeal are his magnetic smiles during the ‘you-can-do-it infomercials’ for Black Gold Cooperative, which are an interesting parallel to the current times of information overload, he agrees. Much of it adds to the film’s contemporary setting, during the tech and arts boom of the ‘80s. “I can’t say that that was the intention of the movie to reflect the circumstance we are all in. The ‘80s was a point where we crossed over and gave ourselves permission to accept excess with achievement, in an individualistic unilateral way. That individualism, not in terms of character or art, but in terms of achievement, is such a fascinating and chilling way of villainising a part of that era.” Connect with the times He explains the pull to Lord and WW84 did lie in the duality, especially since most audiences celebrate the nostalgia of a bygone era through shows like Stranger Things , and the likes. Pascal, who grew up being obsessed with ‘80s trademark soundtrack ‘Little Red Corvette’ by Prince, for its approach to the “magic of attraction and edge”, says he “absorbed, like a sponge, much of the joy and nostalgia of ‘80s America”. The 45 year-old adds, “It shaped so much of who I am and the independence of my thought, and the voraciousness of my desire. WW84 both celebrates and warns — it’s a completely mixed bag and isn’t narrow with the way it utilises the era... because it is super cute and emotional to experience the warmth of that nostalgia, and also unpredictable for when it rears its ugly head.” Pascal looks back at his experience with respect and adoration, thanks to Jenkins. With all the characters facing off each other through the film, he agrees there is a wholeness to Jenkins’ storytelling. He commends her for using “familiar tropes that are essential” as a vehicle to make it “emotionally unpredictable” for audiences with regard to anticipating how characters may interact, whether it is dialogue or fight scenes. He elaborates, “This kind of unpredictably in a film is a rare thing. I attribute this to Patty, to the kind of actor that Gal Gadot is and the kind of warmth and generosity she has. I feel these from Chris Pine and Kristen as well, and it’s all very inviting for everyone involved to participate in equal measures. It was so amazing!”  The ‘80s was a point where we crossed over and gave ourselves permission to accept excess with achievement, in an individualistic unilateral way.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding purpose||If there is one thing that Vir Das cannot stand, it is the feeling of purposelessness; he says he gets cranky when feeling that way. Unfortunately, much of 2020 made the actor and stand-up comedian feel that way. Which is why he sat down with a mic and a camera pointed at him, and asked people the simplest question one could amid the uncertainties of a lockdown: “What are you going to do when lockdown ends?” Initially hosted as part of a fundraising initiative titled Inside Out on his website — to support NGOs extending COVID-19 or related relief — a compilation of these shows have now released as a Netflix stand-up special. Metroplus connected with Vir Das, who is in Goa performing live shows to a restricted audience, about the special titled Outside In . Edited excerpts: You are back performing live shows. How does it feel? Nothing beats the live experience. However, it does feel like 2008 and I am trying to rebuild everything from scratch. I’m holding my shows in the middle of a forest in the middle of the day, with people wearing masks. It is not the ideal atmosphere for stand-up, but you feel the most free as an artiste because there is literally nothing to lose. You did the camera work, editing and sound recording for Inside Out . How was the experience?  What you will see on Netflix has been worked on, edited and changed a bit. But yes, when I was doing the shows online from March to June this year, I was handling it all. It felt a lot easier than I thought it would be. By the fourth or fifth show, I was sure that this is a moment in time that needed to be captured [on film]. What was the most unique moment from the show?  It was this guy from Udupi, who actually ended up becoming the central character of the show. He said he just wanted to have ice cream because he was feeling low. I asked why and he said he had been accepted into a college in the USA with full scholarship, and now he wouldn’t get a visa. He didn’t know if he could go the next year... that was heartbreaking. So many people may have gone through that moment, but he was so brave: all he wanted was ice cream! When lockdown ended, we sent lots of that to his residence.. What was your takeaway from hosting it?  For an artiste who has been centrestage all his life to say ‘No, I need to put others in the spotlight’... that gave me a purpose and an understanding of my audience that I never thought I would have. Tell us about your upcoming projects.  I will do a romcom subject early next year. There is also a web series that I will star in and produce, which will be shot in Goa. Besides that, I am the creative director for two other projects in which I am not a part of the cast. When do you expect to see more audiences in stand-up shows?  By October next year, we should start looking at some sort of normalcy returning to tours. Enough people among us will be vaccinated, and we will be able to work with a larger crowd whilst still wearing masks and staying distanced. What will be more interesting will be the evolution of stand-up material. The pressure to innovate will be huge because people are going to get tired of listening to mask or lockdown jokes. We have enough comedians, but someone hosting a late night talk show like in the West hasn’t happened here. Has it anything to do with the state of politics?  I don’t view it as a political problem. Most politicians are used to being made fun of, and they view that as fair game. But it is the audience and not the politicians who take offence to the jokes. It is the people that love politicians who you have to be scared of; the guy who has five degrees of separation from the politician and power is the scariest guy in the world! Outside In is streaming on Netflix
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||One for the father||A three-month-old Wolfgang perched on his father Eddie Van Halen’s lap as the rock legend plays the piano is one of the endearing clips from the music video of ‘Distance’, a single from the former’s forthcoming album. A tribute to his father who passed away in October due to cancer, the album also marks the launch of Wolfgang’s band MammothWVH. The Rock-ballad has visuals of Wolfgang’s childhood with his father and ends with a voice message from Eddie Van Halen proclaiming how proud he was of his son and how much he loved him. “I found it from the 40 voice mails I had on my phone. This particular one showed how amazing a father he was, and the love he had for me,” says Wolfgang, connecting via Zoom from California, when asked why he chose to incorporate the audio clip into the video. “He was like a best friend; he believed in me and was so proud of me. That love keeps me going to this day,” he adds. The lyrics of ‘Distance’ — “ I’m so happy, You’ve found a place, That’s better for you ” — portray the anguish of a son. Wolfgang says he is happy that his father was able to hear all the songs. “‘Distance’ struck a chord with many,” he adds. As a child, Wolfgang would often try his hand at his uncle Alex Van Halen’s drums; his 10th birthday gift was a drum kit from his father. Though he moved on to playing bass, he confesses his fondness for drums. He also takes pride in naming his band Mammoth, which was the original name of Eddie Van Halen’s band. “My dad would tell me the story how Van Halen was originally called Mammoth, and I thought it was such a great name,” he says. Wolfgang played all instruments and lent vocals for ‘Distance’. However, MammothWVH also counts Slash guitarist Frank Sidoris, Tremonti drummer Garrett Whitlock and bassist Ronnie Ficarro among its members; the band is likely to perform for the first time in 2021.  Bands and bonds Wolfgang’s first exposure to the stage was as a toddler, when he ran on to the stage while his dad was performing. “My mother would take me to his shows, and I’d be standing at the side. She would let me run on stage. All I wanted was to just go and see my dad, but when I turned and looked at the thousands of people in the crowd, I realised I’m sharing him with all of them,” he smiles. Wolfgang was 16 when he joined his father’s band as a bass guitarist. He held his own among the band’s established members, some of whom were giants of Rock music, which included his uncle, Alex. “We were equals. If one of us made a mistake, the other one picked up the slack. We were a great support system.” On being asked if he had inherited any of his dad’s mannerisms or traits while performing on stage, Wolfgang says, “If I’m found emulating him that would be by accident. It is important that I must be my own person, and not be a carbon copy of my dad.” Respect for legacy He doesn’t intend to carry forward Eddie Van Halen’s legacy by laying his hands on his father’s unreleased music, as most of his fans seem to be suggesting. “There is a whole lot of process that needs to be respected. It can’t be done haphazardly and for a quick buck. It needs to be done finding the proper time and dedicate it to him,” Wolfgang insists. Before parting ways, he shares his favourite piece of advice from his father. “One of the favourite things he told me was if you ever make a mistake, do it twice so the audience thinks you are meant to do it,” he laughs.  High priest of Rock Eddie van Halen’s contribution — the famous guitar solo — to Michael Jackson’s ‘Beat It’ that made it an eternal hit is just a speck in his humongous body of work. Apart from making ‘two-handed tapping’ a technique that most lead guitarists dream of emulating, EVH was part of numbers that continue to enthral. Some of his band’s all-time hits are ‘Jump’, ‘Eruption’, ‘Panama’, ‘When it’s love’, ‘Mean Street’ and more. Eddie Lodewijk Van Halen was named after Ludwig Van Beethoven and Eddie named his son after Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The silver bottle As luck would have it||The story so far: Aniket and Fortune enter Lady Laura Lucklina’s castle and wait along with her designer, beautician, stylist, and dietician to meet her.  Inside a room, Laura Lucklina was dancing with her dance instructor, Miss Slim ‘n’ Trim, to a song.  Twist the waist,   Shake the hip.   Bend the elbows,   Flex the knee.   Rotate your neck,   Lift the leg...  After the session was over, Miss Stitch, the dress designer, rushed into the room while Miss Slim ‘n’ Trim ran out. Once the discussion for the new dresses was over, Miss Stitch emerged and Miss Salt ‘n’ Sugar entered, her arms loaded with her iPad and diet charts. After a long wait, Laura Lucklina, dressed in a pale peach gown with a pearl necklace around her neck, entered the parlour. She was tall and slim; her toffee-coloured skin glowing, her silky brown hair rippling over her shoulders. Laura Lucklina had a very intimidating presence, Aniket sat primly on the sofa facing her, his tongue tied up in knots. For several minutes, she studied Aniket as though he was a book she was reading. “Sorry to keep you both waiting. I have sent in my entry for a beauty contest. There will be participants from all the planets,” Laura Lucklina said in her soft and melodious voice. Once she started talking, Aniket realised that she was not at all haughty or intimidating. She was a very friendly and easygoing person, who needed a little time to warm up towards someone. Laura Lucklina told them that she had sought the help of various professionals to help in her preparations for the ‘Miss Galaxy Beauty Contest’. “I spend all my time exercising, finalising my diet, approving my costumes for the different rounds, choosing my hairstyles.... I’m finalising the various accessories to complement my outfits and getting beauty treatments done,” Laura Lucklina revealed, “I’m so excited; I haven’t slept in ages.” Untimely interruption A loud commotion outside the castle startled all of them. Laura Lucklina ran out of the parlour with Aniket and the imp close behind. In the garden, Laura Lucklina’s pets were fighting with each other. Toughie the ram was clutching Tell-Tale the rat, who was squeaking in fear. Snob the lion had pounced upon the gentle goat Mercy. Standing nearby, Anger the wild scorpion was urging them to fight, while Timidity the shy hen was making all kinds of sounds from behind a tree. Turning to her visitors, Laura Lucklina said apologetically, “Sorry, I can’t sit with you both. I have to separate my fighting pets and give the bruised ones first aid. May be we will have better luck next time and can spend more time with each other.” Leaving Laura Lucklina trying to separate her fighting pets, Aniket and Fortune made their way out of the castle. Aniket was deep in thought. Would he get another chance to meet and talk to Laura Lucklina? His one chance had been ruined by her fighting pets. Was this what people called bad luck? “Don’t feel bad, Aniket,” Fortune consoled, flinging his arm across Aniket’s shoulders. As usual, the imp had read his mind. “I know that you are disappointed that your time with Laura Lucklina has been cut short due to her fighting pets, but be grateful that she at least spent some time with you and told you her future plans. Most people don’t even see her, and many don’t even reach the island.” “I guess I should consider myself lucky,” Aniket nodded. “I met the best imp in the world.” “That’s so sweet of you,” Fortune grinned. Parting ways The sky had darkened. Candles in gold holders lit their way. As they approached the gate, it was opened by the guard gnome. As Aniket and Fortune waved goodbye, another gnome came up to the guard. The two saluted, shook hands, and exchanged their spears. The guard took the smaller spear and the other, the larger one. The guard went to watch one of the smaller gates and the other gnome took his position at the main gate of the castle. “This exchange of spears is called Change of Guard and signifies the end of one month,” Fortune explained. “Oh,” Aniket looked thoughtful. “So May has ended and June has begun.” “Yes, but it will take a few hours before the change is reflected everywhere in the world,” Fortune said. “Why?” “Because Destiny Island’s time frame is ahead of the world. Tomorrow will be your first day in school,” Fortune said. “If you work hard, then Laura Lucklina will be pleased with you and may give you another opportunity to meet her.” “I hope so,” Aniket said. “Be positive,” Fortune smiled at him. “I’ll work hard,” Aniket promised. “I would like us to be friends…” “Take this,” Fortune thrust the small silver bottle into Aniket’s hands. “Whenever you want to see me, twirl this bottle and I’ll be at your service.” “Like a genie?” Aniket grinned. “Yes,” the imp laughed. “But not a genie who fulfils wishes, but an imp who will chat with you.” He winked. As Fortune’s fingers twirled the bottle, the island with the golden castle and the diamond-studded tower disappeared. Aniket was back on the beach, watching the waves. The setting sun streaked the sky with pink and orange. Tucking the silver bottle into the pocket of his jeans, Aniket started walking home. Tomorrow, he would twirl the bottle to call the imp and tell him about his first day of school.  The end   “I guess I should consider myself lucky,” Aniket nodded. “I met the best imp in the world.”
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Man of math||Dear Sir,   I beg to introduce myself to you as a clerk in the Accounts Department of the Port Trust Office at Madras on a salary of only £20 per annum. I am now about 23 years of age. I have had no University education but I have undergone the ordinary school course. After leaving school, I have been employing the spare time at my disposal to work at Mathematics. I have not trodden through the conventional regular course which is followed in a University course, but I am striking out a new path for myself. I have made a special investigation of divergent series in general and the results I get are termed by the local mathematicians as ‘startling’.   …   I remain, Dear Sir, Yours truly,   S. Ramanujan  This letter — received in Cambridge, England, in January 1913 — changed the life of a young man in India, and paved the way for the world to recognise his genius. Born on December 22, 1887, in Erode, a small town in the Madras Presidency, Srinivasa Ramanujan was a self-taught pure mathematician. While in the school library, he discovered and was drawn to books on Mathematics. When he was 12, he began to study Mathematics on his own, working on cubic equations and arithmetic and geometric series. He invented his own method of solving quadratic equations. His memory for mathematical formulas and constants was impressive. His classmates were amazed at his ability to recite the values of irrational numbers to as many decimal places as they asked for. Turning point While working at the Madras Port Trust, Ramanujan and his supporters contacted several British professors to have his work published. But only one of them was receptive — Godfrey Harold Hardy, an eminent pure mathematician at the University of Cambridge. Ramanujan was now 25. Professor Hardy puzzled over the nine pages of mathematical notes Ramanujan had sent and reviewed the papers with J. E. Littlewood, another eminent Cambridge mathematician. He told Littlewood they had been written by either a crank or a genius, but he wasn’t quite sure which. After spending two and a half hours poring over the work, they concluded that they were looking at the papers of a mathematical genius. The rest is history. Ramanujan moved to Cambridge in 1914 and worked with Hardy and Littlewood. In 1916, he was awarded the equivalent of a Ph.D. for his work. In 1918, Ramanujan became the first Indian mathematician to be elected a Fellow of the British Royal Society. In his lifetime, he produced almost 4000 proofs, identities, conjectures, and equations in pure Mathematics. Sadly, the weather in England’s winter made him ill. In 1917, he was diagnosed with tuberculosis and low vitamin levels. In February 1919, his health recovered sufficiently for him to return to India. He died the following year. He was only 32 years old.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The Avatar||Rashmi wore a long face, as she came running into the kitchen where her mother, Meena, was busy cooking. “I am bored. No school. No friends. No games. No music classes and even patti is not at home,” said Rashmi. Her grandmother had gone to visit her sister and could not return due to the pandemic. “ Patti used to tell me a story every night. Will you please tell me a bedtime story until she returns?” she begged. Meena promised to tell Rashmi a story after finishing her chores and the little girl waited eagerly for bedtime. “Rashmi, I will tell you the stories that my grandmother used to tell me when I was your age,” said Meena, deciding to tell her daughter about Lord Vishnu’s 10 avatars over as many days. Of demons and rescues So, she started with the Mathsya (fish) avatar. Rashmi was thrilled to hear these stories, not missing a single detail. She cursed the demons who troubled the humans and clapped her hands when they were defeated. Nine days flew past and neither Rashmi nor Meena noticed. On the 10th day, Meena told Rashmi about the avatar that was yet to come: Kalki. “He will come when the time is right and destroy all evil,” said Meena. “Lord Krishna, the ninth avatar of Lord Vishnu, has promised to come to earth and rid it of all evil.” The next day, when Rashmi woke up and was eating her breakfast, she looked rather serious. Meena had not seen her like this before. “Amma, I have a question. This Coronavirus is worse than a demon. It has taken away all our happiness; the whole world is unhappy and so many people have died. What avatar will Lord Vishnu take to destroy this demon?” she asked Meena thought hard but didn’t have an answer. Rashmi went away to study for her online classes and Meena was left searching for an answer. Early next morning, Meena woke up and went to the door to take in the newspaper and milk packets. As she opened the paper, she saw in big bold letters: “Doctors have found a vaccine to fight the Coronavirus”. Meena was jumping with joy when a loud voice woke her up. “Why are you sleeping with the lights on?” asked Rashmi’s dad. “Oh my God! It was a dream, but I have an answer for Rashmi. I was wondering who would find the vaccine to fight the virus. Would it be world leaders, sportsmen, or astronauts? No, it has to be a doctor. This time, it will not be one Lord Vishnu, but many Vishnus from various countries who will come together and destroy this demon-like virus. Working together, they can save the universe. Together, they will be bigger and stronger than any previous avatar.” Meena slept peacefully, having found an answer to Rashmi’s question. As for Rashmi, she is waiting eagerly to see these avatars from around the world!
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||For all the senses||What is France famous for? Fashion, football, fast cars, art and, of course, food. The last is so important that the UNESCO added ‘the gastronomic meal of the French’ to its Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity in 2010. Apart from being an important part of all kinds of celebrations, French food is unique for the norms it follows. The dining table is set with proper cutlery and appropriate glasses, and the traditional rituals ensure that the meal encompasses all the senses: sight, smell, touch, taste and even sound. The rituals begin way before the meal is even cooked. A visit to the market involves not just buying local produce but also exchanging and sharing knowledge including tips and recipes with the producers. Courses The gastronomic meal has a fixed structure. It begins with an apéritif (drinks before the meal) and ends with a digestif (a beverage to aid digestion). In between are at least four courses: a starter, fish and/or meat with vegetables, cheese, and dessert. Each course is paired with an appropriate wine. A highlight is that the produce is local or sourced from different parts of France. Traditional French starters include Escargots à la Bourguignonne (snails in garlic-herb butter), Provençal stuffed squid, duck pâté en croûte, and devilled eggs with crab. A fish or meat course with vegetables follows. France is best known for its different cheeses that come from the various provinces like Camembert, Brie, Roquefort, Comté and Reblochon. Desserts include the almond paste candy Calisson d’Aix in Provence, flaky croissants, puffed-up soufflés, chocolate mousses, super-thin crepes and macarons. At home in the kitchen, everyone has a part to play, leading to a sharing and passing down of knowledge and traditions from older people to the younger. Fun Facts:  France has a different cheese for every day of the year. The French eat approximately 500,000,000 snails per year. France has banned supermarkets from throwing away unsold food to combat food wastage. Instead, it is given to charities. Each region has its own cuisine. Provence uses olive oils, tomatoes and herbs. In Normandy, butter, crème fraiche and apples are important. The Alps region is known for its cheese dishes, including fondue and raclette. Alsace’s German influence can be seen in its beer and sauerkraut.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Comparisons just went global||Do your folks compare you to your friends and siblings? It’s never obvious like “Oh, V is better than you at the piano.” It’s always subtle like “Oh wow! Look at V. See how much he practises his piano? So sincere! Not a single parody song either.” (What’s the point of learning an instrument if I can’t accompany myself singing “It’s raining tacos?”) Or something like “Look how much T loves her mother. She made her breakfast in bed for Mothers’ Day.” Or “Did you know P read 200 books this year? And not one of them was a graphic novel?” Well, I’m kind of used to it by now. You know the ancient Chinese proverb, “In through one ear, out through the other”? That’s me. Or, as Aristotle used to say, “Water off a duck’s back”. I’m kind of immune to these comments now, though I’d rather be immune to COVID-19. Going global Anyway, it’s one thing for your parents to compare you to the kid in VII B who won the Math Olympiad, and another entirely to some kid a million miles away in the U.S. That’s right, comparing your kids just went global. So, in November, Time Magazine tied up with Nickelodeon to name the ‘Kid of the Year’. If you didn’t know, every year, Time puts a ‘Person of the Year’ on the cover: Mark Zuckerberg, Hitler, Greta Thunberg — people who had done something amazing or terrible, whose actions couldn’t be ignored, who made the news for better or worse. Well, this year, they started a Kid of the Year. (Why Nickelodeon? Why? You’re meant to be on our side!) And they chose 15-year-old Gitanjali Rao from Colorado, the U.S. Gitanjali invented a mobile device that could test for lead in drinking water. She’s also developed a phone-and-web tool named Kindly, which uses artificial intelligence to alert kids to early signs of cyberbullying. She was also on Forbes 30 Under 30 list and was named America’s Top Young Scientist when she was in the seventh grade. I’m also in seventh grade and the coolest science thing I’ve ever done is not blow up the chemistry lab in school. That’s what my mother pointed out to me anyway, when she sent me the link to the story about Gitanjali. Mothers can be so harsh. But, it’s kind of amazing when you think just how much Gitanjali has done. It also makes me look at what I’ve done — which is not a lot, let’s be honest. I have taught W the dog to eat my lunch when we’re having karela . If you’ve ever tasted karela , you’ll appreciate that feat. I can’t help but wonder if Gitanjali has a younger sibling. Poor kid, it can’t be easy having a genius for a sister. When I think about it, being not-a-genius is a favour I’m doing the Pesky Brother. Time , if you do a ‘Sibling of the Year award,’ you’ve got to give it to me.  ...the coolest science thing I’ve ever done is not blow up the chemistry lab in school.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Whom are you quoting?||Someone says something brilliant. It’s so clever that it gets shared and many people come to hear about it. When it’s shared, this is how it’s done. Shakespeare said, “All the world’s a stage, And all the men and women merely players.” Thiruvalluvar said. “As quickly as the hands move to catch the dress that’s falling off from the body, so quickly will a friend be at your side when you’re in trouble.” “All the world’s a stage…” and “As quickly as…” are quotations. In daily use In the above examples, Shakespeare’s is an actual quotation. Thiruvalluvar’s quotation is a loose translation. The original, as you may know, is found in the Tamil classic, Thirukkural , written by him. The word ‘Quotation’ is sometimes shortened to ‘Quote.’ So you could say, “Here’s a quotation from Kamala Harris.” Or you could say, “Here’s a quote from Kamala Harris.” Quotations are usually placed between ‘Quotation Marks”. These are quotation marks “ ”. Quotation marks are not only used to share the sayings of great men and women but also used in everyday conversation. Mummy said, “Raju, have you finished your homework?” Raju replied, “No Mummy, but I’ve finished the samosas .” When we write about conversations that happen between two or more people and write the exact words they say, we use quotation marks. This is also known as ‘direct speech’. Sounds familiar?
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Mind your language||Across  1. A Japanese script (5) 3. "____ facie": At first look (5) 5. "Cosmonaut" means astronaut in this language (7) 8. Maharaja, in English (4) 9. Singular refers to this number (3) 10. A language that is no longer spoken (4) 11. Flows out of your pen (3) 13. Binomial nomenclature is in this language (5) 14. Greek prefix meaning "before" (3) 15. ____ jumbo is gibberish (5) 18. Words that indicate people, places or things (5) 19. Learning something by repetition (4)  Down  1. Language spoken along the western coast of India (7) 2. Words or slang used by a specific profession (6) 3. Faux ___: an embarrassing social blunder (3) 4. A form of Chinese (8) 6. Third person feminine pronoun (3) 7. This country has 22 official languages (5) 12. Language spoken in Cambodia (5) 13. Words borrowed from other languages: ____ words (4) 14. Prefix meaning "after" (4) 15. ___ juste: French for the perfect word (3) 16. Status ___: The existing state of affairs (3) 17. What a question mark does (3)
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||Why is ice not permanently frozen?  Ice is the solid state of water, which contains both hydrogen and oxygen molecules. The state of water is determined by the temperature of the surroundings. When the temperature of water reaches 0°C and lower, the molecules stick together and become solid ice. As the temperature rises, the bonds between the molecules break to form liquid water. This means that ice cannot be permanently frozen unless the external conditions permit, like in the Arctic and Antarctic landscapes. Such areas are called permafrost where the ground remains frozen for at least two years straight because the temperature is 0°C or lower.  Why dowe dream?  Dreams are visual stories that our mind creates when we are asleep. There are several theories about why we dream. The most common is that it is our brain’s way of organising the memories created during the day and processing the learnings from them. Another theory suggests that it is our way of learning to deal with challenging or threatening situations. Some studies have shown that dreaming is essential to our mental health, especially when dealing with anxiety and depression, improving concentration, and processing emotions.  How to ask a curious question  1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Timeless Tunisia||Tunisia is located along the Mediterranean Sea and bordered by Algeria to the west and southwest, and Libya to the southeast. It is considered to be the northernmost country in Africa; Ras Ben Sakka, the northernmost point in the African continent, is located here. The country is home to the ancient city of Carthage and several other historic sites. It is also the location where various Star Wars movies were filmed, particularly the scenes featuring Luke Skywalker’s home planet of Tatooine. The capital and largest city of Tunisia is Tunis. The currency is the Tunisian dinar.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sudoku||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The Avatar||Rashmi wore a long face, as she came running into the kitchen where her mother, Meena, was busy cooking. “I am bored. No school. No friends. No games. No music classes and even patti is not at home,” said Rashmi. Her grandmother had gone to visit her sister and could not return due to the pandemic. “ Patti used to tell me a story every night. Will you please tell me a bedtime story until she returns?” she begged. Meena promised to tell Rashmi a story after finishing her chores and the little girl waited eagerly for bedtime. “Rashmi, I will tell you the stories that my grandmother used to tell me when I was your age,” said Meena, deciding to tell her daughter about Lord Vishnu’s 10 avatars over as many days. Of demons and rescues So, she started with the Mathsya (fish) avatar. Rashmi was thrilled to hear these stories, not missing a single detail. She cursed the demons who troubled the humans and clapped her hands when they were defeated. Nine days flew past and neither Rashmi nor Meena noticed. On the 10th day, Meena told Rashmi about the avatar that was yet to come: Kalki. “He will come when the time is right and destroy all evil,” said Meena. “Lord Krishna, the ninth avatar of Lord Vishnu, has promised to come to earth and rid it of all evil.” The next day, when Rashmi woke up and was eating her breakfast, she looked rather serious. Meena had not seen her like this before. “Amma, I have a question. This Coronavirus is worse than a demon. It has taken away all our happiness; the whole world is unhappy and so many people have died. What avatar will Lord Vishnu take to destroy this demon?” she asked Meena thought hard but didn’t have an answer. Rashmi went away to study for her online classes and Meena was left searching for an answer. Early next morning, Meena woke up and went to the door to take in the newspaper and milk packets. As she opened the paper, she saw in big bold letters: “Doctors have found a vaccine to fight the Coronavirus”. Meena was jumping with joy when a loud voice woke her up. “Why are you sleeping with the lights on?” asked Rashmi’s dad. “Oh my God! It was a dream, but I have an answer for Rashmi. I was wondering who would find the vaccine to fight the virus. Would it be world leaders, sportsmen, or astronauts? No, it has to be a doctor. This time, it will not be one Lord Vishnu, but many Vishnus from various countries who will come together and destroy this demon-like virus. Working together, they can save the universe. Together, they will be bigger and stronger than any previous avatar.” Meena slept peacefully, having found an answer to Rashmi’s question. As for Rashmi, she is waiting eagerly to see these avatars from around the world!
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A virutham that stood out||From start to finish, Gayathri Venkataraghavan’s concert for Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan was of a high standard, without crossing over into the remarkable. While every element was enjoyable, none embedded itself into the listener’s memory. The evening’s beautiful setting seemed to be attuned to the music. It was a pleasant open-air ambience on the expansive grounds of the Rajaji Vidyashram school. The stage was erected on casuarina stilts, with a brightly decorated set. To the left of the stage was a large screen that showed the concert in progress. So the audience had a double view of the performers. It was a ‘full bench concert,’ as Gayathri noted in the course of the event — with violin (Mysore Srikant), mridangam (Ganapthi Raman), ghatam (Krishna Sreeram) and kanjira (Alathur Rajaganesh). And with Gayathri’s resplendent blue sari adding to the sparkle, there was little doubt it would be a nice evening. Soothing Kalyani And it was. The central piece was Kalyani (Swati Tirunal’s ‘Pankaja Lochana’) — a good one — but since Kalyani is one of those ragas which has been tried and tested for generations, there is practically very little scope for innovation. Gayathri, indeed, sang it well. After the opening lines, she plunged into the third and final verse (‘Sundaratara rupa’), choosing ‘Vrundavananta’ for niraval and swaras. But it was the earlier big piece, Sriranjani, that brought forth Gayathri’s mettle. The way she rendered the alapana reminded one of the legendary musician M.S. Subbulakshmi, and her focus was obviously on the aesthetics rather than acrobatics—a very leisurely and relaxing rendition. Srikant followed in her footsteps, producing a slow, briga-less alapana.  Tyagaraja’s ‘Marubalka’ followed in a brisk gait, in notable contrast to the slowness of the alapana, duly bringing in several variations in ‘Ma mano ramana’ in sangatis. The contrast in speeds reflected in the swara too, as the vocalist skipped the slower pace, making a keen listener frown a bit. The concert had opened with Papanasam Sivan’s ‘Sri Vatapi Ganapathiye’ in Sahana and had segued into a brisk Mayamalavagowla, for Tyagaraja’s ‘Tulasidalamula’, without alapana but with sumptuous swaras. Wedged between Sriranjani and Kalyani was a glacially slow ‘Akhilandeswari’ (Dikshitar, Dwijavanti). At the end of it all, the one piece that stood out was the short Tamil virutham in ragam Saramati, which Gayathri sang after the organisers allowed her a little extra time beyond the scheduled 8 p.m. close. That, and the final piece, Gopalakrishna Bharati’s Sama composition, ‘Varuvaro varam taruvaro’ was like ice-cream at the end of a satisfying meal. Ganapathi Raman, a mridangist who belongs to the style that emphasises gentle taps and nudges, ably accompanied Gayathri. He was supported enthusiastically by Sreeram and Rajaganesh, especially during the short thani which was again an enjoyable affair.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The rise of the third generation||Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer strode Carnatic music like a colossus. However, nobody in his family followed in his footsteps. Explains his eldest daughter, Santha Kasy Aiyar: “My father was not in favour of his children pursuing music professionally. He felt that involvement in music would hamper our academics. He gave a lot of importance to formal education. Earnings through music concerts were uncertain then; success required a lot of luck besides talent and rigorous practice.” In many cases, however, even if the second generation has eschewed their legacy, it has been picked up by the third. It’s the grandchildren of the legends who have kept the music flowing. In a discussion filled with mirth and nostalgia, seven third-generation musicians spoke about lineage and what it means to them. School first Despite almost all these youngsters performing to rave reviews even before they were teenagers, most of their parents had insisted that they pursue academics alongside. Vocalist Palghat R. Ramprasad, grandson of mridangist Palghat Mani Iyer, is a Ph.D in Economics. Vocalist Sikkil Gurucharan, grandson of Sikkil Kunjumani, one of the Sikkil Sisters flautists, has a Masters in Financial Management. Anantha R. Krishnan, grandson of mridangist Palghat R. Raghu, did a Masters in Music. Akkarai Subhalakshmi, granddaughter of composer and musician Suchindram S.P. Sivasubramaniam, studied Commerce, while her sister Sornalatha studied Computer Science and followed it up with a Masters in Music. Praveen Sparsh, grandson of mridangist Thanjavur Upendran, and J.A. Jayanth, grandson of flautist T.S. Sankaran, are engineers with degrees in Electronics. There’s no doubt their legacy often eases their path. It’s easier to get initial performing opportunities since it is assumed that a stalwart’s grandchild will surely pass muster. Second, reputed artistes agree more willingly to be accompanists. And finally, soft skills are absorbed from childhood by osmosis. As Ramprasad says, “How to interact with organisers, senior artistes and peers comes naturally.” Even staying on in the field is aided by antecedents, says Anantha. It was different for the Akkarai sisters though. Their grandfather was largely unknown in Chennai, and it is they who are now making the world aware of him, by presenting his compositions at their concerts. They released a book of his compositions on his birth centenary. Musical provenance does not always mean everyone becomes a performer. Many siblings have displayed talent and appreciated music, but have not been keen to take the stage. A lineage does mean, though, that the family better understands the ‘quirks’ of an artiste. “Music is a selfish pursuit. We are often unavailable to others even when we are physically present,” says Anantha. Interestingly, the second generation opting for financially stable professions has often helped the third return to the arts without worrying too much about the risks involved. Mythili Chandrasekaran, daughter of Sikkil Kunjumani, says her husband encouraged Gurucharan to become a professional singer since they were available as a safety net if needed. The Akkarai Sisters explain, “It was necessity that forced our father to take up a regular job even though music was his passion. But because of him, we never had to worry about finances. He wanted us to achieve what he could not.” All the musicians acknowledge that their financial security has allowed them to be discerning in the performance choices they make — a contrast from the past. T.R. Rajaram, Palghat Mani Iyer’s son, and father and guru to Ramprasad, “Money in music was really hard to come by in our days. There were very few sabhas and hardly any sponsors. My father wanted us to have stable careers.” The flipside Comparisons are inevitable when you inherit a legacy. Not just for Anantha, Praveen and Jayanth, who took up the same instruments as their musician grandparent, but even for Gurucharan, who became a vocalist and learned from many gurus. He says, “One guru told me that I sing like the flute and it was unbecoming!” On the flip side, oganisers cite long associations with their grandparents to negotiate lower rates. Praveen and Jayanth believe music is a profession like any other, and needs a proper discussion of remuneration, legacy notwithstanding.  As for emulating their illustrious grandparents, some of the musicians say that the values, social mores and even the music has changed since their grandparent’s days and it is not possible to just blindly imitate. However, Ramprasad, who was barely six months old when Mani Iyer died, wishes to continue unaltered the legacy he has inherited. Gurucharan is more cautious: “Only time will tell,” he says. All agree, however, that their lineage is a source of perennial inspiration. Praveen never met his grandfather, but his aura has exerted an impact. “When his peers speak of him with so much affection, it is a mystery to me; something I am trying to connect with.” If these young artistes have been able to retrace the path drawn by their grandparents, it has been because of the support and sacrifices of the second generation, their parents. Jayanth’s father played the mridangam for him every night after returning from a hard day at work. Mythili used to take days off to ensure the young Gurucharan was ready for his concerts. The Akkarai Sisters attribute everything to their parents — their father who is their guru, and their mother, the mitigating influence. Ramprasad feels guilty about his inability to give his daughters “even a fraction” of the musical mentoring he received from his father. “If I began performing from a young age, it was only due to his time and effort.” Listening to the young performers, it is interesting to learn that formidable musical legacies seem to have skipped a generation not so much by choice as necessity. And to wonder at the talents that stayed in the shadows to let a new generation bloom.  The author writes on classical music and musicians.   Some say the values, social mores, and even the music has changed and it is not possible to just blindly imitate their grandparents
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The artistic voyage||How do three creative artistes from different streams dialogue with each other? In this case a musician, a dancer, and a poet. Their languages are dissimilar, but in ideas, there is a confluence. A recent online conversation between Bombay Jayashri, Alarmel Valli and Arundhati Subramaniam titled Convergence gave ample evidence of the intertextuality between these creative expressions that manifest differently. Music, dance and poetry form an integral part of their individual art practices – shaping, extending and awakening their imaginative processes with fresh ruminations. “The three are inseparable,” said Alarmel Valli, known for her deeply internalised style of dance poetry. “Dance is poetry, dance is music. You must see the music and hear the dance. You must be aware of the music of texts, they are not mere words and melody,” she explained, speaking of her teacher, the legendary musician T. Mukta, who taught her to examine the space - meaning between notes and silences. Valli recalled a performance by the iconic Balasaraswati when she was conferred the Sangita Kalanidhi award. “I was 15 years old. She performed a single phrase 15 times, and image followed image seamlessly. From that unforgettable performance, I later realised that dance, music and poetry had fused in her performance. I couldn’t separate them in recollection. The dancer and dance had become one. It is that poornatva (completeness) that every artiste aspires for.” Jayashri used to learn dance in Bombay, and her guru, Nagarajan Master, could perform a single phrase for two hours. “This was much before I learnt neraval and kalpana swaram as a student of music, and when I did learn, the creative explorations of my dance teacher enriched my music. It helped me conceive my music differently.” Reminiscing about one of their joint collaborations, in which Jayashri had sung ‘Payyada,’ the padam made immortal by T. Brinda, Valli remarked: “How beautifully you rendered that padam ! You dance within yourself, and music for you is a manifestation of dance. That is the reason why I can lose myself when you sing, and see so many different emotional shades.” One’s own voice Moving from performing arts to poetry, how does a poet become herself? Answering Jayashri’s question, poet Arundhati Subramaniam said the books one reads and the conversations one has become one’s guru. In the early phase, one imitates those one admires, at times even dead poets. “The most crucial thing for a poet is to find one’s own voice.” Going through all the historical and cultural processes and influences, to find the right timbre and recognise it as your own, the “that sounds like me” moment, is truly magical for a poet. “When you combine that authenticity with artistry, you have a poem. But the rest of the time it is hard work, a lot of reading and writing.” “I’ve always envied poets,” said Valli, a voracious reader herself. “The language, the idioms, the layering, and the metaphors... how much of it is crafted?” she asked Arundhati with curiosity. “A lot of it is craft, but it always has to begin with an image. That’s when you know you’re not caught up with the cerebral. I trust only an image, and I follow it. Images are wiser than me,” she replied. The three artistes were brought together for this talk by FICCI Ladies Organisation, Chennai Chapter. Curious about each other’s artistic processes, they spoke also of how they have been impacted by the pandemic, the isolation and closure of performance spaces. Here, Valli made a sharp and paradoxical observation: It has also increased “cacophony”, she said. Artistes need silence to create, but with the digital “overcompensation,” that peace is disturbed. She said also that it has created an illusion. “Everything that is put on screen can be doctored,” said Alarmel. “What is real? What is not real? There is just too much confusion.” Lost in translation The other challenge the digital medium poses is that it expects dance, essentially a three-dimensional art form, to translate into a two-dimensional one. “Something is always lost in translation; we have to seriously think how to recreate for the camera.” Arundhati concurs with all of it — the sensuous negotiation with the real world is lost, there is disquiet, but it is also an opportunity, she says. The possible positives for Arundhati are that the artiste can take control of her creative life, becoming the curator-choreographer. “It is an opportunity to become creative entrepreneurs, to speak when we want, how we want and what we want and not be bullied by festival organisers. It is also possible to change the frequency of mainstream discourse, which I think in some ways can control the cacophony.” For Jayashri it has been a period of “remembering”, cherishing moments she spent with her guru. But isn’t the act of creation a judicious balance between remembering and forgetting? Jayashri agrees with Arundhati’s view: there are times when she is “happy to forget”. The conversation carried on — a good artiste can never be an uni-dimensional person. She has to be equally inspired by nature, philosophy, books and more. The creative process is about layering, weaving, and connecting with other art forms. And it carried on — the richness and seamlessness of different art forms takes place in collaborative efforts. And it carried on....
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Light, camera, concert||Sitting in a large auditorium full of empty seats and watching an eminent artiste perform is an exceptionally strange experience for a rasika. In a sense, it is a way to know what it takes to challenge the old and create anew. Understanding how artistes and organisers are grappling with the new normal is especially important today when the classical arts are struggling with a deep isolation and audience disconnect. December Season is here, but not with its usual excitement. Concerts are being streamed virtually for audiences. They are, however, being performed and recorded in the various sabha halls. We visited one such recording to give you a sneak peek into the mood and setting of these ‘remote’ Margazhi performances. On December 7, when the city was in the middle of torrential rainfall, inside the Narada Gana Sabha Hall, Bharatanatyam dancer Shobana was busy live-recording a performance that would be streamed as part of the Yours Truly Margazhi festival, presented by a consortium of 13 sabhas . As we enter the hall, recorded music echoes through the empty stands. It is switched off when the artiste and technicians pause to make some adjustments. Even though the duration of the final performance will be around 70 minutes, the recording stretches to a few hours. Canvas of emotions “Are cameras rolling?”calls out Shobana from the stage into the melting darkness of the auditorium. The cameramen signal assent, and the hall once again fills with music as the dancer performs the popular Purandaradasa piece, ‘Jagadodharana’, her face turning into a canvas of emotions. There are four cameras — two on both sides of the stage, one in row one, and one at the far end of the auditorium. “All cameras are capturing the action as you can see on the monitor,” says R. Sundar, treasurer, Federation of City Sabhas. Shobana suddenly stops in the middle of the performance. “I have to do that over again,” she says aloud. The cameras stop too. The shoot resumes and the dancer goes back to portraying Purandaradasa’s ecstatic praise of Krishna. Once the piece is successfully recorded, the crew applauds. Shobana gestures that she is going backstage to get ready for the next piece. “It’s a padam,” she says. A few seconds later, she is back on stage in a beautiful green and maroon costume, looking fresh. “All cameras rolling?” she asks again, then taking a stance, she hums, ‘Sakhi prana...’, the first few words of the padam. Shobana then transforms into a nayika, complaining to her friend about her lover who has been neglecting her for another woman. The song culminates in another round of applause. The dancer takes another two-minute break before the last item and then, it’s pack up. Visual appeal The next day, Jayanthi Kumaresh is sitting on the Narada Gana Sabha stage, veena in hand, waiting for recording to begin. The backdrop with golden pillars and lamps, resembling a temple entrance, is a visual treat. Add to that perfect audio and excellent pakkavadyam — Bangalore Arjunkumar on mridangam and Pramath Kiran on morsing/tabla — and you know an enjoyable concert is at hand. Jayanthi begins with the Kalyani raga kriti ‘Ganapate’. Softly addressing the (unseen) audience, she says, “It’s a different kind of season.” She then moves on to play the alapana of Kanada, for the kriti, ‘Sukhi Evvaro’. Her veena frets shine brightly on the camera monitor. As the concert progresses with more pieces, bringing out Jayanthi’s artistry to the fullest, the eerily silent auditorium resounds with the soothing notes from her strings. With a few pauses here and there, the shoot continues uninterrupted as the artistes get deeply entrenched in their music; an RTP in Behag follows and then a ragamalika swaraprasthara and tani. As you walk out of the hall, you realise that the artistes are fairly unflustered by the change, giving full expression to their art even in the empty halls. The organisers too are trying to offer the best virtual experience. For the rasikas, though, what’s missing is the joy of sitting in a sabha and keeping the beat, and nodding their heads with many others.  The writer is a trained classical musician   There are four cameras — two on both sides of the stage, one in row one, and one at the far end of the auditorium
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil took centre stage again||True to the buzz leading up to Sanjay Subrahmanyan’s Tamizhum Naanum concert, virtual listeners thronged to savour the third edition of his popular format — a full concert in Tamil. He has advocated bringing the language to the forefront of Carnatic concerts and it was a message well delivered. The highlight of the concert was one of two tukkada segments, partitioned by a Ragam Tanam Pallavi. In the evolved scheme of digital life, there was also a ‘strategic time-out’ for the sponsors to make an appearance! The concert brought to light some rarely heard but sterling pieces by T.M. Thiagarajan, Papanasam Sivan and Arunachala Kavi. TMT’s Kalyana Vasantham varnam on Lord Ganesha offers apt phrases for the raga. ‘Kalaimagale’ by M.M. Dandapani Desikar in Saraswathi had a few sangathis and leaned towards a devotional form. That can actually be said of many Tamil kritis, which has been offered as a defence in the last century for not including them as part of a concert’s main segment. Their musical rigour against the monumental Trinity compositions was (and is) in question. A few singers like Sanjay are challenging that premise. Koteeswara Iyer’s Gayakapriya kriti, ‘Naadanilai’ is a masterly composition in a raga with several tricky boundaries. Sanjay’s rendition echoed that creativity well. He sang a pleasing Bahudari alapana and followed it up with Arunachala Kavi’s ‘Ramasamiyin dhoothan naanada’, singing it with gusto rather than tranquility. . A Hindustani RTP Sanjay’s choice of Patdeep, a Hindustani raga, for the RTP was interesting. The audava-sampoorna raga follows the Gowri Manohari scale with rishabham and daivatham missing in arohanam and is a popular choice for film songs. While Sanjay’s tanam evoked pleasing moments, Varadarajan’s alapana sketched the beauty of the raga succinctly. The kanta ekam pallavi, spanning all speeds, set on Subramania Bharati’s far-sighted words on women’s empowerment, was sung in quintessential Sanjay style, with verve and assuredness. The singer meshed well with his long-term accompanists, and they delivered some delightful punches. Varadarajan and Neyveli Venkatesh are masters in clever but subdued support. Sanjay’s voice was lively and malleable, traversing the peaks and troughs fluently. The second segment featured a kriti ‘Narayana’ in Komalangi (Raghava Ramanuja Dasan), a short viruttam that brought back shades of K.B. Sundarambal’s Saveri in an epochal film song, a Kapi kriti of Ramalinga Adigal (‘Orumaiyudan’), and yet another rare gem from Papanasam Sivan in Khamas (‘Thiruvalar Mylaiyin’). The repertoire was extensive. Sanjay offered a smart formula for making a short concert count. How does one distribute the time in a 90-minute outing and yet provide the semblance of a full fare? Featuring more songs is one tool. The other is keeping manodharma on an even keel and controlling the overruns with discipline. This formula has a flipside too. It feels like a well-planned album rather than a free-flowing kutcheri. His stature allows Sanjay the latitude for this trade-off. Many believe that in the Carnatic context, the language is a further ornamentation to the music rather than the other way around. If the aim of Sanjay’s crusade is to assign a pivotal spot for Tamil compositions in concerts, more kritis with enviable musical gloss need to be unearthed.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||An elegant padam in Atana||The new normal may not be so bad after all. Aishwarya Vidya Raghunath’s virtual concert for this sabha proved that. The online concert could accommodate at least three times more rasikas than the physical hall would have. If a dreamy Lalitha and a perfect Thodi were the highlights of the recital, the entire concert felt like an edge-of-the-seat thriller, not dragging even for a moment. After an all-encompassing alapana in Thodi, Aishwarya presented ‘Gajavadana Sammodhitha,’ a beautiful kriti by Kumara Ettendra, popularised by Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, her guru’s guru. It has a lilting chittaiswara. She rendered kalpanaswaras in the pallavi. On the violin, R. Raghul provided fitting responses during the raga delineation as well as in the swaraprasthara. The laya duo, Delhi Sairam (mridangam) and Anirudh Athreya (kanjira), offered a powerful thani with some lovely phrases in a rare misra kuraippu with khanda variations. Through the concert, the four were in complete synchrony. For online listeners, the absence of applause would have been better than the canned applause that was added as in TV series and match telecasts. Ragas well-explored After an extensive alapana in Lalitha, Aishwarya took up Syama Sastri’s ‘Nannu Brovu Lalitha’ (Misra Chapu). The niraval at ‘Ninnuvina Evarunnaru’ was well-essayed by the young vocalist, although there was no kalpanaswara. Equally laudable was Raghul’s violin accompaniment, especially his meditative segment earlier. The high point of the concert was undoubtedly Ghanam Krishna Iyer’s elegant Padam in Atana, ‘Thiruvottriyur Thyagarajan’ (Rupakam). Aishwarya sang this at Raghul’s request. The concert had begun with Tyagaraja’s ‘Lokavana Chathura’ (Begada, Adi), perhaps as a tribute to Aishwarya’s guru, P.S. Narayanaswamy. After an elegant niraval at ‘Sripathe Varada,’ she went on to offer swaras at the pallavi. In Manji, a rare type of Janya raga, she offered Dikshitar’s ‘Ramachandrena samrakshithoham’ (Rupakam). The raga evoked both bhakti and karuna rasas. If ‘Ekkalatthilum Maravene’ (Ramaswami Sivan - Nattaikurunji - Rupakam) had an unhurried charm, Swati Tirunal’s ‘Gopanandana Vararipu’ in Bhooshavali was brisk and vibrant. Aishwarya wound up the concert with Dharmapuri Subbaraya Iyer’s javali ‘Marubari Talanenura’ in Khamas and the Chenjurutti tillana of Veena Seshanna.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A concert well-designed||Two breezy fillers just ahead of the centrepiece served their purpose by making the detailed Sankarabharanam package sound doubly reposeful. G. Ravikiran’s concert showcased how intelligent design can unveil the rich variety of Carnatic music. The alapana of the main raga spanned a good 17 minutes. A large part of it trod along straight notes. Even the frilled passages seldom revelled in an overdose of microtones. A baritone stretch marked the end portion of the alapana, not in the least coming across as showmanship. Violinist H.N. Bhaskar followed the spirit, adding sheen by the sweetness of his bowing. ‘Enduku Peddala’ was the pivotal piece. The unhurried kalapramanam ensured a grand exploration of the aesthetics of the Tyagaraja kriti. The measured progression of the niraval, starting with the charanam line ‘veda sastra’ further unveiled the elegance of slow tempo. The swaraprastara had its final-passage notes frenziedly jostling for space in ways strikingly reminiscent of T.M. Krishna, Ravikiran’s guru since 2002. The adi tala tani avarthanam by K. Arunprakash (mridangam) and N. Guruprasad (ghatam) stood out for its fine sense of proportion. Ravikiran began his concert with what sounded like Gowlai, but soon strayed into Pantuvarali territory. The rendition of ‘Paralokabhaya’ made it clear the raga was Mandari, bearing a curious mix of sprightliness and repose. The second piece, too, started with an unwitting googly. The opening phrase of the alapana gave a momentary hint of Kiravani, though soon it was unmistakably all Anandabhairavi. Ravikiran sought to treat the tender raga rather boldly, even as Bhaskar’s cue highlighted the conventional loops. ‘Kamalamba,’ the first of Muthuswami Dikshitar’s Navavarana kritis, largely bore the style of Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, more so in Ravikiran’s utterances of the critical pa-sa sequences. ‘Parvati ninu ne’ in Kalagada raga, followed by a still speedier ‘Vachama gocharame’ (Kaikavashi) functioned as the harbingers to the Sankarabharanam suite. Bhava-rich rendition The post-thani quarter retained brightness with the pentatonic Hindolam. The rendition of Kanakadasa’s ‘Japavamadita renu’ was rich in bhava, with the lyrics in Kannada, Ravikiran’s mother tongue. Also, it is a song associated with R.K. Srikantan, who was Ravikiran’s guru in his formative years. The vocalist wound up with Subramanya Bharati’s peppy ‘Nenjukku neediyum’ where the top registers demonstrated his ease with making sudden forays. The mangalam concluded with a dash of Surutti. For all the patterning skills, a little more chiselling of the voice can add to the quality of Ravikiran’s modulations. It can make the loops more penetrative as well.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Hindustani scholarship programme||Are you a young musician who is looking for advanced training in Hindustani music? National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) is offering a scholarship in association with Citibank. The scholarship is for vocal (khayal/dhrupad) and percussion (tabla/ pakhawaj). Those in the 18-35 age group can apply for the training. The last date for submission of application is January 15, 2021. Candidates must email their applications to ncpascholarships@gmail.com. Beneficiaries of other scholarships/ grants and those with part-time/ full-time jobs won’t be considered. The audition of shortlisted candidates will be held in February, 2021. For more details, call 85910 64547.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||International webinar on music and dance||Aatmalaya will host a two-day international webinar ‘Chitaakaasham,’ dealing with various aspects of music and dance, on December 26 and 27, 10.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. The inaugural address on day one will be by Choodamani Nandagopal, Bengaluru, who will talk on ‘Talapramana in sculpture and rhythm, the live beat of Indian Arts.’ Other sessions on Day one will include ‘Stolen Time: The concept and practice of Rubato in European Classical Music,’ by Dr. David Claman and Dr. John McDonald, Medford, New York; Mysuru S. Nandakumar’s presentation ‘Maatrakal i Prabandha’ followed by three segments on rhythm and music by Rajashree Warrier, Satvik Venkatesh and Saralaya Sisters. The webinar on the second day will begin with Dr. Deepti Omchery Bhalla’s ‘Moods and expressions in the rhythms and melodies of Kerala’ and will be followed by Padmaja Suresh’s session on ‘choreography and metaphysical aspects of sound.’ The events on December 27 will conclude with Monis Nayak’s presentation ‘Tala-Aakriti/The Pulse of Kathak.’ To join the meeting access https://us02web.zoom.us/j/4580518075?. Meeting id: 458 051 8075; passcode: Namaste.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Personal journey continues||The inaugural concert of Yours Truly Margazhi by Sandeep Narayan has probably set a certain benchmark for the virtual concerts, which are much shorter than regular sabha fare. Sandeep did not compress his concert and also did not stick to a regular format (except for the customary mangalam) yet delivered a full experience with two fairly detailed ragas and a total of five songs covering diverse emotions, tala variations, languages and composers. Sandeep cut to the chase straightway. Instead of a varnam, he started with a brisk and high-spirited ‘Brova Barama’ ( Tyagaraja ) in Bahudari. Taking off with a longish, popular melody is a good idea in the shorter format because it allows for a quick warm-up and an instant connect with the audience. The Thodi that followed brought back memories of last Margazhi. At his Krishna Gana Sabha concert last year, the elaborate Thodi that he sang became a talking point among rasikas for its unusual flavour and the depth of expressions. Sandeep himself had said that he was enjoying a personal journey with the raga. Efficient detailing It looks like his journey is continuing. Despite the format’s constraints, he sang the raga for about eight minutes, bringing out its character subtleties quite well. In fact, it appeared longer because of his efficient detailing. The composition was ‘Venugana Ramana’ by Oothukadu Venkata Kavi. The niraval at ‘Karunya Komala’  and the  kalpanaswaras  were evocative and thrilling. The interlude before the next big piece in Dwijavanti was a brisk ‘Kamala Charane’ in Amruthabehag , a composition by G.N. Balasubramaniam (the raga is also his creation). Sandeep revelled in its lilting sangathis and peppy chittaswarams, making it a real joyride. A bhava-rich raga such as Dwijavanti sounds more beautiful and languid after a flourish of sangathis and twisted swaras. The composition was the all-too-familiar ‘Akhilandeswari’  by  Muthuswami Dikshitar.  What Sandeep sang  was one of the best expositions of the raga I have heard in recent times. He sang his heart out, going to all possible depths and heights to bring out the raga’s complex expressions. Many say, it is bhakti and karuna , but after listening to Sandeep, I thought it was also a lot of pain and joy. Did I pay attention to the Ga-s and Ni-s ? Probably yes, but only subconsciously, as the raga opened its hidden emotions to me. Sandeep finished the concert on a high with Arunagirinathar’s ‘Nada Vindu’ in Chenjurutti. Yes, he also sang the mangalam. It was a smart concert. It had classicism, it was evocative, thrilling, and to the point. After the performance, Sandeep told me: “I wanted to do justice to whichever piece I presented... So, you have to choose songs which can cover as many raga contrasts, talam variations, composers, and languages as possible in such a short duration.” Needless to say, the mridangam accompaniment by Umayalpuram Sivaraman and violin by Mysore Srikanth added considerable depth to the concert. Even at this age, a stoic Sivaraman played for the compositions and for the manodharma of the singer, while Srikanth, with his characteristic Zen presence, truthfully followed the voice. Overall, a great start to the season.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Music for the people||Director Pa. Ranjith’s Neelam Panpaattu Maiyam presents ‘Margazhiyil Makkal Isai’ from December 24 to 31. The event brings together folk artistes and independent musicians from across the State, who will present folk songs, gaana, hip-hop and rap. The event will be held at multiple venues. The first three days at Vani Mahal will feature folk artistes and Gana singers. On December 27 and 28, hip-hop and oppari singers will perform at Mylapore Fine Arts Club. Themmangu, another Tamil folk form, and Arivoli songs will be performed on December 29 and 30 at Raja Annamalai Mandram. The event will conclude with a performance by Casteless Collective on December 31. For tickets and further details, go to: www.townscript.com
18 December 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Accept farmers’ demands, end stalemate’||Congress leaders in Haryana on Thursday asked the BJP-led government at the Centre to accept farmers’ demands to end the stalemate between the farmers and the government over the new farm laws, a day after a preacher allegedly died by suicide at the Singhu border. Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda, who reached Karnal to pay last respects to the preacher, said farmers had been struggling for their demands in bone-chilling cold for past 22 days, but the Centre is not ready to give up its stubborn attitude. “The government should not look at accepting demand of farmers as a defeat. There had been six to seven rounds of talks between agitating farmers and Ministers, which did not yield any results. I urge the government to give up its obstinacy, show a big heart, leave Rajhat (obstinacy) and follow Rajdharma (ruler’s duties),” he said in Karnal. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said it is extremely shameful that on one hand the farmers are losing their lives and on the other hand the BJP government, instead of finding a solution, is constantly resorting to petty tricks to suppress the voice of the farmers. “How many more lives will this government take of the farmers. Nothing can be more unfortunate today that in this biting winter weather the farmers are forced to sit on the streets,” said Ms. Selja, adding that the BJP governments have no faith in democracy. In Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party’s in-charge of State affairs, Jarnail Singh, demanded the Centre government to immediately accept the demands of the farmers. “The government should immediately announce annulment of the agriculture Acts, by convening a special session of Parliament and to ensure legal guarantee of purchase of all crops at the MSP,” he said.  ‘Listen to farmers’ Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said the Centre government should shun inflexible attitude. “Prime Minister Narendra should listen to farmers and fulfill their demands,” he told journalists.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi not too happy with Centre’s panel to curb air pollution: CJI||Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on Thursday orally remarked that the people of Delhi are not too happy with the Centre’s Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas, set up to curb air pollution by preventing incidents of stubble-burning in neighbouring Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. “Our Commission is working in right earnest,” Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, submitted. “We don’t know what your Commission is doing, but people in Delhi are not happy,” Chief Justice Bobde remarked. The court was however informed that stubble burning has considerably decreased as the season has come to an end for this year. An affidavit filed by the Centre, however, claimed that there was a “marked improvement in air quality in the NCR region since 2016”. The affidavit said this was achieved through the “concerted efforts” of the various government agencies. It said days marked ‘good’, ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ pollution had increased to 182 in 2019 as against 108 in 2016. “Continuous ambient air quality monitoring system [CAAQMS] data for Delhi reveals annual concentration of PM [particulate matter] has decreased gradually since 2016. In 2019, PM levels reduced by 10%, PM 2.5 by 5%, as compared to 2018. In 2019, 121 days and 63 days were within National Ambient Air Quality Standards [NAAQS] compared to 98 and 48 days in 2018 for PM 2.5 and PM 10, respectively,” the affidavit said. On the working of the Commission chaired by former Delhi Chief Secretary M.M. Kutty, the affidavit said, it was functioning under the “overall supervision” of the Centre. “In terms of the mandate of the Ordinance, the Commission has adopted a consolidated and conjoint approach in monitoring, tackling and research in air pollution, and specifically monitoring measures by States to prevent factors causing air pollution like stubble burning, industrial emissions, road dust, vehicular pollution, construction activities, biomass burning and other major sources,” the affidavit said. It said 50 teams were deployed in Delhi NCR in October this year. The Commission for Air Quality Management in the National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Ordinance of 2020 was promulgated by the Centre recently.
18 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Online channel owner beaten up||A man running his own online news channel was beaten up with rods by around half-a-dozen men in Karnal, causing serious injuries in an attack a week ago. Five persons have been arrested in this connection, said the police. One of the accused, Gurmeet alias Ghelu, had allegedly threatened the victim, Akarshan Uppal, six months ago for reporting about the arrest of his brother in a drug-peddling case. Akarshan and his colleague Rinku were returning from a reporting assignment on December 7 when Gurmeet and his accomplices, accosted the duo near a canal on Kaithal Road and allegedly attacked them.  Hit on the head Akarshan was hit on the head and the right hand. During the attack, Gurmeet shouted that the duo would be taught a lesson for being journalists. The assailants allegedly tried to push Akarshan into the canal, but they ran away after Rinku raised an alarm, said the FIR. Rinku told The Hindu over phone that he along with Akarshan had reported about the arrest of a drug-peddler in Karnal in June. The accused later died in the judicial custody following which Gurmeet, the deceased’s brother, allegedly threatened to eliminate Akarshan and his family. Some locals tried to intervene into the matter and resolve it, but a FIR was later registered in the connection, said Rinku.
18 December 2020||FARIDABAD,||Controversy over hospital renaming||The Haryana government’s proposal to rename the city’s civil hospital after late Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee has been mired in controversy with the Opposition leaders alleging that it had “communal motives”. Rechristened as “Nagrik Haspatal” four years ago along with all civil hospitals in the State, it was earlier known as “Badshah Khan Hospital” after prominent leader Abdul Ghaffar Khan. A letter from Director General Health Services, Haryana, to the Chief Medical Officer, Faridabad, earlier this month says the Chief Minister has desired that Civil Hospital, Faridabad, be renamed to “Shri. Atal Behari Vajpayee Hospital, Faridabad”. “It is officially known as ‘Nagrik Haspatal’ for the past couple of years, but now it has been affiliated to Shri Atal Behari Vajpayee Medical College and thus being renamed. We have already renamed it in the official correspondence. Besides, we will soon change the name on the signboards as well,” said Principal Medical Officer, Faridabad, Dr. Vinay Gupta. Nuh MLA and Deputy Leader of Congress Legislative Party Aftab Ahmed objected to the move saying it was an insult to the great Muslim leader. “When all hospitals were renamed as “Nagarik Hospital” four years ago where is the need to rename Faridabad Hospital. It is a ploy and has communal motives. The Haryana government is only good at changing names,” said Mr. Ahmed.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Nod to protest in residential area can set wrong precedent: HC||Expressing concern over the continuing protest outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence here, which has been going on for 11 days , the Delhi High Court on Thursday said permitting such demonstrations in a residential area could set a wrong precedent. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva said the protest may be peaceful, but if a precedent is set, then anyone would come and squat there as they do in areas like Ramlila ground or Jantar Mantar here, which are designated spots for holding protests. “There is no problem if you come, protest and then go away. But this has been going on for 11 days continuously. If this is permitted for all time to come, then you know what is the state of certain areas like Ramlila ground and Jantar Mantar, where squatting and protests are permitted. We cannot have that kind of a situation in a residential colony,” the High Court said. Delhi Police has said that 20-25 people, including Mayors and Councillors of the municipal corporations, started protesting from December 7 at Flag Staff Road outside the Chief Minister’s residence. The High Court’s observation came while hearing a plea by the Civil Lines Residents Association against the protest outside the CM’s residence on the grounds that it was blocking a road and causing inconvenience to residents of the area. The association said the protest has been permitted in a residential area and roads leading there have been barricaded in violation of the High Court’s 2017 direction to restrict dharnas in residential areas and to keep roads clear. The Mayors of the three civic bodies have been protesting outside the Chief Minister’s residence seeking release of funds and clearance of alleged pending dues payable to the civic bodies. The High Court asked the government whether some arrangement can be made for the protesters. Meanwhile, a resident of the area who lives adjacent to the CM’s residence, told the court there was no interference or disturbance by the protesters and that the road in front of Mr. Kejriwal’s home was clear. The High Court will hear the case again on Friday.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||Defamation plaint: plea by Tiwari, Gupta against their summons rejected||The Delhi High Court on Thursday rejected the pleas of BJP MP Manoj Tiwari and party MLA Vijender Gupta, seeking quashing of the summons issued against them in a defamation complaint filed by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. Mr. Tiwari and Mr. Gupta had challenged a trial court’s November 28, 2019 order summoning them and others as accused in the criminal defamation case filed by Mr. Sisodia. Mr. Sisodia had filed a defamation complaint against the BJP leader for allegedly levelling corruption charges against him in relation to Delhi government schools’ classrooms. Earlier, the Delhi government Standing Counsel (Criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing the State, sought dismissal of the petitions and said the two BJP leaders cannot keep on saying anything against an honest person and malign him because they have the backing of the Union government.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi reports 1,363 new virus cases and 35 deaths||The Capital on Thursday recorded 1,363 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 6,13,357. In a 24-hour period, 35 deaths and 2,391 recoveries were also recorded, according to a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government. The total number of deaths now stands at 10,182 and total recoveries at 5,90,977. There are 12,198 active cases in the city at present. The number of containment zones now stands at 6,376. The bulletin added that 90,354 tests had been conducted in the 24-hour period with a positivity rate of 1.51%, which is the lowest since August 31 when the Capital had recorded 1,358 cases. The death rate based on data of the past 10 days was 2.45%. The positivity rate has stayed below 2% for the third consecutive day. Out of the 90,354 tests conducted, 49,102 were RT-PCR tests and 41,252 were RAT. The Capital has so far tested 75,41,348 people.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maximum temperature settles at 7° below normal||The maximum temperature in the Capital settled seven degrees below normal at 15.3 degrees Celsius on Thursday, making it the coldest day of the season despite there being clear skies and bright sunshine. As was forecast, the cold wave and cold day conditions persisted in the Capital as cold winds continued to blow towards the plains from the Himalayas that have received fresh snowfall. The minimum temperature was 4.6 degrees Celsius, which was three degrees below normal for the season. The weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road Ridge and Ayanagar recorded even lower minimum temperatures at 4.5, 4.2, 3.5 and 3.8 degrees Celsius respectively. Palam was the coldest place here during the day, having recorded a maximum of 13.2 degrees Celsius. The IMD had declared a cold wave in Delhi on Tuesday when the cold winds brought the minimum temperature down to 4.1 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the city this season so far. For the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave when the minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or below and is 4.5 notches less than normal for two consecutive days. But for small areas such as Delhi, a cold wave can be declared if the criteria is fulfilled even for a day. Meanwhile, the air quality was recorded in the “poor” category with the average 24-hour reading of the city showing an AQI reading of 256. The forecast for Friday reads “mainly clear sky with cold day conditions at most places and severe cold day conditions at isolated places and cold wave conditions at a few places. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to settle between 16 and 4 degrees. The cold is likely to persist till next week, the forecast shows.
18 December 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Social distancing a way of life for Odisha tribals||The tribal population in Odisha was largely untouched by the COVID-19 pandemic as its unique customary practices  and traditions were in sync with the preventive measures to keep infection at bay, finds a study by Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute (SCSTRTI), a premier government-run research institute on indigenous people.  Speading awareness “The spread of coronavirus has happened on a limited scale in tribal areas because of two main reasons — maintaining social distancing is a distinct feature of tribals’ traditional way of life, and the government has been proactive in spreading awareness about the precautions to combat the disease,” SCSTRTI director A. B. Ota said here on Thursday. According to the study: “By habit, they [the tribals] walk mostly in rows, instead of in groups. While walking, they maintain a reasonable distance from one another. According to Suresh Wadaka, a Dongria Kondh from Khambesi village under the Kurli gram panchayat in Rayagada district, when the tribal people walk, especially on slopes, they maintain a distance so that if someone slips, then the following person will not be affected and also can extend a helping hand.” Prof. Ota said awareness about COVID-19 was high among the tribal population as they had not only physically resisted the entry of outsiders into their villages, but also voluntarily informed local anganwadi workers and health department officials to quarantine those who returned to the villages and tried to enter their houses secretly. “Social distancing and hygiene norms, rooted in the tribal culture, have helped them stay safe during pandemic,” he pointed out. Festivities toned down Though it was not easy to bring behaviourial change in tribal community, people were forthcoming in complying advisories about precautions to be taken. In most parts of the State, tribals had toned down celebration of different festivals.
18 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Crop procurement issue taken to Rajasthan HC||The issue of procurement of all kharif crops for 2020-21 at minimum support prices not being started in Rajasthan has been brought to the High Court, with a farmers’ body alleging that the State government has excluded two important crops, cotton and bajra, from the Price Support Scheme (PSS). A plea was also raised for establishment of permanent procurement centres at village panchayats. In its public interest writ petition, the Kisan Welfare Society of Pali said the State government had withdrawn cotton and bajra from the ambit of PSS on October 28 despite the Centre having declared minimum support prices for the two crops in its notification issued on June 5 this year. Petitioner’s counsel Moti Singh Rajpurohit said the crops of paddy, jowar, bajra, raagi, maize, cotton, moong, groundnut, soybean, arhar, urad and sunflower were listed by the Union government for the State for procurement on MSP. However, the State government has not established purchase centres for crops, except moong, urad and groundnut, so far. A Division Bench at the High Court’s principal seat in Jodhpur issued notices on the petition on Wednesday to the State government, Union government and the Rajasthan State Cooperative Marketing Federation, asking them to file affidavits stating full details of the procurement of crops. The Bench, comprising Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Rameshwar Vyas, asked the respondents to submit their replies in two weeks and posted the matter for further hearing on January 4.  Low prices The Kisan Welfare Society pointed out that though the MSP of cotton and bajra had been fixed at Rs. 5,515 and Rs. 2,150 per quintal, respectively, the farmers were forced to sell these crops at much lower prices in the open market. “There was a bumper crop of bajra, estimated at 50 lakh metric tonnes, in Rajasthan this year, but the farmers have been unable to get the MSP for their produce,” the petition stated.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘In sexual harassment inquiry, complainant’s temperament extraneous’||The Delhi High Court has remarked that when a woman complains against her male colleague for sexual harassment, her own efficiency or inefficiency or temperament or the fact that disciplinary proceedings were initiated or are pending against her, are completely irrelevant and extraneous to the inquiry. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Asha Menon said if there is nothing to show that the officer, who imposed the punishment to the woman, has been targeted by her by filing a complaint of sexual harassment against him, such punishments or proceedings cannot have any bearing on the inquiry into a sexual harassment complaint. The court’s remark came while setting aside a single judge Bench imposing a costs of Rs. 50,000 on a woman after concluding that the sexual harassment complaint made by her against a fellow employee appears to be false. In the 17-page judgment, the High Court underlined that sexual harassment is a serious issue that needs to be addressed at all work places urgently and sensitively. “It is impossible not to notice all around us, how easily the ‘common woman’ is put down by the ‘common man’. Less said the better of what happens to the third gender!” the court remarked. “Gender conditioning where the man develops a superiority complex, while the woman doubts her own capacity, starts very early in life. It need not be in the form of a tutorial, but certainly as subtle data to the minds of young children, about their privileges or lack of it,” the court said.
18 December 2020||New Delhi,||NDMC distributes 811 tablets||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) distributed 811 tablets free of cost to students of Class X and XII of four schools under it on Thursday. The tablets were given under the ‘Smart City Project’ and they have a 10-inch display and 32 GB expandable memory. Chairperson of the NDMC, Dharmendra, launched the pilot project by distributing tablets to students of four schools at Atal Adarsh Bengali Balika Vidyalaya in Gole Market.
18 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘AAP’s sympathy for farmers a mere drama’||The Delhi Congress on Thursday said that the AAP government had admitted in the special session of the Delhi Assembly that it had wounded the feelings of the farmers of Delhi by endorsing one of the three anti-farmer Acts passed by the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said it was strange that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal expressed remorse without actually withdrawing the notification of endorsing one of the three anti-farmer Acts, which proved that all his ‘sympathy’ for the farmers’ cause was a mere drama. “Why did it take the Delhi government nearly five months to realise that the anti-farmer Acts of the Modi government favoured a few chosen corporate houses and was detrimental to the interest of the farmers?” Mr. Kumar asked during the special session of the Delhi Assembly that passed a resolution against the three farm laws brought in by the Centre. The Delhi Congress also said to revive Delhi’s shrinking economy and provide relief to traders, who had to stop running businesses as their units were “illegally” sealed by the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, the party would be introducing a resolution in the SDMC on December 21.
18 December 2020||December 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to life||
18 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. approves biogas plant||The Punjab cabinet on Thursday gave in-principle approval for setting up of a Compressed Bio Gas (CBG) plant by Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCL) in Patiala. The plant will help reduce stubble burning through use of paddy straw for bio gas generation, and will also nurture soil fertility through organic manure production, said an official statement. The plant will be set-up at the now closed Cooperative Sugar Mills at Rakhra in Patiala. The Cabinet authorised the Cooperation Minister to settle all terms and conditions, including that of land lease agreement in respect of 25 acres or more area of the closed sugar mill, to be provided to IOCL for setting up the CBG Plant, said the statement. “The upcoming CBG plant, which will create direct and indirect employment opportunities, will have capacity of 30 tonne CBG (Compressed Bio Gas) production, with daily feedstock capacity of approximately 300 tons of paddy straw, per day,” it said.
