18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||What mechanism do you have against fake news, SC asks govt.||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to explain its “mechanism” against fake news and bigotry on air, and to create one if it did not already exist. Inability on the government’s part may well see the job go to an “outside agency,” the court said. “Why should we ask private entities like NBSA, etc., when you have the authority? If such an authority does not exist, create one... If you cannot, then we will hand it over to an outside agency,” Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. Chief Justice Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, said the court was “disappointed” with the contents of the latest government affidavit, filed by Information and Broadcasting Secretary Amit Khare, in the Tablighi Jamaat case. The case is based on petitions, including by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, against the communal colour given by certain sections of the electronic media to the holding of a Tablighi Jamaat event in the National Capital during the lockdown. The affidavit maintained that media coverage “predominantly struck a balanced and neutral perspective” in the past few months. It explained that as a “matter of journalistic policy, any section of the media may highlight different events, issues and happenings across the world as per their choice.” It was for the viewer to choose from the varied opinions offered by the different media outlets. Mr. Khare said the petitions in the court contained vague assertions against the media based on “fact-checking news reports”. Besides, the government had already blocked 743 social media accounts and URLs spreading fake news on COVID-19. The court rejected the affidavit as inadequate. “We are disappointed with your affidavit... We want to know how you are employing the Cable TV Act. We want to know the quantum of applicability of the Act... What is the legal remedy when there are complaints?” Chief Justice Bobde asked Mr. Mehta.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Mixed response from students as colleges reopen||While a good number of graduate and post-graduate students turned out for classes in some colleges in the city, there was poor response in other colleges on the first day of reopening on Tuesday. A sizeable number among the 1,300 final year degree students turned up for classes at St. Aloysius (Autonomous) College in the city. Post-graduate students of the college have been attending classes since October this year. As per the standard operating procedure prescribed by the State government, final year degree students attending physical classes were asked to bring a consent letter from their parents and a COVID-19 negative certificate. “It is good to be back with peers. Physically attending classes will help clarify many doubts,” said Dhanush, a final year BA student of the college. College principal Rev. Praveen Martis said that students were divided into two batches. While one set of about 40 students will attend classes from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m., the other batch will be class from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. Six classes, with each one being of 45 minutes duration, will be conducted every day for each batch. “We have blended offline and online mode of teaching,” he said and added that attendance on the first day far exceeded their expectation. A good number of students from among 380 students, who have opted for physical classes, attended classes at P. Dayananda Pai-P.Satisha Pai Government First Grade College on Car Street. “Of the over 950 final year degree and post-graduate students, 60 % have opted for online classes,” said college principal C. Rajashekar Hebbar. Students attending classes had obtained COVID-19 negative certificate following RT-PCR test done at the college on Saturday. On Tuesday, health staff from the Urban Public Health Centre, Bunder, were at the college to conduct free tests . Among those who underwent the tests include Radha Poojary and Sunita Putran from final year BA. “I was a bit nervous to undergo the test. But with friends around, I just went through the process,” Ms. Putran said. Except for students who had come to finish admission formalities there were no one attending classes on the first day at the University College, Hampankatta. Of the 350 final year students, 40 have opted for physical classes. “We do not have any testing facility on campus. Students opted for tests at facilities near their residences today. We hope to have more students after three days,” said principal A. Harisha.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI/Srinagar,||Gupkar Alliance an unholy global gathbandhan: Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday termed the Gupkar Alliance, a coalition of Jammu and Kashmir political parties, an “unholy global gathbandhan” against the national interest. He asked if the Congress, reported to be in informal seat adjustment arrangements with the People’s Alliance of the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) for the District Development Council polls, endorsed what the alliance leaders had said on Article 370 restoration. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah were quick to criticise Mr. Shah. The Congress said it was not a part of the PAGD and asked the BJP to explain its 2015 alliance with the PDP. In a series of tweets, Mr. Shah said the “Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global  gathbandhan  ’ against our national interest. Either the Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it.” He accused the parties of trying to collude with foreign powers and showing disrespect to the Tricolour. Questioning the BJP’s criticism of the PAGD, Ms. Mufti said fighting elections in an alliance “is also anti-national now”. Mehbooba hits back In a tweet, Ms. Mufti said, “Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP’s narrative was that the ‘tukde tukde’ gang threatened India’s sovereignty and they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti-nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in and day out.” She said, “BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front”. The BJP’s tactic of dividing India by projecting itself as a saviour and political opponents as internal and imagined enemies was far too predictable now. “Love jihad, tukde tukde and now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of rising unemployment and inflation,” she observed. Mr. Abdullah also took to Twitter to respond to Mr. Shah’s tweets.
18 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||Conspiracy to scuttle State’s development, says Isaac||Continuing his tirade against the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report on the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Tuesday said a huge political conspiracy was hatched to scuttle the State’s development. Dr. Isaac who had earlier maintained that it was a draft report of the CAG, however, admitted it to be the final report for presenting in the State Assembly. Four pages which had not been in the draft report were added in the final report as part of a conspiracy hatched in Delhi, he told mediapersons here on Tuesday. “The CAG held no discussions with the State government before preparing it. As such, I thought it to be a draft report. Even if this is the final report, the issues raised by me are still relevant. The unilateral report of the CAG is aimed at destroying KIIFB and impeding development activities in the State. The real issue is not whether it is a draft or final report, but how the remarks in it are going to impact the development of the State. All political parties should come together to oppose the CAG report,” he said. CAG stand The CAG’s stand is that KIIFB loans are off-budget borrowings and it is the State government’s direct liability. It further notes that it is in violation of Article 293(1) of the Constitution, which means the State government is borrowing money without the approval of the Centre. The State government has no power to issue masala bonds. Replying to this, Dr. Isaac said the KIIFB loans were on-budget borrowings. “The KIIFB loans are not direct liabilities of the State government. They are only contingent liabilities.”  He said KIIFB had borrowed over Rs. 3,000 crore at the time of the CAG auditing. “The State government has already given a higher amount than borrowings as tax share. Further, corpus fund to the tune of Rs. 2,500 crore was also given. So far, Rs. 5,871 crore was handed over to KIIFB. There is no way KIIFB will create any direct liability. The liabilities of KIIFB will not become higher than the assets,” Dr. Isaac said. He added that KIIFB did not need a nod from the Centre for borrowing. “KIIFB is a corporate body. It is issuing masala bonds as per the directives issued by the Reserve Bank of India,” the Minister said, adding the United Democratic Front was creating smokescreen on the issue. CA issue On chartered accountant P. Venugopal’s association with KIIFB, the Minister said KIIFB’s statutory auditor was Varma and Varma. “When we released bonds, the bond depositors asked for an oversight auditor. We had invited tenders and a Chennai-based firm was appointed. P. Venugopal happened to be one of its partners,” he said.
18 November 2020||MYSURU,||Colleges reopen, but students’ response tepid||Degree colleges across Mysuru district reopened on Tuesday after nearly eight months. However, the response from students was tepid as only a few turned up to the classes conducted amid the fear of COVID-19 pandemic. Students having COVID-19 negative certificates were allowed to attend classes held amid safety protocols even as the Department of Health and Family Welfare and the Mysuru City Corporation had deployed teams in some colleges for collecting swabs as the test was made mandatory, besides the parents’ consent letter to attend classes. As of now, colleges have reopened for the final-year students pursuing graduate and postgraduate courses. Students were sensitised about the dos and don’ts in post-COVID-19 times before they stepped into sanitised classrooms wearing masks and sanitising their hands after mandatory thermal screening. Two students were allowed to sit in each bench. College managements had been told to sanitise the premises three days in advance.  Moments of joy Amid the COVID-19 fears, there were moments of joy as well among students as they could meet their peers after a long gap. The Manasagangotri campus of the University of Mysore also reopened but the classes are expected to start from Monday to ensure that students and staff members undergo the test. As on Tuesday, nearly 450 students had undergone the test with the university setting up temporary swab collection centres at three places on the campus. Registrar Shivappa told The Hindu that classrooms were being sanitised besides seating arrangements being done conforming to social distancing norms. “The department heads had taken steps accordingly for students’ safety. Test and parents’ permission are a must. However, it’s not mandatory for students to attend classes. They can continue to attend the online classes and other modes of learning if they wish,” he said.  Meanwhile, the Health Department has sent a list of all static testing centres and other centres undertaking COVID-19 tests to the colleges so that students and the staff make use of the facilities instead of waiting for the tests to be done on colleges campuses. “It’s not possible to conduct tests in every college. They (students) can get the tests done in already established centres. In Mysuru city alone, there are around 20 static testing centres,” said a government medical officer. At Maharani’s Arts and Science Colleges here, 400 students and the staff gave their swabs for the tests as a testing team was deployed for the purpose. The colleges witnessed low turnout as only a few students had come with COVID-19 negative certificate. District Vector Borne Diseases Control Officer Chidambar said, “We can deploy more teams provided each college mobilises around 200-plus students for the tests. Hopefully, the testing process will be completed in the next two-three days.” The MCC is also sending mobile testing teams to colleges on request. It is coordinating with the Health Department to complete the tasks on hand as they had been told to coordinate with the Department of Collegiate Education and college authorities – government as well private. “Wherever possible, they can get the tests done, even in the PHCs,” said MCC Health Officer D.G. Nagaraj, adding that testing in colleges will go on till Saturday. Dr. Nagaraj said 130 staff and 300 students underwent tests at the Maharani’s Arts College. Those having negative results in tests done in the last three days are allowed to attend classes. The tests in colleges are being conducted since the past four days and the testing schedule had been finalised till Saturday.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Last date extended for filing city ward committee membership applications||The Mangaluru City Corporation has allowed till December 4 for people to submit applications to become a member of ward committees. In a circular issued on behalf of corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar here on Tuesday, the corporation said that the decision to extend the date of filing the applications was made following a demand from people who are interested in taking active part in ward committees. The corporation had earlier said that November 17 was the last date for submission of applications. Members of Nagarika Samiti and MCC Civic Group said that for the last 15 days they have been answering queries and helping people in filing applications for ward committees. Narendra Kumar of the samiti told reporters here on Tuesday that they are holding programmes every day to collect forms and submit them at the office of the corporation Commissioner. So far, they have submitted 70 applications and are expecting about 250 applications in all, he said. While affirming their commitment to working towards involving more people in local governance through ward committees, Mr. Kumar appreciated the proactive steps by Mr. Sridhar to make more people apply for the ward committees. “I hope the process of nomination to ward committees will be transparent,” he said. He will meet Mayor Diwakar and share his concerns about the likely interference of councillors in the working of the ward committees. He will also ask the Mayor to ensure that the monthly meetings of the ward committees are held, Mr. Kumar said.
18 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Focus is on industrial development in tier-2 cities||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that the State government is moving ahead with its plan for industrial development with focus on tier-2 cities. Speaking at a consultation programme on employment and industry here on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar said that the investors meet in Hubballi, “Invest Karnataka-Hubballi”, had helped a great deal in facilitating industrial development in the northern districts of the State. The consultation was organised jointly by Kaushalya-Karnataka, the District Industries Centre, NABARD, the Entrepreneurship Development Centre, the Karnataka State Finance Corporation and other organisations. The Minister said that in the aftermath of the investors meet many companies and investors had come forward to invest in the northern districts, particularly in the Hubballi zone. With the establishment of IT and BT companies in the region, youths would get more employment opportunities, he added. “It is expected that around 40,000 jobs will be created through new investments in the region. Youths too should develop the requisite skill-sets. The government will extend all necessary help and incentives for those coming forward to establish new industries,” he said. Resource persons briefed the participants about the investment opportunities and the assistance that will come from the government in training manpower and related issues. On the occasion, musician Balachandra Nakod and a few other achievers were honoured. Chairman of Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority Nagesh Kalburgi, the former Mayor D.K. Chavan and others were present.  ‘Many companies and investors have come forward to invest, particularly in the Hubballi zone, and, with the establishment of IT and BT companies, youths will get more employment opportunities’
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Rainfall to decrease gradually||The Meteorological Department has forecast that there would be a gradual decrease in rainfall after Wednesday over the State. Rainfall activity would largely shift to south Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. The northeast monsoon has been intense over the past few days and has brought very heavy to heavy rainfall in many places during the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. Officials of the Meteorological department said the trough in easterlies from the Comorin area to north coastal Tamil Nadu has moved westwards and merged with the trough in easterlies from Maldives to Southeast Arabian sea. Very heavy rainfall S. Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said three places, including Thoothukudi (17 cm) received very heavy rainfall and 15 more places recorded heavy rainfall across the State during the past 24 hours till Tuesday morning. On Wednesday, many places in south Tamil Nadu and few areas in northern parts of the State may receive moderate rainfall. Only one or two places in the southern districts like Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Sivagangai and Nagapattinam may receive heavy rainfall. “There would be a dip in rainfall after Wednesday. There are chances of a low pressure area to form over the Southeast Arabian sea and intensify into depression around Thursday. But this may not impact the State as it would be away from the TN coast. Squally weather may prevail because of the weather system over Arabian sea and fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea near Kerala coast, Maldives and Lakshadweep areas,” he said. Intense and widespread rainspell over the past two days has helped to bring down the deficit in seasonal rainfall. Shortfall However, there is still a shortfall of 30% in northeast monsoon rainfall over the State. Tamil Nadu has so far registered an average of 20.5 cm of rainfall against its average of 29.2 cm since October 1. “We expect the next spell over Tamil Nadu around November 24 or November 25. This may further help reduce shortfall in monsoon rains,” added Mr. Balachandran. Chennai will experience only light rains in some areas till Thursday and the maximum temperature may rise slightly and will be around 31 degree Celsius.
18 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Minor rape survivor set ablaze by accused’s kin in U.P.||A minor Dalit rape survivor was allegedly killed in Uttar Pradesh’s Bulandshahr district on Tuesday by the relatives of the accused, police said. The girl was set on fire with petrol. She was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital with 65% burns where she died in the evening. By late evening, three of the seven accused named in the FIR were arrested. In a video, purportedly recorded in the government hospital, the girl could be heard naming Sanjay, one of the accused named by the girl’s father in the FIR, for assaulting her on Tuesday morning outside her residence. Police sources said the girl was raped on August 14 allegedly by Harish, alias Chaita, a caretaker of an orchard. An FIR was filed under Section 376 of the IPC and relevant sections of the POCSO Act and SC/ST (Prevention of atrocities) Act 1989 and the accused was sent to jail. In his complaint, the girl’s father said that he and his wife were not at home when the incident took place. The uncle and aunt of the accused, accompanied by five others, forced their way into the house, poured petrol on their daughter and set her on fire. The police have registered an FIR against the seven named persons. Santosh Kumar Singh, SSP Bulandshar, said it had come to his notice that the family of the accused was pressuring the victim’s family. “The accused is in jail and his bail application was rejected. Vivek Sharma, the SHO of Jhangirabad police station, has been sent to the police lines. Sub-inspector Vinaykant and beat constable Vikrant Tomar have been suspended,” said Mr. Singh. Victim kills herself In a separate incident, a 19-year-old gang-rape survivor in Bulandshahr ended her life on Monday, the police said. In her suicide note, the student of law held the police inaction and lack of family support as reasons for taking the extreme step. She said she had to die to prove that she was being truthful. Santosh Kumar Singh, SSP, Bulandshar, has suspended the investigating officer. According to the police, the three accused, identified as Kamruddin, Mubin and Abrar, have been booked for abetment to suicide. Kamruddin was nabbed from Haryana’s Faridabad on Tuesday.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health; telephone: 011-40769002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||CM seeks Centre’s permission to shut markets||The Delhi government has sought permission from the Centre to temporarily shut down local markets emerging as COVID-19 hotspots and reduce gatherings at weddings to 50 from the current limit of 200 in view of the recent spurt in virus cases in the Capital. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday thanked the Centre for providing 750 additional ICU beds for the treatment of COVID-19 patients and appealed to people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms to protect themselves and their families. The Opposition BJP, while welcoming the proposal to reduce gatherings, argued against shutting city markets. The Congress termed the move a “knee jerk reaction”. “Following the Central government’s guidelines and considering the marriage season, the Delhi government earlier allowed 200 guests at marriage functions. Considering the recent spike in the number of coronavirus cases, the Delhi government has decided to withdraw this relaxation,” Mr. Kejriwal said. Only 50 people will be allowed at marriage ceremonies now, the Chief Minister said, adding that a proposal to this effect has been sent to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal for approval. Blaming “massive crowds” at popular city markets before Deepavali for a “significant surge” in the number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital, Mr. Kejriwal said the Delhi government had sought permission to temporarily shut down such markets if the need arose. “In the last order passed by the Central government, it was noted that permission to impose local lockdowns in the State should be taken from the Centre. In view of the recent situation and considering the last order of the Central government, we have requested the Centre to permit shutting down market places if necessary,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “I do believe that such harsh measures would not be required. But, if any marketplace has become a coronavirus hotspot because of non-compliance of guidelines , we would have to impose a local shutdown there as a precautionary measure,” he said.
18 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||A candidate for LDF, but a graffiti artist for rival fronts||R. Rajesh, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate for the Poonthoppu ward (Ward 10) of the Mannancherry grama panchayat in Alappuzha, has found himself in demand from all major political fronts. While his political affiliation remains unwavering, his prowess as a graffiti artist has made him much sought-after by parties at Mannancherry. Despite being an LDF candidate, Mr. Rajesh makes poll graffiti for various political parties and candidates who approach him for help. Apart from writing slogans and drawing hammer, sickle, and star (symbol of the CPI-M) as part of his own election campaign, he writes on walls and paints the hand (Congress symbol) and lotus (BJP symbol) and so on for his rivals too in Ward 10 and other parts of the grama panchayat. “I am a member of the CPI(M) and now its candidate. But it doesn’t mean other candidates in the fray are enemies. They are just political rivals. Long before becoming a candidate I have been an artist doing poll graffiti for various political parties for more than two decades. It is my profession. This time too I received a lot of orders cutting across party lines and I am happy to do my work,” says Mr. Rajesh, who holds a diploma in fine arts. He says the candidacy has put him in a difficult position of finding time for electioneering and making graffiti. “I am committed to completing all works I have taken up. Even after my candidature was announced, I am still receiving enquiries. I would not be able to take up all new works as I will have to commit myself to the campaign when electioneering intensifies,” Mr. Rajesh says. He says poll graffiti continues to remain popular in an age when social media are holding sway. Mr. Rajesh is assisted by his daughter Sruthimol, a second-year degree student, in his work. He charges between Rs. 100 and Rs. 150 for one metre. Besides a graffiti artist, he also runs a drawing school at his house and taught drawing in two schools in Alappuzha until his candidature was announced.
18 November 2020||MYSURU,||Breather for healthcare workers as COVID-19 cases see decline||The continued fall in COVID-19 cases and fatalities in Mysuru has come as a breather for exhausted doctors and other healthcare staff, particularly those in the government set-up, who had been working strenuously from the past seven months battling the pandemic. Cases in Mysuru surged till October second week and have seen a drop since then. The case fatality rate, which was the second highest in the State after Bengaluru, is also coming down, much to the relief of healthcare professionals. Several beds in designated hospitals here are empty. Mysuru had 733 active cases as on Monday. “The steady fall in new infections and deaths has of course eased the workload on doctors and healthcare staff who were working tirelessly, sometimes even doing double shifts,” said Mysore Medical College and Research Institute Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj. The designated COVID-19 hospital on KRS Road, which worked under immense pressure when the infection rate flattened, is being run in two floors with the drop in cases. All four storeys of the 250-bed hospital were being used till recently when over 300 patients used to be treated when the pandemic was in peak. Today, it has less than 65 patients. The State-run K.R. Hospital, which was treating nearly 200 patients daily, has less than 20 patients now. Besides the hospitals under the Departments of Medical Education and the Health and Family Welfare, the private hospitals too were under stress as there was a time when active cases here had crossed 10,000. Barring the critically ill and patients with co-morbidities who were treated in hospitals, the rest were either home isolated or monitored in COVID-19 Care Centres (functioning under the government and private set-up). The shortage of beds when cases had surged had put the authorities on their toes since handling so many cases at one go had become a big challenge with the infrastructure here not as expansive for managing the major health crisis. District Vector-Borne Diseases Control Officer Chidambar told The Hindu that the crisis has eased with the sharp decline in infections. The workload of the curative staff has eased. However, for those in the preventive side, who are on the field collecting swabs, spreading awareness and in general management of the situation, the work continues to be the same. “Those directly handling patients could relax if the field staff work to their maximum,” he said, adding that patient care also tends to improve with fewer cases, helping the staff to give focussed attention on treatment.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Yediyurapa orders formation of Veerashaiva-Lingayat corporation||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurapa on Tuesday issued an order for the establishment of Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation (KVLDC) for all-round development of the politically influential community in the State. Mr. Yediyurappa, who belongs to the community, ordered the formation of the corporation following pressure from legislators belonging to the community. A group of legislators and Ministers, including V. Somanna, and Deputy Chief Minister Laxam Savadi have been making the demand following the recent announcement on formation of the Karnataka Maratha Development Authority by earmarking Rs. 50 crore. “The Veerashaiva-Lingayat community has a huge population and many of them are economically, socially and educationally backward,” the order stated, explaining the need for the establishment of such a body. The decisions to set up the KVLDC and the Maratha development authority are seen as part of a plan to appease the Marathas and Veerashaiva-Lingayats, who are in good numbers in Basavakalyan Assembly segment in Bidar district and Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency, bordering Maharashtra, which would face byelections soon. The byelections have been necessitated following the death of Congress MLA B. Narayan Rao and BJP MP Suresh Angadi owing to COVID-19.
18 November 2020||DINDIGUL,||Palani firing: one victim dies||One of the two persons, P. Subramani (58), who sustained gunshot wounds after a theatre owner, S. Natarajan (80), opened fire at a group of men at Palani on Monday, succumbed to injuries on Tuesday. Police said that Subramani underwent a surgery at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai after the bullet had pierced through his stomach. However, he succumbed to the injuries in the early hours of Tuesday. Consequently, Palani Town police have altered the case to that of murder. Earlier, they had registered a case of attempt to murder. The police have also booked Natarajan under the provisions of the Arms Act. Deputy Superintendent of Police (Palani) Siva said that the theatre owner had been possessing the arms licence for over four decades for his personal safety. “We have no reports of Natarajan having misused the revolver on any previous occasions. Otherwise, his licence could have been cancelled,” he added. Another victim, M. Palaniswami (74), is under treatment at Palani Government Hospital. A police source said that after having shot three rounds – one each hit the two victims and another one misfired – the gun got locked and Natarajan could not fire with it. In a video footage, Natarajan is seen attempting to shoot down another person who tried to prevent him from firing by hurling stones on him. A dispute between Natarajan and one Ilangovan over a piece of land led to Natarajan opening fire at the group of men.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Grama panchayat polls tentatively in February’||Taking a cue from the elections conducted in various States during the pandemic, the Andhra Pradesh State Election Commission (AP SEC) has decided to conduct the grama panchayat elections in February 2021. State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar has said in a release that the actual schedule will be finalised in consultation with State government. The notification and schedule will be notified thereafter. “The commission, after due consultation with all the stakeholders, including the State government, and considering the successful conduct of the elections in several parts of the country, has taken a well-considered decision in principle to hold elections in February tentatively,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. ‘No legal hurdles’ “There are no legal hurdles for the grama panchayat elections as they are conducted on non-party basis,” he said.  The State Election commission has addressed the concerns raised by the government and the Health Department, and will leave no stone unturned on the safety front N. Ramesh Kumar State Election Commissioner
18 November 2020||GUNTUR,||CM releases Rs. 510 cr. for zero interest scheme||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has released Rs. 510.32 crore into the unencumbered bank accounts of 14.58 lakh farmers in the State towards interest subsidy for 2019 kharif crop loans under the YSR Sunna Vaddi Panta Runalu (zero interest) scheme. He also released Rs. 132 crore for 1.98 lakh farmers towards input subsidy for the crops damaged in October. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said milk procurement would begin on November 26 in association with Amul Dairy in three districts in the first phase. Addressing the beneficiaries and officials in a video conference from here on Tuesday, the Chief Minister said that the government had been giving priority to farmers and during the one-and-a-half year rule had taken up unique schemes and disbursed subsidies. “While the TDP government had delayed payment of compensation adding to the woes of farmers reeling under successive losses, the YSRCP government is providing input subsidy to farmers to cover the losses in the season struck by natural calamities. The subsidy for kharif losses between June and September has already been paid, which was about Rs. 135.73 crore compensating 1.66 lakh farmers. For October, Rs. 132 crore input subsidy has been credited,” he said. The State has signed an MoU with Amul Dairy and milk procurement would begin from November 26 in Prakasam, Chittoor and Kadapa districts. It would be extended to other districts to help dairy farmers and women self-help groups. Around 9,800 Bulk Milk Cooling Units (BMCU) would be set up in the RBKs across the State, he said. On the free power scheme, he said the government had completed capacity building of feeders at a cost of Rs. 1,700 crore and only 10% were yet to be upgraded which would be done by November-end.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||TS-bPASS hailed as ‘revolutionary reform’||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) Hyderabad hailed the Telangana government for launching Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS) portal for building and layout permissions, in a transparent time-bound manner, on Tuesday. The new policy makes citizens responsible for adhering to the building and layout permission rules.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Stay alert, T.N. Health Secretary tells Collectors||Tamil Nadu Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan has urged District Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation to stay alert and facilitate a return to pre-Deepavali COVID-19 testing levels. Over the last two days, officials have detected fresh cases at a construction site in Thanjavur and a cluster among returnees from Bihar at Tondiarpet in Chennai. The respective district and Corporation teams have identified and traced their contacts, he said. “Enforcement of mask wearing is extremely poor in public places. The Collectors should make sure that meetings with traders’ associations are held to ensure self-regulation, in addition to sustaining visible and demonstrable action by way of fines imposed by the police, health, revenue and local body officials,” he said in his letter to the heads of district administrations. Containment measures “The next 14 to 28 days are important, and officials should ensure focused testing, besides conducting fever camps and taking containment measures, as was done before the festival holidays,” he said. There had been a sustained dip in the number of people testing positive for COVID-19. But the number of tests being conducted was low as fewer people were visiting fever camps, Dr. Radhakrishnan said.  Sample collection He advised the heads of districts and Corporations to continue collecting samples and monitoring SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) and ILI (influenza-like illness) cases, besides organising fever camps. He instructed officials to beware of areas showing a spurt in cases. These could be in construction sites or streets, within families or caused by an event, he explained. When such clusters are noticed, the identified infrastructure should not be closed hastily, he said. Healthcare facilities should ensure there are enough beds and sufficient oxygen supply “so that we are prepared in case of any increase in cases in the next ten days to a fortnight”, the letter read. If two or more cases are traced to a function, a family gathering or a shop, testing, isolation and treatment should be done apart from containment measures at those places and the source of occurrence, the Health Secretary said. Dr. Radhakrishnan said “absolute non-compliance to mask wearing and physical distancing” was being “observed in many parts of T.N., including tourist spots and religious places such as temples, mosques, dargahs and churches. Further, in local tourist destinations and waterfalls, no mask [wearing] and social distancing was observed during Deepavali holidays”. He said the alarming trend in Europe and the U.S.A. was “a forewarning for all”.
18 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump sought options for attacking Iran||U.S. President Donald Trump asked senior advisers during a recent meeting whether he had options to take action against Iran’s main nuclear site. However, he was dissuaded by his advisors from going ahead with a military strike. The meeting occurred a day after international inspectors reported a significant increase in the country’s stockpile of nuclear material. The advisers, including Vice-President Mike Pence and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, warned that a strike against Iran’s facilities could easily escalate into a broader conflict in the last weeks of Trump’s presidency. White House officials did not respond to requests for a comment on the matter.
18 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records 5,000 more recoveries||Maharashtra reported a relatively low surge of 2,840 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday while recording as many as 5,123 recoveries. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 16,23,503, with the State’s recovery rate rising to 92.64%. The total case tally has reached 17,52,509 while the active case tally has come down to 81,925. With 68 deaths, the fatalities has climbed to 46,102. “Of a total 98,47,478 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,52,509 (case positivity rate of 17.8%) have returned positive,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.63%. Pune district reported nearly 350 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,42,547 while 11 deaths today saw its total death toll climb to 7,176. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s active cases have come down to 9,242 while its recovery rate currently stands at 94.78%. Mumbai city reported 541 cases to take its total case tally to 2,70,660 of whom 12,365 are active. Fourteen fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,599. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 142 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,08,949 of whom just 2,449 are currently active. A single death saw the total death toll reach 2,881. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported just two deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 1,562. Just 56 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 50,335 of whom 3,740 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 14 cases and three deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 47,920 of whom 1,234 are active. Its death toll has risen to 1,694. Kolhapur recorded a mere 20 cases and two deaths as its total case tally reached 48,217. Its active case tally stands at 354. The total death toll remained constant at 1,664. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported 172 cases as its total case tally reached 100,614 of whom only 2,705 are active. With three deaths on Tuesday, the district’s total death toll has now reached 1,650. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 149 cases as its total case tally crossed the 84,000-mark. With three deaths, the fatalities stand at 2,084.
18 November 2020||YADGIR,||‘Convene meeting of MLAs to distribute right of records’||Housing Minister V. Somanna has directed the Raichur district administration to convene a meeting of MLAs and distribute right of records to eligible beneficiaries, after clearing hurdles, if any, of various housing schemes. He was addressing a meeting in Raichur on Tuesday. Earlier, complaining about delay in the process of distributing right of records, the MLAs concerned said that not one right of records has been issued in the last three years. Houses have not been sanctioned and beneficiaries accounts have been blocked. However, no action has been taken so far to clear these hurdles, they said. Mr. Somanna, while responding to MLAs present in the meeting, assured them of getting whatever hurdles were there cleared soon. “We will clear any hurdles and distribute the right of records to the real beneficiaries of various housing schemes,” he told them. Officers should convene a meeting of elected representatives and collect information and distribute the right of records before December 2020, the Minister said. He said that 4,800 hectares of land is available for housing schemes. A sum of Rs. 800 crore has been sought for providing basic infrastructure and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has assured of releasing Rs. 300 crore for the purpose, he added. Amareshwar Naik, MP, Shivaraj Patil, Shivanagouda Naik, Basanagowda Patil Daddal and Venkatarao Nadgowda, MLAs, Basavaraj Patil Itagi, MLC, Adimani Veeralakshmi, zilla panchayat president, Ramprasad, Managing Director of Housing Board, R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, and others were present.
18 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘Varavara Rao’s medical report an eyewash’||Varavara Rao’s lawyer informed the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that the 81-year-old lodged at the Taloja jail was medically examined through videoconferencing by doctors from Nanavati Hospital for 15 minutes and the report submitted was an “eyewash”. Advocate Indira Jaisingh told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.J. Jamdar that the report was given to her at 12.45 p.m. on WhatsApp for the hearing that was scheduled at 3 p.m. She urged the Bench to read the report along with the previous report of an examination conducted by the same hospital, which mentions Mr. Rao’s ailments.
18 November 2020||Guwahati,||Nagaland groups spar over ‘Indian’ security||Security cover sought for a few of their leaders has provided ammunition for two extremist groups in Nagaland to engage in a war of words. The Neiphiu Rio government had a week ago sought the view of the Minister of Home Affairs on Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi’s directive to the State police to provide security to the leaders of the working committee of the Naga National Political Groups, a conglomerate of seven extremist groups.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests man in child sex abuse case||The CBI has arrested a person suspected to be involved, along with a few others, in the sexual abuse of children in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. The accused, it is believed, filmed their acts and sold them through the dark web to paedophiles in various countries. Rambhawan, a junior engineer in the Irrigation Department and a resident of Chitrakoot in U.P., is said to have gifted mobile phones and cash to several of his victims to buy their silence. In the past decade, he had allegedly targeted about 50 minors.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||SEC caution on rejection of papers||State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Bhaskaran has instructed polling officials to reject nomination papers only after ensuring that there are enough reasons to do so after checking the Kerala Municipality Act/Panchayati Raj Act. The nomination will be rejected if it is found that the candidate is legally ineligible to be a member of a local body. The papers cannot be filed after 3 p.m. on the days set aside for filing nominations. Only the candidates or a person nominated by the candidate can file the nomination. Requirements The nomination paper should have the signatures of the nominee and the candidate. The candidate should be a voter of any constituency (ward) of the particular local body in which he/she is contesting, while the nominee should be a voter from the particular ward where the candidate is contesting. In case the candidate is a voter of another constituency, the relevant portion of the voters’ list should be produced. No candidate can file nominations for more than one ward of a local body. In case all the nomination papers of a candidate are rejected, an order listing out the reasons will be issued. Meanwhile, the monitoring cells set up to address complaints and clear doubts related to the model code of conduct for the local body elections will be held in the coming days. The committee is expected to take decisions on complaints related to the model code of conduct and take action against the guilty and suggest areas where the intervention of the SEC will be required.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Distanced learning||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Colleges reopen||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Changing colours||
18 November 2020||Staff reporter Bhopal,||M.P. planning law against ‘love jihad’, says Minister||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is planning a law that will have provisions for five-year imprisonment for ‘love jihad’. This was stated by State Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday. The government would table the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill, 2020, in the next Vidhan Sabha session, Mr. Mishra told reporters in Bhopal. “We are deciding that the use of inducements, seduction, fraud or duress for marriage and religious conversions will invite five years’ imprisonment,” he said. The Bill would propose the offence to be cognisable and non-bailable. “Similarly, we are making a provision to declare marriages for religious conversion based on inducements, duress, fraud and seduction as null and void.” In the Bill, those abetting the offence would be considered culprits just as the main accused. “For action, it will be necessary for those bound by the religious conversions or their parents or siblings to file a complaint,” he said. As for those indulging in religious conversion for marriages, they should inform the District Magistrates at least a month in advance, along with religious persons organising the conversions. The announcement comes after similar plans were made public by the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Haryana governments. Recently, the Allahabad High Court repudiated the idea of religious conversion solely for the purpose of marriage.
18 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Border row: goods trucks to Nagaland blocked||Over a dozen organisations led by the Karbi Students’ Association on Tuesday blocked movement of goods trucks to Nagaland in protest against alleged land-grabbing along the inter-State border. This is the second such blockade along Assam’s borders after an acrimonious one with Mizoram.
18 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Centre not sympathetic to Sikhs: Akal Takht chief||Giani Harpreet Singh, chief priest of the Akal Takht — the highest Sikh temporal seat — on Tuesday said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee was presently facing similar challenges like it did in the year 1984.“Even the Central government was not sympathetic to the Sikhs,” Mr. Singh said.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Two JeM terrorists arrested in Delhi||New Delhi The Delhi Police’s Special Cell on Monday night arrested two suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists from south-east Delhi. DCP (Special Cell) said the suspects had been identified as Abdul Latif Mir, 22, from Baramulla district, and Mohammed Ashraf Khatana (20), from Kupwara district.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Demolish structure near Kabini backwaters’||Wildlife activists and a section of senior retired forest officials have called for the immediate demolition of structures being constructed for a resort within the Eco-Sensitive Zone of Nagarahole-Bandipur landscape, close to the Kabini backwaters.
18 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Cabinet expansion: Chief Minister in Delhi today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will visit Delhi on Wednesday to consult the BJP high command on the proposed Cabinet expansion/reshuffle. Mr. Yediyurappa is scheduled to leave Bengaluru by 11.30 a.m. in a special aircraft. He will be spending only about six hours in Delhi, as per the itinerary released by the Chief Minister’s Office.
18 November 2020||Mysuru,||‘Prudent to conserve Devaraja Market’||A technical committee report has come in handy for the heritage experts in the city to reiterate their demand to conserve the Devaraja Market, which is more than 125 years old and condemned for demolition.
18 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Govt. nullifies lockout at Toyota Kirloskar Motor||In a bid to break the impasse between the workers and management of Toyota Kirloskar Motor in Bidadi, the State government has prohibited the ongoing strike by workers as well as the lockout declared by the management. It has asked the management to take measures to reopen the unit.
18 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Rs. 150 cr. sanctioned for Hubballi-Dharwad roads||Minister Jagadish Shettar has said that Rs. 150 crore has been sanctioned for the twin cities under the Mahatma Gandhi Vikas Yojna for development of interior roads and tenders would be floated soon. He was speaking after performing the bhoomi puja for underground drainage network at Badami Nagar in Hubballi on Tuesday.
18 November 2020||BELAGAVI,||Silent rally in Belagavi||Members of several Christian organisations took out a silent rally in Belagavi on Tuesday to protest against what they called the unlawful arrest of pro-people activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. Jesuits of Goa Province and members of other religious congregations and non-governmental organisations participated in the rally.
18 November 2020||BELAGAVI,||Bill to ban cow slaughter in next Assembly session||The government will introduce a law to ban cow slaughter in the State, Minister for Animal Husbandry, Waqf and Haj Prabhu Chavan said in Vijayapura on Tuesday. “I will present a Bill to prevent cow slaughter in the coming Assembly session,” the Minister told journalists. He, however, clarified that the government was not in a hurry to enact the law and that it would discuss the issue with farmers and other stakeholders. “A committee headed by the Commissioner of Animal Husbandry Department will study various aspects related to the issue. It will make a comparative study of similar laws in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh,” he said.
18 November 2020||Mumbai,||First Mumbai nearby||Varavara Rao’s lawyer informed the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that the 81-year-old lodged at the Taloja jail was medically examined through video conferencing by doctors from Nanavati Hospital for 15 minutes and the report submitted was an “eye wash”. Senior advocate Indira Jaisingh told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.J. Jamdar that the report was given to her at 12.45 p.m. on WhatsApp for the court hearing that was scheduled at 3 p.m. She urged the Bench to read the report along with the previous report of an examination conducted by the same hospital months ago which mentions Mr. Rao’s ailments. She went on to say reports of all the tests conducted on him have not been submitted to her by the State government.
18 November 2020||Pune,||Second Mumbai nearby||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday temporarily called off his two-day tour of north Maharashtra after former Maharashtra minister Eknath Khadse, who recently joined the NCP, quarantined himself after his daughter, Rohini, tested positive for COVID-19. This was to be Mr. Pawar’s first visit to the region after Mr. Khadse, hitherto an influential force in the BJP, switched his political colours following months of disenchantment with the saffron party.
18 November 2020||Agartala,||Bru refugees demand implementation of pact||Leaders of the Mizoram Bru refugees have demanded commencement of their permanent rehabilitation in Tripura in the light of the quadripartite agreement signed in New Delhi in January. They made the demand during a meeting with Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar in the presence of the State’s royal scion and activist Pradyot Kishore Debbarman. “We have urged the Chief Secretary to start our settlement work within two weeks,” one of the Bru leaders told newsmen on Tuesday.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli riots: ex-Bengaluru Mayor held||A city court on Tuesday remanded former Mayor R. Sampath Raj in the custody of the Central Crime Branch police for two days where he will be interrogated on his role in the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli on the night of August 11. Raj, who has been accused of conspiracy and playing a part in instigating the mob to set fire to Pulikeshinagar MLA Akhanda Sreenivasamurthy’s house that night, had been absconding since mid-October. His arrest comes barely three days after the High Court of Karnataka directed the CCB on November 13 to take steps to trace and arrest him. A special team tracked him down to a friend’s house in Benson Town, Pulikeshinagar, on Monday. “He had returned to the city after we arrested his aide Riyazuddib who had driven him to a farmhouse in Nagarahole,” said a police official. The former Mayor had been trying to evade the police net since mid-October after he was discharged from a private hospital where he was undergoing treatment for COVID-19. “He has been on the run for over 20 days, and even hid in Tamil Nadu and Kerala to evade arrest,” said a CCB official. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, “There will be a further probe. His arrest will expose the conspiracy,” said Mr. Bommai. Congress MLA Akhanda Sreenivasamurthy thanked the Chief Minister and the Home Minister for “ensuring justice”. “A detailed inquiry will reveal his intentions behind the violence, and I request the authorities concerned to ensure that strict punishment is meted out,” he said. He added that he had approached Karnataka Congress president D.K. Shivakumar twice in the past. “I’ll meet him again,” he said, reacting to Mr. Shivakumar’s comment that he had not approached him. He also took a dig at Mr. Shivakumar asking him why he was not supporting his case, and thanked Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan for taking his side, exposing factionalism within the party. However, Mr. Shivakumar said the ruling BJP was trying to unfairly target the Congress. “I have seen the charge sheet. Where is the evidence that the Congress is involved?” he told mediapersons on Tuesday. He also reiterated that Mr. Murthy had to date not approached him. “He is free to come and meet me. I am also with Sreenivasamurthy,” he said.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Confront sponsors of terror, says Modi||Terrorism is the biggest problem facing the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. Addressing the 12th BRICS summit, he said there was a need to confront the countries that supported and sponsored terror. “We have to ensure that terrorists and those who support and sponsor terrorists should be held guilty, and this problem is addressed in a collective manner,” he said. Russian strategy Mr. Modi acknowledged the Russian support to the BRICS counter-terrorism strategy, which has acquired a definite shape. India would continue supporting this strategy, he said, and in an intervention at the summit suggested the National Security Advisers of all BRICS countries meet and discuss a counter-terrorism action plan. In a speech that touched upon India’s global and regional concerns, Mr. Modi raised the issue of “credibility and effectiveness” of the institutions that were necessary for global governance. “It is India’s assessment that the United Nations Security Council requires reforms urgently. We expect support on this from our BRICS partners. Apart from the UN, there are several international institutions that are not working according to the contemporary reality,” he said. India, which will begin a two-year stint as a non-permanent member of the Security Council next year, has been at the forefront of seeking expansion of the permanent membership of the council. Referring to the post-COVID-19 economic hardships of the world, Mr. Modi highlighted the importance of BRICS in that scenario. “BRICS countries will play a significant role in the recovery of the post-COVID-19 world. 42% of the world’s population resides in the BRICS countries and our economies are the major engines of the world. There is a lot of scope of increasing the trade among the BRICS countries,” he said. The Prime Minister introduced “Aatmanirbhar Bharat” to the BRICS members. He pointed out that this was a campaign that amounted to a “reform process”. “This campaign is based on the subject that a self-reliant and resilient India can become a force multiplier for the post-COVID-19 world order,” he said. A self-reliant India would make solid contribution to the “global value chains,” Mr. Modi said in Hindi. Vaccine cooperation The Prime Minister addressed the issue of cooperation among the BRICS countries on the production of vaccine for COVID-19. India is in talks with Russia for the field trial of Sputnik V that is expected to begin in Uttar Pradesh next week. India has led regional collaboration in South Asia for ensuring vaccine access to countries such as Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Chinese President Xi Jinping, in his speech, also called for collaboration between Beijing and New Delhi. “As we speak, Chinese companies are working with their Russian and Brazilian partners on Phase III clinical trials of vaccines, and we are prepared to have cooperation with South Africa and India as well,” said President Xi. Mr. Modi said the New Development Bank would help in financing support for research in COVID-19.  Mr. Modi said, “Our production and ability to deliver the vaccine to millions will also help humanity.” He sought cooperation among the BRICS countries to defeat the pandemic.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine not the end-all: expert||Stating that there are five COVID-19 vaccine candidates at different stages of trials in India — two in the third phase — NITI Aayog member (Health) V.K. Paul said on Tuesday India wants to reiterate what the World Health Organization has said about the vaccine “being a game-changer but not being the end-all of the pandemic”. He said the vaccine, when it is available, will complement the other tools that already exist to tackle the pandemic. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said recovered cases in India had now crossed 82.9 lakh. “The country has a recovery rate of more than 93%. An average 46,701 cases recovered daily in the last week while an average 40,365 new cases were reported daily in the last week. More than 12.65 crore tests were conducted and India is reporting a cumulative positivity rate of 7.01% with daily positivity rate in the last week, of 4.1%,” he said. Stating that the situation in Delhi is a matter of concern, the Health Secretary said the testing rate during September (after the cases stabilised) had plateaued and that SOPs (standard operating procedures) weren’t implemented as effectively. “This will change now as per a detailed plan that has been set in motion for the Capital. As part of COVID-19 appropriate behaviour, people must ensure that if they are having any symptoms then they must get tested. Don’t hesitate to get tested,” he said. Also speaking at the conference, Dr. Paul said house-to-house surveys will be done in the containment zones in Delhi. “This will also be done in other vulnerable zones.’’ The Health Ministry said 75.14% of the new cases had been reported from 10 States/UTs with Delhi seeing a surge in new cases over the last few days. The capital has reported 3,797 cases in the past 24 hours, followed by West Bengal (3,012 cases). Kerala recorded 2,710 cases. As much as 78.4% of the 449 new deaths are concentrated in 10 States/UTs and more than a fifth, 22.76%, of new fatalities reported are from Delhi (99). Maharashtra reported 60 fatalities followed by West Bengal (53). It said India has been recording around 30,000 daily new cases for the last two consecutive days. “29,163 cases were reported in the last 24 hours. The country has also seen less than 50,000 daily new cases being registered continuously for the past 10 days. The trend of new daily recoveries exceeding the daily new cases continues with 40,791 cases recovering in the last 24 hours against just 29,163 newly detected cases,’’ it said. The Ministry said total tests stand at 12,65,42,907.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Bus services between Karnataka and Kerala resume after 9 months||Passenger bus services between Karnataka and Kerala that had remained suspended for over nine months following COVID-19 resumed on Monday with State Road Transport Corporations (RTCs) operating services between Kasargod in Kerala and Mangaluru in Karnataka. Though unlock 4 and 5 had envisaged resumption of interstate bus services and Karnataka was eager to introduce transport, the Kerala government had not allowed interstate bus operations. This had caused uproar, particularly in border areas, where people travel to neighbouring States for their livelihood. Consequently, buses used to “exchange” passengers at border posts, Talapady on Dakshina Kannada and Kasargod in Kerala. Passengers bound for either direction had to get down at the border and board the waiting bus of another State. From Monday, both Karnataka SRTC and Kerala SRTC resumed services between Kasargod and Mangaluru by deploying 20 buses each. Both corporations are expected to clock 120 single trips each per day, said KSRTC’s Mangaluru divisional controller S.N. Aruna. Before the lockdown, both corporations were running 40 buses doing 240 single trips each. Both RTCs have resumed the services with about six minutes frequency. They will decide about operating normal services depending on the response from passengers, Mr. Aruna added. Buses to T.N. Meanwhile, KSRTC in a release said operations from different parts of Karnataka to Tamil Nadu that started from November 11 would continue. The corporation would operate all regular services from Karnataka to Tamil Nadu keeping in view demand. Passengers have to wear masks, the release said, adding advance tickets could be booked at www.ksrtc.in or through booking counters of KSRTC or franchisees.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala adds 5,792 cases with 10.3% positivity||Kerala registered 5,792 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, testing 56,157 samples. The test positivity rate remained steady at 10.3%. The number of active cases, which seemed set to cross one lakh, peaked at 97, 417 cases on October 24 due to steady recoveries. On Tuesday, the Health department added another 27 deaths to the COVID mortality list. Malappuram accounted for six deaths, Thiruvananthapuram five, Kozhikode four, Thrissur three, Kollam and Ernakulam two each while Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad, Kottayam and Alappuzha reported one death each. Telangana recorded 952 cases on Monday, testing 38,245 people. Three more patients died. The new cases included 150 from Greater Hyderabad, 77 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 71 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, and 68 from Rangareddy. One case was recorded in Narayanpet, and six each in Vikarabad and Wanaparthy. Karnataka reported 1,336 cases and 16 deaths on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 729 were from Bengaluru Urban, and nine deaths were from the same district. Of 25,323 active cases in Karnataka, 24,630 were in designated hospitals, and 693 in ICU. On Tuesday, 75,384 samples were tested, 13,392 of them rapid antigen tests.  The number of those who tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday stood at 1,652, taking the tally to 7,61,568. The State also recorded 18 deaths in the past 24 hours. Chennai recorded 492 cases and as many as 624 persons were discharged. However, the number of deaths went up to 10. While Perambalur had no new infections in the last 24 hours seven districts had less than 10 new infections.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru bureaus)
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Two JeM terrorists arrested in Delhi||The Delhi Police’s Special Cell on Monday night arrested two suspected Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) terrorists from southeast Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan area. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said the suspects had been identified as Abdul Latif Mir, 22, resident of Doru village in Baramulla district, and Mohammed Ashraf Khatana (20), resident of Hat Mulla village in Kupwara district. The police said Ashraf was studying in a madrasa in Sopore where he came in touch with Abdul. They claimed that the duo were “highly radicalised” and had planned to cross the border to Pakistan for training. The police said they got a tip-off that a particular group of newly recruited terrorists of the JeM would be coming to Delhi for their onward journey to Uttar Pradesh for imparting basic training. “On the basis of the information received, manual surveillance was mounted and a trap was laid near Millennium Park, Sarai Kale Khan, and the two suspected terrorists were apprehended around 10.15 p.m.”, Mr Yadav said. “Two semi-automatic pistols, along with 10 live cartridges, have been recovered from them.” Contrary to the claims made by the police, the families of the arrested duo said they had no links with militancy. “My son is getting married soon. He had gone to Delhi in the first week of November to buy stuff for the wedding. He is innocent. His arrest has come as a shock to us,” Bashir Ahmad Khatana, father of Ashraf, said. Sanaullah Mir, Abdul’s father, said, “He left for Delhi on November 4. He is a religious person. It is unbelievable that he has been shown as a militant associate.”  (With inputs from   Peerzada Ashiq in Srinagar)
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘RCEP is not just a trading arrangement; leaving it is a short-sighted move’||The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), a trade bloc of 15 countries, was signed on November 15 without India, which was part of the long-running negotiations until it withdrew last year. Shyam Saran , former Foreign Secretary, says the decision to opt out was “short-sighted” and will have broader strategic implications for India.  The RCEP agreement has left the door open for India to join. Does that prospect seem likely to you? Well, it is reassuring to see there continues to be a strong sense among RCEP members that it is only India that can provide a degree of a countervailing kind of presence in the arrangement. This is not just a trading arrangement — it has a strategic dimension as well. It is a positive point that the door is not closed. Having said that, my view has not changed. To my mind, it has been a short-sighted decision not to go along with RCEP. Whatever concerns there may have been, it may have been better to address those within the tent than outside. The second point is we are effectively now on the margins of the regional economy as well as the global economy. Most of global trade now is organised through large trading arrangements, and if you are not part of it, whatever dynamism we can leverage from these trading arrangements, increasing your market share, become all that more problematic. It’s been suggested India doesn’t lose out because we already have FTAs [free trade agreements] with some of RCEP’s members, including ASEAN and Japan. Would you agree? No. A bilateral arrangement does not take preference over a regional arrangement. It is also being said that one reason we didn’t join RCEP was because those same FTAs were not working for us. Now, trying to rationalise staying out by saying we have FTAs, that is contradictory. Is it accurate, in your view, to say those FTAs didn’t work for us? In the last Economic Survey [2019-2020], the Chief Economic Adviser said there had been benefits brought by FTAs; saying it has entirely not been to our advantage does not seem to be completely true. There has been an expansion in trading relations with all our partners. Yes, there has been less in terms of how much we have been able to get, and in some of the work we did, we found we did not make much of an effort to try and use the FTAs to expand our market share. For example, there is a commitment by Japan to assist the Indian pharma industry through the regulatory and registration process, so that the Indian pharma products which are competitively priced can have access to the market. That requires industry bodies to take that up and the government to have persuaded them that there is an opportunity here to access the market. This wasn’t used at all. How much is China a factor in India staying out of RCEP? My sense is the China factor only reinforced existing sentiments against regional trading arrangements and FTAs. China has certainly been an important factor, but the decision to not go into RCEP [last year] predates the current tensions. What will be the broader implications for India’s ‘Act East’ strategy? There is inconsistency of some of our recent moves, with the ‘Act East’ policy. One, not joining RCEP. Two, if you look at the latest East Asia Summit (EAS), only India and the U.S. were not represented at a summit level [India was represented by the External Affairs Minister]. Why was that? In the preceding Foreign Ministers’ meeting, our Minister of State was present, not the External Affairs Minister. And the EAS was something we pushed membership for, having not been able to get into APEC, for giving us a foothold in the region. So why should you do something like this? What will the RCEP mean for China’s regional ambitions? For China to be part and parcel of RCEP when it is not part of the Trans-Pacific Partnership [TPP] is a big thing. What it does is it formalises its economic network in this part of the world. When people are talking about re-shoring and looking at alternative supply chains, this ensures that will not have much traction. If we are looking at the TPP and a Biden administration in the U.S. perhaps coming back in some way, this becomes all the more important. You will have a symmetric situation, with China being part of one trading arrangement with the U.S. out of it, and the U.S. part of one arrangement with China out of it. And where would that leave India? That will leave India out in the cold. There is this assumption that the Indian market is so huge that people have to come to India on our terms. But that, to my mind, is a fairly optimistic assessment. Full interview at https://bit.ly/SaranRCEP  We are effectively now on the margins of the regional economy as well as the global economy
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC notes a drop in women workers||Guidelines to the government to improve women’s participation in the workforce would be issued by the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) soon, NHRC member Jyotika Kalra told The Hindu on Tuesday. A meeting of the NHRC’s core group on women, attended by representatives of the Women and Child Development and Skill Development Ministries, NGOs, lawyers and civil society members, on Tuesday discussed the reasons for the low participation of women in the labour force. Ms. Kalra, who chaired the meeting, said the NHRC would be coming up with Ministry-wise recommendations based on the discussion soon. According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey reports released by the National Statistical Office, women’s participation in the workforce “fell to its lowest points since Independence in the year 2017-18. The most major decline can be seen since 2004, from 29.4% to 17.5% in 2017-18. This has marginally increased to 18.6% in the year 2018-19,” a note for the core group meeting said. “One of the suggestions was that there should be investment in the care economy as well as regulatory mechanism. The state must come forward and private players can also participate. In Nepal, for example, there is a community care system,” Ms. Kalra said. Job guarantee Among the suggestions were the need for better working conditions, gender sensitivity at workplaces, and equal sharing of household work. “It was suggested that an urban employment guarantee scheme should be started along the lines of the MGNREGA with reservation for women. Many times, women want to work but the opportunities are not there,” she said. She added that the group discussed skilling and encouraging women to take up “unconventional” jobs like of drivers and electricians. The importance of digital literacy, especially with working from home becoming more prevalent during the pandemic, was also discussed. In terms of making workplaces safer, Ms. Kalra said while the law against sexual harassment was in place, there was a lot more to be done.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Centre yet to decide on export subsidy for sugar||The sugar crushing season is now well under way, but mill owners are starting to get antsy about the government’s delay in deciding whether or not export and buffer stock subsidy schemes will be extended this year. Food Ministry officials say the policy is still under consideration, and admit that more than Rs. 5,000 crore worth of payment to mills from last year’s export subsidy scheme is still pending due to insufficient budgetary allocations. Although the Ministry has requested a supplementary grant, the uncertainty hanging over the winter session of Parliament means that no date has been set for the government to pay its dues. “We have only been partially paid for last year. And now, the proposals for extending the policy to this year are still pending with the government although crushing has started,” said a major mill owner, who did not wish to be named. The sugar season (SS) begins in October, and more than 14 lakh tonnes have been produced as of November 15, according to the Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA). At the same time last year, only 4.85 lakh tonnes had been produced. 274 mills have started crushing operations in comparison to just 127 last year. The major difference comes from Maharashtra and Karnataka which have seen a significant increase in cane acreage due to a good monsoon, in comparison to the drought conditions last year, when crushing only started at the end of November. “With an estimated sugar production of 310 lakh tonnes, India will have another surplus year and needs to continue to export about 60-70 lakh tonnes of the surplus sugar out of the country during 2020-21 SS,” said an ISMA statement.
18 November 2020||KOCHI,||Court grants VACB nod to question Sivasankar||The Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, on Tuesday granted permission to the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to question M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on a charge of bribery. The agency had recently indicted him for corruption in the award of a LIFE Mission-UAE Red Crescent contract to build 144 dwellings for the poor on government land in Wadakkancherry, Thrissur. The court permitted the agency to question Sivasankar at the Kakkanad jail, where he is under judicial remand, on Wednesday. The sleuths can interrogate him from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. with half-an-hour break in between two hours of questioning. Undue haste The officials of the LIFE Mission had reportedly informed the VACB that Sivasankar had shown undue haste in awarding the contract to Unitac Builders. The owner of the company had also deposed that he had paid Rs. 4 crore to Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, to bag the deal. They had reportedly told him that a bulk of the backhander would go to at least two UAE consulate officials responsible for executing the contract. The builder had also deposed that a set of expensive smart phones were part of the bribe. The VACB found that the UAE Red Crescent had deposited an estimated Rs. 14 crore in the account of the builder. Number of units As a set-off against the bribe, the LIFE Mission had whittled down the number of dwellings from 199 to 144, thereby causing loss to the government and undue pecuniary advantage to the builder. It had deemed Sivasankar’s alleged acceptance of the phone as an act of corruption.
18 November 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar’s appeal for bail rejected||The Principal Sessions Court, Ernakulam, on Tuesday rejected the bail plea of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The suspended bureaucrat will remain in the Kakkanad jail here till the end of remand period on November 26. Kauser Edappagath, Special Judge for the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Cases, said in his order that it was not possible for him at this stage to believe that the petitioner was not guilty of the alleged offences. Crucial stage An investigation is on and is at a crucial stage, he said. The court pointed out that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) may require further time to collect all materials related to the alleged nexus of the petitioner with the crime. Earlier in the day, the ED filed an objection against the argument note presented by Sivsankar’s counsel on Monday alleging that the agency had exerted pressure on him to name leaders of political parties in the gold smuggling case. The agency said the allegation that it had exerted pressure to extract the names of certain political party leaders was made with mala fide intention. Sivasankar had never raised it at the time of custody or at the time of argument in the court, it said.This is only an afterthought intentionally made to make false allegations against the investigating agency, it said. The ED said investigations had revealed that Sivasankar was in the know of the gold smuggling through the diplomatic channel and he was a beneficiary of the kickbacks received from Unitac Builders in the LIFE Mission project. The WhatsApp chats between Sivasankar and key accused Swapna Suresh showed that the former was sharing confidential information with her about certain bidders for the LIFE Mission and Kerala Fibre Optic Network projects. Sivasankar was showing keen interest to get some subcontracts in these projects to Unitac Builders, it alleged. The agency said that its investigation into the kickbacks received by Sivasankar in other projects such as Smart City Kochi and Taurus Downtown was progressing. The preliminary investigation revealed that Swapna was linked to these projects in some way or the other, it said.
18 November 2020||KOCHI,||Mudavoor church changes hands||Revenue authorities, backed by the Muvattupuzha police, took over the 85-year-old St. George's church at Mudavoor, near Muvattupuzha, from the Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church on Tuesday noon and handed it over to the Orthodox faction. A State official said that the church was taken over peacefully in the presence of a strong posse of police personnel before it was handed over to the Orthodox faction as per a Supreme Court judgment on July 3, 2017. The court had ordered that there should be no parallel administration in the parishes of the Malankara Church and that all churches should be governed by the Church constitution of 1934. The Orthodox faction later offered prayers at the church. The police and revenue officials who reached the church compound at 11 a.m. returned without breaking open the church as around 200 members of the Jacobite faction protested against the police action. However, when it was taken over by the authorities at 12.40 p.m., there was no resistance to the takeover.  Father Sleeba Paul Vattavelil, priest trustee of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, said the faction was extremely pained by the government action. In a statement here, he said the Jacobites had been offering worship at the church for 88 years. There are only 15 families of the Orthodox faction in the parish while there are 357 parishioners of the Jacobites, he claimed.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Nizam’s grandson moves police against two cousins||A grandson of the last Nizam Nawab Mir Osman Ali Khan, Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, has lodged a complaint with City Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar seeking registration of an FIR on a few other Nizam’s heirs alleging that they have used false documents to lay claim to the £35 million Nizam’s Fund lying in a UK bank. Mr. Najaf Ali Khan met the Police Commissioner here on Tuesday and submitted the complaint along with supporting documents. He alleged in the complaint that another grandson of the Seventh Nizam, Prince Mukarram Jah alias Barkat Ali Khan, his ex-wife Esra Birgen Jah, who is also the General Power of Attorney (GPA) holder of Prince Mukarram Jah, his son Azmet Jah and his brother Prince Muffakham Jah had used false documents in the UK High Court to lay claim to the £35 million Nizam’s Fund lying in the NatWest Bank there. After meeting the Police Commissioner, Mr. Najaf Ali Khan said he had explained to the Kotwal (the City Police Chief) that by laying claim to the Nizam’s fund in the UK bank with false documents, the four members of the Nizam’s family had not only deprived the remaining family members of the Seventh Nizam their legitimate right on the money, a huge financial loss, but it also amounted to violation of the Article 363-A of the Constitution of India. Court order The document (a certificate) claiming recognition of Nawab Barkat Ali Khan as the ruler of Hyderabad by the then President of India in February 1967 with the sole rights over the private properties of the Seventh Nizam was adjudged invalid by the Andhra Pradesh High Court in January 1968 and the Union Government had amened the Constitution in 1971 adding Article 363-A ceasing any recognition to rulers and successors, Mr. Najaf Ali Khan explained. He stated that his two cousins and two of their family members were liable to be prosecuted for forgery, misappropriation, cheating, fraud and others for laying claim to the Nizam’s fund lying in a UK bank with the help of an invalid document. Mr. Najaf Ali Khan, who is also the president of Nizam’s Family Welfare Association, said the Hyderabad City Police Commissioner had assured him that he would forward the complaint to the legal section since it involved violation of the Constitution, before proceeding on it.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,||GHMC polls on Dec. 1, results on Dec. 4||Technical glitches regularly seen in Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) and lack of faith of political parties in them has forced the State Election Commission to opt for ballot papers in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections to be held on December 1. State Election Commissioner C. Partha Sarathi who released the schedule here at a press conference, said that political parties have raised several objections on the genuineness of EVMs and it was one of the reasons for going back to ballot paper voting. Counting will be done on December 4. He also rejected the concerns of rigging with ballot paper voting and said since the voter list also carries the pictures along with name, impersonation or rigging is ruled out. To a query, the SEC said that the schedule released at a short notice did not give much time for political parties for campaigning and added that as per the new GHMC Act, the government has to be consulted before taking any decision on the schedule. Election code Mr. Sarathi said election code has come into immediate effect. Nominations will be open from November 18 (Wednesday) and end on November 20. Scrutiny will be done on November 21 and the last date for withdrawal of candidates is November 22. He said 74,04,770 voters will get a chance to participate in the elections of which 38,56,770 are male and 35,46,847 female. In the ‘Others’ category, 669 voters have registered. He said 2,700 polling stations have been identified as problematic and among these 257 were in the critical category, 1,004 in the hypersensitive category and 1,439 in the sensitive category. The GHMC will ensure distribution of voter slips to all voters and the same can be downloaded from ‘tsec.gov.in’ website. Location of the polling station can also be identified using an App. The ceiling on election expenditure for a candidate is Rs. 5 lakh. He said all the forms to be submitted by the candidates are available on the website and they can download them to be presented physically to the officers concerned. This will ensure that they don’t miss out any form to be submitted along with the application. Despite best efforts, polling percentage in the 2016 GHMC elections was only 45.29% while it was 42.04% in 2009 elections, he said. Every effort would be made to increase the poll percentage this time reaching out to people on the importance of voting. Adequate security arrangements will be made, he said stating that nearly 30,000 police personnel will be deployed for the elections. Apart from history sheeters to be bound over, the police are also planning to ask licensed weapon holders to deposit the same with the nearest police station.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress panel meets to discuss Bihar election result||A group of senior leaders, part of the Congress Special Committee to assist party president Sonia Gandhi on organisational and operational matters, had a virtual meeting on Tuesday in which they reportedly discussed the performance in the recent Assembly polls in Bihar and the byelections in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Manipur. The Congress president, however, was not part of the meeting as was reported earlier. There was no official word on what transpired in the internal meeting. The panel is also supposed to have discussed the future strategy on the farm Acts including submitting two crore signatures to the President. The committee has six members — A.K. Antony, Ahmed Patel, Ambika Soni, K.C. Venugopal, Mukul Wasnik and Randeep Surjewala — but only four members joined the meeting. While Mr. Patel is hospitalised, Mr. Antony is believed to have missed the meeting because of personal reasons. Party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and Gujarat in-charge Rajeev Satav are reported to have joined in. The meeting comes at a time when there are rumblings within the Congress over the non-performance in Bihar where it won only 19 of the 70 seats contested. On Monday, former Law Minister and senior party leader Kapil Sibal had said the Bihar results had proven that voters didn’t see the Congress as a viable alternative to the ruling party and complained that the leadership had not taken the recent drubbing seriously. On Tuesday, former Law Minister Salman Khurshid wrote a Facebook post in defence of the party’s leadership.
18 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Minor rape survivor set ablaze in U.P.||A minor Dalit rape survivor was allegedly killed in the Jhangirabad police station area of Bulandshahr on Tuesday by the relatives of the accused, police said. The girl was set on fire with petrol. She was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital with 65% burns where she died in the evening. By late evening, three of the seven accused were arrested. In a video, purportedly recorded in the government hospital, the girl could be heard naming Sanjay, one of the accused named by the girl’s father in the FIR, for assaulting her on Tuesday morning outside her residence. Police sources said the girl was raped on August 14 allegedly by Harish, alias Chaita, a caretaker of an orchard. An FIR was filed under Section 376 of the IPC and relevant sections of the POCSO Act and SC/ST (Prevention of atrocities) Act 1989 and the accused was sent to jail. In his complaint, the girl’s father said that he and his wife were not at home when the incident took place. The uncle and aunt of the accused, accompanied by five others, forced their way into the house, poured petrol on their daughter and set her on fire. The police have registered an FIR against the seven named persons. Santosh Kumar Singh, SSP Bulandshar, said it had to come his notice that the family of the accused was pressuring the victim’s family. “The accused is in jail and his bail application was rejected. Vivek Sharma, the SHO of Jhangirabad police station, has been sent to the police lines. Sub-inspector Vinaykant and beat constable Vikrant Tomar have been suspended,” said Mr. Singh. Victim kills herself In a separate incident, a 19-year-old gang-rape survivor in Bulandshahr ended her life on Monday, the police said. In her suicide note, the student of law held the police inaction and lack of family support as reasons for taking the extreme step. She said she had to die to prove that she was being truthful. Santosh Kumar Singh, SSP, Bulandshar, has suspended the investigating officer. According to the police, the three accused, identified as Kamruddin, Mubin and Abrar, have been booked for abetment to suicide. Kamruddin was nabbed from Haryana’s Faridabad on Tuesday.   Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health; telephone: 011-40769002
18 November 2020||Mumbai,||‘Varavara Rao’s medical report an eye wash’||Varavara Rao’s lawyer informed the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that the 81-year-old lodged at the Taloja jail was medically examined through video conferencing by doctors from Nanavati Hospital for 15 minutes and the report submitted was an “eye wash”. Senior advocate Indira Jaisingh told a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.J. Jamdar that the report was given to her at 12.45 p.m. on WhatsApp for the court hearing that was scheduled at 3 p.m. She urged the Bench to read the report along with the previous report of an examination conducted by the same hospital months ago which mentions Mr. Rao’s ailments. She went on to say reports of all the tests conducted on him have not been submitted to her by the State government. Multiple ailments Ms. Jaisingh, via video conferencing, explained that Mr. Rao has dementia, however no neurologist had examined him. She said Mr. Rao also has a urinary tract infection but no urologist saw him and that there was an urgent need to see him in person in jail. She argued that a medical examination could not be conducted via video conferencing and that the report submitted was an “eye wash”. She added that a report on Mr. Rao’s neurological examination was required as that would be relied on to argue for his medical bail. The court could not hear some of Ms. Jaisingh’s arguments due to technical glitches, so she said she was willing to appear physically in court on Wednesday at 11 a.m.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lack of consent won’t vitiate CBI probe: SC||The Supreme Court observed in a judgment on Tuesday that Central agencies, including CBI, under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, cannot extend powers to any State unless the State government grants its consent. “Section 5 enables the Central government to extend the powers and jurisdiction of Members of the DSPE beyond the Union Territories to a State, the same is not permissible unless a State grants its consent for such an extension within the area of State...” it said. The court said this arrangement is in tune with the federal character of the Constitution. A Bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and B.R. Gavai, however, said the cognisance and trial in a CBI case against public servants “cannot be set aside unless the illegality in the investigation can be shown to have brought about miscarriage of justice”. Thus, if the State had given general consent for CBI investigation in a corruption case and cognisance has been taken by the court, the case cannot be set aside unless the public servants plead that prejudice has been caused to them on account of non-obtaining of prior consent under Section 6 of the DSPE Act. “It has been held that the illegality may have a bearing on the question of prejudice or miscarriage of justice but the invalidity of the investigation has no relation to the competence of the court... Even for the sake of argument that CBI had committed an error or irregularity in submitting the chargesheet without the approval of CVC, the cognisance taken by the learned Special Judge on the basis of such a chargesheet would not be set aside nor could further proceedings in pursuance thereof be quashed,” it held. The judgment came in appeals challenging a judgment passed by the Allahabad High Court in August 2019 against Fertico Marketing and Investment Private Limited and others. A raid by the CBI on the factory premises found that coal purchased by it under the Fuel Supply Agreement with Coal India Limited was allegedly sold in the black market. The CBI then registered a crime.
18 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Bodoland council polls to be held next month||Assam’s State Election Commission on Tuesday scheduled the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls in two phases on December 7 and 10. The first phase of the elections will cover Udalguri and Baksa districts while the second phase will cover Baksa and Chirang districts, State Election Commissioner Alok Kumar said. The results will be declared after counting of votes from 8 a.m. on December 12 ends, he said. The elections to the 40-seat BTC, earlier scheduled on April 4, were deferred due to the pandemic. Governor’s rule was imposed after the five-year term of the council headed by Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) ended on April 27.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests U.P. resident in child sex abuse case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested a person suspected to be involved, along with a few others, in the sexual abuse of children in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. The accused, it believes, filmed their acts and sold them through the dark web to paedophiles in various countries. Rambhawan, a junior engineer in the Irrigation Department and a resident of Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh, is said to have gifted mobile phones and cash to several of his victims to buy their silence. In the past decade, he had allegedly targeted about 50 minors in the 5-16 age group. “A case was registered against him and other unknown persons, alleging their involvement in the sexual abuse of children in Banda, Chitrakoot, Hamirpur and the surrounding areas,” said a CBI official. Searches at the residence of the accused led to the seizure of Rs. 8 lakh in cash, eight mobile phones, laptops, web-camera, sex toys and electronic storage devices, including pen drives and memory cards. A scrutiny of the emails of Rambhawan revealed that he was in constant touch with several individuals, both Indian and foreign nationals, for sharing the material.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||IRCTC to suspend operation of 2 trains||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) on Tuesday said it has decided to suspend operations of two corporate trains — Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas Express and Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express — next week onwards, due to low occupancy. “...due to low occupancy levels resulting from COVID-19 pandemic, all departures of Tejas Trains are being cancelled…,” the company said in a communique to the stock exchanges. It added that while Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas Express (82501/02) will stop running from November 23, operation of Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express (82901/02) will be stopped a day later from November 24.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests U.P. resident in child sex abuse case||The Central Bureau of Investigation has arrested a person suspected to be involved, along with a few others, in the sexual abuse of children in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. The accused, it believes, filmed their acts and sold them through the dark web to paedophiles in various countries. Rambhawan, a junior engineer in the Irrigation Department and a resident of Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh, is said to have gifted mobile phones and cash to several of his victims to buy their silence. In the past decade, he had allegedly targeted about 50 minors in the 5-16 age group. “A case was registered against him and other unknown persons, alleging their involvement in the sexual abuse of children in Banda, Chitrakoot, Hamirpur and the surrounding areas,” said a CBI official. Searches at the residence of the accused led to the seizure of Rs. 8 lakh in cash, eight mobile phones, laptops, web-camera, sex toys and electronic storage devices, including pen drives and memory cards. A scrutiny of the emails of Rambhawan revealed that he was in constant touch with several individuals, both Indian and foreign nationals, for sharing the material.
18 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Bodoland council polls to be held next month||Assam’s State Election Commission on Tuesday scheduled the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls in two phases on December 7 and 10. The first phase of the elections will cover Udalguri and Baksa districts while the second phase will cover Baksa and Chirang districts, State Election Commissioner Alok Kumar said. The results will be declared after counting of votes from 8 a.m. on December 12 ends, he said. The elections to the 40-seat BTC, earlier scheduled on April 4, were deferred due to the pandemic. Governor’s rule was imposed after the five-year term of the council headed by Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) ended on April 27.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||IRCTC to suspend operation of 2 trains||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) on Tuesday said it has decided to suspend operations of two corporate trains — Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas Express and Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express — next week onwards, due to low occupancy. “...due to low occupancy levels resulting from COVID-19 pandemic, all departures of Tejas Trains are being cancelled…,” the company said in a communique to the stock exchanges. It added that while Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas Express (82501/02) will stop running from November 23, operation of Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express (82901/02) will be stopped a day later from November 24.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||GHMC elections on Dec.1, results on Dec. 4||Location of the polling station can also be identified using an App. The ceiling on election expenditure for a candidate is Rs. 5 lakh. He said all the forms to be submitted by the candidates are available on the website and they can download them to be presented physically to the officers concerned. This will ensure that they don’t miss out any form to be submitted along with the application. Despite best efforts, polling percentage in the 2016 GHMC elections was only 45.29% while it was 42.04% in 2009 elections, he said. Every effort would be made to increase the poll percentage this time reaching out to people on the importance of voting. Adequate security arrangements will be made, he said stating that nearly 30,000 police personnel will be deployed for the elections.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong., BJP slam Isaac||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday accused Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac of attempting to make light of the grave nature of the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) “damning” report on the “unconstitutional” nature of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The CAG had said that the borrowings by KIIFB ran against the grain of Article 293(1) of the Constitution. The Article pertained to the guarantee given by the State governments to lenders for instruments of debt issued against the consolidated fund. The CAG had pointed out that the State could mobilise funds from the domestic market by floating sovereign bonds. However, it could not issue “masala bonds” outside India to raise funds from foreign investors. The Constitution had vested such authority solely with the Central government. Mr. Chennithala said Dr. Isaac had lost the right to continue in office. Mr. Chennithala demanded an anti-corruption investigation into KIIFB. ‘Not corporate entity’ BJP State president K. Surendran said Dr. Isaac had deceptively described KIIFB as an independent corporate entity. He had falsely claimed that KIIFB was not a government entity. He said the KIIFB’s charter clearly stated that it hoped to repay loans from the special cess slapped by the government on fuel and vehicle tax. It belied the claims of Dr. Isaac that the government had little to do with KIIFB, he said.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||It is an unholy global gathbandhan: Shah||In a tweet, Ms. Mufti said, “Old habits die hard. Earlier BJP’s narrative was that the ‘tukde tukde’ gang threatened India’s sovereignty and they are now using ‘Gupkar Gang’ euphemism to project us as anti nationals. Irony died a million deaths since its BJP itself that violates the constitution day in and day out”. Ms. Mufti stated, “BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front”. The BJP’s stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours and political opponents as internal and imagined enemies was far too predictable now. “Love jihad, tukde tukde and now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of like rising unemployment and inflation”, she observed. Mr. Abdullah also took to Twitter to respond to Mr. Shah’s tweets. “We didn’t oblige them” “I can understand the frustration behind this attack by the Home Minister. He had been briefed that the People’s Alliance was preparing to boycott elections. This would have allowed the BJP and newly formed king’s party a free run in J&K. We didn’t oblige them”, he said. It was only in J&K that leaders could be detained and called anti-national for participating in elections and supporting the democratic process. “The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled ‘corrupt and anti-national’,” he stated. Mr. Abdullah asserted, “We are not “gang” Amit Shah ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought and continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment”. Mr. Shah had tweeted, “The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s Tricolour. Do Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India”. Surjewala questions BJP In New Delhi, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said in a statement, “The Congress is neither a part of the Gupkar Alliance nor is it a part of the PAGD… Will Mr. Amit Shah bother to explain why did the BJP form a coalition government with the PDP that he is now attacking?”. The Congress said it didn’t need any lesson in nationalism from parties that were ‘slaves or stooges of the British Empire’. It claimed that the national still remembered the sacrifices of its leaders, including Mahatma Gandhi, former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi. Mr. Surjewala said, “May be Amit Shah and the Narendra Modi government need new lessons in patriotism and nationalism, as their parent organisation, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), never hoisted the Tricolour for 52 years”. The Congress also delved into some past events. It asked the BJP to explain why it allowed Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence to visit the Pathankot airbase following the terror attack and released Jaish-e-Mohammed chief Maulana Masood Azhar, among others.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||M.P. planning law with 5-year jail for ‘love jihad’||As for those indulging in religious conversion for marriages, they should inform the District Magistrates at least a month in advance, along with religious persons organising the conversions. The announcement comes after similar plans were made public by the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Haryana governments. Recently, the Allahabad High Court repudiated the idea of religious conversion solely for the purpose of marriage.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||What mechanism do you have against fake news: SC||Besides, the government had already blocked 743 social media accounts and URLs spreading fake news on COVID-19.  The court rejected the affidavit as inadequate. “We are disappointed with your affidavit... It does not contain a whisper about what you have done under the Cable TV Act... We are not satisfied... We want to know how you are employing the Cable TV Act. We want to know the quantum of applicability of the Act... What is the legal remedy when there are complaints?” Chief Justice Bobde asked Mr. Mehta. Court’s poser For the past two months, the court has been asking the government to give a clear answer to whether the regulatory provisions of the Cable TV Network (Regulation) Act of 1995, meant for cable networks, would apply to TV broadcasts. “We want to know if the government has any power to question or ban TV broadcasting signals,” Chief Justice Bobde had asked the government in the previous hearing in October. Mr. Mehta referred to the power to prohibit transmission of certain programmes under Section 19 of the 1995 Act. ‘Elaborate affidavit’ However, he agreed to file an “elaborate” affidavit, which would be the third in a row from the government side. The CJI had termed the first one, filed by an under-secretary, “evasive” and even “nonsensical.” The Jamiat petitions has sought a direction from the court to the Ministry to identify and take strict action against sections of the media that communalised the Tablighi incident.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Koshiyari moves SC against contempt action||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court to stay contempt proceedings against him in the Uttarakhand High Court. The high court had on May 3 last year ordered former chief ministers of the State, like Mr. Koshiyari, to pay market rent for the entire period they had continued to occupy government accommodation since demitting office. In his appeal, Mr. Koshiyari, represented by advocate Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad, said the market rent fixed was “exorbitant” for residential premises by Dehradun standards. Besides, he and the others were not given a chance to participate in the proceedings for determination of the market rent. The appeal said the rent was fixed on the basis of an affidavit filed by the Additional Secretary State Estate Department in February 2019. This affidavit was not served on any of the affected former chief ministers. The appeal said the basis for determination of the market rent was never informed to them. The rent was fixed without rationale. He said the entire process of fixing the rent amounts was “arbitrary, discriminatory and violative of the principles of natural justice”. “The determination of exorbitant amount as market rent appears to be penal in nature compared to the prevailing market rent of similar residential premises,” the Governor said in his appeal. He argued that the State has in “a routine manner calculated the amount to be recovered from him from the date of demitting the office of the Chief Minister without considering his entitlement for the similar accommodation facilities in capacity as a Member of the Legislative Assembly”. Mr. Koshiyari also asked apex court to examine the aspect of the immunity of office given to Governors under Article 361 of the Constitution. The apex court had recently stayed the contempt proceedings against Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal in a case emanating from the same high court order. In its May 2019 order, the Uttarakhand High Court had declared all government orders from 2001 providing housing and other facilities to former chief ministers as illegal and unconstitutional. It had asked the former chief ministers to pay the rent within six months from the date of intimation. The high court had passed the order on a plea by a Dehradun-based NGO. After last year’s order, the NGO had filed a plea in the high court alleging non-compliance of the order.
18 November 2020||Washington,||Modi speaks with Biden, affirms importance of ties||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he spoke with U.S. President-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday evening (India time). “Spoke to U.S. President-elect Joe Biden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-U.S. strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns, COVID-19 pandemic, climate change and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region,” Mr. Modi wrote on Twitter. Mr. Modi had already sent a congratulatory message via Twitter to Mr. Biden last week on his “spectacular victory” in the U.S. elections which concluded on November 3. Mr. Modi and President Donald Trump shared a publicly close relationship, appearing together at rallies in Houston and Ahmedabad in 2019 and 2020, respectively. The Trump campaign used this bonhomie in its campaign messaging to woo Indian American voters. The India-U.S. relationship has had broad support on both sides of the aisle in the U.S. with Democrats and Republicans bringing different challenges and opportunities for the relationship in the spheres of democracy and human rights, regional policy, trade and immigration.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests U.P. resident in child sex abuse case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a person suspected to be involved, along with a few others, in the sexual abuse of children in different parts of Uttar Pradesh. The accused, it believes, filmed their acts and sold them through the dark web to paedophiles in various countries. Rambhawan, a junior engineer in the Irrigation Department and a resident of Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh, is said to have gifted mobile phones and cash to several of his victims to buy their silence. In the past decade, he had allegedly targeted about 50 minors in the 5-16 age group. Over the years, he had created a large bank of photographs and video clips, and shared them on various social media platforms and secret websites, said the agency.
18 November 2020||Kolkata,||BJP brings in more central leaders, battle for Bengal hots up||With the wnd of Puja holidays, there was frentic political activity among Opposition parties on Tuesday as the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Left and Congress leadership organised marathon meetings throughout the day. The meetings are an indication that the battle for the West Bengal Assembly polls is hotting up. In the organisational meeting organised by BJP in Kolkata, five central leaders were given charge of five zones of the State. The leaders included Sunil Deodhar who will look after Medinipur zone, north Bengal zone will be looked after Harish Dwivedi whereas Dushyant Kumar Gautam has been assigned Kolkata. Vinod Taorey will be in charge of Nabadwip zone and Vinod Sonkar has been assigned the Rahr Bongo zone (Asansol and Durgapur region). The development also comes at a time when Amit Malviya has been assigned assigned as co-observer to West Bengal. Mr. Malviya was also present at the meeting during the day. The central leaders responsible for the five orgnisational zones will report to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. BJP State unit president Dilip Ghosh said Muslims in West Bengal have not supported the BJP and if parties like All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AMIM) field candidates they are within their right to do so. Meanwhile, the Left and Congress leadership met during the day to decide on their strategy for next year’s elections. The Left and the Congress have decided to contest the polls as part of an electoral understanding. Congress State unit president Adhir Ranjan Chowhury and Leader of Opposition Abdul Mannan visited Furfura Sharif, a prominent shrine of Bengali Muslims in Hooghly district.
18 November 2020||Kochi,||CAG can audit KIIFB, HC told||As the outflow from the Consolidated Fund of the State is involved, the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) is amenable for audit by the Accountant General and is being audited based on Section 14 (1) of the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (Duties, Powers and Conditions of Service) Act, 1971, according to an affidavit filed by the Office of the Accountant General in the Kerala High Court on Tuesday. In its affidavit, the Senior Deputy Accountant General (Admn), the office of the Accountant General (G&SSA), Kerala, Thiruvananthapuram, said under Section 14 (2) of the Act, the Accountant General may, with the previous approval of the President or the Governor of a State or the administrator of a Union Territory having a legislative Assembly, as the case may be, audit all receipts and expenditure of anybody or authority where the grants or loans were not less than Rs. 1 crore. In response to plea The affidavit was filed in response to a petition challenging the constitutional validity of the issue of masala bonds to overseas investors by the State government and listing them on the London Stock Exchange. According to the petitioner, the issue of bonds by the State government under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Act of 1999 was in violation of Article 293(1), which mandated that State governments could borrow only within the country. The affidavit added that since the bonds for borrowing money were backed and guaranteed by the government, the ultimate liability and accountability had to be borne by the State government. The affidavit added that the CAG was a constitutional authority and the reports prepared by the CAG should be laid before Parliament or appropriate legislature as per Article 151 of the Constitution.  Objective It enables the legislature to oversee the functioning of the government and of anybody or authority, even a private body that was discharging functions for and on behalf of the government by way of partnership, agreement or in any other manner with the government.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||28 additional judges of Allahabad High Court made permanent||The Union Law Ministry on Tuesday notified the elevation of 28 additional judges of the Allahabad High Court as permanent judges. An additional judge is usually elevated as a permanent judge after two years based on performance. According to the notification issued by the Department of Justice in the Law Ministry, President Ram Nath Kovind, in exercise of his powers under Article 217 of the Constitution, appointed the additional judges as permanent judges in the Allahabad High Court. With a sanctioned strength of 160 judges and the number of cases registered, the Allahabad High Court is the largest of the 25 High Courts in the country. However, according to the data shared in the Law Ministry’s website as on November 1, the working strength of the court is 100 judges and it has a shortage of 60 judges.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,||NCB takes custody of Bineesh||Barely a week after he was remanded in judicial custody by a special court, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday took custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri for three days till November 20 to question him on his role in a drug peddling case and his ties with accused Mohammed Anoop. Bineesh, son of Kerala CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan who stepped down recently, is being investigated by the Enforcement Directorate in the same case. He was in the ED’s custody since his arrest and was remanded in judicial custody by a special court last week. The NCB had arrested Anoop during a series of raids in the city. “He said that Bineesh would visit his apartment in Kalyan Nagar, where he consumed some drugs,” said a source.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI arrests 3 traders, BSF commandant||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested a Border Security Force (BSF) commandant for his alleged role in the smuggling of cattle to Bangladesh via West Bengal. The accused, Satish Kumar, was booked along with three traders named Enamul Haque, Anarul Sheikh and Mohammed Golam Mustafa. The agency had earlier arrested Haque. In September, the CBI searched the premises of the accused persons at 13 locations in West Bengal’s Kolkata and Murshidabad, Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Amritsar in Punjab and Chhattisgarh’s Raipur, where the officer was currently posted. From December 19, 2015, to April 22, 2017, he was posted as Commandant in the 36 Battalion of BSF in the Malda district. The agency alleged that during his tenure, more than 20,000 cows were seized by the force, but the persons involved in the cattle smuggling were not apprehended. Their vehicles were also not seized.
18 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Haryana to draft law on ‘love jihad’||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said that a strict law would be enacted to control ‘love jihad’ cases in the State and soon a committee would be constituted to draft the law. The Home Minister held a meeting with senior officials of the department surrounding the drafting of law regarding ‘love jihad’, a term used by fringe groups to describe interfaith relationships. An official statement said that Haryana would also study the laws made by other States on the same subject. “The Home department, Advocate General and other concerned officers will also be included in this committee,” it added. Mr. Vij said that with the enactment of this law, strict action would be taken against any person who is found trying to convert someone by putting pressure, through temptation or acting in the name of love.
18 November 2020||Patna,||Nitish allocates portfolios||A day after taking oath as Bihar Chief Minister, Nitish Kumar on Tuesday allocated portfolios to the 14 Ministers, while keeping Home and General Administration to himself. His two deputies in the Cabinet, Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, have got multiple Ministries. A controversial induction into the Cabinet was that of Mewalal Choudhury, a two-time JD(U) MLA from Tarapur in Munger district. In 2017, he was accused in a recruitment scam of assistant professors and junior scientists. He was later suspended from the party. Mr. Choudhury on Tuesday refused to comment on the charges against him. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) took a dig at Mr. Kumar for giving Education to Mr. Choudhary. “The corrupt JD(U) MLA whom Sushil Modi was once looking for has been made Minister by patron of corruption Nitish Kumar. This is the double character of Nitish Kumar who has been patron of 60 scams. This man (Mr. Kumar) can stoop to any low for chair (of CM),” it tweeted. Mr. Tarkishore Prasad has been given Finance, Forest and Environment, Commercial Taxes, Information Technology and Disaster Management. All these departments were held by his predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi. Ms. Renu Devi has been put in charge of Backward Caste and Extremely Backward Caste Welfare, Panchayati Raj and Industry.
18 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Goods trucks to Nagaland blocked||More than a dozen organisations led by the Karbi Students’ Association (KSA) on Tuesday enforced an indefinite economic blockade against Nagaland to protest alleged land-grabbing along the inter-State border. This is the second such blockade along Assam’s borders with neighbouring States after an acrimonious one with Mizoram for a month ending November 9. “While we have let private vehicles move, commercial vehicles and goods-laden trucks will not be allowed into Nagaland until the State governments solve the crisis and the local authorities give it in writing that the Nagas will not take our land,” said KSA advisor Laichan Engleng.
18 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||BJP to contest all seats in Punjab Assembly polls||Months after the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) and its oldest alliance partner, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), parted ways, the BJP in Punjab has decided to contest alone all 117 Assembly seats in the State elections due early 2022. The BJP’s State president, Ashwani Sharma, on Tuesday told The Hindu that to strengthen the party base across the State, the party is now focusing on deploying workers at the booth-level. “We have decided to fight upcoming Assembly polls in Punjab all alone on all the 117 seats. We are already ready with organisational set-up at district level... now we are all set to constitute committees at booth level. At one booth we will have 10 workers, who will work towards strengthening the party,” Mr. Sharma said. “Our focus is to make Punjab corruption and drugs free... We will convey to every section of people that BJP is their party... sabka saath-sabka vikas (together with all, development for all) will be our moto,” he added.  The party would popularise 160 public welfare schemes launched by the NDA government among masses and apprise the people of the progress made on them in Punjab.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. leaders criticise RCEP decision||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Tuesday said External Affairs Minister (EAM) S. Jaishankar’s views on trade agreements were similar to the language used in the 1970s, and claimed that several English newspapers have noted that India would be “better off” by being a part of the regional trade bloc, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). His party colleague and former Commerce Minister Anand Sharma was more direct in saying India should have joined the RCEP and the decision to stay away was “ill-advised” and a “backward leap”. The view of both the former UPA Ministers are at odds with the Congress’s official position that had called the deal ‘suicidal’ last year. Mr. Jaishankar, at the Deccan Dialogue conference on Monday, said India had allowed “subsidised products and unfair production advantages from abroad to prevail” in the name of having a globalised economy and that resulted in de-industrialisation of some sectors.
18 November 2020||Kanpur,||Two more held in connection with Kanpur clash||Police arrested two more people in connection with the clash between two communities at Wajidpur’s Chakeri locality here as no fresh incident of violence was reported from the area, a senior official said. A 25-year-old youth was killed and several injured in the clash that erupted after a man was accidentally splashed with water. Security personnel in large numbers were deployed to ensure normalcy.
18 November 2020||Kanpur,||Kanpur violence: two more arrested||Police arrested two more persons in connection with the clash between two communities at Wajidpur’s Chakeri locality here as no fresh incident of violence was reported from the area, a senior officer said. A youth was killed and several hurt in the clash that erupted after a man was accidentally splashed with water.
18 November 2020||Guwahati,||11 arrested in Assam for posing as IAF personnel||At least 11 people were arrested on Tuesday for posing as Air Force personnel and patrolling near the Lokpriya Gopinath Bordoloi International Airport, police said. A mobile team of Azara police station noticed the group near the airport wearing military camouflage, they said.
18 November 2020||Kolkata,||BJP MP says he was not let in for jawan’s funeral||A Bharatiya Janata Party MP on Tuesday alleged he was prevented from attending the final rites of martyred jawan Subodh Ghosh at Palassy crematorium in West Bengal’s Nadia district. Jagannath Sarkar, who represents Ranaghat, said the Nadia district administration prevented him from entering the crematorium on Monday evening while Mahua Moitra, a Trinamool Congress MP, was allowed in.
18 November 2020||Kolkata,||Bangladeshi cricketer issues apology||Bangladeshi cricketer Shakib Al-Hasan on Tuesday issued an apology after he received a death threat on social media for taking part in a celebration as part of a Kali puja in Kolkata. Mr. Hasan attended a ceremony on November 12 in east Kolkata’s Kakurgachi area. “I consider myself a proud Muslim, I offer my apology if I have hurt your sentiments,” the Bangladeshi all-rounder said.
18 November 2020||Guwahati,||Bodoland council polls to be held next month||Assam’s State Election Commission on Tuesday scheduled the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) polls in two phases on December 7 and 10. Votes will be counted on December 12. The elections to the 40-seat BTC, earlier scheduled on April 4, were deferred due to the pandemic. Governor’s rule was imposed after the five-year term of the council headed by Bodoland People’s Front ended on April 27.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Lucknow-New Delhi, Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas cancelled||The IRCTC on Tuesday said it had decided to suspend the operations of two corporate trains — the Lucknow-New Delhi and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express — due to low occupancy. While the Lucknow-Delhi Tejas will stop running from November 23, Ahmedabad-Mumbai will be stopped from November 24.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indigenous QRSAM successfully tested for second time in 5 days||The Defence Research and Development Organisation on Tuesday successfully tested the indigenous under development Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile (QRSAM) system for the second time in five days, from Chandipur off Odisha coast. “The test was carried out against the high-performance jet unmanned aerial target called Banshee, which simulates an aircraft,” the DRDO said in statement.
18 November 2020||Kolkata,||BJP MP says he was prevented from attending final rites of jawan in West Bengal||BJP MP says he was prevented from attending final rites of jawan A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP on Tuesday alleged that he was prevented from participating in the final rites ceremony of martyred jawan Subodh Ghosh at Palassy crematorium in West Bengal’s Nadia district. Jagannath Sarkar, who represents Ranaghat, said that the Nadia district administration heckled him and prevented him from entering the crematorium on Monday evening while Mahua Moitra, a Trinamool Congress MP, was allowed to participate in the ceremony. The BJP MP said that the District Magistrate and Superintendent of Police were present at the venue but did not act despite his repeated pleadings. Subodh Ghosh, an Army jawan from Raghunathpur village in West Bengal’s Nadia district, was killed at Baramulla in Kashmir on Friday. His final rites were performed late on Monday evening. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar took note of the developments and sought a report from State’s Home Department. “Democracy @MamataOfficial shamed! Ruling party MP, a guest and opposition MP so browbeaten on such solemn occasion. Exemplary consequences for this delinquency in uniform @WBPolice must if democracy is to survive. Public servants acting politically would face wrath of law,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted. He also shared the video of the altercation between the MP and the police officials from his social media handles. In the video, the MP is seen arguing with people in uniform near the crematorium. The Governor also raised concerns on police and political neutrality in West Bengal. “Police ‘Political neutrality’ @MamataOfficial in flames! Treatment meted out @WBPolice to MP Jagannath Sarkar at last rite ceremony of martyr Sh.Subodh Ghosh at Palassy crematorium, Nadia is gross dereliction of duty by SP and DM #Nadia,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted. The Governor also wrote a letter to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee inviting attention on “implication of innocent citizens in false criminal cases at the behest of political masters”.  Democracy @MamataOfficial shamed! Ruling party MP, a guest and opposition MP so browbeaten Jagdeep Dhankhar West Bengal Governor
18 November 2020||Kolkata,||Bangladeshi cricketer Shakib Al-Hasan apologises after death threat for attending Kali puja||Bangladeshi cricketer Shakib Al-Hasan on Tuesday issued an apology after he received a death threat on social media for taking part in a celebration as part of a Kali puja in Kolkata. Mr. Hasan had attended a ceremony on November 12 in east Kolkata’s Kakurgachi area. “I consider myself a proud Muslim, I offer my apology if I have hurt your sentiments,” he said. He added that he never inaugurated the puja as it was being claimed on social media and had only participated in an event near the puja pandal. A youth on Sunday threatened to kill the Bangladeshi all-rounder in a video post on Facebook accusing the cricketer of blasphemy. The man who had threatened the cricketer has been identified as Mohsin Talukdar from Sylhet in Bangladesh. “There was no intention to show my own religion in poor light. I believe Islam is a religion of peace. I always try to follow every custom of Islam. Yes, we do make mistakes but I try to learn from them to become a better Muslim,” Mr. Hasan said. Mr. Hasan further clarified that the puja was inaugurated before his arrival. “If you see the invitation card of the puja, you will know that I was not called for inauguration. It was inaugurated before my arrival by Mr. Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators of Kolkata Municipal Corporation and a Minister of the West Bengal government,” he added. The cricketer said that the event he participated in had nothing to do with puja and he was present in the mandap only for a few minutes at the request of the organisers. “Kolkata is like my home; I never miss an opportunity to visit. We should all pray that relations between people from both the sides stay strong forever,” Mr. Hasan had said at the event on November 12.
18 November 2020||Kolkata,||Cricketer Shakib Al-Hasan apologises after death threat||Bangladeshi cricketer Shakib Al-Hasan on Tuesday issued an apology after he received a death threat on social media for taking part in a celebration as part of a Kali puja in Kolkata. Mr. Hasan had attended a ceremony on November 12 in east Kolkata’s Kakurgachi area. “I consider myself a proud Muslim, I offer my apology if I have hurt your sentiments,” he said. He added that he never inaugurated the puja as it was being claimed on social media and had only participated in an event near the puja pandal. A youth on Sunday threatened to kill the Bangladeshi all-rounder in a video post on Facebook accusing the cricketer of blasphemy. The man who had threatened the cricketer has been identified as Mohsin Talukdar from Sylhet in Bangladesh. “There was no intention to show my own religion in poor light. I believe Islam is a religion of peace. I always try to follow every custom of Islam. Yes, we do make mistakes but I try to learn from them to become a better Muslim,” Mr. Hasan said. Mr. Hasan further clarified that the puja was inaugurated before his arrival. “If you see the invitation card of the puja, you will know that I was not called for inauguration. It was inaugurated before my arrival by Mr. Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators of Kolkata Municipal Corporation and a Minister of the West Bengal government,” he added. The cricketer said that the event he participated in had nothing to do with puja and he was present in the mandap only for a few minutes at the request of the organisers. “Kolkata is like my home; I never miss an opportunity to visit. We should all pray that relations between people from both the sides stay strong forever,” Mr. Hasan had said at the event on November 12.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||For pedestrians in Chennai, the sailing is never smooth||Despite being touted as the first city to have introduced the Non-Motorised Transport policy in the entire country, Chennai does not seem to respect its non-polluting commuters or at least this is what statistics reveal. A total of 158 pedestrians have died and 670 have sustained injuries in road accidents that took place in 2020. To make the city roads safer for pedestrians, infrastructure has to be improved, laws have to be enforced and motorists have to be educated, say urban planning experts and residents. Pedestrians shouldn’t be treated like second class citizens by giving first preference to motorised transport, they feel. Left in the lurch “Nobody respects the pedestrians and they are not considered as legitimate road users. As a city we have a single point agenda to ensure that flow of motorised transport is not affected and anything that posed an impediment should be removed including the pedestrians. We have been giving importance to an inanimate object rather than a human being,” said Sumana Narayanan, senior researcher, Consumer Action Group. She said that pavements are a joke in the city. “They are encroached upon by vehicles and garbage and are uneven mostly. It is great to see government coming up with pedestrian plaza in Pondy Bazaar, but it is happening only in small stretches,” she added. Urban planning experts point out that the foot over bridges and subways are used less, and hence, are useless. “The infrastructure also shows that priority is given to vehicles and to ensure their movement is not affected. Hence pedestrians have to go under the road or over it and this is unfair. Priority should be given to help cyclists and pedestrians cross at surface and for this the government has to follow the Indian Road Congress guidelines,” said Ms. Narayanan. After the government introduces the infrastructure, the focus should be on attitude change in motorists to respect pedestrians, cyclists and other forms of non-motorised transport. “This should be done at the time of issuing a licence. Even pedestrians need to be made aware of their rights on the road,” she explained. D. Neelakannan, president, Federation of Madhavaram Residents Welfare Association comprising 43 units, said that while most of the focus is on roads inside the city, residents living outside the core part of the city are suffering without proper traffic intersections to cross the road. “We have been fighting for signals with traffic islands. People here have to walk a long distance to cross the road or risk their lives and squeeze their way through the gap in the median to reach the other side,” he said. Vulnerable lot Aswathy Dilip, senior programme manager of Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), said that recently they did a study of road accidents on OMR. According to the 2018-19 data, 45% of accidents on this corridor involved pedestrians. “At a quick glance, one may wonder with almost a foot over bridge (FOB) every 2 km, what could be the problem. However, pedestrians find it extremely inconvenient to use the FOBs and prefer to cross at-grade. Also, between the 2 km stretch, the lack of mid block crossings are a huge concern,” she said. She added that to save the most vulnerable road users — pedestrians — from road deaths, first, there is a need to redesign our roads with wide, continuous, and segregated footpaths. There has to be adequate number of mid-block crossings, safe intersections with refuge islands, traffic calming and adequate lighting. N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, said all his traffic police officers have been asked to educate motorists to respect pedestrians, cyclists and other non-motorised transport modes. “We are doing this at junctions where pedestrian deaths have occured. Mostly pedestrians get hit at stretches which have medians. At these places, we have started stopping and educating them about the dangers. We are also planning a big campaign for pedestrian safety,” he said.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 1,652 cases, count stays low||The number of persons testing positive for COVID-19 stood at 1,652 on Tuesday, taking the State’s tally to 7,61,568. At the same time, 2,314 persons were discharged after treatment from various health facilities, taking the total number of discharged persons to 7,34,970. The State also recorded 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. Of this, six were in government hospitals and 12 in private facilities. Chennai recorded 492 new cases, even as 624 persons were discharged from its facilities. However, the number of deaths went up to 10. As on date, 4,822 persons are still under treatment in the district, according to a health bulletin released by the Directorate of Public Health. The district’s tally touched 2,09,646, and its toll 3,783. Cases in single digits While Perambalur saw no new infections, seven districts reported under 10 fresh cases. Ariyalur recorded seven cases, Pudukottai nine, Ramanathapuram four, Sivaganga six, Theni eight and Thoothukudi five. In Virudhunagar, four more cases were reported. While five of the 18 deaths took place in government medical college hospitals, one was reported from an ESIC hospital in Coimbatore. The youngest among the deceased was a 54-year-old man from Namakkal. The patient had coronary artery disease and was admitted to a private hospital in Erode, with complaints of cough for two days, giddiness and vomiting, on November 12. He died on Monday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. An 83-year-old man from Coimbatore, who tested positive for the infection on November 8, with complications such as diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease and Parkinsons, died on Monday night at a private hospital in Tiruchi. He had been admitted with complaints of fever and cough for two days. The government has approved of two more private laboratories in Chennai for COVID-19 testing. With this, the State now has 212 testing centres — 66 in the government sector and 146 private facilities.  Chennai recorded 492 new cases, even as 624 persons were discharged from its facilities
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers still keen on crop insurance scheme||The Centre’s decision to make voluntary the enrolment of farmers in the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY- Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme) does not seem to have reduced the farmers’ interest in it. Against 2.74 lakh farmers, totally covered under the scheme during the 2019 kharif season (which is equivalent to kuruvai season in Tamil Nadu), over 4 lakh were enrolled this time. As was the case in the previous years, the proportion of non-loanee farmers — those who have not taken crop loans — in the total number of insured farmers, is higher this time as well, compared to loanee agriculturists. Their number has actually gone up this year, as the share of loanee farmers has seen a dip. Since the scheme was inaugurated in 2016-17, of the total number of insured farmers, agriculturists without loans have constituted almost four-fifths and ones with loans one-fifth. But, as a sequel to the Central government’s move to make the insurance cover optional, the ratio is 89:11. However, officials of the Agriculture Department have expressed hope that there will not be any change in the total number of insured farmers, which, they expect, will be around 21 lakh. At present, enrolment for the special season is in progress. This will be followed by the season for rabi and other crops. But it is during the current special season that a major chunk of enrolment is likely to take place. Authorities have drawn up the schedule, crop-wise and district-wise. For example, paddy, farmers in Erode, Karur, Kancheepuram, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Sivaganga districts will have to join the scheme, latest by November 30. For cotton, the last date is November 30 for Dindigul and December 15 for Madurai. A senior official said that when enrolment begins a few months later for pulses, a substantial number of farmers from Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar would take the cover. With respect to the current special season, apart from the one for rabi, the State government has roped in IFFCO-Tokio and the Agriculture Insurance Company of India Limited (AICIL), on a co-insurance model. If compensation is higher than the premium paid, the State government will absorb 80% of the difference, with the insurance firms meeting the rest. This arrangement has been made, keeping in mind the interests of the farmers, and the inability of the insurance companies in getting adequate support of re-insurance firms, an official said.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veteran Tamil publisher Cre -A Ramakrishnan no more||Veteran Tamil publisher S. Ramakrishnan died in Chennai on Tuesday. He was 75. His wife predeceased him many years ago. He was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Speciality Hospital on Omandurar Government Estate. As his condition deteriorated on Friday, the third edition of a work with which he had been associated for nearly 30 years — Cre -A: Dictionary of Contemporary Tamil (Tamil-Tamil-English) — was released in the hospital. Mr. Ramakrishnan, whose mother tongue was Telugu, considered himself Tamil as he was born and brought up in Chennai. A postgraduate in social work from Loyola College, Mr. Ramakrishnan, who had a brief stint in advertising, took to publishing when he was hardly 30 years old. He founded Cre-A, a Tamil publishing firm, in 1974 with the objective of bringing out serious literature in Tamil. The focus of the organisation widened as it published titles on environment, healthcare, agriculture, modern Western philosophy and technology. Since 1978, Cre-A has brought out Tamil translations of literary works in Hindi, Bengali and Kannada, apart from publishing the works of leading Tamil writers and thinkers like Mowni, Ashokamitran, Sa. Kandasamy, Sundara Ramaswamy, Na. Muthuswamy and S.V. Rajadurai. Mr. Ramakrishnan believed that irrespective of being acquainted with English or any other language, Tamils could internalise the ever-changing external reality only through their mother tongue. He would often say that the experience and enjoyment that one derives from reading the works of Jean-Paul Sartre or Franz Kafka in Tamil would be entirely different from that of reading them in English. He also commissioned direct Tamil translations of the works of German and French literary figures like Kafka and Albert Camus, which are regarded as “important landmarks” of Tamil publishing. It was the dictionary project on contemporary Tamil that enhanced the veteran publisher’s stature substantially in the literary world. The first edition of the dictionary was released in 1992, the braille form of which became available in 2011. The project was prompted by his realisation that most people had learnt to live with the limited use of the Tamil vocabulary. To redress the situation, he laid emphasis on strengthening the language with new skills, Mr. Ramakrishnan told The Hindu in May 1997. He also played a key role in the formation of ‘MOZHI’, a public trust, ‘Koothu-p-pattarai’, an avant-garde theatre group, and the Roja Muthiah Research Library. ‘A pioneer’ Calling him “a pioneer in publishing critical works of Tamil literary writers of immense significance”, Indira Parthasarathy, a leading Tamil writer-playwright-critic, referred to the collaborative project of Cre-A and the Harvard University in producing Iravatham Mahadevan’s Early Tamil Epigraphy: From the Earliest Times to Sixth Century A.D., which he described as a “masterly production that matched the standards of Western academic publications”. Dilip Kumar, a Tamil writer who worked at Cre-A for over 10 years, said Mr. Ramakrishnan worked towards erasing the perception, once widely prevalent, that Tamil literature meant studies of only classical works. He was keen on creating a body of meaningful Tamil readers so that serious works in modern Tamil literature could be supported and nourished. Writer-filmmaker Amshan Kumar said Mr. Ramakrishnan preferred quality to quantity while producing books. Even as he brought out titles on modern and Western concepts, he followed the best practices of the traditional Tamil publishing industry by working closely with authors. Mr. Ramakrishnan was part of the team that produced Ka Sa Da Tha Pa Ra, a literary magazine with a special focus on editing and enhancing the Tamil text, said Kannan Sundaram, publisher of Kalachuvadu.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Medical counselling to be held in stadium||With this year’s medical counselling set to be held at the Jawaharlal Nehru outdoor stadium in the city, officials of the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) said preparations have been made, keeping in mind the requirement of social distancing. Five years ago, the DME shifted the venue for counselling from the Government Kilpauk Medical College to the Government Omandurar Multi Super Speciality Hospital. Currently, the hospital in Omandurar Estate is being used exclusively to care for COVID-19 patients. In another departure from the norm, the counselling will not begin with sessions for special categories that include persons with disabilities, eminent sportspersons and the wards of former servicemen. Instead, the first session has been allotted for students from government schools, for whom the State government has introduced special horizontal reservation. This year, 951 candidates have applied under the 7.5% quota for these seats. As of date, a total of 313 MBBS seats and 92 seats in dental colleges are available under the State government quota. Counselling for government school students will begin at 9 a.m. on Thursday, and will extend all through Friday. Counselling for the general category will begin once all the seats under the government schools reservation category have been covered, officials said. Counselling for special category candidates will be held on November 21, selection secretary G. Selvarajan said. The seat matrix for the special reservation for government school students was released on Tuesday night. Medical colleges with 250 seats, like MMC, Stanley, and those in Madurai and Tirunelveli, will allot 16 seats each. ESIC Coimbatore will admit five students and ESIC Chennai four. Due to the COVID-19 situation, a few changes have been made in the method of counselling. Plastic sheets have been placed on tables to serve as barricades between the counselling officials and the candidates and their parents. According to officials, 10 teams will be present to scrutinise each and every certificate produced by the candidates. “LED screens have been placed outside the venue to provide updates on the counselling process,” Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu said.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel NEET, demands Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday demanded that NEET be scrapped, since the Centre had introduced the Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INI-CET) for admissions to PG courses in medical colleges run by the Central government. “The Centre argued before the courts that Tamil Nadu should not be exempted from NEET, as it was common across the country. Now it has come out with its own entrance examination for Central medical colleges. It is highly condemnable,” he said in a statement. He said the Centre’s argument was that even admissions at AIIMS was done based on NEET. He said its new entrance test was the height of double standards. “The decision of the Centre will destroy the dreams of students from Tamil Nadu, joining PG courses,” he said. He accused the BJP government at the Centre of undermining social justice, wherever it was possible. “Medical admissions should be done based on the 69% reservation in Tamil Nadu,” he said, urging Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to pressurise the Centre on the issue.  TTV criticises move Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakarn on Tuesday criticised the move to hold a combined entrance test for admissiond to PG courses in medicine, in institutions under the control of the Central government. In a series of tweets, he said the decision to hold the test was “totally unfair”.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No plan to open Chembarambakkam reservoir floodgates||There are no plans to open floodgates of Chembarambakkam reservoir as of now as the inflow into the waterbody dropped on Tuesday morning. It may take another spell of rain for the waterbody to touch its capacity, according to the Water Resources Department. The WRD plans to continue monitoring the level in the city’s reservoirs to take further decision on release of water into the rivers. The inflow into Chembarambakkam reservoir dropped to 450 cusecs (cubic feet per second) by 10 a.m. from 1,086 cusecs of rainwater received during the early morning hours and the water level has reached 21.13 feet against its full level of 24 feet. “We will store water till the level touches 22 feet and then decide on water release after prior warning to areas downstream of the reservoir. However, we need another rainspell for the water level to increase,” said an official. An inflow of about 1,000 cusecs for another four or five days is needed for the water level to rise. At present, the lake has 2,889 million cubic feet of water against its capacity of 3,231 mcft. Of the nearly 908 tanks in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, nearly 68 tanks, including Eraiyur Devaneri and Gunduperumbedu in Sriperumbudur taluk, Sembakkam, Keelkattalai and Selaiyur have reached their full capacity so far. A total of 127 tanks have reached 75 to 90% of their capacity. Two check dams in Vayalur and Esur Vallipuram across Palar river have surplused due to rains over the past two days and were able to store about 1,000 mcft together. The two main contributing waterbodies in Pillaipakkam and Sriperumbudur located upstream of Chembarambakkam reservoir too have a storage space of three feet. Other waterbodies upstream that drain surplus into Adyar river too need more rains to fill up, the officials added. There are arrangements to divert a minimal amount of excess water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir to Sikkarayapuram quarries. Similarly, water released into Kosasthalaiyar river from Ammapalli dam, Krishnapuram village in Andhra Pradesh has also been stopped since Monday. The floodwater did not reach Poondi reservoir. While water level at Red Hills stands at nearly 17 feet against full level of 21 ft, there is still a buffer space of about 1,800 mcft in Poondi reservoir. Chennai continues to receive Krishna water too from A.P. In Tiruvallur district, only 20%-25% of the water bodies have filled up so far and more rainspells are required for them to touch their capacity, officials added.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities, elderly ones demand accessible footpaths||Every year, during the wedding anniversary, TMN Deepak entertains a particular wish — buy his wife a saree at T.Nagar or any other shopping centre. A simple wish which can be fulfilled easily, you may think. But Deepak doesn’t think that way. The very thought of getting into T.Nagar depresses him as the pavements there are not accessible to him. It is not a problem faced just by him, many persons with mobility issues and elderly citizens of the city have been denied a social life due to lack of access to footpaths. “I was in Seoul some time ago and there I can easily go around the entire city on an electric wheelchair. But it is impossible in Indian cities,” said Prof. Deepak, a teacher at Loyola College and founder of the December 3 movement, an organisation working for the rights of persons with disabilities. He said the dream of making buses accessible to people with mobility issues can happen only if there are accessible footpaths. “No elderly or a differently abled person can dream of going to T. Nagar for shopping, though all of us would love to do so. Due to lack of infrastructure, our social life has been snatched away. There is no point in making government offices differently abled-friendly if the footpaths are not obstruction free,” he added. Sumana Narayanan, senior researcher, CAG, said disabled and elderly persons find it hard to cross the roads in the city.  “They cannot use the subways and foot over bridges. Even the pavements are not accessible. The wheel chairs cannot pass through the bollards that are meant to prevent two-wheelers from riding on the platform,” she said. She also pointed out that one of the major encroachers of pavements are residential buildings and big commercial establishments. “The residents maintain a garden on the pavement in the name of beautification or make it an incline. Commercial establishments keep wares outside the shop and obstruct pedestrian movement,” she said. N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, traffic, said City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, has asked traffic police personnel to start foot patrol. “This way, the officers will know the problems faced by pedestrians and cyclists. Incidents of shops and vehicles encroaching the pavements will also reduce once they see police officers walking regularly,” he said. Removing obstructions Apart from this, the police have also been removing encroachments in the city. “Under the road adoption programme, we are improving the available infrastructure in the city in association with the Greater Chennai Corporation. In the first phase, we have covered 65 stretches and in the second phase also we have taken up 65 roads. In all these areas we have prepared the footpaths for pedestrians by removing obstructions,” he added.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Taratdac members stage protest||Members of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (Taratdac) staged a protest in front of different government buildings on Tuesday to highlight some of their long-pending demands. The protest, in which the association said over 18,000 members participated, was conducted in front of close to 500 places across the State. In Chennai it was organised in front of the Collectorate. “Our main demand is to table white paper on the implementation of the backlog vacancies in State departments as per 2013 Supreme Court judgment. Another demand is to provide 5% jobs in private sector as mandated by the Rights of Persons With Disabilities Act or enact separate Act in the Assembly,” said S. Namburajan, State general secretary, Taratdac. The association also wants the monthly assistance/pension increased to a minimum of Rs. 3,000. For the for severely disabled persons the amount should be Rs. 5,000.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR & CE dept. launches helpline for Sabarimala devotees||The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department has introduced a 24-hour helpline, 1800-425-1757, for devotees proceeding to Sabarimala from the State. The number will provide information about online booking of slots, routes to take and measures being taken at the temple as part of the COVID-19 pandemic. Official sources said the number will function till January 20, 2021, the last date of darshan for this season. Temples along popular routes, including Thirumalai Kumaraswamy temple at Senkottai, Kowmariamman temple in Theni district and Nandini temple near Walayar, would provide similar information and basic facilities like safe drinking water and restrooms for devotees. Meanwhile, Monday being the first day of the Tamil month of Karthigai, thousands of devotees visited Ayyappa temples in the State and took the vow to visit the mountain shrine. K. Pradeep, trustee, North Madras Sri Ayyappan temple, said around 2,000 devotees had come in batches on Monday. “We usually have around 5,000 people coming in on day one but due to the pandemic, the numbers were lesser. People above the age of 60 and children below 10 years kept away. Similarly, the number of women too was very less,” he said. Due to restrictions imposed to ensure the safety of devotees, many were apprehensive about how the visit would be. S. Thulasiraman from Koyambedu, who goes with a group of 10 persons, said they had booked the darshan slot for December 4 and that they planned to fly from Chennai the previous evening after obtaining the COVID-19 negative certificate. “We usually go by train or road. But since we have to produce a COVID-19 free certificate obtained within 24 hours of darshan, we are flying. There is no place to stay this year. We may also not get food. But we are happy that we are able to go. For the past 17 years we have been going every month without fail. The pandemic put an end to that in March this year,” he said.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||International Education Week||To help students pursuing higher education, the U.S. Consulate General will hold a number of webinars and panel discussions from November 17 to 23. These are being held as part of the ‘International Education Week’, a joint initiative of the U.S. Department of State and the Department of Education to give students an overview on what could be in store for them when they go abroad to study, according to a press release. U.S. Consul General Judith Ravin launched International Education Week. “In South India, the Education USA centers are located in Chennai and Bengaluru and they can be contacted atChennai@educationusa.organdBangalore@education- usa.org,” the release said. Students can participate in the programmes for free and register for the events online. For details, visithttps://education usa.state.gov/
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents concerned over foam on Adyar estuary||Residents of Urur Kuppam have been noticing large quantities of white foam near the broken bridge at the Adyar river estuary since Monday. “It is an annual occurrence. We don't wade through it since the river mouth has a lot of garbage and water hyacinth plants. People are also catching freshwater fish, including large-sized keluthi , which are swimming downstream,” said Karunakaran, a resident. Sources in the Water Resources Department said the flow of rainwater into the river led to the mixing of chemicals and sewage deposited in the waterbody which, in turn, led to foaming after heavy spells of rain. Such a phenomenon occurs during the northeast monsoon, when the winds are strong, they added. Rise in pH levels The sources further said the river was now carrying about 2,500 cusecs of floodwater downstream of the Nandambakkam check dam. Sources in the National Centre for Coastal Research said that they have been regularly collecting water samples and noticing an increase in pH levels for the past couple of days.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Top police official allays fears of flooding||Following instructions from City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Ambattur Deputy Commissioner Deepa Sathyan visited low-lying areas in Kundrathur on Monday night and allayed fears of flooding among those residing close to Chembarambakkam lake. Ms. Sathyan patrolled the low-lying areas on foot to boost public confidence, and assured the residents that help would be available should the need arise. ‘Water level stable’ “Most of them were worried about Chembarambakkam lake. But we assured them that the water level was stable and that there was no need to worry,” she said. The Commissioner had earlier instructed senior police officers to be prepared to handle any emergency and ensure that there is no law and order issue as the water level in the lake was reaching capacity, and surplus water was likely to be released. In a note to the officers, Mr. Aggarwal said, “The water level in Chembarambakkam touched 20.16 feet on Sunday evening. As it is likely to reach 22 feet, there is a chance of surplus water being released from the lake any time. When the surplus water is released into Adyar river, it may affect people who live on the banks in Thiruneermalai, Kundrathur, Vazhuthalambedu, Natham, Thirumudivakkam, Sirukalathur, Manapakkam and other places.”
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||C.Ve. Shanmugam takes a dig at Stalin||Joining issue with DMK president M.K. Stalin, who demanded the resignation of Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam over the awarding of a quarry licence to a relative of an AIADMK MLA, Mr. Shanmugam on Tuesday said there was no law that barred family members or relatives of public servants from taking part and winning tender bids. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Shanmugam went on to take a dig at Mr. Stalin for not having thought through the allegation before levelling it against him. Mr. Shanmugam also questioned the awarding of tenders to DMK MPs, MLAs and others, who were also former Ministers. The AIADMK strongman in Villupuram district also recalled the arrest of DMK leader K. Ponmudi, who during the erstwhile DMK regime, had allegedly granted a licence to his son and incumbent Kallakurichi MP Gautham Sigamani when his father was holding the mines and minerals portfolio. The case was still pending, he said. Mr. Shanmugam also pointed out that the DMK general secretary Duraimurugan's daughter-in-law had obtained a quarry licence recently. "Hypothetically speaking, even if we are in the wrong, will he [Mr. Stalin] ask his DMK MLAs to resign for the same charge?" Mr. Shanmugam asked.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passengers walk through tunnel after Metro Rail stops due to glitch||Nearly 30 passengers were put through an ordeal as a Chennai Metro train halted near Thirumangalam due to a technical glitch. They had to walk through the tunnel to reach the station on Tuesday. Around 8.15 a.m., the train, which was heading from Chennai Central to Koyambedu, stopped near the Thirumangalam Metro Rail station for nearly 15 to 20 minutes, sources said. “The train operator contacted the Operation Control Centre (OCC). The passengers, with the help of the police and station staff got off the train and walked through the walkway in the tunnel to the nearest station, Thirumangalam,” a staff said. The Koyambedu to Chennai Central stretch runs underground and the tunnels connecting stations are usually built with a walkway so that commuters can walk in case of an incident and if the train stops. Services on this stretch suffered a delay of about 10 minutes for half an hour and the passengers were then taken to Koyambedu in another train a little later.
18 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||BJP ready to welcome M.K. Alagiri: Murugan||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan on Tuesday said his party was ready to welcome former Union Minister and expelled DMK leader M.K. Alagiri if he wanted to join the BJP. “I did not receive any official communication [about such a possibility]… I haven’t spoken with him [Alagiri]. We are open [to the possibility]. If he comes and if he wants to join our party, we are ready to welcome him,” Mr. Murugan said. Sections of the media have been claiming that Mr. Alagiri, the elder brother of DMK president M.K. Stalin, would float a political party and meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his scheduled visit to Chennai later this week. Mr. Alagiri, however, denied the reports and said no one from the BJP had spoken to him. Asked about Mr. Murugan’s remarks, he said the former had only expressed his opinion.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah to dedicate fifth reservoir||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will declare open Thervoy Kandigai reservoir — the city’s fifth — in Tiruvallur district via videoconference at an official function at Kalaivanar Arangam on November 21, according to an official release. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will preside over the event that would also see the Home Minister lay the foundation stone for several projects worth Rs. 67,378 crore, including phase II of Chennai Metro Rail.  Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam is also scheduled to participate in the event.
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM, leaders condole publisher’s death||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, DMK president M.K. Stalin and other political leaders on Tuesday condoled the demise of renowned Tamil publisher S. Ramakrishnan. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said the veteran publisher was known for being affectionate and hardworking, with an unassuming personality. “His Cre-A: Dictionary of Contemporary Tamil is a great achievement in the Tamil publishing world,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the dictionary released by Mr. Ramakrishnan was a treasure to writers and lovers of Tamil. “That he released the revised dictionary from his death bed proves his dedication to publishing,” he said. PMK founder S. Ramadoss added that Mr. Ramakrishnan did not consider publishing as just a profession, but as a thavam (penance). “Though he published only a few books as a publisher, those works were really acclaimed,” Dr. Ramadoss said. Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani recalled that an appreciation of the dictionary was published in Viduthalai on November 17. VCK founder Thol. Thirumavalavan said his dictionary should be presented for free to Class 12 students, in his memory. “In 2010, the DMK announced that Class 9 students would be given Tamil dictionaries. I don’t think that the policy is being implemented today. Ramakrishnan’s contemporary Tamil dictionary should be given free to students by the State government. This will be a good tribute to him,” he said.
18 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain in Coimbatore city||Coimbatore district recorded an average rainfall of 14.99 mm on Monday, with many parts of the city experiencing heavy rain. According to the data from the District Administration on Tuesday, Coimbatore South recorded 42 mm rainfall on Monday, Coimbatore International Airport 34.2 mm, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University 20 mm, Sulur 38 mm, Mettupalayam 17 mm, Annur 12 mm, and Periyanaickenpalayam 17 mm. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said that tourism spots managed by the Forest Department in Coimbatore district namely Kovai Courtallam and Baralikadu remain closed to visitors since the COVID-19 lockdown started in March. Sources at Kovai Courtallam said the inflow has increased following heavy rain. Udhagamandalam Staff Reporter adds Heavy rain in parts of the Nilgiris reduced visibility and caused minor structural damage to a few buildings on Tuesday. Till Tuesday morning, average rainfall of 18.5 mm was recorded across the Nilgiris, with Kundah, Geddai, Coonoor and Kotagiri recording maximum rainfall. Fire and Rescue Services personnel said that there were reports of a couple of trees along the Ketti valley getting uprooted, structural damage to the walls of a private college in the area and damage to the compound wall of a house in Kotagiri. Minor landslips were also reported. Meanwhile, the rain reduced visibility along major highways leading into and out of the district. Many tourists who had spent the Deepavali weekend in the district said that they faced trouble going back home due to the poor visibility caused by rain and fog on Tuesday. No major accidents, damage or injuries were reported in the district.
18 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Counterfeit currency notes in cash deposit machine detected||Counterfeit currencies with a face value of Rs. 20,000 were detected at the cash depositing machine of a private bank at Vadavalli on Tuesday. The police said that Hitesh Anand from Nanjanad in the Nilgiris district came to the Vadavalli branch of a private bank on Monday and tried to deposit Rs. 1,20,000 at the cash deposit machine. However, 40 notes of Rs. 500 denomination were rejected. The man approached the bank staff, who examined the currencies using a fake note detector. It was found that the currencies were counterfeit. The bank’s deputy general manager lodged a complaint with the Vadavalli police station and handed over the fake currencies. Anand was also brought to the police station. When the police inquired, Anand said that he borrowed Rs. 1,20,000 from a person Madan Lal from the Nilgiris and tried to deposit the money. The Vadavalli police sent a team to the Nilgiris along with Anand to trace Madal Lal.
18 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Need to improve investigation skills in modern times stressed||A month-long investigation skill development training and refresher course for 40 sub-inspectors (SIs) took off here on Monday. The participants are from four police districts (rural) namely Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur and Erode. Inspector General of Police (West Zone) K. Periaiah inaugurated the training programme in the presence of Deputy Inspector General of Coimbatore range K. S. Narenthiran Nayar and Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara Arularasu. At the inaugural address, Mr. Periaiah briefed the participating SIs about the need to improve investigation skills in modern times, knowledge on cyber crimes and application of web-based platforms for pre and post investigation procedures. Personnel from 2008, 2011 and 2016 batches are taking part in the training. Senior officers, retired officers, experts in cyber law will conduct classes at the office of the Coimbatore SP where SIs from Coimbatore district will take part. The classes will be live streamed to the SP offices in the other three districts. Mr. Nayar said that the training was held as part of a statewide exercise initiated by the Director General of Police Rajesh Das (Special DGP Law and Order). A nodal officer has been appointed for the training in each district, he said.
18 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Workers back to work after Deepavali break||Industries here, especially those in the Micro, Small and Medium-scale segment, face labour shortage after Deepavali every year as workers who go home for the festival return to work only after a few days. This year, some industries have seen labourers back at work immediately and some others face severe shortage of hands. “Of the five workers I have, only one was back to work on Tuesday. The others are yet to return,” says J. James, president of the Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. Workers from other districts in Tamil Nadu are likely to come back only next week. The migrant workers, who are from other States, are mostly here. There is 30 % to 40 % shortage. Among those who return, there will be at least 10 % who will switch jobs, from one unit to another. This will be an additional burden to industries in the micro and small-scale sectors, he said. According to R. Ramamurthy, president of the Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association, MSMEs are having orders at 70 % to 80 % of the pre-COVID level and the market is expected to pick up in the coming months. However, two issues that are affecting operations are labour shortage and steep rise in raw material prices. There are several workers from the northern States who want to return. But, they need frequent and direct trains. “We expect workers to come back only by the end of this month,” he says. However, P. Nallathambi, president of the Coimbatore SIDCO Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Welfare Association, says that the labour shortage this year is not as high as the previous years. “Several industries re-opened only on Tuesday after the Deepavali holidays. So, a clear picture on labour availability will be known in another two days. But, many migrant workers came back to work before the festival as they all went home during lockdown. At the current level of orders, I think there are enough workers,” he says.
18 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Lack of data on govt. school students enrolled in IIT-Madras alleged||MDMK’s State Youth Wing secretary V. Eswaran alleged that the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Madras did not furnish the number of students from government school students enrolled in the institute in response to his RTI application. He said on Tuesday that he filed an online RTI application on October 31 asking for the details of the number of government school students from the State who joined IIT-Madras in the last five years. The reply from the Office of Public Information of IIT-Madras dated November 6, which Mr. Eswaran shared with The Hindu , said that the “information sought is not a part of the record of a public authority in terms of section 2(f) and 2(j) of RTI Act, 2005.” The RTI Act does not “cast an obligation upon the public authority, to collect or collate such non-available information and then furnish it to an applicant,” the reply further said. “A large section of the students still do not get an opportunity to study [at IIT-Madras],”he alleged. Mr. Eswaran said that he was awaiting permission from the institute to allow him to visit the campus in Chennai.
18 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Peregrine falcon spotted in Coimbatore||Independent researcher Prasath Selvaraj was on a routine visit to Achankulam, an urban tank near Sulur in Coimbatore district, when a brahminy kite and a relatively smaller bird on top of a high tension electricity tower caught his attention. As he zoomed in and clicked a few pictures with his camera, he knew he was looking at a rare winged visitor — the peregrine falcon ( Falco peregrinus ), also the world’s fastest predator. The peregrine chased the kite with its typical, high-speed stoops from heights, which Mr. Selvaraj videographed. “The brahminy kite is known for indulging in kleptoparasitism — stealing food from other birds. The peregrine could have chased the kite to secure its territory or ensure that its food is not stolen,” he said. Rajah Jayapal, senior principal scientist at the Coimbatore-based Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History, said sightings of the peregrine in cities and suburban areas are not very common in India. “Peregrines commute long distances for foraging. As Coimbatore is surrounded by hills, their sighting is quite possible here,” he said. Peregrines can attain a speed of 300-350 kmph while performing the hunting dive. They feed on small birds that they capture in flight. Mr. Jayapal added that the resident subspecies of the peregrine is known as the shaheen falcon ( Falco peregrinus peregrinator ), and another subspecies that comes from central Asia for wintering is falco peregrinus calidus . According to Mr. Selvaraj, he had also spotted a shaheen falcon at the Vellalore tank in August and at Achankulam in September.
18 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. resumes demolition of encroachments||Coimbatore Corporation, on Tuesday, resumed demolition of encroachments along the Muthannankulam tank bund on Thadagam Road in the city. 16 houses demolished Official sources said that the demolition works were resumed after over a month. A total of 16 houses were demolished on Tuesday. The families that were residing in these houses had been provided with alternative accommodation by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) at locations including Malumichampatty, Keeranatham and Ukkadam, sources said.
18 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Couple held||The Kattoor police arrested a couple hailing from Kerala on charges of stealing 32.37 gram chain from a jewellery showroom on Cross Cut Road in the city on Sunday. N. Suthish (38) from Alappuzha district in Kerala and his wife Shani (31) were arrested based on a complaint lodged by the manager of the showroom. Police said that the couple came to the showroom on Sunday evening and checked a few pieces of jewellery on the pretext of buying. After the couple left the showroom, the salesperson found that a 32.37 gram chain was missing. The jewellery management checked the CCTV visuals and found that the couple had stolen the chain. The showroom staff traced the couple to the parking area of a nearby textile showroom. They handed over the couple to the Kattoor police who arrested them.
18 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two women held with ganja||The Sulur police arrested two women on charges of possessing 1.3 kg of ganja on Monday. The arrested have been identified as Rubi Devi (34) and Vindu Devi (40), both natives of Bihar. The police said that the two women had come here with their husbands for a job. The police got a tip-off that two women were selling marijuana at Muthugoundenpudur near Sulur. They inspected the houses of the two women and seized 1.3 kg of marijuana. The accused were produced before court and remanded in judicial custody.
18 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Manufacturers, traders of home appliances warned||Manufacturers and traders of household electrical and protective devices and oil pressure stoves should have Bureau of Indian Standard (BIS) mark for their products. If products without ISI mark are seized, action will be taken against the manufacturers and traders, according to a press release from the district administration. District Collector K. Rajamani has said in a press release that the District Industries Centre General Manager has been appointed as the implementing authority for Electrical Wires, Cables, Appliances, Protection Devices and Accessories (Quality Control) Order, 2003, and Oil Pressure Stove (Quality Control) Order, 1997. The General Manager will visit manufacturing units, businesses and warehouses and inspect if they have ISI mark. If products without the mark are seized, action will be taken against the manufacturers or traders, he said.
18 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Painter held under POCSO Act||The Chidambaram All Women Police Station (AWPS) on Monday night arrested a 22-year-old man under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on charges of sexually assaulting a 17-year-old girl and impregnating her. Police said the accused, Prithviraj, a painter from Vaiyur, befriended the girl when he used to visit her house. He sexually assaulted her repeatedly. The crime came to light when the minor girl and her mother went to a government hospital for a check-up and she was found to be eight months pregnant, the police said. Based on a complaint from the girl’s mother, the police arrested Prithviraj. A case was booked against him under Sections 5 and 6 of the POCSO Act. He was produced before a local court and remanded in custody.
18 November 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah to hold meetings with alliance partners||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will have meetings with the alliance partners during his visit to Tamil Nadu, said K. Annamalai, State vice-president of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) here on Tuesday. Responding to a query by press persons on the prospective alliance partners, he said, “There is no confusion about the alliance.” “Everything is going fine with the present alliance. We are part of the NDA of which the AIADMK is also an alliance partner.” Reiterating that there is no confusion over the alliance, Mr. Annamalai said that Mr. Shah will also hold meetings with the alliance partners during his visit to the State. Regarding the pending plea for pardon of the Rajiv Gandhi assassination convicts with the Governor, Mr. Annamalai claimed that the Governor was not an extension of the party as it had been with the Congress party. “The Governor acts on his own with an independent application of the mind. I cannot opine on this. We hope he will take a decision that is good for the State,” he added.
18 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residents continue to dump garbage on road||Residents of Bankkarar Thottam at Periyavalasu in the Corporation limits continue to dump solid waste on the road and in the drains, raising health concerns for other residents and road users. About 250 tonne municipal solid waste is generated in all the 60 wards in the Corporation limits and a portion of the waste is converted into fertilizer and the rest is taken to the Vendipalayam compost yard for processing. The Corporation is on a mission to make the city free of garbage and has removed all the dustbins placed on the road and expedited door-to-door solid waste collection. It had warned residents not to dump garbage in the open and had placed warning boards at residential areas and on the roads. However, residents of Bankkarar Thottam conveniently dump the garbage at the street corner which chokes the drainage channel. Since garbage pile ups frequently, many road users and motorists from other areas pack the garbage in plastic covers and throw it at the street corner, thus converting it as a garbage yard. “Stench emanates from the area frequently as the drain is choked always,” said a resident in the nearby area. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu residents and commercial establishments were asked to regularly handover garbage to conservancy workers and not to dump on the roads and in open places. “Despite warnings, many continue to violate and a minimum fine of Rs. 200 is levied on them,” he said and asked residents to cooperate with the civic body in safe disposal of garbage.
18 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Median opening on highway poses threat to road users||An improper opening along the median on Karur Bypass Road (State Highway 190) at Manickavasagar Colony, near Solar, is posing a threat to road users. In 2017, the three-km stretch from Poondurai Road to Manickavasagar Colony was converted into four lanes at Rs. 6 crore and median was placed on the stretch. The State Highways Department removed concrete blocks at many places to facilitate motorists to enter petrol bunk and commercial establishments. Later, the openings were closed. Last week, three concrete blocks were removed to enable cars and two-wheelers to pass through it to reach the Colony. Two barricades were placed to caution the road users. However, the opening, which is about 100 metre from the Solar Roundabout, caused inconvenience to road users and also posed a threat to them. “The opening is very dangerous at the narrow stretch leading to accidents,” said R. Ravikumar of Sanarmedu. He said opening the median for a few residents was very risky as the roundabout was located very close to the Colony. “There are no street lights at the spot and opening the median for the convenience of a few persons is illegal,” said another road user from Solar who wanted the barricades replaced with concrete blocks.
18 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plan to reduce COVID-19 care centres in Erode||With the number of COVID-19 active cases in the district dropping significantly, the administration has proposed to reduce the number of special centres established in schools and colleges to treat patients. In April, COVID-19 patients were treated at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Special centres When cases started to increase, nine special centres were set up at schools, colleges and marriage halls in Perundurai, Anthiyur, Gobichettipalayam, Talavadi and in Erode city. As on November 16, a total of 11,662 cases were reported in the district, with 10,946 recoveries, 580 active cases and 136 deaths. The average number of cases reported every day in the district had also dropped from over 85 cases to less than 70 in the past one week. Drop in cases Collector C. Kathiravan said the administration was planning to reduce the number of special centres as there was a drop in the positive cases. Only after a week, it would be known whether cases would go up as people travelled for Deepavali. “If the number of positive cases does not rise, the special centres will be reduced and community centres will be utilised to accommodate the patients,” the Collector added.
18 November 2020||ERODE/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Districts witness widespread rain||With Northeast monsoon intensifying over the region, Erode, Salem and Namakkal districts received good rainfall on Tuesday. The Erode city and its outskirts received moderate rainfall on the night of Monday and on Tuesday evening that affected the movement of people and vehicles. Motorists and pedestrians faced inconvenience due to water stagnation on roads, particu where digging works were in progress. Also, commuters, in the absence of shelters at many bus stops, faced difficulty in finding a safe place. The anicut across Perumpallam Canal at Surampatti received copious inflow while the canals in the city also carried maximum water which entered the Cauvery at Vairapalayam. The rainfall recorded at 8 a.m. on Tuesday at various places were as follows (in mm): Kodumudi 61, Kavundapadi 56.8, Erode 44, Bhavani 43, Gunderipallam and Varattupallam 32.2 each, Ammapettai 29.4, Gobichettipalayam 27.4, Elanthakuttai Medu 25.4, Kodiveri 25.2, Nambiyur 25 and Bhavani Sagar 18.4. Officials said they continued to monitor the water flow in rivers, canals and the storage level in water bodies in the district. The average rainfall recorded in Salem was 19.98 mm and in Namakkal 22.74 mm. Good rainfall was recorded in Gengavalli, Veeraganoor and Mettur. The rainfall recorded at 8 a.m. on Tuesday at various places in Salem were as follows (in mm): Thammampatti 30, Kadayampatti 8.8, Gengavalli 40, Veeraganoor 40, Kariyakovil 15, Yercaud 8.8, Vazhapadi 5 mm, Mettur 48.6, Omalur 13.4, Sankari 13.2, Edappadi 29.6, Attur 11.6, Periyanaiken Palayam 10 and Salem 10.7. Namakkal (in mm): Erumapatti 50, Kumarapalayam 45, Mangalapuram 13, Mohanur 9, Namakkal 11 mm, Paramathi Vellur 10, Puduchatram 41, Rasipuram 19.2, Senthamangalam 11.7, Tiruchengode 29, Collectorate premises 19 and Kolli Hills Semmedu areas 15.
18 November 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Weekly off for policemen in Kallakurichi district||Here is some good news for police personnel in Kallakurichi district. The district police have introduced a weekly off system to ensure a healthy work-life balance, in addition to boosting their morale and improving productivity. Though a system of a day off was already in force, personnel attached to various wings invariably ended up working on all days, owing to a shortage of manpower. They were paid an Extra Time Remuneration (ETR) of Rs. 250 per day for this. The new weekly off system has been introduced on directions from the Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy, according to police sources. “We have kick-started the weekly off system from today. A day off would be given in a week to all police constables, head constables and Special Sub-Inspectors,” Superintendent of Police Ziaul Haque told The Hindu . The system would be implemented in 19 Law and Order police stations, three All Women Police Stations (AWPS) and three stations each of the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) and Traffic Wing, he said. The weekly-off system will be implemented in all categories. Station House Officers of every station will discuss with the personnel their preferred day for availing the weekly off during the daily roll call at 9.00 a.m. The police personnel will be allowed to take their day off to plan their personal work accordingly. The system will be implemented on a rotational basis unless there is a major law and order situation or a grave emergency within the jurisdictional limits of the stations concerned. The weekly off system would benefit 650 police personnel ranging from the rank of constables to SSIs, he added.
18 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Fine collected for violations||Various line departments have collected fine to the tune of Rs. 22,77,400 for COVID-19 related violations in the district. An administration release said fine had been collected for 19 violations by the department of police, local bodies, revenue officials, and the department of public health. A fine of Rs. 200 for not wearing mask, Rs. 500 for not maintaining social distancing, spitting on the road, jumping quarantine in containment zones, posing threat to public safety and a fine of Rs. 5,000 on establishments for not following COVID-19 safety protocols and guidelines among others were imposed. The fine was collected from 10,103 persons as on date, the release said.
18 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district’s single-day case tally dips further||Madurai recorded 22 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, marking an overall case tally of 19,371. A total of 50 persons were discharged from hospitals, and the district now has 318 active cases. It had registered 28 new cases on Monday. Kanniyakumari, which reported 21 fresh cases, has a total case count of 15,459. After 39 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 192 active cases. The infection tally of Tirunelveli reached 14,639, as 19 fresh cases were admitted to hospitals. The district, which witnessed the discharge of 20 people on Tuesday, has 259 active cases. Eleven people tested positive in Dindigul, taking the district’s total case tally to 10,078. After 14 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 132 active cases. A fresh fatality raised the district’s death toll to 190. Tenkasi recorded 10 fresh cases to have a tally of 7,949. Six people were discharged from hospitals and 77 others are undergoing treatment. In Theni, eight new positive cases were recorded, with which the district’s tally went up to 16,457. With 14 people having been discharged from hospitals, the number of active cases in the district stands at 63. Six fresh cases, recorded in Sivaganga, pushed the district’s case count up to 6,162. After the discharge of 22 people, the district has 117 active cases. Thoothukudi Thoothukudi’s single-day COVID-19 case count was five. The district’s overall infection tally moved up to 15,480. After 35 patients were discharged from the hospitals, 206 cases are undergoing treatment. Ramanathapuram recorded four new cases, which took the total number of cases in the district up to 6,134. There were 12 discharges. There were 42 people undergoing treatment in the district. Virudhunagar too recorded four fresh cases to mark a tally of 15,696. The number of patients discharged from various hospitals went up to 15,392 after 13 more patients were discharged on Tuesday. Meanwhile, even as the death toll in the district remained at 225, the number of active cases came down to 79.
18 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench directs idol wing police to file final report in two months||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the idol wing police to complete the investigation in the Chithraradha Vallaba Perumal temple idols theft case and file the final report within two months. Taking into account that the investigation in the case was pending since 2018, Justice J. Nisha Banu directed the Idol Wing to complete the investigation and file the report. The petition was filed by A. Suresh Kannan, Executive Officer. The petitioner said that the Kadupatti police had registered a case against unknown persons and subsequently the investigation was transferred to the idol wing police. Recovered  The idols were recovered in a damaged state, the petitioner said. Even though the police have made arrests in the case, they have not completed the investigation and filed a final report in the case, the petitioner said and sought a direction to the police to expedite the investigation.
18 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Stagnant water being drained||Following the heavy downpour in the district on Monday evening, civic body officials were engaged in draining stagnant water at several locations across the city on Tuesday. Madurai district received an average rainfall of 33.11 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Tuesday. The highest rainfall was recorded at Madurai airport- 60.50 mm. Tallakulam recorded a rainfall of 52 mm and Sholavandan 51 mm. An official from the district administration said that while the district's average rainfall during northeast monsoon is 406.90 mm, the district has so far received 246.93 mm this year. On Tuesday, Collector T. Anbalagan inspected the Sellur tank and the channel which drains the surplus from the tank to the Vaigai at Alwarpuram, the channel that carries the surplus from Anaiyur tank, and Keela Panangadi. A press release from the district administration said that water level has increased in several water bodies in the district following the rains. The Collector instructed the Public Works Department (PWD) officials to take precautionary measures at the 27 vulnerable spots identified in the district. Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, along with Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, inspected Duraisamy Nagar and Vanamamalai Nagar in ward 76, where water stagnation was reported following the heavy downpour. The Minister said that two wells will be constructed at these locations to store water, which will later be pumped out and discharged into the nearby water channel. The wells will be constructed at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh routed through the Corporation's general fund, said the Minister. Mr. Raju said that at many places the arterial road level was higher than the level of the residences. "So, whenever the city receives heavy rainfall, flooding is reported in these areas," he said. Main streets in the core city including the four Chithirai Streets around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, Masi streets and near Periyar bus stand were flooded on Monday evening because of the rains. While water receded in most of these places on Tuesday, rainwater was stagnant in the potholes and craters present on these roads. Former Superintending Engineer of Agricultural Engineering department R. Venkatasamy expressed concern over rainwater stagnation near Periyar bus stand where a bus stand with underground parking facility is under construction. "Periyar bus stand is an area that regularly faces major water stagnation whenever it rains," he said. The improper construction and maintenance of storm water drains is also a main area of concern, he said. "Storm water drains are incomplete at several locations and the drains have been constructed at varying gradients," he added. The Corporation Commissioner said that water receded in most low-lying spots in the city within 45 minutes after the rains. "In places where there is water logging, we are identifying ways to drain the water from these spots," he said. The Corporation Assistant Engineers are working round-the-clock to take precautionary measures to avoid water stagnation during the monsoon, he added.
18 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special panel to recover laptops||After receiving multiple petitions challenging recovery proceedings against heads of State government schools for the theft of free laptops meant for government and government-aided school students, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the government to set up a special committee for ensuring that the instructions issued by the court in this regard are followed. Justice R.M.T. Teekaa Raman has directed the Secretary to the Education Department to form a special committee, comprising the Inspector General of Police (north and south zone), the Director of School Education and the Special Government Pleader (Education), at the High Court, and has directed the committee to ascertain the total number of reported cases from 2012 with regard to the theft of laptops meant for students, and the action taken so far. The committee will take steps to detect the cases, with the help of the Cyber Crime Branch, by adopting scientific methods. The Special Government Pleader will advise the Education Department on the procedure to be followed for recovery of the amount from the heads of the institutions concerned. The committee will also suggest ways and means to provide necessary protection and storage to the laptops in the schools. The court passed the directions in a batch of petitions filed by heads of government schools who challenged the recovery proceedings against them. The court said the orders for recovery were passed mechanically.
18 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Grant regularisation in accordance with rules: HC||Regularisation or permanent absorption can be granted to employees only if the initial appointment was made in accordance with rules and procedures contemplated. Appointments made through back-door methods cannot be a ground to seek regularisation, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court observed.  Petition dismissed Dismissing the petition filed by a part time Vocational Instructor seeking to be employed permanently in a government school, Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that if back-door appointments were regularised, then the Right of Equality will be denied to all candidates, who were aspiring to secure employment through the open competitive process. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Jeyapal of Madurai who was appointed as a part-time Vocational Instructor by the Parents Teachers Association of the school. The petitioner said that he was working in the said post from 1998 and therefore taking into account that he was continuously engaged, his appointment should be regularised. Taking into account the fact that the petitioner was appointed by the Parents Teachers Association, which was an association constituted for the welfare of the students, the judge observed that the association was not an authority to appoint teachers in government schools. Therefore, the appointment was not in accordance with the rules, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court said and dismissed the petition.
18 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail plea dismissed||Madurai Principal Sessions Judge G. Ilangovan dismissed the bail petition filed by an accused in the murder case of history sheeter A. Socrates alias Deva. The accused S. Vignesh is one of the four accused in the case. The case of the prosecution is that the accused murdered the history sheeter due to enmity. The body of Deva was taken in an auto and thrown into the Thuvariman kanmai.
18 November 2020||MAYILADUTHURAI,TAMIL NADU||Delay in functioning of new district deplored||Though disappointed over the procedural delay of the State government in formalising a functional status for the newly-formed Mayiladuthurai district, trade associations, welfare organisations and other sections of the public eagerly anticipate an announcement at an early date. Officials are required to travel frequently to the district headquarters at Nagapattinam to attend important meetings. An entire day was required for the travel. In July, the State government appointed Special Officer and Superintendent of Police for the newl district. The Special Officer R. Lalitha was entrusted with the task of marking the boundary for the new district encompassing Kuthalam, Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi and Tharangambadi taluks. Public hearings on the marking of boundaries were conducted at Nagapattinam and Mayiladuthurai during July. Official sources indicated that a proposal for creating a division with Sirkazhi as headquarters has been forwarded to the government. The buildings of the Department of Commercial Taxes have been identified as the temporary facility for the new Collectorate. ‘We are expecting announcement from the government for the formal functioning of the new district. Due to the delay in the process, people still undergo the struggle of travelling to the district headquarters in Nagapattinam for rectification of their grievances,’ C. Senthilvel, president of Mayiladuthurai Chamber of Commerce, said. The concern among public is palpable since the gap between announcement and formation of the other newly-formed districts such as Kallakurichi and Tenkasi last year was just five to six months. Whereas, in the case of Mayiladuthurai, the government order is yet to come as yet though the announcement was made during April this year. There is indeed a sense of resentment among the people due to the delay in the functioning of the new district, a senior advocate said.
18 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Delegation led by Chief Minister meets Union Ministers in Delhi||A delegation led by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday met Union Ministers and the Home Secretary to highlight a range of issues pertaining to the Union Territory. The Chief Minister, accompanied by Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy and Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao, met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan, Union Minister for Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla over two days in New Delhi. GST compensation Mr. Narayanasamy raised the issue of GST compensation pending for the last seven months and extension of schemes funded by World Bank and the Project Implementation Agency. The territorial administration was eligible to get around Rs. 700 crore as GST compensation. The World Bank-assisted tsunami rehabilitation projects are lagging behind because of disruption in work due to varied reasons, including lockdown restrictions, it was pointed out. The Chief Minister had also raised Lt. Governor’s decision to refer to the Centre, the Cabinet decision to provide 10% reservation to government school students in medical admissions in private medical colleges, with Union Health Minister and Home Secretary. The Centre has agreed to favourably consider the Cabinet decision, provided it would not create any hurdle in implementing the Central quota. The Chief Minister has assured the Health Minister to address the concerns of the Centre while implementing 10% reservation.
18 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Scam unearthed in pension scheme||The Puducherry Social Welfare Department has unearthed a scam in the pension scheme for destitute women with about 60% of claims made in a single village found to be bogus. This followed directions to the Department by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to conduct a verification, on the basis of a whistle-blower complaint. On conducting a preliminary verification, the Social Welfare Department found that women in a particular village were benefiting from the pension scheme for which they were ineligible. Ineligible beneficiaries C. Udaya Kumar, Social Welfare Secretary later reported to the Lt. Governor over a virtual meeting that an estimated 60% of the households verified were found to be faking their eligibility. They had been claiming the pension for a long time, falsely. In several cases, they were found to be living with spouses/family. While their pensions have been stopped forthwith, recovery notices too are being considered to be sent to them by the Department, after checking the records to see for how long they have been receiving such a pension. The pension amount is approximately Rs. 2000 per month. The Secretary also said that a team would be deployed to undertake a survey to detect instances of government funds being siphoned off the genuinely needy.
18 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Active cases continue to stay below 1,000-mark in U.T.||The number of active COVID-19 cases stayed below the 1,000-mark as the Union Territory saw 72 new cases and 131 patients getting discharged on recovery on Tuesday. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate improved to its highest yet at 96.01%. The test positivity rate was 2.1% and case fatality rate 1.67%. Puducherry region accounted for 39 new cases, Karaikal 13, Mahe 16 and Yanam four. The Health Department which detected these cases from 3,393 tests is aiming to maintain test numbers in the 4,000 samples range every day. The overall tally in the Union Territory was 608 deaths, 843 active cases, a cumulative total of 36,409 cases and 34,958 patients recovered. The Health Department has so far tested 3.63 lakh samples and results of 3.21 lakh were negative. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said industrial pattern of testing — where camps were held at industrial sites — will be replicated for employees of shops and establishments. Active surveillance In order to sustain low positivity rates and containment of spread, the teams would maintain high levels of active and passive surveillance, test and trace to avoid formation of clusters and continue to promote awareness of COVID-appropriate etiquette. On the dengue control front, it is proposed to sustain intensive source reduction drives in conjunction with imposing penalties on violators of hygiene practices at their sites. Ms. Bedi noted that the PWD had done a commendable job of ensuring that there was no waterlogging or clogging of drains. This has helped in both dengue prevention and inconvenience to residential neighbourhoods.
18 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister reviews monsoon preparedness in Puducherry||Revenue Minister MOHF Shahjahan has directed all departments to work in a coordinated manner to minimise disruption to normal life when the northeast monsoon gains in strength. Addressing officials from various departments to assess monsoon preparedness, Mr. Shahjahan said officials should relocate those living in dilapidated buildings to the nearest relief centre as a precautionary measure. The Minister said it was imperative to prevent outbreak of contagious water-borne diseases during the rains. Waterlogging in low-lying areas should be siphoned off with motor pumps and blockages in drain systems removed expeditiously, he said. He also directed the Civil Supplies Department to ensure that there was no hoarding of fuel. With control rooms functioning round-the-clock, the PWD, LAD, Electricity, Fire and Forest departments have to be ready with equipment to remove fallen trees. In case any department lacks necessary gear, they should procure it on a hire basis, Mr. Shahjahan said. The Forest Department has been asked to be on alert to the possibility of snakes surfacing from their habitats as groundwater levels rise.
18 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||MLA, residents protest against Lt. Governor||Residents of Pathukannu, led by ruling congress MLA E. Theepainthan, on Tuesday resorted to a road roko at Pathukannu in his constituency of Oussudu to protest against what he alleged the attitude of Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi to impede development of sports and other constructive works in the Union Territory. Mr. Theepainthan said that the cricket stadium in Thuthipet had been visualised by the Cricket Association of Puducherry to encourage the sporting spirit of the youth. But Ms. Bedi was putting obstacles in the construction of the stadium. The agitators also raised slogans against Ms. Bedi. Police intervened and pacified them, following which they withdrew their protest.
18 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Road Ashram’ rolls into city||A team of volunteers that has undertaken a journey by road across the country to mobilise help for people affected by the COVID-19 pandemic reached the city on Tuesday. The ‘Road Ashram’ campaign, led by a group of like-minded socially conscious and road-friendly citizens, has traversed a nearly 25,000 km borderline spread across 30 states, in about 60 days in a specially modified car. According to a press note, the team has travelled along the China and Nepal borders in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In Puducherry, they aim to engage and meet people from different walks of life on Wednesday and gauge the humanitarian impact of Covid. According to the team, alongside the medical crisis and the safety measures, there has also been tremendous damage to the social security structures. With innumerable people being rendered jobless, healthcare has become difficult for families. The purpose of Road Ashram is to ensure that the impact of the pandemic is not measured solely in terms of a medical crisis, according to Siddhartha Dutta, team navigator. Ahmer Siddiqui, who is behind the wheels, said the name of the campaign derived from the idea of staying on the road in a customised car.
18 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Pontoon stuck under rail bridge pulled out||After a week-long struggle, engineers of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) managed to pull out the pontoon carrying a crane that got stuck under the old Pamban rail bridge on the night of November 9. It was one of the eight pontoons deployed by RVNL involved in construction of the new Pamban rail bridge parallel to the existing century-old rail bridge.  Strong current Strong current in the sea has been putting the officials to a lot of hardship in keeping the floating structures under control and preventing them from getting drifted towards the old Pamban bridge. After the pontoons got drifted towards the bridge twice, the officials decided to pull all the pontoons carrying the rigs and cranes to the shore. Even as they started to erect fender piles in between the heavy machineries and the old bridge, the worsening weather conditions forced another pontoon to hit the bridge. “As of now, the work in the sea has been suspended and four pontoons have already been pulled back. Work on pulling back another four would be taken up soon,” an engineer said. While work would resume in the middle portion of the sea bridge after the weather condition improved, the officials have decided to take up work on the approach side till then.
18 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed as tiled-roof of house collapses||A 65-year-old woman, K. Solaiammal, of L. Karungulam was killed after the roof of her house collapsed in Ramanathapuram in the early hours of Tuesday. Police said that following overnight rain, the tiled-roof of the house collapsed at around 6.20 a.m. The woman who was alone in the house was crushed to death. Fortunately, her two sons and daughters-in-law had gone out. Fire and Rescue Services personnel of Ramanathapuram fire station rushed to the spot. However, before they could arrive at the scene, local people managed to pull out the body of the woman. Firemen removed the debris to prevent further incident. Ramanathapuram Town police are investigating. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver said the district received only 20 mm of rain. Though the impact of the rain was not adverse, except for the L Karungulam accident, officials had been asked to keep a vigil to ensure safety of people.
18 November 2020||S. SundarRamanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant woman fatally knocked down by SUV||A road accident in which a pregnant woman, M. Sathyapriya, 20, was killed near Uchipuli on Monday night ran into controversy after it was found that the occupants of the SUV, which sped away, were close relatives of the outgoing Ramanathapuram Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao. Relatives of the victim alleged that there was an attempt to cover up the accident by shielding the person behind the wheel. Mr. Rao had handed over charge to the new Collector, Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, only on Sunday. The victim, along with her mother-in-law Valli, 65, had returned to their village in Perungulam under Uchipuli police station limits at around 7 p.m. after visiting a hospital in Ramanthapuram. Upon disembarking from the bus at the Perungulam bus stop, they tried to cross the Ramanathapuram-Rameswaram highway when a speeding car hit both of them. Sathyapriya, who sustained head injuries, died on the way to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai after getting first aid at the Government Hospital in Ramanathapuram. Valli was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai in a critical condition. Relatives and villagers alleged that the police were trying to cover up the accident involving the SUV with Andhra Pradesh registration. However, Superintendent of Police E. Karthik said that immediately after the accident, the vehicle came to the police station. “Those in the vehicle had not stopped at the accident spot fearing assault by local people,” he said. The car was returning from Rameswaram in which Mr. Rao’s brother-in-law Chandramouli and others were travelling. “We are yet to fix as to who was behind the wheel when the accident took place. This will be known after taking statements from all those who had travelled in the vehicle,” Mr. Karthik said. Mr. Rao was not travelling in the vehicle, he added. The former Collector has promised to foot the medical expenses of Valli who is under treatment. “There is no question of covering up as it was only an accident,” he said. After post-mortem, the body was cremated on Tuesday afternoon Uchipuli police have registered a case of fatal accident under Sections 304 (A) and 279, 337 of Indian Penal Code. The name of the accused was not in the first information report as the details of the accused was not immediately known, a police source said.  We are yet to fix as to who was behind the wheel when the accident took place  E. KarthikSuperintendent of Police
18 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘20.5% people in Salem district have developed antibodies’||The serosurvey conducted in Salem by health officials has found that 20.54% residents in the district have been exposed to COVID-19 and they have developed antibodies. The Health Department conducted the sero surveillance to study the extent to which the residents of Salem were exposed to COVID-19. Clusters Samples were collected from 31 clusters formed across the district at places where more number of cases was reported. Each cluster included 30 persons. Health officials said blood samples were collected by four teams, each team comprising a lab technician, a health inspector and a health nurse. The samples, collected from persons aged above 18, were tested using Chemi Luminesence Immuno Assay device at the office of Deputy Director of Health Services.  The survey found that 191 persons (20.54%) had developed the antibodies while 739 were lacking them. The officials said a decreasing trend was seen in the positive cases in the district and there were sufficient number of beds in government hospitals to treat patients even if there was a surge in cases.
18 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam was reduced to 1,000 cusecs on Tuesday. According to officials at Public Works Department, water level at the dam was 94.83 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft. Storage The storage was 58,346 tmcft and the inflow to the dam increased to 10,392 cusecs. The discharge into River Cauvery was reduced from 3,000 cusecs to 1,000 cusecs. The discharge through East-West canal was reduced to 500 cusecs.
18 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Police advise public against online gambling||The Salem City Police advised the public against indulging in online gambling and asked parents not to let their children get involved in it. In a release, the police said that a few persons were indulging in online gambling expecting huge money in short period. Due to this, many committed suicide. Parents were giving mobile phones to children and they did not keep an eye on the usage. The police said measures were being taken to prevent online gambling.
18 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner distributes masks to public||Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran on Tuesday distributed masks to people at Kondalampatti here. He distributed reusable cloth masks to residents at Ambedkar Nagar here as part of COVID-19 containment measures. In a release, Mr. Ravichandran said the masks would be distributed to all people residing in the slums.
18 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Second flood warning issued as dam level rises to 53 feet||Second flood warning in Manjalar dam was issued on Tuesday night after the water level in the dam touched 53 feet. Theni Collector M. Pallavi Baldev issued the second warning as the level touched 53 feet at around 8 p.m. The dam was getting an inflow of 181 cusecs. The third and final flood warning would be issued as and when the water level touches the maximum level of 57 feet. The water would flow through Devathanapatti and Genguvarpatti in Theni district and Batlagundu and Sivagnanapuram in Dindigul district. The entire quantum of inflow would be released from the dam then, an official said. The first flood warning was issued on November 6 when the water level touched 51 feet. Meanwhile Kodaikanal municipality has announced that water level in the star-shaped lake in the hill resort has reached its full capacity. Water being released The municipality has said that water was being released from the lake from 7 p.m. and cautioned the people living downstream from going near the flow of water.
18 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Stagnant rainwater causes hardship to residents in Thoothukudi||Though there was no significant rainfall in Thoothukudi on Tuesday, rainwater stagnating in several places following the heavy rain on Monday and the already badly damaged roads are making life miserable for residents despite best efforts of the Corporation. The port town was crippled completely following the Monday downpour. However, the stagnant rainwater at several places gave nightmarish experience to the residents even as Corporation machinery is at work pumping out the rainwater. The rainwater is still stagnating at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital premises, District Court Complex, Judges’ Quarters, temporary bus stand and P and T Colony even as the coastal town witnessed intermittent drizzle on Tuesday. Ankle-deep water is stagnating on Sacred Heart Cathedral premises which is situated close to the coast. Besides deploying 40 pumps, the Corporation is using earthmovers to drain rainwater into the Buckle Channel. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan and City Health Officer Arunkumar are monitoring these operations. Apart from the system tanks, the rain-fed tanks in rural areas, which play a major role in maintaining drinking water supply to the villages, are also getting water after the torrential rains on Monday. The significant rainfall in Kayathar, Kadambur, Maniyachi and Ottapidaram would be boon to the tanks in this rain-fed region and also to the tanks in Vedanaththam, Kulaththoor, Jakkammalpuram and Tharuvaikulam. While two houses were completely damaged in the rains, 31 houses are partly damaged. However, no one was injured. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Tiruchendur 14, Kayalpattinam 52, Kulasekarapattinam 35, Vilathikulam 23, Kadalkudi 13, Vaipar 47, Soorangudi 20, Kovilpatti 73, Kazhugumalai 28, Kayathar 49, Kadambur 73, Ottapidaram 36, Maniyachi 34, Vedanatham 15, Keezha Arasadi 11, Ettaiyapuram 59, Sattankulam 66, Srivaikundam 49 and Thoothukudi 169.
18 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delegate more powers to party heads: Karti Chidambaram||Sivaganga Congress Member of Parliament Karti Chidambaram on Tuesday said that more powers should be given to the party’s state-level and district-level heads. Replying to a query on talks doing the rounds for changing the structure of the Congress, he said power should not be centred at one place but it should be delegated to all. Speaking to reporters at Pudukottai, he said the Congress at the all-India level should follow the model adopted by the party unit in Kerala where the State-level unit takes a decision on choice of candidates for contesting elections through discussions notwithstanding differences of opinion among its members. Like the DMK which had done a survey in respect of the Assembly seats to contest, the Congress too had done an assessment by commissioning an agency and would peruse the survey data pertaining to strengths of candidates and votes of minorities when invited by the DMK for seat-sharing talks.  ‘No comparison’ Replying to another query, he said it was not right to draw a parallel between the outcome of the recent assembly results in Bihar where the Rashtriya Janata Dal-Congress Mahagatbandhan lost with the scenario in Tamil Nadu. There was not much difference in terms of votes obtained between the BJP-Janata Dal (United) combine and RJD-Congress alliance, he said. Stating that the outcome in Bihar polls would make no difference in Tamil Nadu, he said the voting pattern in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and even in Kerala at the time of elections was completely different. He made it clear that the Congress in Tamil Nadu was not an ‘addition’ but a ‘multiplier.’ The DMK and the Congress had lost in all the Parliamentary constituencies in the 2014 general elections when both parties had contested alone, and as a combine, they could win comprehensively in 38 out of the 39 Parliamentary constituencies in the 2019 general elections. It was a victory for the alliance. ‘United we win, divided we fall’ is something that should be understood by all,’ he said.
18 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rain disrupts normal life in Tiruchi||Intermittent rain disrupted normal life in Tiruchi and nearby areas on Tuesday. The rain accompanied by moderate winds brought down the temperature significantly. The rain caused low visibility during the afternoon hours, and motorists, particularly two-wheeler riders, were found struggling to move on the roads. Roadside vendors were the worst affected. Though the buses plied as usual, the occupancy was poor as many chose to remain indoors.
18 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Hydraulic shutters being fixed for barrage||The Public Works Department (PWD) has begun the process of fixing hydraulic shutters to the new barrage being constructed across the Kollidam at Mukkombu. The work constitutes a vital part of the Rs. 387.60 crore project initiated during March, 2019. As per the plan, the barrage will have 55 shutters (gates) to control the flow of water. Of them, the southern arm of the barrage will have 45 shutters and the northern arm the remaining 10 shutters. The L&T, which is executing the project for the PWD, is said to have completed the mechanical components of all 55 shutters by setting up an on site fabrication unit. It has begun the preliminary work of installing shutters on the platforms constructed between the vents. A senior PWD officer said that each vent would have a shutter. Two shutters had been installed so far. They would be supported by a power pack for operation. The efficacy of the shutters had to be tested before installing other shutters. So, it had been decided to test their functioning. The trial run of the shutters would be conducted next week. A team of experts would arrive to oversee the functioning of shutters. Based on the test results, installation of other shutters would be carried out. If needed, modification would be done. The official said the lockdown and the subsequent return of migrant workers to their native States had impacted the progress of the construction to an extent. However, the project was right on track. Around 300 workers had been working at the site on shift. It was being carried out round the clock. Collector S. Sivarasu took stock of the progress of the work on Tuesday by inspecting the project site. He held a consultation with the Executive Engineers R. Geetha (Special Division, Project), Baskar, (River Conservation Division) and other senior officials. Mr. Sivarasu said that the project that began in March 2019 had been progressing well. More than 60% of the work had been completed. With the deployment of additional workforce, the work would be expedited in the coming days. Work on the southern arm of the barrage would be completed before February, he said.
18 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||50,000 saplings planted||Planting of 50,000 saplings under the Miyawaki method, a Japanese way of raising forest on small tracts of land, began at Poonampalaym near Mannachanallur on Tuesday. It was the first project being implemented by involving the workers enlisted under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. It was similar to the projects implemented on South Devi Street in Srirangam on a piece of land owned by Sri Rangathaswamy Temple with the participation of Tiruchi Corporation and other entities in the district. All these projects were implemented by tapping the financial support of like-minded people and voluntary organisations. Collector S. Sivarasu flagged off the drive by planting a sapling in the presence of senior officials of District Rural Development Agency and revenue department. He said that planting would be carried on 4.26 acres of land at Poonampalayam. It would be completed in three to four days. More than 300 workers have been involved in the drive. S. Vaidhyanathan, Revenue Divisional Officer, Lalgudi, said that while Mannachanallur Taluk Rice Mill Owners and Paddy Rice Dealers Association had sponsored saplings, Sree Construction Infratech had given its machineries for planting. Though similar projects were implemented in five other places in the district, it was for the first time 50,000 saplings were planted in a single site. With the growth of plants, the site would transform into a mini forest within three months, officials said.
18 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to mentor new entrepreneurs||Tiruchi Agribusiness Incubation Forum (TABIF) created with the mandate of nurturing budding entrepreneurs has started functioning in the Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute. Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University N. Kumar who inaugurated the TABIF facility earlier this month, exuded hope that the forum will strive to reduce the risk of failures of emerging entrepreneurs in agriculture and food business sector. The incubation facility encompasses office infrastructure and co-working spaces for budding entrepreneurs. P.Masilamani, nodal Officer and Dean Anbil Dharmalingam Agricultural College and Research Institute, and S.D.Sivakumar, Director of Agribusiness Development, said measures are in place for developing and mentoring new entrepreneurs. P.Paramaguru Dean Horticultural College and Research Institute (Women), said the agriculturte business incubation facility will help prospective women entrepreneurs to think out of box and start ventures. People with innovative ideas can approach TABIF for hand-holding support, right from getting their innovative ideas validated to marketing the products, CEO of the forum S. Santosh said.
18 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Consignment for spares business dispatched||BHEL, Tiruchi, on Tuesday dispatched T91 tubes totalling over 2300 metres in length and weighing around 13 metric tonnes for use as spares in its project sites at Paricha in Uttar Pradesh, Birsinghpur in Madhya Pradesh and Mejia in West Bengal. The first consignment was flagged off from the Seamless Steel Tube Plant (SSTP) in the BHEL campus by T S Murali, General Manager BHEL, Tiruchi, was increasing its focus on spares business to service the large number of older power projects, Mr. Murali said. Ever since SSTP was set up as the first IBR (Indian Boiler Regulations) approved facility in the country over 40 years ago, BHEL, Tiruchi, has been able to regularly supply urgently required spares to all its customers. Over the last few years, BHEL, Tiruchi, has been increasing its focus on the spares business which is a focus area for the company as well, Mr. Murali said. S Prabakaran, General Manager, Spares Business, and Renovation and Modernization, who holds additional charge of SSTP, handed over the dispatch documents to K Mohan, General Manager, Materials Management. Senior officials from NTPC also took part.
18 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Further drop in fresh cases||Fresh cases of COVID-19 dipped further in central districts on Tuesday. According to the medical bulletin issued by the Health Department, 140 patients tested positive for the virus in central region on Tuesday. The number of fresh cases dropped to less than 30 in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts that had witnessed surge in cases till a few weeks ago. Thanjavur registered the maximum number of cases with 29 patients testing positive for COVID-19 followed by Tiruvarur district with 28. Nagapattinam and Karur recorded 25 and 20 cases respectively. The daily case count in Tiruchi was 22. Ariyalur and Pudukottai recorded seven and nine cases respectively. None tested positive in Perambalur district. No casualty was reported in any district in central region on Tuesday. Significantly, the region recorded more discharges than admission to the hospitals. According to the bulletin, a total of 253 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, were discharged in various hospitals in the region. Maximum number of discharges was recorded in Tiruchi with the return of 56 patients to their homes followed by 40 discharges in Thanjavur. It was 37 in Karur, 38 in Nagapattinam and 37 in Tiruvarur.
18 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Dams fill up fast as catchment areas receive good rains||With the north-east monsoon gradually gaining momentum, major dams in Tirunelveli district witnessed significant increase in water level on Tuesday. Following precipitation of 138 mm in the catchment areas of Papanasam dam, water level in the second largest dam of the district rose by 9.70 feet in 24 hours. Though the dam is just 32 feet away from attaining its maximum storage level, it has only 66.24% water – 3,643 mcft against its maximum capacity of 5,500 mcft. The level in Manimuthar dam, the largest in the district with the maximum capacity of 5,511 mcft, rose by 3.90 feet with an influx of 2,900 cusecs of water. It has only 47.86% water (2,637 mcft against the maximum capacity of 5,511 mcft). Though a downpour was forecast, there was no rain in any part of the district on Monday night and Tuesday morning. There were some intermittent drizzles after 4 p.m. Rainwater is stagnating on the busy 250-metre-stretch between Samathanapuram traffic island and the District Police Office, which is already in a bad shape. Similar situation prevails on S.N. High Road also. Potholes created by the recent rains on the stretch of road between ‘Kaatchi Mandapam’ in Tirunelveli Town and Pettai cause accidents involving two-wheelers. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Papanasam dam 138, Palayamkottai 75, Servalar dam 74, Manimuthar dam 63.40, Tirunelveli 60, Kalakkad 54.60, Moolaikkaraipatti and Nanguneri 40 each, Radhapuram 32.20, Ambasamudram 29, Nambiyar dam 27, Kodumudiyar dam 15 and Cheranmahadevi 12.60. Tenkasi There was no rain in Tenkasi district also on Monday night and Tuesday morning while intermittent drizzle was reported in a few parts of the district. Water level in Gadana dam rose from 72 feet to 76.50 feet against its maximum capacity of 85 feet and Ramanadhi dam witnessed an increase of 3.50 feet to reach 69.50 feet (84 feet). Karuppanadhi dam recorded an increase of four feet in 24 hours to touch 62.01 feet (72 feet). As more rain is expected, water level in all these reservoirs situated on the lap of the Western Ghats is likely to increase further even as water is being discharged for ‘pisanam’ paddy cultivation. The amount of rainfall recorded in the district (in mm): Karuppanadhi dam 55, Sankarankoil 53, Sivagiri 51, Adavinainar dam 48, Tenkasi 44, Ramanadhi dam 40, Aayikudi 29, Gadana dam 26, Gundar dam 21 and Shencottai 18. Kanniyakumari After a dry Monday, Kanniyakumari district received widespread rain on Tuesday. Kottaram and Mayiladi had heavy rain. However, Pechiparai and Perunchani dams did not record good rainfall as catchments did not get not even 1 cm of rain. Rainfall in district: Boothapandi 18, Chittar I 28, Kannimar 15, Kottaram 81, Kuzhithurai 6, Mayiladi 85, Nagercoil 37, Pechiparai dam, Mukkadal dam, Mullankinavilai and Thuckalay 7 each, Kozhiporevilai, Perunchani and Puthen dams 8 each, Chittaar II 21, Surulacode and Colachel 11 each, Eraniel 14, Kurunthancode and Balamore 17 each, Anaikidangu and Mambzhathuraiyar dam 19 each, Aralvaimozhi 25 and Adaiyamadai 23.
18 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Restore Arundhati Roy’s book in syllabus’||Members of various political parties, including the DMK, and social organisations, under the umbrella of Coordination Committee for Protection of Educational Rights (CCPER), have demanded the restoration of writer Arundhati Roy’s book, Walking with the Comrades, in the M.A. English syllabus at the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU). They submitted a memorandum to Vice-Chancellor K. Pituchumani, on Tuesday, in this regard. Following objection from the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), and “others”, the MSU recently withdrew the book, based on Ms. Roy’s visit to Maoist hideouts, and replaced it with a few essays from naturalist M. Krishnan’s My Native Land: Essays on Nature . While receiving the representation from members of CCPER, Dr. Pitchumani said an academician, previously associated with the university, had alerted that the inclusion of the book in the syllabus, three years ago, for M.A. English, had figured in a discussion at the National Security Council meeting, held recently. Subsequently, the ABVP submitted its representation, demanding withdrawal of the book from the syllabus. A committee set up to examine the issue, too, felt that contents of the book were “controversial”, and, hence, it was withdrawn, Dr. Pitchumani said. To this, CPI(M) district secretary K.G. Bhaskaran, who was accompanied by Tirunelveli MLA A.L.S. Lakshmanan and DMK’s Tirunelveli city district secretary Abdul Wahab, replied that the Board of Studies, which should have decided on the fate of the book, was kept in the dark, while the MSU acted hastily, following a letter from an organisation. “If the MSU acts on a letter from a single organisation, we, comprising 15 movements, now, demand the re-induction of Walking with the Comrades in the syllabus, again. Else, we will stage a series of protests against this injustice,” Mr. Bhaskaran said. Dr. Pitchumani said he would consider their appeal. M.S. John Mohamed of MDMK, K.G. Kalaikannan of Aathi Thamizhar Paeravai, K.S. Rasool Maideen of Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, M. Suresh of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, T. Purushothaman of the May 17 Movement and members of few more organisations were present.
18 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Woman found murdered||A 35-year-old woman was found murdered in her house near Pappakudi on Monday night. Police said M. Muppidathi of Sengulam MGR Nagar under Pappakudi police station limits in the district was working in a firm in Coimbatore. She had come to her native place a month ago for Deepavali celebration. Since her husband Muthupandi, 40, is working in Thoothukudi as a loadman, the couple’s 10-year-old son is with his grandmother. When the boy went to their house from the grandmother’s house on Monday night, he found the body of Muppidathi lying in a pool of blood as she had been hacked to death. As he screamed in fear, the neighbours informed the boy’s grandmother, who alerted Muthupandi. Pappakudi police, who registered a case, found that Muppidathi’s relatives were opposing her alleged affair with a person from Sengulam MGR Nagar. As the enmity worsened, they might have murdered the woman. Two persons, both relatives of the deceased, have been picked up for interrogation.
18 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Papanasam dam on Tuesday stood at 111.20 feet (permissible level is 143 ft.), with an inflow of 9,120.35 cusecs and a discharge of 812.25 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 86.10 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 2,900 cusecs and a discharge of 25 cusecs.
18 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur residents want stagnant rainwater drained||Alleging that they were forced to wade through stagnant rainwater for the last one month, the residents of J.J. Nagar in Ward 34 have demanded the civic body to drain the water at the earliest.  Speaking to media persons on Tuesday, the residents claimed that a few officials visited the area recently but no action was taken. All the residents of this locality, particularly women, children and elders, face difficulty in navigating the stagnant water every day using ropes for support, they said. “We could not even celebrate Deepavali this year,” a resident claimed. With mosquitoes breeding in stagnant water, children are at risk of falling sick, they said. Tiruppur Corporation sources said that officials from Zone-III have been asked to drain the stagnant water manually and it would be done soon. Officials from the District Administration said that Tiruppur district received 15.86 mm average rainfall on Monday. Tiruppur Collectorate received 25 mm rainfall and Tiruppur North 14 mm. Outside the Corporation limits, Palladam and Kangeyam recorded 43 mm each on Monday, officials said.
18 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand adequate release of water for irrigation||Members of a farmers’ organisation visited the Tiruppur Collectorate on Tuesday alleging irregular and inadequate release of water to Vellakoil region through the Parambikulam-Aliyar Project (PAP) branch canal. Around 120 members of PAP Vellakoil Branch Canal Irrigation Rights Committee visited the Collectorate. Police sources said that only about 10 members were allowed to meet Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. In the petition, the members alleged that water for irrigation was released only three days instead of seven days a month as earlier. The quantity of water supplied from the Thirumoorthy Dam through the Vellakoil branch canal was also reduced, the petitioners claimed. Sources said that Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan assured the farmers on Tuesday that the District Administration would conduct an inquiry with the officials concerned.
18 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man dies after inhaling smoke||A man died of smoke inhalation following a fire accident at his residence in Udumalpet on Tuesday. According to police, Rajan (55) along with his 53-year-old wife and two sons aged 27 and 25 was residing at Ramasamy Nagar in Udumalpet. Fire accident On Tuesday morning, the residents in the locality noticed smoke billowing out of the house and they found the four gasping for breath, although none suffered burns. Though they were rushed to a hospital, Rajan died during treatment. Personnel from the Udumalpet Fire Station found that the furniture in the residence was gutted. Cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained. Udumalpet police have registered a case. Police deny allegations of caste discrimination The Tiruppur district police denied allegations of caste-based discrimination regarding a Scheduled Caste man being asked to vacate his residence in Kunnathur. In a recent petition to the Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal, M. Kumar (36) claimed that he was staying in Guruvayurappan Nagar in Kunnathur for seven years. On November 8, the residents had allegedly forced him to vacate and uttered casteist slurs. However, police sources claimed that the man indulged in obscene behaviour with many of the residents in the area, hence he was asked to leave. No case was registered against the man or the residents in Kunnathur police station, the sources said.
18 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man dies of smoke inhalation||A man died of smoke inhalation following a fire accident at his residence in Udumalpet on Tuesday. According to police, Rajan (55), his 53-year-old wife and two sons, aged 27 and 25, were residing at Ramasamy Nagar in Udumalpet. On Tuesday morning, the residents in the locality noticed smoke billowing out of Rajan’s house and they found the four suffocating, although none suffered burns. They were rushed to a hospital, where Rajan died later.
18 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man dies of smoke inhalation||A man died of smoke inhalation in a fire at his house in Udumalpet on Tuesday. The police said Rajan (55), his wife and two sons were residing at Ramasamy Nagar. On Tuesday morning, neighbours noticed smoke from the house and found the four suffocating, although none suffered burns. They were rushed to a hospital where Rajan died. Fire services personnel found that the furniture in the house was gutted.
18 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. to afforest over 270 hectares in the Nilgiris||More than 270 hectares of land that was part of tea estates managed by the Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation (TANTEA) will be afforested with native trees and grasses by the Forest Department in the Gudalur forest division. The land, which was handed back to the Forest Department in 2019, is located in Cherambadi and Pandalur and measures a total of 276 hectares, officials said. District Forest Officer (Gudalur division) Sumesh Soman said that in the first phase, trees would be planted in around 20 hectares. “Areas have been identified where the tea will be removed and replaced by either native trees or grasses, based on the suitability of the habitat,” said Mr. Soman. Around 10,000 trees will be planted in phases and the funds for the project was sanctioned by the Special Area Development Programme. While the planting of native flora will lead to an increase in biodiversity, it would also serve to enrich habitats for wildlife already in the region. One of the aspects of the said land is that they are frequented by a variety of wildlife, including elephants, leopards, tigers and deer. For instance, Palamedu in O-Valley is a crucial corridor for elephants, where there are plans for afforestation, the District Forest Officer said. Native species identified P. Ganesan, Forest Range Officer (in-charge) of Pandalur range, said that native trees and bamboo that make up the Gudalur landscape had been identified and collected over a period of months and grown in a nursery in Pandiar, which is home to 5,400 saplings. “Using local indigenous knowledge, we tracked down the species of bamboo and other trees that are native to the landscape,” said Mr. Ganesan. The Forest Department also plans to collect grasses from relatively undisturbed landscapes, ensuring that they are not exotic, before trying to plant them in suitable locations.
18 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||35 persons test COVID-19 positive in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,804 with 35 new cases reported on Tuesday. While 18,269 people have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 213. The district’s death toll is 322. In Ranipet district, 30 cases were reported taking the total to 15,391. In Tirupathur district, the number of positive cases stand at 7,079 with the addition of 18 cases on Tuesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 36 new cases were reported, taking the total number to 18,336. Out of this, 17,734 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 333.
18 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Portion of bridge collapses near Virudhunagar||Widespread incessant rain in Virudhunagar district on Monday that continued in some parts of the district on Tuesday evening led to the collapse of a portion of a road overbridge at R.R. Nagar on the Madurai-Tirunelveli highway. However, no one was injured as no vehicle was moving on the service road under the portion when it collapsed at around 4 p.m. The accident took place opposite the main entrance of Ramco Cement factory premises. The interlocking concrete structures that were used by National Highways Authority of India for raising the wall to hold the earthen mound caved in for around 20 metres. Local people say it was not the first time that the wall was collapsing as it has happened at least four times in the past. The police have cordoned off the area on the service road and vehicles were diverted away from the weakened structure on the bridge. The bridge has been constructed over the railway line that runs into the cement factory for loading and unloading of materials for the unit. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar district has recorded an average of 38.31 mm of rainfall as all the 12 rain gauge stations across the district received a good amount of rainfall. While Rajapalayam along Western Ghats received 74 mm of rainfall, Tiruchuli in the eastern end of the district recorded the second highest amount of 66 mm of rainfall. The rainfall received in other areas in the district (in mm) is: Watrap 48.80, Kariapatti 48.60, Vembakottai 45.20, Sivakasi 33, Srivilliputtur 32.60, Kovilankulam 27.20, Aruppukottai 16, Sattur 15 and Virudhunagar recorded the lowest of 12.50 mm. District Officer (Fire and Rescue Services) K. Ganesan said that men and materials in all the 10 fire stations in the district had been kept on alert. Two boats had been kept ready in Virudhunagar and Rajapalayam for rescue efforts. Similarly, all the stations had motor pumps ready to drain water in the event of any low-lying area getting marooned. Dam level Rainfall along the Western Ghats greatly impacted in the raising of water level in Pilavakkal Periyar, Kovilar and Sasthakoil dams. In the Kovilar dam, the level stood at 204.55 metres (permissible level is 212 metres). The storage swelled by over two mcft. Water level in Sasthakoil also increased to 100.8 metres (103.40 metres) from 99.4 metres in the last 24 hours. The storage increased to 15.74 mcft from 7.93 mcft. The rain also helped with a marginal increase in the water level of Kullur Sandhai dam to 28.59 metres (30.20 metres) on Tuesday from 28.45 metres on Monday.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||170 new cases, four deaths in Coimbatore district||Salem district reported 69 new cases of which 49 were indigenous. Twenty patients had returned from Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Erode and Karur. A 65-year-old man who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Salem died. Of the 36 new cases reported in Namakkal district, two had returned from Salem and Coimbatore. Erode district reported 47 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,707. While 104 people were discharged after recovery, 518 people continued to be under treatment. Coimbatore district had 860 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Tuesday, including the 170 who tested positive for the disease on the day. A total of 188 people were discharged from hospitals and COVID Care Centres on Tuesday. The Health Department said that four patients died of the disease, taking the toll to 592. Tiruppur district reported 61 fresh cases, taking its overall tally to 14,433. The district did not report any deaths, according to the bulletin. Of the 14,433 cases, 698 were active. Eighty-seven people were discharged from various hospitals on Tuesday. Fourteen people tested positive in the Nilgiris. The number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the district stood at 7,144. A total of 170 people were under treatment. With the 24 new cases reported in Krishnagiri on Tuesday, the total number of confirmed cases rose to to 318. As many as 31 people were discharged after treatment on the day. Dharmapuri recorded 19 new cases and saw the discharge of 21 people on Tuesday. The total number of confirmed cases so far stood at 175.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stay alert, T.N. Health Secy. tells district heads||But the number of tests being conducted was low as fewer people were visiting fever camps, Dr. Radhakrishnan said. He advised the heads of districts and Corporations to continue collecting samples and monitor SARI (severe acute respiratory infection) and ILI (influenza-like illness) cases, besides organising fever camps. He instructed officials to beware of areas showing a spurt in cases. These could be in construction sites or streets, within families or caused by an event, he explained. When such clusters are noticed, the identified infrastructure should not be closed hastily, he said.  Healthcare facilities should ensure there are enough beds and sufficient oxygen supply “so that we are prepared in case of any increase in cases in the next ten days to a fortnight”, the letter read. If two or more cases are traced to a function, a family gathering or a shop, testing, isolation and treatment should be done, apart from containment measures at those places and the source of occurrence, the Health Secretary said. Dr. Radhakrishnan said “absolute non-compliance to mask wearing and physical distancing” was being “observed in many parts of Tamil Nadu, including tourist spots and religious places such as temples, mosques, dargahs and churches. Further, in local tourist destinations and waterfalls, no mask [wearing] and social distancing was observed during Deepavali holidays.” He said the alarming trend in Europe and the U.S. was “a forewarning for all”.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ERODE||Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai: Inauguration of 37th batch of first year B.E., B.Tech. programmes, K. Kavidasan, Director, Roots Industries India Limited and secretary, Satchidananda Jothi Nikethan International School, chief guest, 10 a.m.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COIMBATORE TODAY||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Online meet on “ Social Media Strategy for Customer Retention and Engagement”, 12.30 p.m.  Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Technology: Online induction of first year BE/B.Tech students, 10 a.m.  Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Research Centre: Guinness World record attempt for “Most Narrators on an Audiobook”, IBIS City Centre, 10 a.m.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will remain disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 19 in the following areas under Kurichi sub-station: SIDCO, Podanur, Kurichi, Housing Unit, part of Malumichampatty, Sundarapuram, Eachanari, and LIC Colony.
18 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bill to ban cow slaughter in coming Assembly session, says Minister||The government will introduce a law to ban cow slaughter in the State, Minister for Animal Husbandry, Waqf and Haj Prabhu Chavan said in Vijayapura on Tuesday. “I will present a Bill to prevent cow slaughter in the coming Assembly session,” the Minister told journalists. He, however, clarified that the government was not in a hurry to enact the law and that it would discuss the issue with farmers and other stakeholders. “A committee headed by the Commissioner of Animal Husbandry Department will study various aspects related to the issue. It will make a comparative study of similar laws in Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh,” he said. He said that the Department of Animal Husbandry would soon fill the posts of veterinary doctors and other personnel. “We are suffering from long-pending vacancies of nearly 50 %. We have a sanctioned strength of 18,000. But we are operating with only around 9,000. I have spoken with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on this issue. He has assured me of clearing a proposal to fill vacant posts in a phased manner,” he said. It has come to the notice of the government that there are no veterinary doctors in several villages. A single doctor is in charge of a group of villages and he doen’t attend to livestock on time. To address this issue, “we will open an animal helpline. Farmers could register their complaint at the centre by making a phone call. Once it is registered, it will be forwarded to the jurisdictional veterinary doctor. He will be bound to attend to the call in a certain time period and keep a record of his visit,” he said. Apart from Bengaluru, a Haj house has been approved for Mangaluru. Based on need and availability of land, more such houses will be sanctioned, he said. He visited the Karnataka Milk Federation in Vijayapura and laid the foundation stone for the construction of a veterinary hospital in Nidagundi town. Earlier, Mr. Chavan visited the construction site of the veterinary college in Kokatnur near Athani in Belagavi district He admitted that the building was delayed due to paucity of funds. He said that construction would soon be completed and the college could start functioning from the next academic year. N.A. Patil, college dean, Basava Rajendra, Animal Husbandry Commissioner, Chidananda Savadi, son of Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, and others were present.
18 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Silent rally taken out in Belagavi seeking Stan Swamy’s release||Members of several Christian organisations took out a silent rally in Belagavi on Tuesday to protest against what they called the unlawful arrest of pro-people activist and Jesuit priest Stan Swamy. Jesuits of Goa Province and members of other religious congregations and non-governmental organisations participated in the rally and demanded that the octogenarian Fr. Swamy be released immediately. Priests and the faithful of different churches and denominations also submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath. Bishop of Belgaum Derek Fernandes, Fr. Ronald D’Souza, Fr. Simon Fernandes, priests, nuns and Christian leaders from different parts of the State were present. They wore black masks and held placards and banners. They stood silently at the Rani Chenamma Circle for some time and then, went to the Deputy Commissioner’s office. “We are joining a nation-wide protest in support of Fr. Swamy. We condemn his arrest and demand his immediate release along with all those who are arbitrarily incarcerated for championing the cause of the poor and the exploited,” Bishop Fernandes said. The protesters expressed anguish over the National Investigation Agency (NIA) taking into custody Fr. Swamy (83) from his residence at Ranchi on the charge of sedition and having connection with Elgar Parishad that preceded the caste-based violence at Bhima Koregaon near Pune in 2017. They also condemned the high handedness of the NIA in arresting Fr. Swamy who is suffering from several illnesses and had expressed his inability to travel to Mumbai. They submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner and dispersed.
18 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rayanna statue in Peeranwadi cleaned||Members of the Sangolli Rayanna Yuva Sene cleaned the statue of Sangolli Rayanna in Peeranwadi in Belagavi on Monday, after reports came that a mentally challenged man climbed on the statue a few days ago. A video clip that was widely shared showed the person climbing on the top of the statue holding a pole with a Kannada flag next to the statue. He is seen standing on the statue, with one of his feet on its head and another on its shoulder. This led to some argument on social media platforms by some followers of Rayanna and some Kannada activists who thought it was a deliberate attempt by some Marathi groups to desecrate the 19th century hero’s statue. However, the police identified that person as Parashuram Pujari of Peeranwadi, a shepherd who has been suffering from psychological problems for some years now. He was let off after a suitable warning, a police officer said. A few years ago, he had been arrested on the charge of desecrating the Beereshwar temple near Peeranwadi, the police said.
18 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vantamuri Slum gets maternity hospital||Belagavi Smart City Limited has built a 30-bed maternity hospital in the Vantamuri Slum in Belagavi. The new hospital has come up on the premises of the Vantamuri Primary Health Centre near the Sri Nagar Garden Cross Road. MLA Anil Benake, who inaugurated the building, said that the hospital would cater to residents of the area, especially the poor women from the low-income Vantamuri Housing Colony.  Mr. Benake said that the hospital has several facilities for mother and child health care, including childbirth and surgery, as well as a neonatal emergency care unit. There are rooms for specialist doctors, apart from a neonatal care unit, a minor operation theatre and a surgery room. Most of them are fire resistant, he said.
18 November 2020||Belagavi/MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Flight from Belagavi to Mysuru diverted||The Belagavi-Mysuru TruJet flight was diverted to Chennai after it failed to land in Mysuru due to technical problems on Monday night. Passengers complained that apart from the delay in reaching their destinations, they were not treated well by the airline. Sachin Sabnis, industrialist from Belagavi who was on the flight, said that it made a loud noise while trying to land in Mysuru. It, however, took off without landing there. “When the plane landed in Chennai, we could see that it had tilted to one side. I suspect that it was because of the failure of the landing gear,” he said. The passengers were not evacuated for half-an-hour, after the plane landed in Chennai. “We were stranded without luggage, accommodation, food or any help for over two hours. There were only junior staff to talk to,” he said. “We were lucky to escape unhurt. The airlines needs to train itself for such eventualities,” Mr. Sabnis added. Meanwhile, Director of Mysuru Airport R. Manjunath attributed the flight diversion to “'bad weather and rain”. He said that the decision to aborting landing or diverting a flight is entirely that of the pilots based on various parameters.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||City’s Air Quality Index this Deepavali better than last year’s||The pandemic as well as the rules allowing only green firecrackers helped mute pollution levels this Deepavali. The Air Quality Index (AQI) during the last three days in the city showed that air pollution levels had reduced by 30.34% when compared with the corresponding festival days in 2019, as per data available with the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). The data shows that the average AQI from November 14 to 16 this year — measured at seven locations in the city — was 55.62. The average AQI in the city measured at the same seven locations during the three Deepavali days in 2019 was 81.29. In both years, the air quality was categorised as satisfactory. Noise levels were also marginally down compared to last year. Sreenivasulu, member secretary, KSPCB, said the data clearly indicated that pollution levels due to bursting of crackers had significantly come down during the festival. “Due to widespread awareness on how bursting firecrackers will induce air pollution and may worsen the COVID-19 situation, people seemed to have paid heed. Green crackers would have also contributed to lowering pollution levels,” he said. Enforcement ineffective However, the enforcement of green cracker rule was a challenge and not effective, even civic and police authorities conceded. Most of the shops put up in the city’s playgrounds were selling regular crackers unchecked. Storekeeper Prasad R. from North Bengaluru said that on an average, certified green crackers made up less than 30% at most of the shops selling firecrackers. “However, the sale of crackers was less than half of last year’s turnover, leading to huge losses,” he said. This only indicates that more than enforcement of the green cracker rule, people not bursting crackers seems to have contributed more to lower pollution levels in the city during the festival. The KSPCB data also shows that air quality improved by 46.7% in the city compared to a normal day, as measured on November 9. However, that may be attributed to the location of these AQI monitors. Most of them are placed at busy junctions, which saw less vehicular traffic during the festival days. Many residential areas across the city saw people bursting crackers on all three days. However, two AQI monitors at Basaveshwara Nagar and Jayanagar 5th Block, two residential pockets also saw an improvement in AQI levels, indicating bursting crackers had dropped from the previous year.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Major changes on the anvil to bridge industry-academia divide: Dy.CM||The State government has decided to bring in a number of legislative and structural changes to address the disconnect between the industry and academia and increase the employability of fresh graduates, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan in an interaction with The Hindu on Tuesday. “This divide has been traditionally hurting both employers and fresh hires. To solve this issue, we are bringing in a lot of structural changes to our educational system, in line with the National Education Policy. We will also announce structural changes in the legislative and administrative fronts in a few months so that we will be ready with a new approach in our education system by 2021,” said Mr. Narayan, who also holds the IT, BT and Science & Technology portfolios. “It is going to be a huge collaborative effort and we are actively reaching out to academia and industry to make it a reality,” he said. Issue of connectivity Mr. Narayan said that connectivity had emerged as an essential element for both individuals and enterprises during the pandemic. “Connectivity has never been so critical as it is today. In fact, telecom was not part of any ministry here earlier and now it has been brought under the IT, BT and S&T Ministry. We opened a single window to issue the required permissions to telecom service providers for laying cables, installations, and set up other connectivity infrastructure. This is going to give a fillip to our ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ initiatives as well,” he said. Referring to the startup promotion initiatives taken by the State, Mr. Narayan said a grant of Rs. 150 crore was disbursed under ‘Elevate’ and some 500 startups were the beneficiaries. “We have come out with several initiatives such as ESDN Policy, Karnataka Innovation Authority, Karnataka Digital Mission etc.,” he said. The 23rd edition of the State’s annual tech exposition — Bengaluru Tech Summit — is scheduled to be held between November 19 and 21. It will be attended by representatives from 25 countries, according to Mr. Narayan, and will be a virtual event this time.  To solve this issue, we are bringing in a lot of structural changes to our educational system, in line with the National Education Policy. We will also announce structural changes in the legislative and administrative fronts in a few months... C.N. Ashwath Narayan,Deputy Chief Minister
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to issue show-cause notices to garbage contractors||While new garbage tenders have been in place in 38 wards for nearly two months now, all is not well with the way work is being carried out. Ground reports from marshals show that work of some contractors is unsatisfactory. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike is likely to issue show-cause notices to these contractors. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) Sarfaraz Khan told The Hindu that in some wards, contractors had deployed less vehicles than agreed upon, not installed GPS trackers on vehicles or were not sharing the GPS information with the civic body. “These are mandated as per the work order and the agreement that the contractors have signed with the BBMP,” he said. Some of the wards where waste management was not up to the mark include Shivajinagar, K.R. Puram, Rayapuram, Azad Nagar, Chalavadipalya. Conversely, as per the marshals’ report, waste management was happening effectively in more than 10 of the 38 wards. Here, apart from awareness, even the segregation levels had seen an improvement. After the notices are issued, contractors will have one week to take corrective steps. If they fail to do so, the civic body will cancel the tender and blacklist contractors. Senior officials in the SWM Cell said that such action is necessary so as to ensure that other contractors don’t start to slack off. Mr. Khan also said that the SWM Cell had sought reports from various zones to understand ground reality and evaluate problems, if any, in proper implementation of the new tenders. Meanwhile, tenders are in place for 112 wards of which the civic body has issued work orders to more than 70 contractors. These contractors had been given one month time to mobilise men and machinery required, apart from submitting bank guarantee. “We will give these contractors another 10 days’ time. If they are not ready to take up work by then, the work orders will stand cancelled,” he added.
18 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State nullifies lockout at TKM Bidadi||In a bid to break the impasse between the workers and management of Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) in Bidadi, the State government has prohibited the ongoing strike by workers as well as the lockout declared by the management. It has asked the management to take measures to reopen the unit. “We expect the operations to resume shortly,” said the TKM spokesperson in a statement. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of representatives of the workers’ union and the management of TKM, convened by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also in charge of Ramanagaram district, where the plant is located. “We have invoked Section 10(3) of the Industrial Disputes Act to prohibit the ongoing strike of TKM employees. We have also decided to nullify the lockout declared by the management of TKM and instructed them to resume industrial operations from tomorrow (Wednesday) itself,” Dr. Ashwath Narayan told The Hindu after the meeting. The car-making unit had declared a lockdown at its Bidadi plant since November 10 after its union members commenced a sit-in strike demanding the withdrawal of the suspension of a union member. After a few days, the company suspended another 39 employees, pending inquiry, on charges of misconduct. The meeting on Monday was attended by Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, Additional Chief Secretary to Industries Department Gourav Gupta, and Additional Commissioner to Labour Department Manjunath, among others. At the meeting, Dr. Ashwath Narayan expressed concern over the State’s biggest car-making unit witnessing a strike and lockout at a time when there was a dire need to revive the economy, which has been hit by COVID-19. “The entire world is now looking at India as an alternative investment destination to China. Several foreign companies, including those from Japan and South Korea, are looking at India, and particularly Karnataka, for setting up their enterprises,” he said.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest over Maratha board move||Kannada organisations, led by Kannada Okkoota president Vatal Nagaraj, on Tuesday staged a protest near Mysore Bank Circle opposing the State government’s move on establishing a Maratha Development Board. Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha president Vatal Nagaraj urged the government to immediately cancel the order and threatened a Statewide bandh on December 5 if the demand is not met. The protesters burnt an effigy of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Responding to the protests in a tweet, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa clarified that “Maratha” referred to the community which has been living in Karnataka for generations and is not to be mistaken for the linguistic category speaking Marathi.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court upholds SIT’s chargesheet in cases of illegal sale of iron ore||The High Court of Karnataka has declined to quash the cognisance of offences taken by a special court against the directors and the partners of various firms/companies in illegal sale and transportation of iron ore based on the chargesheets filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Lokyukta police. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while dismissing separate petitions filed by B.S. Purandara Singh, B.P. Anand Kumar alias Anand Singh of S.B. Minerals, Ballari, and several others belonging to different firms/companies engaged in iron ore business. The petitioners had questioned chargesheets filed by the SIT, which was authorised to probe illegal mining cases involving quantum of ore less than 50,000 tonnes and the cognisance of offences taken against them during 2016-17 by the special court for Lokayukta cases. The cases involving more than 50,000 tonnes were probed by CBI as per the Supreme Court’s directions. “The orders of cognizance and the consequent orders of summons issued by the special judge do not suffer from any error or illegality vitiating the proceedings pending against the petitioners,” the High Court observed. On contentions of some of the petitioners that they had no role in business transaction of their companies, the High Court observed that “when camouflaged transactions are carried on behind the legal façade, court may lift this veil and look behind the artificial personality of the company and identify the real personalities or natural persons operating behind the veil”. “The facts disclosed in the material collected by investigating officer undoubtedly point out that the petitioner ingeniously has been operating behind the cover of firm by entering into conspiracy with other accused with intent to make unlawful gain,”the court observed.
18 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cabinet expansion: CM in Delhi today||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will visit Delhi on Wednesday to consult the BJP high command on the proposed Cabinet expansion/reshuffle. Mr. Yediyurappa is scheduled to leave Bengaluru by 11.30 a.m. in a special aircraft. He will be spending only about six hours in Delhi, as per the itinerary released by the Chief Minister’s Office. According to the official agenda, he is supposed to meet a few Union Ministers. But sources said he would also meet party national president J. P. Nadda and other leaders to discuss the matter of Cabinet expansion/reshuffle. Sources close to the Chief Minister added that he had sought permission from central leaders in a telephonic discussion a few days ago to meet them in Delhi.  Political circles are abuzz with speculation on whether there will be a reshuffle of the Cabinet, with some Ministers being dropped. There are seven vacant ministerial berths, including the one vacated by C.T. Ravi after his elevation as party national general secretary. While the lobbying for Cabinet berths has intensified among the party’s old- timers, some of those who came to the BJP recently from rival parties, such as R. Shankar, N. Nagaraj (MTB), and Munirathna, too are keen on getting berths. A senior BJP leader observed that the list of ministerial aspirants was so long that dealing with disappointed aspirants might turn out to be a challenge.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infosys awards to go virtual||Infosys Science Foundation will announce and felicitate winners of the 12th Infosys Prize – 2020 virtually on December 2. Infosys Science Foundation used to hold an event in the city every year, where scholars across six categories were awarded the prize and felicitated. However, given the pandemic situation, the event has gone virtual this year. Scholars in six categories – Engineering and Computer Sciences, Humanities, Life Sciences, Mathematical Sciences, Physical Sciences and Social Sciences will be felicitated. The prize for each category comprises a gold medal, a citation and a prize purse of USD 100,000 this year.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students without test results not allowed to attend classes||While the majority erred on the side of caution and chose not to attend classes on the first day of colleges reopening, many said that they had wanted to go back to campus but were unable to do so as they faced delays in getting their COVID-19 test results. It is mandatory for those physically reporting to colleges to provide certificates stating that they are not infected. The BBMP on Tuesday announced that as many as 11,574 COVID-19 tests were done for students and staff, and only two tested positive. However, many students also got COVID-19 tests done at private labs. A student from a private college in Bengaluru said, “I gave my swab for a test on Sunday, but still did not get my result. I followed up with the lab and the college. I was disappointed that I did not get my results as I was looking forward to attending class on the first day. Hopefully, I will be able to get my reports later this week,” he said. Allowed at some Many students in fact went to campuses without the test results, but were sent home. However, at some, like St. Joseph’s College, students who did not get their test results were allowed to write the examinations. An official for the college said that a certificate was mandated and a majority of students had a COVID-19 Negative Certificate. “A few who had been tested yesterday and the day before but had not yet received their results, were allowed to sit for the exams in a separate room. A mark was made on their hall ticket, so the task force would keep track of them until they received their health certificates. We are also in touch with BBMP to see if the certificates cn be issued earlier,” an official from the college said. Push for free testing Amaresh Kadagada, State president, Students’ Federation of India, Karnataka, said that students from many colleges had to go to hospitals or PHCs to get their COVID-19 tests done. “The government needs to conduct free testing on the college premises for staff and students so that they are not put to risk,” he said.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Live music back at KIA||After eight months, live music will make a comeback at Kempegowda International Airport. Bengaluru International Airport Ltd. said live performances will be held at The Quad by BLR, the open-air food and beverage area at the airport on November 20, and again on November 28.
18 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||RS bypoll: BJP’s surprise choice||The BJP central unit has yet again come out with a surprise choice by picking K. Narayan, a long-time worker from the weavers’ community, as its candidate for the Rajya Sabha byelection. It ignored the names recommended by the State core committee. The BJP State core committee had recommended the names of Nirmal Kumar Surana and former backward classes commission chairman Shankarappa, besides that of former Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti’s wife. However, the high command has gone for Mr. Narayan, who is in the business of printing technology.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,336 new cases, 16 deaths on Tuesday||Karnataka reported 1,336 new COVID-19 cases and 16 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total number of infections to 8,64,140 and the toll to 11,557. Of the 1,336 new cases recorded on Tuesday, 729 were from Bengaluru Urban. As many as nine of the 16 deaths reported on Tuesday were also from the same district. According to the bulletin by the Health Department, the day also saw 2,100 patients getting discharged, adding up to a total of 8,27,241. Bengaluru Urban topped in discharges too, at a total of 3,36,880. Out of the 25,323 active cases in Karnataka, 24,630 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 693 are in ICUs. As many as 96,44,009 samples have been tested so far, out of which 75,384 were tested on Tuesday, and 13,392 among them were rapid antigen tests.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BCU cancels groundbreaking ceremony||Bengaluru Central University (BCU) has cancelled the groundbreaking ceremony for construction of the teaching complex, sports complex and renovation of buildings scheduled to be held on Wednesday for which Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had been invited as chief guest. The move comes in the wake of protests by several syndicate members who had questioned the decision of the Vice-Chancellor to construct the complexes and renovate historical buildings on the Central college campus at the cost of Rs. 155 crore through a government agency. They alleged that it was done without getting the approval of the syndicate. An emergency meeting was called on Tuesday and a resolution was passed to postpone the groundbreaking ceremony on Wednesday. The syndicate members earlier in the day had also staged a protest. ‘No lapse’ However, S. Japhet, Vice-Chancellor of BCU, said that the event was postponed as Mr. Yediyurappa had to rush to New Delhi on Wednesday. He brushed aside allegations of the syndicate members and said that there was no lapse on his part.
18 November 2020||Benglauru/Raichur,KARNATAKA||Colleges reopen, but classes empty||Almost all campuses across the State were deserted and classrooms saw only a handful of students in attendance on Tuesday, when degree, diploma and engineering colleges re-opened after a gap of eight months. Students, besides submitting consent forms from parents and COVID-19 negative certificates, also had to sanitise their hands and undergo health screenings before attending classes. However, the precautionary measures put in place as safeguards against COVID-19 did little to allay the fears of students and parents. In some cases, lecturers who reported to work did not conduct classes as no student had turned up. There were several instances of lectures being held for one student. At Maharani’s Arts, Commerce and Management College For Women, a few teachers held classes for a single student. A final year B.A. student said that she was the only person in the classroom with her professor. “I was keen to attend class after so many months at home. I travelled for one and a half hour by public transport to college. When I saw that I was the only student, I thought the class would be cancelled, but the lecturer conducted it for me,” she said. At Government First Grade College, Raichur, only one fifth semester B.Com student among 1,333 final year students reported to campus. Mallanagouda, principal, said that 26 lecturers came to work, but only one lecturer took a class. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor, Bangalore University, said that they had less than 3% attendance in the departments, while affiliated colleges had an attendance of 5-10%. He however said that they anticipate the attendance to improve in a week. D. Kemparaju, Vice-Chancellor, Bengaluru North University, said they recorded 18% attendance. Fear of contracting COVID-19 was not the only reason that kept people away. Students and lecturers also attributed the low attendance to the lack of adequate transport available, particularly in rural areas. Many students said that they were unable to go to a testing centre, while others did not want to get tested for COVID-19. In some instances, students said that their parents did not give their consent. At engineering colleges The turnout at engineering colleges was also poor. At UVCE, none of the students reported to class. Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) VC Karisiddappa said that while 65% students had consented to attend classes, only 20-35% turned up. Evening colleges, too, saw low student strength. At the Sheshadripuram Evening College, only 16 out of 200 final-year students attended. “Despite conducting virtual meetings, parents did not want to send their children to college as they depend on public transport,” said N.S. Satish, principal. M. Manjunath, president, Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Associatio,n said that classes were held only for final year students. “A majority of the colleges reported low attendance. Only around 10-20% of students opted to attend these classes.
18 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||KRRS leader dead||Kottur Srinivas, president of Hassan district unit of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, passed away at a private hospital in Mangaluru on Tuesday. He was 60. The activist is survived by his wife and daughter. Kottur Srinivas has developed health complications a couple of weeks ago. He underwent treatment in Hassan and later was shifted to Mangaluru. For the last four decades, he has been associated with the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha. Under the leadership of M.D.Nanjundaswamy, he took part in many farmers’ struggles across the State. His was a prominent face in many protests related to farmers’ issues in Hassan district.
18 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Swab samples collection centres||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has set up swab sample collection units at seven places in Hassan city as college students have to undergo the RTPCR test before attending the classes that resumed on Tuesday. In a press release, Hassan Taluk Health Officer B.M. Vijay said the samples would be collected at Boys Pre-Metric Hostel behind All India Radio, new KSRTC bus stand, City Municipal Council office premises, RTO office premises, M.Krishna City Health Centre (Old Mutton Market), Beeranahalli Health Centre (Hoysala Nagar) and Pension Mohalla Health Centre. On Tuesday, hardly a few students attended the classes in degree colleges in the district.
18 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC’s appeal||Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar has appealed to the public to join hands with the administration by wearing a mask and maintaining social distance in public places in its efforts to avoid the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. He spoke after flagging off a jatha to spread awareness on the pandemic in Shivamogga on Tuesday.
18 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Rs. 150 crore sanctioned for interior roads in Hubballi-Dharwad||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said that Rs. 150 crore has been sanctioned for the twin cities under the Mahatma Gandhi Vikas Yojna for development of interior roads and tenders would be floated soon. Speaking after performing the bhoomi puja for underground drainage network at Badami Nagar in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar said that the Public Works Department was laying a wide road at a cost of Rs. 50 crore from the underbridge on Gadag Road to Keshwapur, Bengeri, and from Gangubai Hangal Gurukul to Unkal. Under the same work, the sub main road at Badami Nagar was also being developed and the work would be completed within the next four months, he said. The Minister said that the civil works had been delayed due to lockdown and subsequent shortage of labour. “For the development of roads in the twin cities, Rs. 400 crore has been sanctioned under Central Road Fund (CRF). Railway Station Road, Lamington Road and Koppikar Road are being developed under Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Scheme. Madhura Colony Road has been developed under additional grants. In the next eight to nine months, all the roads will be developed,” he said. Later, speaking to presspersons, Mr. Shettar said that when restrictions were withdrawn, many people were hesitant to go to restaurants, but now many eat out. “Likewise, there is initial hesitation and fear as colleges have reopened. Hostels too have been reopened after taking all necessary precautions. With COVID-19 cases coming down, automatically the fear and apprehensions will be reduced and more students will start attending regular classes,” he said. HDUDA Chairman Nagesh Kalburgi, the former councillor Menaka Hurali, BJP leaers Mallikarjun Savakar, Santosh Chavan and others were present. The Minister on Tuesday inspected the ongoing work on the construction of a bridge between Unkal and Hulikoppa which was washed away during the flash floods in August 2018. The Minister asked the contractor to expedite the work and complete the construction at the earliest. He also assured the residents of providing additional funds for widening the approach road to the bridge.
18 November 2020||Hubballi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Leaders, seers press for 16% reservation for Lingayats||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s announcement on setting up a Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation has not gone down well with some organisations, leaders and seers of the community, who have instead sought 16% reservation in employment and education for the community. However, others, such as the Veerashaiva Mahasabha, have welcomed the move. Congress leader and former Minister M.B. Patil and JD(S) leader and former Minister Basavaraj Horatti, who had earlier written to the Chief Minister seeking 16% reservation for the community, have stuck to their stand and feel that the corporation will not be of much use to the large community of Lingayats. They are joined by Lingayat seers, who have raised questions about the nomenclature of the corporation and what purpose it would serve. Mr. Horatti, who is associated with the Jagatika Lingayat Mahasabha, an offshoot of the independent religion movement for “Lingayatism”, had earlier written to Mr. Yediyurappa seeking 16% reservation, on the lines of the one provided in Maharashtra for the Maratha community. On Tuesday, he again sent a letter to the Chief Minister. Mr. Horatti argued that the corporation, even with an allocation of Rs. 500 crore, would be of no use considering the huge population of the community, and reservation would be more effective. Mr. Horatti also urged the Chief Minister to work towards including Lingayats in the OBC list of the Union government. “If the government wants to set up a development corporation, then at least a grant of Rs. 5,000 crore should be provided,” he said.  Sri Tontada Siddarama Swami of Edeyuru Tontadarya Samsthana Mutt, Gadag, who led the independent religion movement for Lingayatism, took exception to “the haste” with which the corporation was being set up. He and Sri Shivamurthy Murugha Sharanaru of Brihan Mutt, Chitradurga, emphasised the need for providing 16% reservation. Meanwhile, the Veerashaiva Mahasabha, which had made the demand for setting up the corporation during the 14-month JD(S)-Congress coalition rule and repeated it soon after B.S. Yediyurappa took over as Chief Minister, welcomed the move. The Mahasabha rallied behind the Chief Minister and said that setting up a corporation would be the better option for the community than reservation, which is not legally feasible. With the Supreme Court’s ruling on restricting the reservation to 50%, the demand for a separate 16% reservation for the community may not be met easily and will be fraught with legal wrangles, said Veerashaiva Mahasabha national secretary H.M. Renuka Prasanna.  Under pressure Government sources said the Chief Minister was under pressure after he announced the setting up of the Maratha corporation, as the demand for a corporation for Veerashaiva Lingayats had been there for quite some time, and Ministers, including Laxman Savadi and B.C. Patil, had also expressed their demand for it publicly. Meanwhile, Mate Gangadevi of Basava Dharma Peetha, Koodalasangama, welcomed the move but opposed the use of the term “Veerashaiva” in the name of the corporation. “The Chief Minister should not resort to distortion of history by using the term,” she said.
18 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Maharashtra Congress leaders targeting political opponents’||Days after the Maharashtra Police raided and seized a car belonging to Jayashree Mattimod, wife of Kalaburagi Rural MLA Basavaraj Mattimod, and arrested two persons in connection with IPL cricket betting, BJP State vice-president Malikaiyya Guttedar has said that Congress leaders in Maharashtra are targeting political opponents by implicating them in false cases here. Acting upon definite information, a special team of officials attached to Solapur City Crime Branch of Maharashtra Police had raided a house in Kalaburagi on November 8 and arrested two persons and recovered four laptops, 10 mobile phones and a vehicle belonging to Mr. Mattimod’s wife after it busted an IPL cricket betting racket. Meanwhile, Mr. Guttedar said that the entire incident was a conspiracy hatched by the Congress leadership in pursuit of their vested political interests. Acting on the directions of Congress leaders, the Shiva-Sena-led Maharashtra government is indulging in a political vendetta by implicating family members of BJP leaders here in false cases, he added. In a related development, Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge has, in a series of tweets, accused the BJP-led government of remaining silent. Mr. Kharge tweeted: “Looks like everyone knows what is happening in IPL betting issue in Kalaburagi except the Home Minister and the department. Not a single reaction on the issue by Home Minister. May be Department has no clue as local authorities were not informed about the raid as they might be involved in it ( sic ).”
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Beach tourism gets a boost with several attractions||Beach tourism in Udupi is getting a boost with Malpe Beach Development Committee now installing different sculptures and carry on with the process of setting up other attractions near Malpe Sea Walk at an estimated cost of Rs. 2 crore. According to Chandrashekar Naik, in-charge Assistant Director (Tourism) and Deputy Director, Agriculture, Udupi, the attractions are coming up on about four acres of land. The Nirmiti Kendra, Udupi, is setting them up for the committee. Project Director of the Nirmiti Kendra Arun Kumar said that five cement-based sculptures are among the other attractions being created. The sculptures include that of a Garuda in Yakshagana style, a fisherman rafting a traditional boat, fishermen towing a fishing boat to the shore, a fish and a cat. The sculptures of a fish and a cat are being made for fun to entertain children. In addition, the project covers building an amphi-theatre, a garden, children’s play area, pathway, seating arrangements and parking area. There will be provision for eight shops. The parking area is being built covering 50,000 sq ft area. About 200 to 250 people can sit at a time in the amphi-theatre. There will also be a model of sand art to enable children to learn sand art. The project is coming up under the guidance of Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat and Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha. Mr. Kumar said that all works are expected to be completed by this month-end. Mr. Naik said that about 20 % of the total works are yet to be completed. The project is likely to be opened for tourists by this year-end. Tourists who visit the sea walk can relax in the area. The Padubidri Beach in Udupi bagged the coveted eco-label Blue Flag from an international agency, Foundation for Environment Education, Denmark, recently. A 500 m stretch of the Padubidri Beach has been developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 10.68 crore over the past two years. The same beach has a 200-m-long safe swimming zone.  In addition, the project covers building an amphi-theatre, a garden, children’s play area, pathway, seating arrangements and parking area, and finally, there will be provision for eight shops
18 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Devotees to get a feel of touching Ram’s feet at Janmabhoomi||Devotees who will bow down to pay their obeisances after a perambulation in the upcoming the Ram Temple at Ayodhya will get a feel as if they are touching the feet of Lord Ram, of course, with the use of technology. Also, the deity will be placed in such a way that on Rama Navami day, the Sun’s rays will fall on it, said Pejawar Mutt seer Vishwaprasanna Tirtha Swami, who is a member of the Sri Rama Janm Bhoomi Theerth Kshetra Trust, here on Tuesday. The seer said that these suggestions were made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and these will be given effect to. While the Department of Science and Technology has been entrusted to work on 3D technology that will give one the feel of touching Lord Ram’s feet, the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research has been tasked with a study on how to place the idol so as the Sun’s rays touches it. The seer, who recently returned after attending a meeting of the trust in Ayodhya, told reporters that at present the work of levelling land was on. The work on measuring the holding capacity of the land, which is an important part of the construction, will be taken up next. “The soil there is very loose. We need to go about 200 feet below and have a solid foundation for the temple. The temple is likely to be ready in about three-and-a-half years,” he said. Experts in temple architecture from across the country will be involved, he said. Larsen & Toubro will construct the temple, while Tata Consultancy will review the construction work. Architects from across the country have been called to submit to the trust by November 27 their ideas. After Makara Sankranti, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad will take up a 15-day drive to collect donation ranging between Rs. 10 to Rs. 2,000 for construction of the temple. the Trust will shortly open a bank account to which devotees may transfer their donation.  After Makara Sankranti, the Vishwa Hindu Parishad will take up a 15-day drive to collect donation ranging between Rs. 10 to Rs. 2,000
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Pavoor-Uliya Kudru residents erect the footbridge, again||As the rains subsided, residents of Pavoor-Uliya Kudru (River Island) got the temporary footbridge across Netravathi connecting the island with the mainland rebuilt with the support of Infant Jesus Shrine this year too. While negotiating the swollen Netravathi during monsoon by putting their life at risk through boats, the residents have devised the footbridge about five years ago for commute during non-Monsoon season after the government remained mute to their problems. Located off Adyar on National Highway 75, the Pavoor-Uliya Kudru has about 50 households and a shrine. Boats had been the only mode of connectivity between the island and the mainland. Fr. Jerald Lobo, Parish Priest, told The Hindu on Tuesday that there would be no issue of connectivity for the next seven months for the residents of the island. The self-financed footbridge could be used to reach the island that has verdant green cover and could also be an ideal location to spend time in leisure for others, he said. The initial investment on the bridge was about Rs. 10 lakh spent mainly on procuring steel scaffolding and wooden planks. Residents raised funds from other Parishes too while a few philanthropists made donations. In subsequent years, the expenditure was mainly towards the labour even as residents volunteered to erect the bridge every year. About Rs. 70,000 was spent this year, Fr. Lobo said. While no user fee was collected initially, a fee of Rs. 5 was prescribed last year and Rs. 15 this year. However, there is no fee collection counter, users have to deposit the fee in a box at the entry or exit of the bridge. This was to ensure people do not depend upon donations for erecting the bridge once again after the rain. Erection of the bridge, about 250-m-long, was not an easy task as the depth of Netravathi varies abruptly on the alignment. Consequently, they have to use poles of different lengths to provide the footpath. The bridge is located about 14 km from Mangaluru off National Highway 75. One has to take a U-turn at Adyar Naga Bana after Sahyadri College campus and move towards the city for a little distance. A board on the left hand side of the highway directs to the Infant Jesus shrine from where a small road leads to the bridge.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A different Deepavali||Mangaluru South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath along with BJP cadre celebrated Deepavali with the family members of an armed forces personnel in the city on Sunday. A communiqué here said that Mr. Kamath and other party leaders visited the residence of Cap. Bharath Shetty of the Indian Army at Kadri, who has been serving on the China border, to celebrate the festival.
18 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KCCI wants lab approved||The Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has urged the Director-General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) to take up with the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry a proposal to set up a Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) approved fish and fisheries products’ testing and certification laboratory in Mangaluru. This is aimed at providing a boost toexports from the coastal and other parts of Karnataka. In a letter to the Additional Director-General of Foreign Trade, Bengaluru, on November 11, the president of KCCI Issac Vas said that the establishment of the laboratory will go a long way in bettering the fisheries industry and accelerating economic development in the region. He said that the College of Fisheries in Mangaluru has given an in-principle approval for allotting space for the laboratory in Mangaluru. The letter said that undivided Dakshina Kannada is a hub for fishing industries. The two districts exported an average of 1.18 lakh tonnes of fish and fisheries’ products per annum. For the export of fish and fisheries’ products, the exporter must get the fish tested at a MPEDA Quality Control Laboratory and the nearest one is at Kochi. This causes a delay of around six working days. At times, the test results are available after 10 working days. As a result of these delays, the industry is facing several constraints. There is a block on working capital for the industry as the exporter cannot export the product on a timely basis.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Children’s eye clinic opened||The paediatric ophthalmology and express ophthalmology clinics started functioning at the Kasturba Medical College Hospital in Manipal from Friday. The paediatric clinic will provide exclusive comprehensive consultancy services for children. Treatment for issues like refractive errors, squints, cataract and lazy eye will be provided. Referral to other speciality clinics will be done. To make it convenient for children and parents, this clinic will run on a school holiday and will function every Saturday between 1.30 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. (except the third Saturday). The express clinic will be on appointment basis only. Consultations here will have reduced waiting times. Call 0820 2923780.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Torchlight procession today||Dakshina Kannada Youth Congress president Mithun Rai on Tuesday said that the Youth Congress cadre will take out a torchlight procession from Kadri to the international airport here on Wednesday evening demanding naming the airport after Koti-Chennayya, folklore heroes of the region. Mr. Rai told reporters here that the Adani Airports that has secured the management of the airport has no authority to change its name to Adani Airport.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bank launches campaign||Karnataka Bank on Tuesday launched a nation-wide savings and current account mobilisation campaign lasting till March 4, 2021. The bank intends to mobilise over 4.1 lakh current and savings accounts with an accretion of Rs. 650 crore of business by the active involvement of its over 8,000 workforce in all the 859 branches across the country, said a release here. The bank offers a host of savings and current account schemes.
18 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Shaheen Group offers scholarship to flood and corona affected students||The Bidar-based Shaheen Educational Institute is offering scholarships for the 2021 NEET examination training to students affected by floods and COVID-19. Chairman of Shaheen Group of Institutions Abdul Qadeer said they have set part Rs. 5 crore for this. The scholarship will be offered to about 2,000 students.
18 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Activists call for demolition of structure near Kabini backwaters||Wildlife activists and a section of senior retired forest officials have called for immediate demolition of structures being constructed for a resort within the Eco-Sensitive Zone of Nagarahole-Bandipur landscape close to Kabini backwaters. The construction on survey number 142 and 144 at N. Belathur village was halted when the violation of the ESZ norms came to light early this year. However, activists allege that work has subsequently gathered pace. Notice issued What is significant is that the owner of the land was issued notice complete with government orders that the area where the construction was taking place was not only within the ESZ but was part of the Mysore Elephant Reserve and hence no construction can take place. The local range forest officer has stated in a communiqué to landowner K.N. Narsimhamurthy that N. Belathur is part of the notified buffer zone of the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. “The very objective of notifying the elephant reserve will be defeated if adequate measures are not taken to protect the elephants, their habitat and corridors,” said the authorities. The Chief Conservator of Forests of Kodagu circle also visited the spot and surveyed the area and noted that there were six under-construction buildings measuring around 997.29 sq m equivalent to 11 guntas. But construction of private residences in ESZ cannot exceed two guntas and hence, there was a violation. A retired Forest Department official, who has served as Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, said the construction is funded by a mine owner and the landownership was benami. He said this sort of construction requires land conversion from the Deputy Commissioner and it is obvious that no such permission has been granted. The owner was issued notices three months ago. He recalled that a fully functional resort was demolished on the banks of the Kabini river within the Bandipur Tiger Reserve buffer zone in 2008. Similarly, a villa project was stopped in the Bandipur buffer zone in 2010-11.  ‘Serious repercussions’ Joseph Hoover, member, State Board for Wildlife, said there are serious repercussions arising out of such flagrant violations and more people would be encouraged to take up construction and even question the ESZ if the construction was not stopped.
18 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 surge to wane in coming days, says study||After its alarming surge in the last few months, COVID-19 is expected to wane in the coming days with studies predicting a declining growth rate not only in the number of positive cases, but also deaths, in Karnataka. The number of positive cases is expected to inch to 9.25 lakh by December 12 against the 8.55 lakh recorded on November 12 while the number of deaths due to COVID-19 is likely to touch 12,000 against the 11,474 recorded on November 12, according a prediction by Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of management firm Proxima, which is studying COVID-19 trends across India with technical support and guidance of Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI). The prediction for December 12 represents a sharp dip in the month-on-month growth rate from 63 per cent and 19 per cent recorded during the last two consecutive months to just 8 per cent. Similarly, the month-on-month growth rate of mortality will dip to 4.5 per cent from the 46 per cent and 11.2 per cent reported during the last two consecutive months. Jeevan Raksha had been predicting the COVID-19 trends by deploying its Pandemic and Epidemic Management System since the last three months with its forecasts made during August and September having a margin of error of less than 3 per cent. One of the key reasons for the declining trend of COVID-19 according to Jeevan Raksha’s convenor Mysore Sanjeev is the increase in testing. In Karnataka, the gross Test Positivity Rate (TPR) in September was 14 per cent, but had plummeted to 2 per cent in the week ending November 14. “This means that only two people are testing positive for every 100 tests.” However, positivity and mortality per million population had increased since August. While the positivity per million had gone up from 1,916 on August 1 to 12,730 on November 14, the mortality per million, which was 36 on August 1, had reached 170 on November 14.
18 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||4,500 tests daily; no swabs sent to Bengaluru||Despite the sharp drop in COVID-19 cases, nearly 4,500 swabs are being tested daily in Mysuru. This number may go up further this week with the testing made mandatory for students and teaching and non-teaching staff of degree colleges with the resumption of classes from Tuesday after a long gap. RT-PCR tests had been stepped up for the college staff and students from Tuesday. With the VRDL, a centrally-sponsored lab, at the Department of Microbiology in K.R. Hospital getting a new testing device, 3,000-3,500 swabs are now being handled daily with the test results given within a day. No swabs are now being sent to Bengaluru like in the past and all swabs originated within the district are handled in Mysuru itself. Besides VRDL, around 1,000-1,250 swabs are handled by the lab at the CFTRI. Only around 500 rapid antigen tests are done here.
18 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Varsity to reopen on Nov. 23||The reopening of JSS Science and Technological University, Mysuru, and its colleges has been delayed in view of online examinations scheduled for the UG and PG programmes from November 17 to 21. Therefore, the university said the offline classes would start from November 23 for the students of only UG final year and PG students of all programmes. Separate SOPs and instructions manual to the staff and the students will be published in the university website soon. As per the government norms, the students who opt to attend classes physicallyshould get tested for COVID-19 by the RT-PCR method.
18 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Decision on board for Marathas welcomed||Deputy Chief Minister and Raichur district in-charge Minister Laxman Savadi has welcomed the State government’s decision to establish a Maratha Development Board and said that this would help develop the backward Maratha community in the State. In a release on Monday, Mr. Savadi said that it was a long-pending demand of the Maratha community to establish the board to ensure the uplift of the economically backward community. “The community will see overall development with the grant of Rs. 50 crore earmarked for the purpose,” he said and added that it was improper to see the development as only meant for Marathi-speaking people. It was meant for the development of the whole community, he said.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Prudent to conserve than demolish Devaraja Market, says heritage expert||A technical committee report has come in handy for the heritage experts in the city to reiterate their demand to conserve the Devaraja Market which is more than 125 years old and condemned for demolition. The soil bearing capacity report submitted by the technical committee indicates that the ground on which the market stands today, was not only loose but there was seepage in some parts. Hence any new construction can take place only after the soil and the ground was strengthened and stabilised, as per the report. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner Gurudutt Hegde told The Hindu that soil samples were taken after digging 3 trial pits and the report has been forwarded to the government for its decision. He said civil and structural engineering experts will give inputs to reinforce and stabilise the ground but this will increase the construction cost of the new market which at present, is pegged at Rs. 70 crore. He said under the current circumstances of pandemic and with the economy having taken a battering due to the lockdown, it may be difficult for the State to release so much of money at one go. Meanwhile, heritage experts see the technical committee report on the soil bearing capacity as an opportunity to reinforce the wisdom of conserving the Market. ‘’When the soil is unstable and it is known that the Sayyaji Rao Road and Devaraja Market have been constructed on a land stabilised with ash and stone, a new market with multi-level parking facility at the basement was fraught with danger and would shore up the construction cost manifold’’, said N.S. Rangaraju, convenor, Mysuru chapter of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH). He said it would be prudent to conserve the heritage structure at a fraction of the cost and it could serve public purpose for at least another 50 to 75 years. There are examples of heritage buildings restored in the city in recent years and they include the Jayalakshmi Vilas Mansion, Dr.Radhakrishnan’s Bungalow, and Jaganmohan Palace, said Mr. Rangaraju. The proposed multi-level parking facility at the basement of the new structure has also raised concern over its impact on the heart of the city which is already choking with traffic, noise and air pollution. Urban experts aver that instead of reclaiming the heritage area by dispersing growth to the outer periphery and diverting traffic away from the city centre, the local authorities will add to the mess by drawing additional traffic to the core area which is already an eyesore. The debate on the reconstruction and conservation of Devaraja Market is on since nearly two decades. To make the matters worse, various expert committees have submitted reports that are in favour of conservation as well as demolition. Though the MCC has passed a resolution supporting its demolition to pave way for a new building, the issue is far from settled as the tenants of Devaraja Market have approached the court.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KSE hits out at Congress over comments on RSS||Coming down heavily on Congress leaders for their comments on the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has appealed them to study about the Sangha, before criticising it. At a press conference in Shivamogga on Tuesday, Mr. Eswharappa said he had gone through the comments made by KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Congress leader B.K. Hariprasad on the RSS on the occasion of Jawaharlal Nehru’s birth anniversary. “The party has been losing its strength because of the way they did politics all these years. If they criticize the RSS, they would bite the dust. Let them read about RSS first. There are many books about the organisation and I will be happy to send them copies”, he said. ‘No bias’ The children of many Congress leaders, Mr. Eshwarappa said, had joined the RSS in the recent years. In the past, Mahatma Gandhi had also participated in an RSS camp. Recently Pranab Mukherjee, who was a Congressman throughout his career and served as President of the country, attended an RSS programme. “It is an organisation working for the country and Hindutva. It does not treat people based on caste. People from all castes are in the organisation”, he said. Arrest Commenting on the arrest of former Bengaluru Mayor R. Sampath Raj in connection with the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli, Mr. Eshwarappa said the State government would take stern action against all those involved in the crime. “The incident happened because of the Congress leaders’ hunger for power. Leaders of the Congress are ready to set ablaze anybody’s house for power and later would protect those behind such criminal acts. When their own legislator’s house was burnt, the Congress did not demand the arrest of anti-nationals involved in the crime.” Poll victory Mr. Eshwarappa said the BJP won Sira seat not only because of B.Y. Vijayendra, party’s State vice-president, but also because of the efforts of all leaders. “ Along with Mr. Vijayendra, Govind Karjol and others worked in the constituency. I don’t deny Mr. Vijayendra’s role. Like him, others also campaigned hard”, he said.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lighting up the sky||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Stuck under a barrier||
18 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||364 new cases, 397 recoveries in Alappuzha||The district reported 364 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Of the new cases, as many as 345 patients contracted the disease through local transmission while the source of infection of another nine people remains unidentified. Nine people who came from other States and one person from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded one COVID-19-related death. The 364 cases include 73 reported from Alappuzha and 28 from Cherthala. Meanwhile, 397 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active caseload in the district now stands at 8,056.
18 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||More EVMs for Edamalakkudy||There will be additional EVMs in each polling booth at Edamalakkudy grama panchayat inside the Munnar forest division. District Collector H. Dinesan said extra EVMs would be provided considering the remoteness of the area. Meanwhile, Chief Electoral Officer, Kerala, Teeka Ram Meena reviewed poll arrangements in the district at a meeting at Kumily on Tuesday. The election commission will provide satellite phones and HAM radio facilities in remote booths in the district, he said.
18 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Ex-servicemen to protest against DMA proposals||The National Ex-Servicemen Coordination Committee has decided to stage a State-wide protest condemning the reforms announced by the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) headed by Chief of Defence Staff Bipin Rawat on Thursday. Nation-wide protest M.B. Gopinath, State president of National Ex-Servicemen Coordination Committee, said the protest was part of the nation-wide protest. He said the DMA had proposed increasing the retirement age of officers and cutting down pension of those seeking Premature Retirement (PMR). The DMA has proposed an increase in retirement age for senior defence service officers, including Colonels, Brigadiers and Major Generals, and for Junior Commissioned Officers (JCO) and Other Ranks (OR) in logistics, technical and medical branches. The new proposal suggests 50% of entitled pension for 20-25 years of service, 60% of entitled pension for 26-30 years of service, 75% of entitled pension for 31-35 years of service, and full pension for service of 35 years and above. There will be no change of pension entitlements of battle casualties. However, the ex-servicemen committee, protesting against the proposals, has demanded One Rank One Pension equalisation and hassle-free ECHS (Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme). They have also said that salary and pension of soldiers and ex-servicemen should not be reduced and that the rehabilitation of ex-servicemen should be ensured.
18 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||MLA’s secretary told to appear before police||The Kasaragod district and sessions court has directed Pradeep Kumar, office secretary of K.B. Ganesh Kumar, MLA, to appear before the investigating officer of the Bekal police station on November 19 in connection with a case registered for threatening and intimidating an approver in the woman actor assault case. The court directive came on an anticipatory bail plea filed by Mr. Pradeep Kumar. The court orally directed that no arrest be made in the case. The Bekal police had earlier issued a notice to him to appear at the Bekal station within two days. The police registered a case against Mr. Kumar on a complaint submitted by Vipin Lal, an approver in the actor assault case.
18 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||M.C. Kamaruddin complains of health problems||Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin, who has been arrested in the Fashion Gold jewellery scam, was taken to the Kasaragod General Hospital after he complained of back pain and poor health on Tuesday. Kamaruddin, who is at the Kanhangad sub-jail, was brought to the hospital by 11 a.m. He was taken back to the jail after the doctors confirmed that his health condition was normal.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||30-metre height restriction for multiplex buildings removed||The government has amended the Kerala Municipal Building Rules (KMBR), 2019 fixing the maximum height restriction of multiplex complex buildings at 50 metres against the 30 metres prescribed for assembly category buildings in the National Building Code (NBC). The Local Self-Government Department has issued a clarification to “remove difficulties for implementation of the relevant provisions of the KMBR, 2019 for height restriction in multiplex complex buildings for their general applicability and specific to the case of Central Square Mall in Ernakulam.” The Department of Fire and Rescue Services had denied no-objection certificate to the multiplex at the mall stating that the building under the assembly category was situated above 30 metres in violation of the NBC. As per the amendments to the KMBR, the total built up area of multiplex complexes shall not be less than 12,000 sq.m. and the height of the building shall not exceed 50 metres. The height restriction of 30 metres for buildings under the assembly category in the NBC and subsequent amendments shall not be applicable for buildings under this occupancy group. The restriction of 30 metres maximum for multiplex complex buildings, which is covered under a subcategory of Assembly category in National Building Code, 2016 and subsequent amendments, is not applicable in the State because the specific provision has been inserted in the KMBR, 2019 to provide for height up to 50 metres in suppression of the NBC, 2016. As per amended provisions of the KMBR, 2019 under Rule 25(2)(1), the Fire Department is responsible for deciding the fire and safety standards and norms for the portion of the multiplex complex buildings beyond 30 metres, said an order issued by Bishwanath Sinha, Principal Secretary. The provisions in Rule 5(4)(12) have also been amended to harmonise with provisions under Rule 25(2)(1) of the KMBR to state that the “provisions regarding the height of the buildings as specified in the National Building Code of India 2016 shall not apply to the multiplex complexes.” The Fire Department had pointed out that evacuation of people from assembly buildings above 30-metre height would be difficult in an emergency. Any assembly building above the height of 30 metres cannot be considered as safe from the fire safety point of view, it said.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||In Fort Kochi, the fight is over heritage and environment||When the electoral fight is for dominance in Fort Kochi, the debate about heritage and tourism cannot be far off. It is more so this time with the CPI(M) taking over the corporation ward from the Left Democratic Front (LDF) alliance partner NCP to wrest the United Democratic Front (UDF) stronghold by fielding its veteran leader Stephen Robert, who many consider as the face of the fights for the conservation of heritage and environment. Sustainable model In keeping with his reputation, the 55-year-old serving local committee secretary of the party, also a member of the Fort Kochi Heritage Society and the secretary of the Cochin Carnival Society, has turned the slogan sustainable development of Fort Kochi, preserving its heritage and environment as the cornerstone of his campaign. “Fort Kochi was one of the earliest European settlements in the country and a long-term plan should be drawn up befitting that heritage. Domestic and foreign tourists should be able to explore the place on their own with little hiccups,” said Mr. Robert who takes pride in batting for environment in the 80s when it had not the same acceptance as it has now. He envisions a holistic development of the division, which he felt successive councillors had overlooked, reducing their work merely to drainage and street lights. Twin objectives Not to be left behind, his UDF rival Antony Kureethara moans over mindless development at the cost of heritage and calls for coordinated efforts by Central and State governments and the civic body for its preservation. He cited how wooden Chinese net structures were being increasingly replaced by iron structures, stripping them of their heritage quotient. “A catch-and-cook concept should be developed around Chinese nets in Fort Kochi that will help attain the twin objectives of preservation of heritage and promotion of tourism. The iconic Bastion Bungalow is yet to be opened to the public despite many inaugurations, and the historic old parade ground should also be revived,” Mr. Kureethara said. Waste management For BJP candidate Sailesh Kumar, turning Fort Kochi into an ecologically model division by promoting waste management at source remains the primary objective. “The beach, which was the cynosure of Fort Kochi, has become an eyesore and should be cleaned up on a priority basis to woo tourists,” he said. Mr. Kumar, however, was candid enough to admit that he would rather learn more about heritage before making any hollow claim.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Old is gold for this collector of antique vessels, agricultural implements||P.V. Arjunankutty in Vettikkal, near Mulanthuruthy, is an avid collector of antiques, mostly agricultural implements, vessels, jars and other household equipment and utensils. The array of collection reflects his range of activities. He is an active vegetable farmer, who runs a small poultry, engaged in dairying and aquaculture. In fact, he said, he had been an enthusiastic angler and had a collection of fishing gear ranging from old fish traps to different types of nets. Some of the items in his collection were about 150 years old, he said, and they reflected the evolution of implements and utensils over the years. The vessels have different shapes and vary in size from a small earthen cup to large jars. They are made of mud, wood, brass and iron. The collection had grown over the past 48 years, he said as he pointed out that while some people had contributed some of the items, he had also spent money on his own to buy some of the antiques in the collection. He is a daily wage labourer but has helped dozens of schools in the area set up vegetable gardens. Besides, a large number of students come to his house to take a look at the collection. However, the COVID-19 lockdown had brought the stream of visitors to a temporary stop now, he said. He has also held regular exhibitions of agricultural implements in the past and takes part in the ‘Njattuvela’ markets that used to be organised in and around Mulanthuruthy before the lockdown came into effect.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Local, wider issues on millennials’ mind||For young, first-time voters, the politics that plays out beyond the confines of a local body as well as their access to facilities within a ward or division will determine how they vote. Abhinov Shyju, a 19-year-old resident of Kaloor who will vote for the first time this year, says that among the college-going crowd, national issues are discussed more heatedly than localised problems, and it is these wider issues that would influence their political opinion. “What we talk about is not the problem of water supply or waste disposal in a division, but larger questions like the safety of women,” says the second-year student of Maharaja’s College. But that doesn’t mean that he is not interested in politics at the local level. “The performance of the Kochi Corporation in the past ten years has been dismal. We eulogise Kochi as the economic capital. But it is becoming a concrete jungle that is not properly planned. The vote will be for a developmental agenda, and for a local government that will fulfil its promises,” he said. Tribespeople’s woes Abhirami P.C., a member of the Ulladan tribe from Poonjar, who is doing Masters of Social Work at the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady, and hopes to vote in the upcoming elections says: “Without paying heed to the needs of the SC/ST communities, everybody else is prioritised. In backward tribal communities, panchayat members are usually able to do little to better the lives of people there. Even if seats are reserved for SC/ST candidates, the person who wins will only be able to serve the party agenda. Even if he raises the community’s issues, he might not be able to take it forward,” Abhirami said. Oorukootams or tribal panchayat meetings were not held frequently and candidates are mostly unaware of the issues in the ward, making it difficult to choose a candidate, she says. Persistent neglect of the issues of the SC/ST community means that she will not vote for any party that supports reservation on the basis economic status, she says. Delgia George, a 20-year-old from Vaduthala, who is student of English Literature at the Government College, Thripunithura, says: “What we need locally and how councillors have performed in the division is more important than larger politics. There is a need for more libraries, if not in each division, at least a single well-equipped one for a few divisions together,” she said. But with the outgoing councillor no longer standing from the same division, she is confused about how a choice will be made. At the panchayat level, expectations are limited to hoping that they keep their word and implement promises made in the manifesto, said Cheranalloor resident Aparna Roy, who is a student of St. Teresa’s College. Street lights and poor management of waste that leaves garbage strewn around the roads are issues that have not been addressed, she says. Nivin K. G., a 21-year-old from Pachalam who was part of the Students’ Federation of India (SFI) in college, says that he would vote purely on the basis of the candidate’s party. Abhinav, however, says that he will make up his mind on his own irrespective of the party loyalties of his family members. “Candidates chosen to represent the youth are people who might have been connected to parties for generations, and are only looking to take the party’s baton forward,” Abhirami said.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Greens to protest against Anakkayam hydel project||Scores of green collectives and environmental organisations will join hands on Wednesday for a protest at numerous places in the State against the planned felling of over 1,800 large trees in Vazhachal forests near Athirappilly for a proposed small hydro-electric project by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) at Anakkayam. In the light of the KSEB sanction for cutting 1,897 big trees in the area for the project, which envisages generation of 7.5 MW power using tailwater from the Sholayar hydel project, greens led by the Chalakkudy River Protection Forum have voiced their protest, saying the project not only violated the rights of the communities dependent on this forest patch for livelihood but would also accelerate the descend of the KSEB into financial dire straits. Not viable According to the River Protection Forum, the project, which it says is not economically viable, was granted the go-ahead without obtaining permission from the tribal communities which enjoy inviolable community forest rights in the area. “The plan is to fell about 2,000 large trees and also create a 5.617-km-long tunnel within the forest for the project. But this area is ecologically fragile, as we saw in 2018 when a massive landslide followed by minor landslips occurred in the proposed project site,” the Chalakkudy River Protection Forum said in a communication.
18 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC reserves verdict on Chennithala plea||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on a public interest litigation filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala challenging the order of the Director, Kerala State Audit Department, directing all heads of local bodies to stop auditing of their accounts for the financial year 2019-20. When the petition came up for hearing, the government submitted that the allegation that the audit was stopped to cover up the alleged corruption in a LIFE Mission project before the local body elections was not true. The audit of rural local bodies was only temporarily halted. Central platform The government pointed out that the Union Ministry of Panchayati Raj (MoPR), as part of the 15th Finance Commission’s conditions for release of grant to local bodies, had instructed the government to conduct audit of 20% local bodies (rural) in the central digital platform called AUDIT ONLINE, which is integrated to the Central Ministry’s accounting software for local bodies known as PRIASoft. Data needed Certain district audit offices had completed the audit of rural local bodies for the year 2018-19 and initiated the audit of 2019-20 in the State Audit Department’s AIMS, without the required data for uploading in the central platform. It was under these circumstances that the Director was forced to temporarily halt the commencement of the 2019-20 audit until further clearance from the government.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Now, carry your cycle with you on metro||The city’s bicycle lovers can take heart. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) will now permit commuters to carry their cycles on the metro train. A communication said that a decision to this effect was taken in the wake of more people taking to use of cycles in the city. There will not be any charge for carrying cycles on the train. Initially, Kochi metro will permit boarding and alighting with cycles at six stations, namely Changampuzha Park Metro Station, Palarivattom, Town Hall, Ernakulam South, Maharaja’s College and Elamkulam metro stations. It will be extended to other stations based on passenger turnout and demand. “We have permitted cycles inside the metro to promote end-to-end connectivity with non-motorised mode of transport and also to encourage a healthy lifestyle. People are aware of the importance of fitness and exercise. This will encourage people to use cycles for their daily commute,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director of the train service. Cyclists can use elevators at the station and keep their cycles at either end of the train. Meanwhile, feeder service for the metro train will now be available between the collectorate at Kakkanad and Kalamassery metro station. The shuttle service will start from Kalamassery Metro Station at 9.30 a.m. and from Kakkanad at 5 p.m.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||613 fresh cases, 588 recoveries in district||Ernakulam recorded 613 new cases of COVID-19 and 588 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the total active caseload to 9,583. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Thrikkakara, Fort Kochi, Chittattukara, Thripunithura, Kalamassery and Cheranalloor. Fifteen health workers have tested positive and the source of infection of 145 people remains unknown. Till Monday, the district had registered 190 deaths from the disease. For the week from November 8 to 14, the test positivity rate in Ernakulam stood at 11.2%, down from 12.6% in the first week of November. For testing, 6,112 samples were sent on Tuesday. A total of 7,291 people are recovering at home and 29,654 people remain in quarantine.
18 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSEB opens recharging facility for e-vehicles||Taking ahead the cause of e-mobility, the KSEB has readied a recharging facility for e-vehicles near the Palarivattom metro station, where motorists can opt for an array of options. Fast charging The facility, readied as a pilot project, can be utilised free of cost for three months. Fast charging can be done in which a vehicle can be fully recharged in 40 minutes.  e-cars in operation The initiative has not been officially inaugurated, since the code of conduct of local body polls took effect recently, official sources said. The KSEB has already been operating six e-cars provided by Mahindra over three years ago. “Three of them operate in Kochi. They operate 140 km on a full recharge,” said James David, chief engineer of the agency. “We also readied fast-charging points for KSRTC in Thiruvananthapuram, Kayankulam, Harippad, Ernakulam, Aluva, and Thrissur depots,” he said. The Centre has fixed 2030 as the deadline for all public transport vehicles to shift to electric mode, while Kerala has fixed 2025 as the target to achieve this.
18 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Plea against Aanakkayam hydel project||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday adjourned to November 27 the hearing on a writ petition seeking to restrain the government and the KSEB from proceeding with the implementation of the Aanakkayam hydroelectric project without securing the recommendation of the nine grama sabhas — the joint title holders of the Community Forest Rights (CFR) under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights Act). The petition was filed by the Vazhachal Kadar Prakrutha Gotra Grama Sabha, Thrissur, and another organisation. They said the KSEB proposed to construct the project with an installed capacity of 7.5 MW across the Chalakudy river.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Eloor burglary: iron rod used for break-in found||A day after a major burglary in an Eloor-based jewellery was detected, the police team probing the case recovered an iron rod purportedly used to break into the shop, which was found abandoned in a nearby bush on Tuesday morning. The police estimated that nearly 3 kg of gold ornaments and around 25 kilograms of silver ornaments are missing. “Our inference is that someone familiar with the structural details of the building have pulled it off,” said K. Laljy, Assistant Commissioner, Ernakulam. The burglars seemed to have drilled a hole in the back wall of the shop operating out of a rented room in a FACT shopping complex at Eloor. A single shop was partitioned into two with the owner running a salon connected to the jewellery. The burglary is suspected to have taken place anytime between 7 p.m. on Saturday.
18 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KAS candidates move tribunal||Some candidates who appeared for the preliminary examination for the Kerala Administrative Service (KAS) filed a plea before the Kerala Administrative Tribunal on Tuesday alleging serious irregularities in the selection process to the highest civil post under the State services.
18 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||New group pledged to good governance||In the 2015 local body elections, Kizhakkambalam grama panchayat in Ernakulam district sprang a surprise by choosing Twenty20, a charity outfit floated by a corporate company, over all political parties. And taking a cue from Kizhakkambalam, a group of dissidents have formed Twenty25, a new non-political collective in Poruvazhy grama panchayat in Kollam. “All political parties have vested interests and Twenty25 is basically a collective with a single objective — sustainable and comprehensive development. A majority of the residents are aware of the Kizhakkambalam model and the public response has been very positive even from the initial rounds,” says M. Suresh, one of the founders and executive secretary of Twenty25. At present, four candidates of the Twenty25 have submitted nominations and the collective plans to field candidates in all 18 wards. Mr. Suresh says the decision was taken after seeing the resentment and indignation of the residents over the non-performance of previous councils. “We have seen the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (LDF) alternating in power for decades, but there is no commendable feat when it comes to the overall development of the panchayat. Apart from spending the Plan fund on routine affairs, they have failed to bring in any change. Nine wards in the panchayat have been facing severe drinking water shortage for years and both the fronts could not address this issue so far.”  Core group The LDF has nine, BJP has four, and Social Democratic Party of India has two seats in the outgoing 18-member panchayat. Others include two Independent candidates and one from the Congress.  While the core group of Twenty25 included Communist Party of India (Marxist) dissidents who distanced themselves from the party over the years, now it has representation from ex-activists belonging to all fronts along with persons who are not affiliated to any political outfits. “I was an active member of the CPI(M) and vice president of the panchayat in 2005-10, but I had to sever all ties with the party nearly a decade ago owing to ideological differences. Initially, we were a group of ten, all former members of the CPI(M) who had left the party to mark our protest against its stands on various occasions. But after we started collecting opinion of the public, indignant members of the UDF and the Bharatiya Janata Party also joined us. Since our collective challenges all other political outfits, our candidates will not have allegiance to any party,” he says. Meanwhile, the LDF leadership feels the collective can pose no serious threat to the front and it will be impossible to replicate a Kizhakkambalam in Kollam. “This is just a childish manoeuvre of certain people to settle some personal scores. The panchayat has seen large-scale development during the past five years and the governance has been efficient and corruption-free. Voters are aware of this and they will completely neglect this new outfit,” says Bineesh, outgoing vice president of the panchayat.
18 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 682 new cases||The district reported 682 new cases of COVID-19, two deaths, and 622 recoveries on Tuesday. Among the patients are 674 contact cases, three non-resident Keralites, two health workers, and three cases with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 60-year-old Karoorkadavu resident and 45-year-old Klappana resident were owing to COVID-19. Cases with no known source include a 74-year-old Neendakara resident, 70-year-old Sasthamcotta resident, and 54-year-old Thazhava resident. The health workers who contracted the disease are from Kulasekharapuram and Mayyanad. The district currently has 19,279 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,13,050. While 1,609 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 1,031,34 primary and 7,959 secondary contacts of the positive cases. The number of active cases at present is 4,802.
18 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Arippa protest on Nov. 19||The Adivasi Dalit Munnetta Samithi (ADMS) will take out a Collectorate march and stage a dharna on November 19 to mark its protest against government apathy towards resolving the Arippa land struggle. The eight-year-old struggle has protesters from seven districts, including Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki, and Kannur. “Following the conciliatory meeting held in 2018, officials were instructed to visit the site and collect the data of families who were part of the protest. All District Collectors were directed to verify the caste and assets of those residing in protest site and submit the report within two weeks. We were told that the final list of beneficiaries will be prepared in three months and the Kollam Collector was given the charge of coordinating the activities. Even after two years, they have not even completed the survey,” said Sreeraman Koyyon, president of ADMS, at a press meet here on Tuesday. Neglect alleged The protesters also alleged that they were neglected by the government during the pandemic and most of the families were denied free ration kits. “We were left there to starve and it was some voluntary organisations and individuals who provided us food,” he said. According to the protesters, they were once again ignored when they approached the Collector and the panchayat authorities demanding a provision for online classes. “We have 36 students residing in the protest site. Later, we had to arrange a television set and take temporary power connection from the house of a resident,” they said. N.K. Premachandran, MP, will inaugurate the march.
18 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vacant seats for DCA course||IHRD Model Polytechnic College, Karunagapally, has invited applications for the vacant seats in Diploma in Computer Application (DCA) course starting December. The qualification required is Plus Two/pre-degree and applicants from the SC/ST and OBC categories are eligible for fee concession. The last date for submitting applications is November 20. Contact 9447488348 or 0476 2623597 for details.
18 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||MLA releases book by Surendran Kadakkod||M. Mukesh, MLA, released Surendran Kadakkod’s Manushyar Oru Kulam by handing over a copy to poet Kureepuzha Sreekumar the other day. Purogamana Kala Sahitya Sangham South region secretary D. Suresh Kumar presided over the function. C. Unnikrishnan introduced the book. Kerala Dalit Federation (KDF) State president P. Ramabhadran, Vasanthakumar Sambasivan, Vellimon Nelson, and All India Lawyers Union district secretary K.P. Sajinath spoke on the occasion.
18 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||SEC freezes ‘two leaves’ symbol of KC(M)||Amid the raging dispute between the two factions of the Kerala Congress (M) over the party symbol, the Kerala State Election Commission (SEC) has frozen the ‘two leaves’ symbol ahead of the local body elections. In a statement here on Tuesday, State Election Commissioner V.Bhaskaran said the action was initiated in view of the claims raised by both factions over the party symbol. The decision, however, would be subject to the orders from the High Court of Kerala on the cases pending over the issue. “As demanded by them, the KC(M) factions led by P.J. Joseph and Jose K. Mani have been allotted ‘chenda’ (drum) and ‘table fan’ as their respective elections symbols,” read a commission statement. Two sets of papers Candidates from both factions have been directed to submit two sets of nomination papers, with one having two leaves and other having the SEC allotted symbol. If the court issues an order before the deadline for withdrawing the nominations, candidates can withdraw one nomination. Commenting on the decision, the Mani group appeared optimistic that they would get the two leaves sumbol before the deadline to withdraw the papers. “Arguments on a petition filed by P.J. Joseph against the SEC’s order in the High Court have been completed and the court has posted the case for final order. We hope that the court will pronounce an order in favour of us . The SEC’s order is only an interim arrangement as the order itself stated that the decision on symbols will be subjected to the High Court’s order,” said Mr. Mani. The Joseph faction expressed hope that court order would be in favour of it. “The politically immaturity of Mr. Mani has caused the KC(M) to split vertically and lose its original election symbol. While approaching the voters with the symbol allotted by the SEC this time, the legal fight for the two leaves, which rightfully belonged to us, will continue,” said Mons Joseph, MLA and leader of the Joseph group. Genesis of dispute The dispute over the official symbol between the two factions, which takes its origin from the byelection in Pala in September last year, has been pending before the High Court since September. The byelection, necessitated by the death of Pala legislator and KC(M) chairman K.M. Mani, had caused a split in the party along factional lines led by Jose K. Mani and P.J. Joseph.
18 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam caseload up by 429 cases||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Kottayam recorded a sharp jump with 429 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. All but two contracted the virus through local contact. With 501 recoveries, the district has 4,039 active cases.  27 cases at Thiruvalla As many as 202 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 174 contracted the virus through local contact. Thiruvalla municipality reported 27 cases, followed by Pallickal panchayat with 18 cases. With 224 recoveries, the district has 1,721 active cases.
18 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Voters in quarrying-affected villages hope for change||The residents of Kunduthodu region in Kavilumpara grama panchayat in the district are living in a state of perpetual fear. When it rains, they fear that the nearby hillock may disappear in a landslip, wiping away all remnants of human life in their village. It is a granite quarry in the nearby Vattippana region that has been giving them nightmares, and the residents have been in protest mode for years now. However, they hope to make a difference through their votes in the forthcoming local body polls. “It is clear that the public here will not support anyone who speaks in favour of quarrying. Hence, every candidate maintains a clear stand against it,” said Joseph Kanhirathinkal, a former member of the Kavilumpara grama panchayat, who has been in the forefront of the protests. “What we need is freedom from this state of fear that we have been living in for the past decade,” he added. Like Kavilumpara, a number of other grama panchayats in Kozhikode located within the folds of the Western Ghats face the same plight. The local committees against quarrying have gained enough strength to influence public opinion in the hilly region. However, there is fear that their strength remains incomparable to the power of influential quarry owners. “We have six quarries in our panchayat. The sound from the quarries is unbearable and so is the dust. Trucks carrying granite loads from the quarries have destroyed our roads. But the public is scared to speak out,” said Gracy Keelath, a member of Koodaranhi grama panchayat, one of the worst-affected local bodies in the district. “The power of the quarry mafia is such that only those candidates who support them can win the local body polls,” said William Paulose, an environmental activist from Koodaranhi. “Even people who are directly affected by the quarries are forced to vote for those candidates who support the quarries,” he added. Ever since a massive landslip in 2018, the possibility of more landslips haunts those living in the highlands. There are other concerns too. “The rate of lung cancer is very high in this belt. There are no fishes in our streams as they are all polluted by quarry dust and chemicals,” said Mr. Paulose. “Our only hope is that all politicians and officials cannot be corrupt. There may be a ray of hope if a good civic body comes to power,” he added.
18 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active caseload below 8,000-mark in Kozhikode||Kozhikode recorded 644 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, of which 614 were cases of local transmission. Of the new patients, six each had returned from abroad and other States. In 18 cases, the source of infection could not be traced. Eleven health workers have also been infected. With 831 patients recovering from the disease, there are 7,969 active cases in the district and 26,063 people under observation. Poll campaign District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has called for strict adherence to the COVID protocol during the poll campaign in the district. He said not more than five people should be part of campaign groups visiting houses and urged party workers to make better use of social media rather than distributing brochures. He said rallies and crowds should be avoided and restrictions should be kept in mind while organising gatherings. Honouring candidates using garlands and bouquets have also been banned. In Wayanad A total of 97 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 923. Of the new cases, 90 patients, including two health workers, were infected through local contact and seven persons came from other States. As many as 116 people recovered from COVID-19 on the day.
18 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fronts yet to complete nominations||With just one more day left to file nominations for the local body polls, the three fronts are yet to complete their list of candidates to Kozhikode Corporation Council. The NDA comprising the BJP and BDJS have announced 73 candidates to the 75-member council. The NDA announced its candidates in three phases. While BJP is contesting in 68 seats, five seats have been awarded to BDJS. The LDF had come up with a list of 68 candidates. While CPI(M) will contest in 57 seats, five seats each have been given to the LJD and CPI while the NCP gets 3 seats and the INL two. A Congress (S) supported independent candidate will be fielded in one of the wards. The UDF has announced its candidates for 71 seats in two phases. The Congress is contesting in 50 wards while the IUML will contest in 19 wards. While the front decided not to support the RMP candidate Mohammed Shuhaib in the Valiyangadi ward, sharing seats with JD(U) has been the sore spot.
18 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Karat Faisal not to contest election||Lacking endorsement from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) leadership, Karat Faisal, who was the Left Democratic Front-backed Independent councillor in the Koduvally municipality, has backed out from contesting the local body elections this time. The 44-year-old was among those who were quizzed by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, which reportedly triggered disputes within the LDF over open endorsement of his candidature.
18 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man injured in attack||A 45-year-old man who sustained serious stab injuries was admitted to a private hospital in the city on Tuesday. The police said Siyaulhaq, a resident of Kodiyathur, was attacked by a gang engaged in some financial deals with him. The incident took place on the Mukkom-Koyilandy State highway.
18 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Haj panel seeks Arabic varsity||The State Haj Committee has demanded that the government set up an Arabic university in the name of Shaikh Zainuddin Makhdoom of Ponnani, a leading figure in Kerala’s history. The Haj committee pointed out that Kerala, in the 15th and 16th centuries, had witnessed immense contributions from the Shaikh Makhdoom family of Ponnani. Zainuddin Makhdoom was considered the first historian of Kerala, it said. Haj committee chairman C. Mohammed Faizi presided over a meeting held on Tuesday.
18 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Scripting poll history for the Cholanaikars||Twenty-one-year-old Sudheesh C. from a remote tribal hamlet in the forests of Nilambur is set to create an electoral history in Kerala. He is the first member of the primitive Cholanaikar tribe to contest an election in the State. Mr. Sudheesh is the Left Democratic Front’s candidate for the Nilambur block panchayat from the Vazhikkadavu division. He is also one of the youngest candidates in the fray. Remote colony Although he passed the Plus Two examination, he still lives in the Alakkal colony, a hamlet deep inside the forest. It takes 9 km from Vazhikkadavu and 18 km from Edakkara to reach Alakkal, one of the remotest colonies in the elephant-infested region of the Nilambur forests. Mr. Sudheesh said his grandparents used to live in caves. The Cholanaikars of Nilambur used to live in caves until a few decades ago, and they remained the most backward among the tribes. They continue to enjoy the primitive status among the tribes. “We chose Mr. Sudheesh with a specific objective of involving the Cholanaikars in our civic development. He can do a lot for the development of his community,” said Suresh Kumar, CPI(M)’s Vazhikkadavu local centre member. According to Mr. Sudheesh, safe transport continues to be one of the biggest challenges for the tribes living in the forests. The floods of 2019 washed away the bridge across the Punnapuzha in the forest, rendering the Alakkal hamlet virtually inaccessible. Safe road priority “We got power supply last year. Now a safe road is a matter of utmost importance for us,” said Mr. Sudheesh. N.C. John, a social worker involved in the uplift of the tribespeople, said Mr. Sudheesh’s candidature was history. “We have been trying hard to uplift the Cholanaikars and Kattunaikars through education. We need to educate at least three or four generations of them to bring them to the mainstream,” said Mr. John.
18 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF to win over 50 seats: Sreekandan||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has geared up for local body elections by making a thorough preparation after taking lessons from the worst defeat it suffered in the last civic elections in 2015. District Congress president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, said here on Tuesday that the UDF was poised to grab anything between 50 and 60 local bodies in Palakkad. Kicking off a special local poll meet-the-press series organised by the Palakkad Press Club, Mr. Sreekandan said unity within the UDF was the biggest plus point this time. “We have learned our lessons from the last elections and made huge progress by making a thorough preparation from enumeration of voters to selection of candidates,” he said. Out of the 95 local bodies, the UDF had got only 20 in the last election. Out of the block panchayats, the UDF had only two, and out of the 30 district panchayat divisions, the UDF had only three. “Brute majority without any opposition has blinded the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Palakkad and they proved to be the worst in corruption. Palakkad has become synonymous with corruption and inefficiency,” Mr. Sreekandan said. According to him, the district panchayat wasted five years without doing anything worthwhile. “Corruption and nepotism became the hallmark of the Palakkad district panchayat in the last five years.” In grama panchayats, he said, the LDF behaved like a bull in a china shop. “Several LDF constituents, including the CPI and the Janata Dal, rebelled at several places because of this bad behaviour of the CPI(M),” he said. Mr. Sreekandan said Palakkad municipality showed the way for the entire State proving how it would be like for any civic body if the BJP came to power. “There was not a single peaceful council meeting. If the BJP comes to power in any local body, it will be like the Palakkad municipality,” he said.
18 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Hefty fee: parents plan legal remedy||A government order informing prospective medical students of the hefty fee structure demanded by the State’s private medical colleges has sent shock and disbelief through the parents and students alike. Parents are planning to seek legal remedy for the impasse caused by the order in the wake of a High Court order. A notification issued by the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) on Monday specified the annual fee demanded by the medical colleges between Rs. 11.5 lakh and Rs. 22 lakh. When Travancore Medical College, Kollam, has asked for Rs. 11 lakh, Malabar MC, Kozhikode, asked for Rs. 12.37 lakh, Sreegokulam MC, Thiruvananthapuram, Rs. 12.65 lakh, PKDas MC, Palakkad, Rs. 22 lakh, Karuna MC, Palakkad, Rs. 19.5 lakh, Mount Zion MC, Pathanamthitta, Rs. 15 lakh, Al Azhar MC, Thodupuzha, Rs. 15.41 lakh, KMCT MC, Kozhikode, Rs. 12 lakh, DM MIMS MC, Wayanad, Rs. 15 lakh, and Believers Church MC, Thiruvalla, Rs. 11.5 lakh. HC order The CEE issued the notification following the High Court order, which strongly criticised the Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee. “It has virtually shattered my dreams of studying MBBS. I was struggling to raise the fee of Rs. 6.5 lakh when the authorities have given such a blow out of the blue,” said N.P. Abhiram from Kumarakom, whose rank 3,400 is sure to secure him an MBBS seat. He said he would not be able to join if the fee is hiked so steeply. Habeeb Rahman, a parent from MES Medical College, Perinthalmanna, said that he would not be able to continue his child’s education if the fee is increased so exorbitantly. Meanwhile, many parents refusing to go on record said the fee panel had deliberately left loopholes for the court to criticise and make incisive interventions. “There’s an understanding between the panel and private managements,” they chorused. M.S. Jaleel of Career Guru said he suspected that it was a move to chuck out many qualified students who are financially weak. “We have strong doubts. A similar situation happened in 2016,” he said. Allotment The CEE will provide another opportunity for MBBS, BDS, Agriculture, Veterinary, Forestry and Fisheries course aspirants to register for the first phase of allotments for admissions during the 2020-21 academic year. While the CEE had earlier provided time to submit options from November 11 to 15, the candidates will be able to exercise the facility from November 18 at 1 p.m. to November 19 at 12 p.m. The first allotment lists will be published on November 20.
18 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Govt. may raise daily limit of pilgrims to Sabarimala||Taking into consideration the smooth start to the annual pilgrimage season at Sabarimala, authorities may soon approve an upward revision in the daily number of pilgrims allowed to the Ayyappa temple. Official sources said the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) had forwarded a recommendation to this effect to the government. A final decision, expected within a couple of weeks, would have to come as a collective decision of the agencies involved. Sagging TDB finances In view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation, the daily number of pilgrims to the temple has been fixed at 1,000 on weekdays and 2,000 on holidays. The recommendation to raise the daily limit also stems from the sagging finances of the TDB, which has been in a crisis following the locking down of temples.  “Right from the testing centres at Nilackal to the sanitisation system at the Sannidhanam, elaborate arrangements are in place to prevent a potential surge in COVID-19,” pointed out an official. The Sabarimala temple used to receive between 80,000 to a lakh pilgrims a day during the season and it clocked a revenue of Rs. 263 crore during the last pilgrim season alone. But with the restrictions in place, traders have refused to participate in the tendering of shops while the revenue through sale of offerings and collection boxes too is slated to record a sharp drop this time. Safety of pilgrims Confirming the proposal to raise the number of pilgrims, TDB president N. Vasu said the decision of the Health and Police departments was crucial. “We definitely expect an increase in the daily ceiling but for the time being, the safety of pilgrims is our priority,” he said. Regarding the tendering of shops, Mr. Vasu said most of the stalls had been auctioned out, though at a much lesser price. “We had no other option as it is the responsibility of the TDB to ensure necessary facilities, including the provision of food. These shops will be in full swing within the next couple of days,” he added.
18 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala prasadam through post||The Department of Posts has begun home delivery of Sabarimala prasadam. As many as 1,000 packets were delivered through the Speed Post on November 16, the first day of the two-month pilgrim season, said V.S. Rajendraprasad, executive officer, TDB.
18 November 2020||S.R. PraveenTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Smaller parties, rebels may play spoilsport||A look at the victory margins in the city Corporation in the 2015 local body elections throw up an interesting picture. Out of the total 100 wards, the victory margin was fewer than 100 votes in as many as 16 wards, with three wards having single-digit margins. In 14 wards, the victory margin was between 100 and 200 votes. In some of these wards, the presence of smaller parties or rebel candidates played spoilsport with the plans of the three major fronts, with the few hundred votes polled by them becoming the deciding factor in the final result, even though these parties might never reach anywhere close to victory. For instance, in Pattom, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate won by a mere 23 votes, while the United Democratic Front (UDF) rebel polled close to a 100 votes. This time too, the major fronts are wary of the presence of such dampeners even in their ‘sure’ seats. The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which had contested in 10 wards last time without much success, is contesting in 21 wards this time around, with a special focus on coastal wards. In coastal wards “Our main alliance is with the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). We are also in talks with the district committees of the Welfare Party of India and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) as well as with other parties. We are having candidates in coastal wards, including Beemapally East, Puthenpally, Vallakadavu and Ambalathara. We were able to come second in one ward in the previous polls. Our hope is that our interventions in issues in coastal areas, especially during the pandemic, will help us,” said Siyad Kandala, district president of the SDPI. Other formations The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a party floated by a collective of capital-based social media groups, professional organisations, real-estate developers’ collectives, traders organisations and residents’ associations raising a ‘pro-development’ slogan, has also announced candidates for 12 wards, with more in the offing. Added to this mix are the aggrieved members of the major parties contesting as rebels. While the UDF faces the prospect of having the most number of rebels, the Left Democratic Fronts and the BJP too are wary of rebels spoiling their plans in some wards.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||391 cases, 561 recoveries in district||The district recorded 391 COVID-19 cases and 561 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases to 6,056. As many as 4,534 samples were tested in 24 hours. Barring two imported cases, all other cases have been attributed to local transmission of the infection. The source of 99 of these cases is yet to be ascertained. Four health-care workers are also among those affected. The COVID-19 death toll in Thiruvananthapuram crossed 500 with five more recent deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased include an 85-year-old man who hailed from Kottappuram, an 83-year-old man from Sasthamangalam, a 78-year-old from Anayara, a 55-year- old from Kallattumukku and a 43-year-old woman from Nemom. The pandemic has claimed 504 lives in the district so far. The district administration placed 1,560 persons under quarantine on the day, taking the number of those being monitored in houses to 24,991 and various institutions to 146.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate holds steady||Kerala registered 5,792 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday when 56,157 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 5,33,500 cases. Test positivity rate in the State has remained more or less steady at 10.3% For the 10th consecutive day, the State recorded more recoveries than new cases on Tuesday, with 6,620 patients leaving hospitals. The good recovery rate has helped the State stabilise its active case pool at 70,070 cases. The number of active cases in the State, which looked like it would cross the one lakh mark, had peaked at 97,417 cases on October 24 and has since then been going down steadily. So far, 4,61,394 persons in the State have recovered from the disease. Death toll On Tuesday, the Health Department added another 27 deaths to the official list of COVID deaths, taking the cumulative toll of the State to 1,915. Malappuram accounted for six deaths, Thiruvananthapuram five, Kozhikode four, Thrissur three, Kollam and Ernakulam two each while Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad, and Kottayam and Alappuzha one each. According to official figures, 894 COVID-19 patients in the State are critically ill and being treated in intensive care units (ICUs) in various hospitals, with 220 requiring ventilator support. Local transmission Of the 5,792 new cases reported on Tuesday, 5,688 cases are locally acquired infections, with the epidemiological link remaining untraced in 639 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 64. Among districts, Malappuram reported 776 cases, Kollam 682, Thrissur 667, Kozhikode 644, Ernakulam 613, Kottayam 429, Thiruvananthapuram 391, Palakkad 380, Alappuzha 364, Kannur 335, Pathanamthitta 202, Idukki 116, Wayanad 97, and Kasaragod 96 cases. The active case pool has declined dramatically in most districts and none of the districts have over 10,000 active cases now. Thiruvananthapuramt which had the highest number of active cases at one point with over 12,000 patients on treatment at a time now has only 6,056 patients. Ernakulam now tops the districts with 9,581 active cases. Kozhikode has 8,114 cases, Thrissur 8,034 and Alapuzha 7,658. Wayanad is the lone district in the State which has fewer than 1,000 active cases at 880.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bid to thwart State’s growth: Baby||CPI(M) Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby has accused the Centre of using Central agencies and constitutional bodies, including the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India, to impede the State’s development. He was inaugurating a convention of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidates in the city Corporation here on Tuesday. Mr. Baby alleged that the recent spate of controversies that dogged the State was part of a Sangh Parivar-orchestrated ploy to unseat the LDF government that continued to enjoy public confidence even during the fag end of its rule in Kerala. Hope of secular forces “The State remained one of the very few which instilled strength to secular forces in the country and continued to thwart any bid to transform the country into a theocracy. The BJP’s failure to gain traction in the State has prompted them to curtail our progress at any cost,” he said. He said the current controversy surrounding the masala bonds issued by Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) should be viewed in the same light as the other instances allegedly made by the Central government to prevent the State from garnering resources through various means. He urged the LDF to highlight the “unparalleled” achievements of the Corporation in the past five years. Over 91,000 people benefited through various welfare schemes. This is around 34,000 more than those who benefited during the previous term that coincided with the United Democratic Front (UDF) rule in the State. All of the 100 candidates of the LDF for the Corporation polls were introduced during the programme.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training for stakeholders in POCSO cases stressed||Training for those connected with implementation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, including doctors and judges, to provide justice to survivors of sexual abuse without delay was among the demands that arose at a webinar organised by the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights for POCSO officials in Kasaragod and Kannur on Tuesday. Kasaragod additional district judge and POCSO Special Judge, R.L. Baiju, who inaugurated the webinar, said that proper steps for training should be spearheaded by the commission. Training as per the guidelines recently issued by the High Court of Kerala was necessary to ensure punishment for the guilty and collective responsibility of heads of various wings. A single-window mechanism through which the services of doctor, psychologist, police, lawyer, and prosecutor were available should be in place in all districts, he said. Change in the behaviour and mental health of the survivors should be taken into account during evidence collection, the judge said. Training to record as evidence survivors’ failure to communicate or reluctance to go to school for weeks or other such minute details for presenting in court was imperative, he said.  Change in the behaviour and mental health of the survivors should be taken into account during evidence collection R.L. Baiju POCSO Special Judge
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||INL replaces Siraj||The Indian National League (INL) bowed to the pressure from the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] and replaced Poonthura Siraj, who was suggested as the candidate for the Manikyavilakam ward, on Tuesday. Mr. Siraj’s candidature has been a subject of much consternation within the Left Democratic Front (LDF) with the INL resolving, albeit briefly, to go ahead with its decision in the face of opposition by the CPI(M) that refused to associate with the former vice president of the Abdul Nasser Maudany-founded People Democratic Party (PDP) While the INL leadership considered boycotting the polls, they decided against taking such a drastic step at its district committee meeting on the day. Party district president J. Thamrook said Mr. Siraj offered to step aside to prevent the party from surrendering its sitting seat. Priya Biju of the INL had won from Manikyavilakom with a majority of over 450 votes in 2015. It has now fielded S.M. Basheer who quit the Congress to join the INL earlier on the day. He had unsuccessfully contested from Manikyavilakom in 2010. Mr. Basheer was apparently considered by the Congress for the ward. The decision to relent to the CPI(M)’s demand has not gone down well with a section of the INL leaders. District treasurer A.L. Kasim accused the CPI(M) of ignoring political propriety.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Soumitra Revisited, a tribute to the legendary actor||The Films Division is paying tributes to Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee who passed away on Sunday by screening his biopic Soumitra Revisited along with a short film Master’s film , both directed by Sandip Roy.  Soumitra Revisited travels through the life and works of the multi-faceted cultural figure — a film, theatre and television actor, poet, painter, editor and an avid lover of sports who was rightly referred to as the Renaissance Man of Bengali cinema. Websites The documentaries will be streamed on www.filmsdivision.org/ at the link Documentary of the Week and https://www.youtube.com/user/FilmsDivision from November 18 for 24 hours. Chatterjee is well known for his collaboration with Satyajit Ray with whom he did 14 films, starting with his debut film, Apur sansar . Born in 1935, he was initiated into films through Bengali theatre and became a legend during his lifetime, essaying memorable roles, not only in Ray’s films, but also in films directed by veteran filmmakers Mrinal Sen, Tapan Sinha, Goutam Ghose, Aparna Sen, Rituparno Ghosh, Tarun Majumdar and others.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||District to have 3,281 polling booths||As many as 3,281 polling stations will be set up in the district for the upcoming local body elections. Strict arrangements and restrictions will be in place in the polling booths and their surroundings in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, District Collector Navjot Khosa has said. Of the total polling stations in the district, 2,467 are in the three-tier panchayats. Voting for grama, block, and district panchayat wards will be held in these booths. Multi-post electronic voting machines (EVMs), comprising one control unit and three ballot units, will be used there.  Voting in the 100 wards of the city Corporation will be held across 653 polling booths. As many as 161 booths will also be arranged for voting in 147 wards in four municipalities. Disinfection All polling booths will be completely disinfected prior to the polling day. Directions have been given for disinfecting polling material distribution and collection centres. Four officials will be deployed in each booth for polling procedures. An attender and a policeman/woman will also be posted. Water and soap will be provided outside polling stations and sanitisers at the stations. Markings will be made in front of polling stations so that voters can queue up following physical distancing.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Meet of model code monitoring cell today||The first meeting of the monitoring cell set up to address complaints and clear doubts related to the model code of conduct for the local body elections will be held on Wednesday. District Collector Navjot Khosa will preside over the meeting, to be held at 4.30 p.m. The Collector chairs the monitoring committee, and Panchayat deputy director Thresiamma Antony is the convener. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) B. Ashokan, Deputy Collector (Election) John V. Samuel and district information officer G. Binsilal are its members. The committee will take decisions on complaints related to the model code of conduct and take action against the guilty. It will also recommend areas where the intervention of the State Election Commission will be required, an order says. Doubts of political party representatives, officials, and public in the district about the code of conduct will also be cleared by the committee.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shalimar special trains from Nov. 22||The Railway Board has given its nod for commencing weekly and bi-weekly special trains from Nagercoil Junction and Thiruvananthapuram Central to Shalimar and back as fully reserved trains. As per this, Nagercoil Junction-Shalimar Weekly Special (02659 ), via Thiruvananthapuram Central and Palakkad, will leave Nagercoil Junction at 2.45 p.m. on Sundays from November 22 to reach Shalimar at 11.55 a.m. on Tuesdays. In the return direction, Shalimar-Nagercoil Junction (02660) weekly special will leave Shalimar at 11.50 p.m. on Wednesdays from November 25 to reach Nagercoil Junction at 9.35 p.m. on Fridays. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Shalimar (02641) Bi-Weekly Superfast Festival Special will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 4.55 p.m. on Saturdays and Thursdays from November 28 and reach Shalimar at 11.55 a.m. on Mondays and Saturdays. In the return direction, Shalimar-Thiruvananthapuram Central Bi-Weekly Festival Special will leave Shalimar at 11.50 p.m. on Tuesdays and Sundays from December 1 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 8.55 p.m. on Thursdays and Tuesdays.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KCC to take out march against ‘discrimination’||A group of Christian priests will take out a march in the State capital on November 18 in protest against the alleged discrimination against the community and denial of rights to it by authorities. The members of the Kerala Council of Churches (KCC), an ecumenical body of Churches in the southern State, will take out the protest march from the Martyrs’ Column to the Secretariat here. A constituent member of the National Council of Churches in India (NCCI), the KCC currently has 18 Churches and the objective of the body is to bring together the Churches and other Christian organisations for mutual consultation, assistance and cooperative action in all matters related to Christian endeavour. Call to LDF govt. In a press statement, the KCC called for implementation of all promises made in the election manifesto by the Left Democratic Front (LDF). Among the many demands it raised, the council wanted the government to adopt a stand favouring Dalit Christians in a case related to the reservation for the community and to set up a welfare board for Christian religious teachers based on the model of madrasa teachers, the press statement added.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Referral facility in State for aquatic animal disorders||A Referral Aquatic Animal Disease Diagnosis and Quality Testing Laboratory is to be set up in the State at a cost of Rs. 132.24 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana (PMSSY). Besides state-of-the-art disease diagnosis and quality testing of antibiotic residue and heavy metal contamination in aquatic food, it will take up regular monitoring of emerging and re-emerging diseases and focus on aquatic animal health management. Farmers, entrepreneurs, the public, researchers, scientists and students will benefit from the project to be executed in one year. The Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies will be the implementing agency. The facility The facility, to be set up using Centre and State funds, will be housed in a 4,000-sq-ft building that will have wet lab and biosecure challenge facility, furnishing building, and mobile aqua clinic. An integrated laboratory network linkage will be created with laboratories of the Department of Fisheries and Central government institutions. Once commissioned, farmers and entrepreneurs will get diagnostic facility and quality assessment service. Training Capacity building training to the technical staff of the Fisheries Department and skill development training to unemployed youth are the other benefits. Research on developing and standardising effective therapeutics for fish and shellfish disease has been proposed. Besides, regular awareness, capacity building, and training are expected to result in the adoption of best management practices and help reduce diseases. Following the decision of the Special Working Group held on October 21, the government has accorded administrative sanction for the project. The Central share will be Rs. 585 lakh and the State Share will be Rs. 390 lakh. In the approved beneficiary-oriented funding pattern, the Central share will be 24%, State’s share 16%, and beneficiary share 60%. In the non-beneficiary oriented, the Central share in the project will be 60% and State’s 40%.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,123 file papers in district||As many as 1,123 candidates filed their nomination papers for the local body elections in the district on Tuesday. As many as 803 nominations were filed for elections to the grama panchayats, 127 to the block panchayats and 15 to the district panchayat. Seventy-three candidates filed their nominations for elections to the city Corporation wards, while 105 nominations were filed for elections to the four municipalities in the district, a statement here said.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Symbols allotted||The State Election Commission has allocated symbols to parties contesting in the local body elections. The symbols allocated are Marxist Leninist Party of India (Red Flag) – blackboard; Democratic Social Justice Party – camera; Kerala Kamaraj Congress Party – cricket bat; Communist Marxist Party (M.V. Rajesh faction) – ink pot and pen; Bharath Dharma Jana Sena Party – pineapple; Bharatiya Sablok Party – pressure cooker; Communist Marxist Party (M. Ajeeb faction) – Water tap; and Socialist Republican Party – ship.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online training in ornamental fish farming||The National Service Scheme (NSS) of the Vocational Higher Secondary Education wing in the State will conduct an online entrepreneurship development programme in ornamental fish farming from Wednesday. The four-day skill development programme is being held in association with the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS). It is aimed at students pursuing fisheries-related VHSE courses in the State and other students who may be interested in ornamental fish farming. Two hours for 4 days The programme will be held for two hours each on four days and will follow a module that will familiarise students with aspects right from how to set up an aquarium to treatment of diseases in fish. Slide presentation and videos will be shown during the classes. As several VHSE students come from economically weak families, the free online training and follow-up activities will equip them to become entrepreneurs. The programme is also designed to keep students creatively engaged during the pandemic, says Ranjith P., programme coordinator, National Service Scheme, Directorate of General Education - VHSE. WhatsApp groups comprising resource persons will provide students directions and advice, besides guiding them on local support available. This training follows the one in livestock rearing held in association with Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University. University certificate Nearly 4,000 registrations have already been received for the programme. Mr. Ranjith says that since students are at home in the wake of COVID-19, their parents too are participating in these sessions. A university certificate will be presented to participants who complete the course. Classes will be led by experts in ornamental fish farming, including T.V. Anna Mercy, Judin John Chacko, and Venugopal. University Directorate of Research head Devika Pillai will preside.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Training for officials in using poll manager app||Training sessions for local body poll officials to handle the poll manager mobile application have begun. In the first phase, the district informatics officers will train the master trainers. The master trainers will handle sessions for officials at the block and municipality level from November 23. The poll manager application has been launched to make available important information regarding polling at the district level. The application will be used on the day of the polling as well as the three preceding days. Voting percentage Information regarding the polling percentage in different booths will be made available at regular intervals through the application. The presiding officers, first polling officers and sectoral officers can use the application.
18 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Governor discharged from MCH||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here on Tuesday after he tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. “I am back at Raj Bhavan after being discharged. I profusely thank all those who had sent me good wishes and wished me speedy recovery ever since I had tested positive for COVID-19. Your prayers and good wishes meant a lot to me during these days,” the Governor said in a tweet.
18 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LLB course spot admission||Spot admission to three vacant seats reserved for financially backward students for the three-year LLB course at the Government law College, Thiruvananthapuram, will be held at the college at 11 a.m. on November 23. Students whose names figure on the rank list are directed to appear for the admission with relevant documents.
18 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||667 cases in Thrissur, 723 people recover||Thrissur recorded 667 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday while 723 patients recovered from the disease. There are 7,900 active cases in the district and 93 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 52,063 cases have been confirmed from the district and 43,766 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 650 patients, including four heath workers, have contracted the disease through local contact. The patients on Tuesday included 79 people above the age of 60 and 52 children below the age of 10. There are 5,348 people under home care. As many as 237 people were admitted to hospitals in the district due to the pandemic on Tuesday. In all, 6,133 samples were collected on Tuesday for the test. So far, 3,98,815 samples have been collected from the district. Meanwhile, nine more people tested positive for COVID-19 at the Paliyekkara Toll Plaza cluster on Monday. Nine workers, five from Palakkad and four from Thrissur, who were under observation, tested positive. With this, the total number of cases from Paliyekkera has reached 35. The toll plaza, which had been closed for one week, was opened two days ago with a fresh batch of workers. Meanwhile, the District Collector said COVID-19 negative certificate was mandatory for the officials who were deployed on Sabarimala duty. The test result, taken 24 hours before appearing for duty, would have to be produced. The heads of the departments should ensure that the workers appearing for the duty should adhere to all COVID-19 protocols.
18 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Kerala Varma College Principal resigns||Sree Kerala Varma College Principal A.P. Jayadevan submitted his resignation on Tuesday reportedly in protest against the appointment of R. Bindu, former Mayor of the Thrissur Corporation and wife of Left Democratic Front convener and CPI(M) secretary in-charge A. Vijayaraghavan, as Vice Principal of the college without his knowledge. The appointment of Dr. Bindu, Associate Professor in the English Department, on October 30 triggered a controversy even at that time. It was alleged that the Vice Principal post was formed illegally. The post was specially formed in the college under the Cochin Devaswom Board reportedly for supporting the Principal in his functioning. According to the appointment order, the Vice Principal has the responsibility to implement the decisions taken by the governing body. In addition, the Vice Principal has the responsibility to coordinate development activities under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, Development Forum, and the Parent-Teacher Association in the college. She also has to take care of the accreditation process under National Institutional Ranking Framework, National Assessment and Accreditation Council , and Internal Quality Assurance Cell. However, the Principal, who has questioned the necessity for such an appointment, argued that it would create administrative issues in the college. The Cochin Devaswom Board still has to take a decision on the resignation.  He submits the resignation allegedly in protest against the appointment of Vice Principal without his knowledge.
18 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||National Ayurveda Day observed||Ashtamgam Ayurveda Chikitsalayam & Vidyapeedham observed Ayurveda Day recently. G.G. Gangadharan, Director, M.S. Ramaiah Indic Centre, Bengaluru, inaugurated the event. A discussion was held on ‘Ayurveda 2030- Possibilities and hurdles.’ College Principal Alathiyur Narayanan Nambi led the discussion. P Rammanohar, Research Director, Amrita School of Ayurveda; Vaidya Ajayan Sadanadnan of Ashtamgam Ayurveda Vidyapedham; and Unnikrishnan Payyappillimana, research co-coordinator of the United Nations University, International Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability; participated. Ashtamgam Trust secretary Krishnan Namboodirippad inaugurated a health check-up and healthcare programme, ‘Sukhayu’ .
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Poll preparations in full swing||The election scenario has become clearer in the district with parties releasing their initial list of candidates. The district administration has also started poll preparations in full swing. Anti-defacement squad has been formed. The squad will monitor the political campaigns of various political parties, and candidates and will take action if they go against poll guidelines. The squad will check the legal validity of notices, banners, boards, posters, mike announcements, public meetings, and wall writings. It will also ensure whether various political parties maintain restrictions imposed by the Election Commission on the use of plastics and flex. Meanwhile, distribution of COVID-19 preventive materials such as N-95 masks, sanitisers and gloves have been distributed to the election workers. Strict preventive measures have been imposed for the protection of the poll officers in the wake of COVID-19 spread. COVID-19 norms They should wear face shields, masks, gloves and use sanitisers. So far, 16,820 N-95 masks, 7,600 gloves, 145 face shields, and 12,308 litres of sanitizers have been distributed in the district. As part of election security, people who have licenced guns have been asked to surrender their weapons. In connection with local body elections, a mock poll using electronic voting machines was conducted at Irinjalakuda Taluk office. Multi-post machines were used for the mock poll. Representatives of various political parties and officials were present. In all 10,304 ballet units and 3,405 control units have been arranged for the local body elections in the district. There are 2,824 polling booths for grama panchayats. One percent of the total control units and ballot units have been used for mock polls, which will also be held in various other municipalities and corporation in the coming days.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Campaign mode||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Winged visitors||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No light issue||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Message in the air||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Arriving for a feast||
18 November 2020||A. KONDURU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||2 kids die of suffocation in car||Two siblings – Banavath Srinivas (5) and Yamuna (4) – died of suffocation when they accidentally got trapped in a car at Repudi Thanda in the district on Tuesday. Srinivas and his sister went into the parked car, and while they were playing the doors got locked. As nobody observed, they died of suffocation, said Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. A pall of gloom descended on the Thanda following the incident. The police registered a case.
18 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police complaint lodged against BJP State president||Public Accounts Committee Chairman and Uravakonda MLA (TDP) Payyavula Keshav and Congress leaders have condemned BJP State president Somu Veerraju’s remarks that YSRCP and TDP were trying to appease the Muslim community in the wake of suicide by Nandyal-based Abdul Salaam. In a video message, Mr. Keshav said the BJP State president, instead of looking at the incident from a human tragedy following the alleged harassment by the police during their investigation, was trying to see a communal angle in the incident. He demanded a clarification from BJP if this was his personal views or the party line. Meanwhile, Congress official spokesperson P. Nagaraju along with other party leaders lodged a complaint with the II Town Police and sought that a case be registered against Mr. Veerraju for inciting communal differences. He alleged that the BJP leader made such a statement in the wake of the by-elections in Tirupati. The BJP leader said in Vijayawada on Monday: “The YSRCP gave in to the pressure from the Muslim community and cases were registered against the policemen who were doing their duty. TDP leader N. Chandrababu Naidu raked up the controversy by calling for an agitation.”
18 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Full utilisation of Penna dam a distant dream||The K. Sriramakrishna Penna Ahobilam Balancing Reservoir (KS-PABR) has hardly ever stored water beyond even half of its maximum retaining capacity — a telling example of how successive governments are failing to ensure full utilisation of existing dams, canals and reservoirs in the region. The Penna reservoir, completed in 1994, has a storage capacity of 11 tmcft and production capacity of 40 MW. However, due to lack of sufficient inflows, the reservoir has never been filled to even half of its capacity, thus denting the hopes of farmers in Anantapur region of a reliable source of irrigation. Fed by the Tungabhadra through the High-Level Main Canal (HLC), the highest quantum of water ever stored in the reservoir is 4.9 tmcft (434.9 m) during 2015-16. Full utilisation of the reservoir can be possible by pumping in Rs. 477 crore before the next monsoon — Rs. 300 crore for pending HLC modernisation works, Rs. 156 crore on land acquisition and Rs. 21.88 crore for laying of geomembrane. 6 tmcft likely this year A sum of Rs. 9.18 crore has already been spent on grouting works since 2002, but it helped store only below 5 tmcft and on the completion of ongoing works (at a cost of Rs. 2.6 crore), Superintendending Engineer Nayakanti Rajasekhar expects to store 6 tmcft this year — the maximum ever in its history. In some cheer for the district, the realisation at Tungabhadra Dam at Hospet in Karnataka is expected to go up from 163 tmcft to 168 tmcft and allocation through HLC to Anantapur will also go up to 25.755 tmcft against the earlier estimated 24.98 tmcft. Regarding demand, there is a 50% reduction due to incessant rains during south-west monsoon and a good opportunity to store more water till the demand picks up for Rabi crops by December 3. Geomembrane only solution A Central Dam Safety Team in October 2015 had suggested the installation of a geomembrane on the upstream face of the dam so that seepage and leakages can be arrested and additional ayacut served. The remedy has not been taken seriously and in March this year, the government called for a project estimate, which was submitted in June, but no decision was taken on the Rs. 21.88 crore at a time when there is scope to store additional water. There is no other storage tank or reservoir in Anantapur to draw water from Tungabhadra and store it. The HLC modernisation works, which have remained inconclusive since 2012, have been closed midway, and the system remains leaky, thus bringing in only 50% of the intended quantum (4,000 cusecs). Once filled to capacity, another 2,600 acres of land will get inundated, which need to be acquired by the government in Korrakodu, Peddakaukuntla, MM Halli, Budigam, and Jayapuram. Fortunately, no village will get submerged. An exercise has begun by the revenue department to survey those lands.
18 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workers of garment units lock Parigi MRO office||The workers of India Designs Garments Company and Nisha Designs Garments Company on Tuesday locked the Mandal Revenue Office protesting against denial of permission to stage relay fast seeking payment of minimum wages for over 4,000 employees of the two units located close to Hindupur. Leaders of the workers affiliated to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) sought permission to stage relay fast at MRO office, Parigi, but they were detained in their houses by the police. Later, when the agitating workers locked the MRO office premises, Tahsildar Sowjanya Lakshmi came to the office and allowed them to hold silent relay fast in front of the office. Arrests made CITU district general secretary E. Venkatesh and district president Z.P. Srinivasulu along with two other leaders of the garments factory workers’ union were arrested and taken to Parigi police station.
18 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth with firearms held in Madanapalle||The Madanapalle sub-division police on Tuesday morning nabbed a youth at the inter-State border check post here and seized two imported pistols and 29 rounds of ammunition from him. The incident led to a flutter in the district. Addressing a press conference, Deputy SP A. Ravi Manohar Achari and Circle Inspector (Madanapalle Taluq) M. Srinivasulu said acting on reliable information that a youth with the firearms and ammunition was on the move in the district and that he was trying to cross into Karnataka for Bengaluru, a special party was posted the at the border check post three days back. They nabbed one Tarigonda Babu Farooq (22), a native of Sadum mandal in Chittoor district, while he boarding a bus towards Bengaluru. Gulf connection The police officials said that Farooq remained active in ganja and firearms smuggling, covering various States in the country. During interrogation, it was found that Farooq used to get calls from the Gulf countries, directing him to collect the firearms and ammunition in Mumbai and deliver the same at various locations across the country. In the first week of November, Farooq obtained the stealthy consignment from an “unknown” person in Mumbai and returned to native place Sadum in Chittoor district. While he was on the way to deliver it to a client, he was nabbed. “We have information that Farooq’s brother is residing in the Gulf, suspected to be operating this clandestine deals,” they said.
18 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly couple ‘ends life’||In a tragic incident, an old couple from Tamil Nadu, who settled at Bangarupalem a few years ago, allegedly committed suicide on Tuesday due to health issues. According to information, the couple – Rajendran (72) and Jayamma (68) – had migrated to Bangarupalem from a border town of Pernambat in Tamil Nadu. While Rajendran was a dialysis patient, his wife used to earn by working in a provision store. Both used to visit the Christian Medical College Hospital at Vellore periodically. Owing to COVID-19, doctors at the CMC had advised the couple to avoid travel frequently and provided a dialysis kit to Rajendran. As the couple had no money with them to purchase some essential medicines, they were said to be suffering from illness for the past few days. Against this backdrop, the couple woke up early in the morning and performed puja at home. Jayamma also made an impressive rangoli in front of the house. The couple later locked themselves inside and reportedly took the extreme step by hanging. The neighbourhood, who visited the couple’s rented portion for daily chores, grew suspicious when there was no response from inside. On information, Sub-Inspector (Bangarupalem) V. Ramakrishna visited the spot and the bodies were shifted to the area hospital for autopsy. “Poverty and ill-health forced the couple to take the extreme step. The couple has no children. Their relatives at bordering villages in Baireddipalle and TN were informed and the bodies would be handed over to them,” he said. Those in distress can call dial 100.
18 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP wants breeding centre for Ongole cattle||Narsaraopet Member of Parliament Lavu Krishnadevarayulu has urged the Centre to expedite the process for establishing a breeding and development centre for Ongole cattle on the premises of the Young Bull Rearing Centre at Nakerikallu. In a letter addressed to Animal Husbandry and Dairying Department Secretary Atul Chaturvedi, the MP urged the Centre to establish a breeding centre which could utilise the breeding technology being shared by Brazil and improve the dairy productivity of farmers, particularly those from economic weaker sections and help India diversify its agricultural export basket. At present, the MP said, the Young Bull Rearing Centre is functioning under the purview of the Andhra Pradesh Livestock Development Agency, with the assistance of the National Project for Cattle and Buffaloes. The centre, spreading over 500 acres, is now limited in its functioning due to paucity of funds. GI tag Ongole cattle is a native breed of Andhra Pradesh and the process for obtaining GI tag for it has been initiated. Reminding that former Ongole MP Y.V. Subba Reddy had sought measures for conservation of Ongole Bull in the Lok Sabha, Mr. Krishnadevarayulu said the milk of Ongole cattle contained A2 casein protein which could prevent heart disease and boosts brain power.
18 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor racket busted||The Guntur Rural Police busted an inter-State liquor smuggling racket and seized 4,020 bottles being illegally smuggled from Goa to Guntur through Kurnool. Superintendent of Police of Guntur Rural Vishal Gunni said the bottles were hidden in a truck carrying washing machines, and the vehicle was intercepted at Anjaneyaswamy Temple, near Savalyapuram, on the National Highway - 455 on Tuesday. The police said two persons, Shaik Mahaboob Basha(40) and Odigam Venkat Rao(25), from Savalyapuram mandal were arrested and investigation was on to probe the links from Goa. Later, the seized liquor was brought to Guntur. In a press conference, Mr. Vishal said the detailed investigation would bring more facts into light.
18 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Polavaram will be ready by the end of 2021’||Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar has asserted that the Polavaram multi-purpose irrigation project will be ready by the end of 2021, and has lambasted the TDP for launching a false propaganda on the issue. The Minister, who reviewed the works at the project site, said the TDP leaders were making false accusations, and dared them to reveal the Union Cabinet note released in December 2017. Stating that the project was launched by the former Chief Minister, Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, the Minister said it was only apt and befitting that his son and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would complete it. R&R package “Neither the TDP nor its president N. Chandrababu Naidu has any right to talk about the R&R package to the project oustees as it is evident that the previous government neglected it and, instead, concentrated on contracts and commissions,” he said. “The TDP leaders are falsely claiming that 70% of the works have been completed, leaving behind the R&R package, which is Rs. 30,000 crore of the Rs. 50,000-crore project,” the Minister said. “Polavaram is listed as a national project. The State is only a facilitator. The Centre is responsible for allocating funds for construction and R&R package,” he said.
18 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post office set up at SRM||Minister for Human Resources Development A. Suresh on Tuesday inaugurated a sub-post office on the campus of SRM University at Amaravati. Expressing his happiness at the way the university has been progressing, the Minister said establishing an ultra-modern post office on the campus would be helpful to students. Director, Vijayawada Post Office Circle, Ranganathan was present.
18 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protesters en route to Minister’s house held||Police on Tuesday foiled an attempt by construction workers to ‘lay siege’ to the residence of Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu in the city, demanding that the State government clear their dues pending with the A.P. Building and Other Construction Workers Board (APBOCW). The protesters alleged that the APBOCW did not clear their claims for medical expenses, weddings and risk coverage in the event of accidents for nearly two years. Police arrested nearly a hundred protesters while they were proceeding towards Mr. Kannababu’s residence. AITUC district general secretary Thokala Prasad has said that the State government was preparing to divert the funds of the APBOCW to the corporations which were recently constituted in the State, and such an attempt should be stopped for the welfare of the workers. Protests were also conducted in Amalapuram, Ramachandrapuram and Rajamahendravaram city on Tuesday.
18 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jaggery production units raided in East Godavari||A team of the Food Safety authorities on Tuesday collected samples from four jaggery production units along the stretch of Peddapuram and Pattipadu mandals in East Godavari district following reports of indiscriminate use of chemicals. The team was led by Assistant Food Controller (Kakinada) B. Srinivas and Food Safety Officer Kalyan Chakravarthi. “We have received information that many jaggery production units in the district are using chemicals for removal of impurities. The residue of sulphur in jaggery will lead to health hazard. The samples will be tested at the food laboratory in Hyderabad,” said Mr. Srinivas. “We will register cases against the owners of the jaggery production units based on the reports from the food laboratory. The raids will continue,” said Mr. Srinivas.
18 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special drive to enrol new voters||East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said that a special drive to enrol new voters will be taken up on November 18, enabling those who attains 18 years of age on January, 2021, to enrol themselves as voters. At a meeting with representatives of various political parties on Tuesday, the Collector said the drive would be held on November 18, 19 and December 12 and 13 in the district. Political parties were told to create awareness among the youth about the drive.
18 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||No permission needed for rituals during Tungabhadra Pushkaram||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will take part in the Tungabhadra Pushkaram on the inaugural day at the Sankal Bagh pushkar ghat in the city on Friday. Collector G. Veerapandian, after reviewing the arrangements for the event on Tuesday, said no online ticket or prior permission was needed for ‘Pinda Pradanam’ and other rituals during the Pushkaram. However, none would be allowed to take a holy dip in the river in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The Chief Minister will land at Orvakal airpot and fly to APSP Battalion premises by a helicopter. He will reach Sankal Bagh pushkar ghat by road. An officer will be stationed along the Chief Minister’s travel route to receive petitions from people. Officials have been instructed to complete all the pending works related to sanitation, infrastructure, power supply, and others at all ghats on a war-footing. Police, fire services personnel, power supply officials have been instructed to remain alert and make alternate arrangements in case there is a disruption in power supply. Security arrangements Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli reviewed the Chief Minister’s security arrangements and erection of barricades at all the places where VIPs are scheduled to travel. Meanwhile, Irrigation officials inspected the construction of the ghats. They have cancelled the request for release of 8 tmcft of water from Tungabhadra as the holy dip has been banned.
18 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool MLA draws ire of YSRCP leaders||The second-rung of leaders of the YSR Congress Party in Kurnool staged a dharna at the statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy alleging that MLA M.A. Hafeez Khan was moving closely with TDP leaders. The YSRC leaders, also followers of former MLA S.V. Mohan Reddy, alleged that Mr. Hafeez Khan was ignoring them, who had worked for his victory in the 2019 elections. They told reporters that Mr. Hafeez was not informing them about his visits to the wards and did not take Mr. Mohan Reddy with him. Former MLA Mohan Reddy had won on YSR Congress ticket in 2014, but later switched loyalties to TDP and returned to the parent party in 2019, but was not given the party ticket during the last elections. Dissenting party leaders also had an objection to Mr. Hafeez Khan’s place of origin, which is Alampur in Telangana. “Local leaders need to be given importance in all the party activities. Mr. Hafeez Khan launches schemes in a different manner from the one followed by the rest of the party members,” said Mr. Shareef.
18 November 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth nabbed after assault video goes viral||Police on Tuesday arrested a youth for allegedly thrashing his friend in full public view at a farm near Vedayapalem on the outskirts of the city, after a video of the incident went viral on social media. Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan told The Hindu that the incident was not related to cricket betting, as was initially reported in a section of the media. The accused was identified as Rajasekhar. Police said that Rajasekhar was once involved in a car collision with another man, identified as Yugender Reddy. Rajasekhar’s car was badly damaged in the mishap, Nellore Deputy Superintendent of Police J. Srinivas Reddy told reporters. Rajasekhar then allegedly demanded Rs. 70,000 from Yugender to pay for the repairs. However, after Yugender failed to pay him the money, Rajasekhar and an accomplice took Yugender to a secluded place near Vedayapalem on November 12 last year where Rajasekhar began assaulting him. Rajasekhar’s friend shot a video of the incident on his mobile phone, and the video later surfaced on social media a year later. On Tuesday, police took cognizance of the offence and registered cases in Nellore I Town police station and also within Nellore Rural police station limits. A case under IPC Section 341 (wrongful restraint) and 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) was registered against the duo in Nellore I Town. The duo had also been booked under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) by Nellore (Rural) police, Nellore (Rural) DSP Y. Harinath Reddy said. A detailed probe was launched into the incident which had not come to light earlier as the victim had not approached the police, he said. Earlier, some media reports showed a youth reportedly having links to a betting syndicate assaulting another youth for allegedly not paying him the betting amount. The two incidents are unrelated, police said.
18 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zero deaths in South Coastal A.P.||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh registered zero deaths in the last 24 hours as also fewer number of new COVID-19 cases and more number of recoveries. The toll in the region remained unchanged at 1,067, of which Prakasam district accounted for 576 deaths and Nellore district 491 so far. The region recorded 63 fresh cases in a span of 24 hours taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 1,23,514. With 160 patients recovering from the dreaded disease during the period, the caseload came down to less than 2,000 in the region, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Tuesday night. Recovery rate improved further to 97.97% as over 1.21 lakh patients have recuperated in the region so far. With 32 fresh cases, the total number of positive cases rose to 62,496 in Nellore district. As many as 94 persons recovered during the period to bring down the number of active cases to 1,287. So far, 61,209 patients have been discharged from hospitals in the district following recovery. In Prakasam district, 31 persons tested positive for the disease during the period taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 61,018. The number of active cases came down to 640 as 66 patients recovered from the viral disease during the period. So far, 59,802 patients have won the battle against the disease in the district.
18 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJYM activists try to stop Minister’s convoy||Mild tension prevailed at the Collector’s office on Tuesday when the activists of Bharatiya Janata Party Yuva Morcha (BJYM) led by its State secretary Pudi Balditya tried to stop the convoy of Minister for Fisheries Seediri Appalaraju during a protest seeking implementation 10 % quota in jobs and education for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) in the State. The Minister came to the Collector’s Office to attend a video conference meeting with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The police took the activists into custody and released them in the evening. Central legislation Participating in the protest, BJPYM State president Ketineni Surendra Mohan said that the State government was ignoring the implementation of the 10 % quota even as the Union government had passed the legislation in this regard and issued guidelines. “The YSRCP MPs had also extended their support when the EWS Bill was tabled in the Parliament. However, the State government is yet to implement the Act that is aimed at protecting the interests of students from the poor financial background,” said Mr. Surendra Mohan. ‘Guidelines not followed’ Mr. Balditya alleged that the quota guidelines was not being followed in the selection of candidates for the Secretariat and other posts. “The BJYM will bring the issue to the notice of the Union government and fight it legally,” he said. BJP leaders including Pudi Tirupati Rao, Attada Ravi Babji, G. Bhagya Lakshmi, Sevvana Venkateswara Rao and others participated in the agitation.
18 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two GMR students get placements in Amazon||Two final year students of GMR Institute of Technology-Rajam have got placement in Amazon with a package of Rs. 19 lakh each per annum. According to a release from the college, the students -- Ch. Ranga Aravind and N. Praneel Reddy (computer science) have been selected during campus recruitment drive. Many students of the institute got placement in top companies. It is one among the 50 top colleges and got accreditation from NAAC and other institutions, according to the release.
18 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Palaniswami prays at Tirumala||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami accompanied by his wife Radha on Tuesday offered prayers at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy accorded him a warm reception and led him into the sanctum sanctorum where he paid his obeisances to the presiding deity. Mr. Palaniswami who went round the inner precincts of the temple also offered prayers at various sub-temples.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers seek changes in transfer rules||Leaders of the Joint Action Committee of Teachers’ Organisation (JACTO) have urged the government to amend certain clauses in the rules pertaining to teachers’ transfers as they are detrimental to their interests. The leaders met Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Advisor (Public Affairs) to the Chief Minister, on Tuesday and urged him to look into their problems. Later, in a statement, JACTO co-chairman and president of the Municipal Teachers’ Federation S. Ramakrishna said teachers had been eagerly waiting for promotions for the last 18 months and sought immediate release of the schedule for promotions. He said ‘compulsory’ transfers should be done away with and instead, they should be given based on requests. Amendment to rationalisation rules to ensure that each classroom had one teacher in municipal schools and merger of the 1,194 Zilla Parishad schools in the Department of Municipal Administration were their other demands. ‘No virtual counselling’ Earlier, at a meeting held on Sunday, JACTO State chairman K.G. Reddy, secretary generals M. Sridhar Reddy and A. Kondaiah and media convenor S. Simhachalam urged the authorities concerned to effect changes to certain clauses related to teacher transfers, that were detrimental to the interests of teachers and said if needed, the authorities could extend the dates of the counselling schedule. The meeting discussed at length the issue of teachers' transfers. With regard to the teachers working in Zilla Parishad schools, the leaders demanded that the counselling for transfers be held ‘physically’ instead of the virtual mode, amendments be made to the rationalisation policy to pave the way for allotment of one teacher for every classroom and appointment of two physical education teachers in schools that have a strength of more than 400 students. They said the government should consider their demands and release a GO on amendments needed to fulfil their demands.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action plan to find overseas placements for 3,000 youth||Minister for Industries, Commerce and Information Technology M. Goutham Reddy on Tuesday said the government would establish International Migration Centres (IMC) to help students find overseas placements. The Minister attended the 23rd board meeting of the Overseas Manpower Company of Andhra Pradesh (OMCAP) in the capacity of its chairman at the AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) office in the virtual mode, and said an action plan had been drawn to find overseas placements for nearly 3,000 youth from the State in countries such as Europe, Germany and the Gulf nations. The Minister reviewed the progress achieved on the issues discussed in the last board meeting. The officials informed him that OMCAP had facilitated nearly 2,000 people’s migration to overseas jobs in 2019-20. OMCAP Managing Director Arja Srikanth said the training programmes had, however, slowed down since March this year due to COVID-19, and that the company at present had nearly 2,000 jobs for domestic help, cooks, electricians, drivers, nurses and lift operators ready for recruitment in different countries. He said OMCAP would restart the training programme after the situation returned to normal. ‘Aasara’ app The OMCAP and the Skill Development Corporation had launched a mobile app called ‘Aasara’ for local employment support to workers who had to drop their plans to migrate to other countries due to the virus threat. The company was also working in coordination with the Indian International Skills Centre (IISC), launched by the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), to secure information on job opportunities for youth in the State. The meeting unanimously decided that IMC-AP centres would be established in every district employment office, ITI and district skill development centres. These centres would not only give job-related information to the youth but would also take up activities such as career counselling, guidance and imparting pre-departure training.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine deaths and 1,395 new infections in State||The State has registered 1,395 new COVID-19 infections and nine deaths in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, pushing the overall tally to 8,56,159 and the toll to 6,890. The mortality rate remained at 0.80% and the recovery rate increased to 97.21% with 2,293 more patients recovering during the period. So far, 8,32,284 patients have recovered and only 16,985 are undergoing treatment at present. In the last 24 hours, 66,778 samples were tested with a positivity rate of 2.09%. The positivity rate of the 92.64 lakh samples tested during the period stood at 9.24%. The number of samples tested so far was equal to 17.35% of the State’s population. Also, 1.60% of the State’s population was infected. Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhapatnam once again reported two new deaths each while Anantapur, East Godavari and Kadapa witnessed one new death each. There were no fatalities in seven districts. Krishna district also reported the highest single-day tally of 260 cases in the last 24 hours. It was followed by West Godavari and East Godavari with 247 and 214 cases respectively. The tally in other districts is as follows: Guntur (199), Chittoor (137), Visakhapatnam (75), Anantapur (58), Kadapa (52), Srikakulam (37), Vizianagaram (35), Nellore (32), Prakasam (31), and Kurnool (18). The overall district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,20,785), West Godavari (90,721), Chittoor (82,286), Guntur (71,245), Anantapur (66,235), Prakasam (61,018), Nellore (60,930), Kurnool (59,972), Visakhapatnam (57,395), Kadapa (53,733), Srikakulam (45,081), Krishna (43,533) and Vizianagaram (40,330).
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No intention to privatise power distribution sector, says Balineni||Minister for Energy, Environment, Forest, Science and Technology Balineni Srinivasa Reddy has said that the demands put forth by the power sector employees’ associations will be met. Mr. Srinivasa Reddy has clarified that the government has no intention to privatise the power distribution sector, and that all the power utilities will be operated in the government sector. The discussions between the Minister and the representatives of AP State Power Employees’ JAC turned fruitful with Mr. Reddy’s assurance here on Tuesday, a release said. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Reddy said the government would release deferred salaries for March and April, and pay revision, which is in force up to March 2022, would be honoured. EPF and GPF He said the government would look into the issue of providing EPF and GPF pension to the employees who joined between 1999 and 2004 and regularisation and payment of salaries to outsourced employees through APCOS. “A committee will be constituted and a decision will be taken in 30 days,” he said. Mr. Reddy said that all the AP-Genco units would be run and power would be purchased as per the PPA. He said the government had agreed for one-time exemption of age restriction to the candidates eligible for compassionate appointments, free healthcare, membership to employees of AP-Genco, AP-Transco and AP Discoms in the advisory committees, compassionate appointments to Energy Assistants (Grade-II) and 9th pay holiday for O&M staff. AP-Transco CMD N. Srikant, CPDCL CMD K. Padma Janardhan Reddy, AP-Transco JMD (HR) K. Sreedhar Reddy, EPDCL Director K. Rajabapaiah and JAC representatives P. Chandra Sekhar, M. Vedavyasa Rao, and B. Sai Krishna were present.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conduct local body elections afresh in State, says Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has demanded that a fresh notification be issued for conducting the local body elections to ensure a level-playing field for all the political parties. Addressing the party leaders via a video link on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu said, “Cancellation of the elections proposed in March this year had become necessary considering the large-scale irregularities committed by the ruling YSRCP. The ruling party had resorted to intimidation of candidates belonging to the rival parties and forced them to withdraw the nominations.” Stressing the need for filing of online nominations to prevent the YSRCP from resorting to such acts, Mr. Naidu said the elections should be conducted amid security provided by the Central forces. “All safeguards have to be taken to ensure a free and fair election in the best interests of the voters,” he said. ‘CM failed on all fronts’ Accusing Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of betrayed the people on all fronts, Mr. Naidu said, “Stalling the Amaravati works is the first betrayal and neglecting Polavaram project the second. Another blow to the State is the failure of the Chief Minister to secure Special Category Status (SCS) to the State,” he said. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised people to secure SCS to the State if his party was given 25 MPs, Mr. Naidu said, and added, “But now, he is maintaining silence despite people electing 28 YSRCP MPs. The Chief Minister has caused enormous loss to the State in the process.” Objecting to the government opting for reverse tenders, Mr. Naidu said the Chief Minister, as a result, pushed the Polavaram project into a permanent crisis.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Additional DRM takes over||An officer of the Indian Railway Service of Engineers (IRSE), D. Srinivasa Rao, on Tuesday assumed charge as Additional Divisional Railway Manager (ADRM-Infrastructure), Vijayawada division, in South Central Railway(SCR).  Positions Mr. Srinivasa Rao, a 1998 batch IRSE officer, worked in various capacities in the engineering department and played a vital role in commissioning of Nanded-Mudkhed, Nandyal-Yerraguntla railway line doubling works and other important infrastructure projects taken up by the SCR. He completed civil engineering from Andhra University, Visakhapatnam, and was Chief Workshop Manager, Rayanapadu, before getting elevated to the rank of ADRM. He started his career in the Indian Railways as Assistant Divisional Engineer at Raichur and worked as Divisional Engineer and Sr. Divisional Engineer (Sr. DEN) at Guntakal & Sr. DEN at Secunderabad Division. He also worked as Deputy Chief Engineer (Constructions) at Secunderabad, Kadapa, Guntur and Vijayawada and on promotion.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uyyala Project to protect abandoned infants||In an attempt to protect the abandoned infants, the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department has launched a novel project ‘cradle bell’ (Uyyala Project) in the State. As pat of the initiative, the government will arrange around 500 cradles. As many as 93 cradles, the highest in the State, will be arranged in Nellore district, followed by 68 in East Godavari, 54 in Kurnool and 50 in West Godavari district. “The project aims at protecting the infants abandoned by their mothers in places such as canals and dustbins and checking the sale of babies and unauthorised adoptions. We request the mothers, who do not want their babies, to leave them in the cradles so that the infants could be adopted later,” said WD&CW Director Krithika Shukla. She said the project was being implemented at an estimated expenditure of Rs. 30 lakh by the WD&CW, District Child Protection Units (DCPUs) and Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) in each district. Death of babies “It is a pity that some women and unwed mothers are abandoning their infants near canals, dustbins, bushes and other such places. Many infants get attacked by dogs or die after being exposed to the vagaries of nature. We request the women to place the infants in cradles and ring the bell,” Ms. Krithika appealed. Cradles will be placed at temples, bus and railway stations, government hospitals, some NGO homes, WD&CW project offices, some maternity hospitals and other public places. “We have already arranged some cradles at the Women and Child Welfare office in East and West Godavari, Nellore and other districts. Instructions have been issued to complete the project by the end of this month,” the Director told The Hindu on Tuesday. “People who don’t want their newborns can surrender them at the cradles or alert officials by dialling ‘181’, ‘100’ or ‘1098’. Details of the parents will be kept confidential,” Ms. Krithika said.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official allays fears over Intermediate admissions||Board of Intermediate Education Secretary V. Ramakrishna on Tuesday denied reports of ‘confusion’ in the online admission process for Intermediate courses. Mr. Ramakrishna referred to reports appeared in a section of media and said that all colleges in the State were sent circulars about the process to be followed for online admissions in March. The Board has also made available on its website the user manual with step-by-step details of the admission process. He said the names of some private colleges were not seen in the online space as they had failed to upload the details of the intake of students in their respective institutions. Fire NoC “In view of the pandemic , colleges which do not have No Objection Certificate (NOC) from the Fire Department, have also been granted permission for admissions with a condition that they will obtain the same in 60 days. Colleges running out of commercial building complexes or in rooms covered with asbestos sheets have been given permission only for the academic year 2020-21,” said Mr. Ramakrishna. Mr. Ramakrishna said 7,42,780 seats were available, including the ones in the newly-sanctioned 208 colleges in the State.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC plans e-waste management system||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation is planning to streamline management of e-waste and the floral waste being generated in the city by facilitating collection, transportation, processing and disposal of the waste. The civic body has recently invited ‘Request for Proposal’ bids from eligible agencies authorised to manage e-waste that includes discarded electrical and electronic equipment as per the guidelines of the State and Central pollution control boards. The agency is supposed to carry out all the operations starting from the collection of e-waste from residential, industrial, commercial and other areas under VMC through designated bins and kiosks, transport them to its processing plant and dispose of safely daily. On the other hand, the civic body is also planning to set up a floral waste management system in place to deal with tonnes of used and unused flower waste generated mainly at the flower market and temples in the city. According to the official information, around 40 tonnes of flowers are brought to the flower market daily and one tonne of it goes waste. The floral waste collected will be recycled and used to make eco-products like incense sticks, seed paper and others. The process of selection of agencies for the two projects through bids is under way.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on flood retaining wall to begin by Nov. 25||Collector A. Md. Imtiaz instructed officials to begin the construction of a retaining wall along the Krishna to prevent flooding in residential areas of Krishnalanka area. Mr. Imtiaz, along with VMC chief V. Prasanna Venkatesh, conducted a review meeting with Revenue, Water Resources and other departments. He said that the wall, planned from Kanakadurga Varadhi to Koti Nagar spanning a length of 1.56 km, will protect thousands of houses from inundation during floods. He asked irrigation officials to complete the design, drawing and alignment and hand over the site to the contractor by November 25. Completion of the project will end the woes of residents in Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Ranigari Thota, Balaji Nagar, Dwaraka Nagar, Bramarambha Nagar and other areas, he said.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ministers talk to officials on new district||Ministers and officials of the Revenue and Police Departments discussed creation of Vijayawada as new district and increasing the topography of Vijayawada Police Commissionerate. Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu, Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao and Transport Minister Perni Venkatarakaiah discussed creation of the new district with Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Police Comissioner B. Srinivasulu and Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu.
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||43 DSPs transferred||Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang on Tuesday issued orders pertaining to transfer of 43 Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs) in the State. Many DSPs, who are on probation, have been given new postings in various police sub-divisions in districts. Some have been transferred from the Crime Investigation Department, vigilance and other wings to the law and order. Several officers have been asked to report to the Andhra Pradesh Police Headquarters. The transferred DSPs have been directed to report in the new place of postings immediately.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||45 shortlisted GVMC schools to be developed as smart campuses||Forty-five municipal schools have been shortlisted for CITIIS (Cities Investment to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) programme and would be developed as smart campuses. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) will receive Rs. 52 crore as the CITIIS grant for the project. The programme, supported by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), Agence Francaise de Development (AFD) and European Union (EU), is conceptualised to assist Indian cities to implement urban infrastructure projects that are integrated, innovation driven and sustainable. According to the GVMC officials, Visakhapatnam Smart City has participated in the CITIIS challenge process and submitted three project proposals to the ministry under the categories of Sustainable Mobility, Public Open Spaces and Social and Organisational Innovation. The ministry selected a project ‘Modernising of GVMC schools into smart campuses.’ GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana said that Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation (GVSCCL) has appointed AECOM Asia Private limited as the Project Management Consultant (PMC) to prepare plans and designs for the schools as part of the programme. “Out of 147 GVMC Schools, 50 schools are already being developed by the State government under Nadu –Nedu scheme in the first phase. Forty-five municipal schools have been shortlisted for CITIIS programme,” she said. According to Ms. Srijana, H.B. Colony Primary School was selected initially for the pilot project for the programme and they have planned to develop the school as a model school. She said that the plans/designs are being prepared in a technically innovative manner and put before the school development committee, parents and school management for their inputs and feedback. “So far, meeting were convened at MVP, Pedawaltair, Resapuvanipalem, Venkojipalem, NGGO’s Colony, Ganeswara Patasala, Achiyyammapeta Primary Schools. Similar meetings will be conducted in the remaining selected schools. We are planning to complete stakeholder engagements for finalisation of designs by the end of January,” she added.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic issues plague residents of Sri Nagar Colony||Residents of Sri Nagar Colony, Rama Talkies, complain about civic issues, including poor sanitation, overflowing of drains and mosquitoes. Traffic woes due to the increase in encroachments are also causing problems to them. ‘Unauthorised shops’ The locals allege that both sides of the roads are occupied by shops and street vendors, making the once pleasant colony as a market these days. They allege that despite complaining to the GVMC officials and even submitting representations, no action has been taken. “There are a number of unauthorised shops in the colony on both sides of the roads right from fast food centres, curry points, pan shops, juice shops, photocopying shops and others. During peak time, almost three-fourth of the road is occupied, making it tough for the vehicles to pass on these roads,” said Rama Krishna, a resident of Ward no. 27(New). He said that these illegal constructions have encroached some part of roads and drains. The roads witness overflowing of water whenever it rains. Severe traffic congestions are reported daily due to haphazard parking by the customers of these shops, he said. Mosquito menace The colony residents also complain about poor sanitary situation with many shopkeepers dumping the wastes on roads or in the drains. They also report severe mosquito menace due to the unhygienic conditions prevailing in the colony. They also say that anti-social activities are reported during nights in their area. Alcohol consumption “Several persons consume alcohol in the nearby wine shops during nights. When we question about it, they reply rudely. There is a ladies hostel and a number of residential houses nearby and their inmates feel insecure. We request the officials to take proper action,” said S. Nooka Kanakaraju, a resident of the colony. “If the civic body solves the problem, we will develop the colony by planting saplings,” says another resident Chinna Rao.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo reopens for visitors after nearly eight months||Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP), which was closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, reopened nearly after eight months on Tuesday. As many as 672 visitors thronged the zoo on the first day. A good number of families, especially children, thronged the zoo and had a good outing at the vast natural facility. According to the zoo officials, generally during ‘Karthika masam’, the IGZP registers about 1,000 to 1,200 visitors per day. They feel that the number of visitors would gradually increase in the coming weeks, especially during weekends. With wearing mask being made mandatory to enter the zoo, the authorities have ensured that safety protocols are implemented right from the entrance gate. The zoo staff have allowed visitors only after checking their body temperature. Sanitiser was also provided at the gate. Officials have appealed to the public to maintain social distancing for collective good. Forest Section Officer, IGZP, A.V. Ramana, said that they have also facilitated online ticketing in the official website, which visitors can avail for contactless ticketing. “We have also created markings at the animal enclosures to ensure social distancing,” he said. Visitors were seen taking selfies and uploading in social media. People were seen carrying their own water bottles, and pocket sanitisers. K. Suguna, a homemaker, who visited the zoo with her children, said the zoo is one of best tourist spots in Vizag. “Its natural location and greenery impress everyone. We missed the zoo since the last eight months. My children really had a good day out there,” she said. Meanwhile, zoo Curator Nandani Salaria said that the response on the first day is satisfactory. “We have to see for the upcoming days. Tomorrow is Nagula Chavithi, so we are expecting huge crowds,” she added.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held on charge of duping job seekers||The city police on Tuesday arrested three persons for allegedly cheating a few persons in the name of providing jobs and duping them to the tune of Rs. 8.9 lakh. The arrested were identified as B. Manoj Kumar (35) and M. Venkata Ramana (28) of Ukkunagaram, and, B. Hari Babu (33) from Karasa area of Visakhapatnam city and native of Srikakulam district. Police said that all the accused were working as general duty constables in CISF units at various places. While Manoj and Venkata Ramana were placed under suspension since July 2020, Hari Babu is working at Visakhapatnam airport. Hari Babu was earlier reportedly involved in a cheating case in Vizianagaram district. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone I) Aishwarya Rastogi said that the accused had hatched a plan to dupe the unemployed youth on the pretext of providing jobs. The accused reportedly came into contact with one Tirupathy Nayak and his brother Bhukiya Tirupathy Nayak, when they were posted in Vizag steel plant, and made them believe that 26 others got the Central government jobs through them. The police said that the accused lured the complainant and his brother and collected Rs. 8. 90 lakh from them in phases. Victims alleged that the accused had reportedly conducted fake examinations at Itarsi (Madhya Pradesh) sometime in 2018. Later, the duo along with others had reportedly gone to Nagpur, where they stayed for three days, on the advice of the accused, the police said. The accused also reportedly gave them fake appointment letters. After coming to know that they were duped, the victims approached the police. Assistant Commissioner of Police (CCS) Sravan Kumar said further investigation is being conducted in the case.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Denotify VIMS as COVID hospital, State govt. urged||Authorities from the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), the designated State COVID-19 hospital for north Andhra region, had sent a representation to the State government to denotify the hospital into B-Category hospital. VIMS Director K. Satya Varaprasad said that he sought the government to allow them to treat both COVID-19 and other patients. He said that if the government permits, 300 dedicated beds would be reserved for COVID-19 patients and another 300 beds would be used for other cases. “As on Tuesday, the number of COVID-19 patients being treated in VIMS was zero and all beds are vacant. On Monday, there were two patients and they were discharged,” he said. According to Dr. Varaprasad, a number of people from surrounding regions, Vizianagaram and even Odisha use the services of VIMS. Reopening of the regular services would help them a lot, he said. Many COVID-19 hospitals in the district have been converted into B-Category hospitals after seeing a steady decline in the cases. Since VIMS is a State-COVID-19 hospital and not under the control of the District Collector, the authorities are in touch with the State government. As of now, CSR block at King George Hospital (KGH) is serving a number of COVID-19 patients from the district. It was learnt that the representation sent to the government by VIMS officials is still under consideration.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete VMRDA park works by year-end, contractor told||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, and Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao inspected works of VMRDA park facelift project, which is one among the smart city projects, here on Tuesday. The officials instructed the contractor to complete the development works by the end of December. The officials inspected the walking path, plantations, cycle track, boating pool area, volley ball and tennis court works. Speaking to the Engineering Department staff, the officials asked them to set up solar tree and solar benches at the park. They said that a vehicle parking facility should be arranged in the park. They tell officials to design a beautiful arch at the entrance of the park. GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao, Superintending Engineer, Smart City Works, Vinay Kumar, and others were present.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu’s statements on Nandyal suicide case misinterpreted: BJP||BJP State vice-president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju has said that the YSR Congress Party and the Telugu Desam Party are misinterpreting the statements of BJP State president Somu Veerraju on the suicide by Abdul Salaam and his family members in Nadyal. Addressing the media on Tuesday, Mr. Raju said Mr. Veerraju had welcomed the arrest of the policemen, who had allegedly driven the victims to take the extreme step and wanted that people of all communities be treated equally. Asking the ruling and Opposition parties not to indulge in ‘vote bank politics’, Mr. Veerraju had sought punishment for the culprits, irrespective of their position or political affiliations. His statements were being projected by the ruling and Opposition parties as though he had spoken against a particular community, Mr. Raju said. Polavaram project Mr. Raju recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi wanted early completion of the Polavaram projectin 2014. He said the TDP government resorted to corruption and failed to complete the project on time. The YSRCP, after coming to power, could not hasten the pace of construction due to various reasons, he said.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU professor on Stanford University list||Nandipati Subba Rao, former Head of the Department of Geology of Andhra University, has figured among the top 2% scientists in a global list compiled by Stanford University, USA. His rank in the list is 557. The Stanford University has recently released a list that represents the top 2% of the most referred to scientists in various disciplines. The exhaustive list has 1,59,683 persons with nearly 1,500 scientists, doctors and engineers in India.
18 November 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Shift ragi to warehouse’||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy has directed the officials to make arrangements to shift the ragi procured from tribals farmers in Agency areas to the warehouse at Chodavaram. He organised a review meet with officials.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 75 COVID cases, two deaths||For the first time since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, very active clusters reduced to zero in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday. Very active clusters are the ones which report a series of cases on a daily basis for five days. According to Principal of Andhra Medical College and COVID-19 Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, no cluster has reported cases on a daily basis since the last five days. It may be recollected that till Monday evening, there were six very active clusters in the district. The district health officials have de-notified those very active clusters to active ones, which are 11 as on date. Similarly, the number of dormant clusters has also increased to 318. The district administration has already de-notified 627 clusters. In the last 24 hours, the district reported 75 fresh infections taking the cumulative tally to 57,907. The active cases now stand at 1,354. 121 recovered As many as 121 persons undergoing treatment at hospitals or under home isolation have recovered, taking the tally to 56,055. With the death of two more persons, the toll as on date stands at 498 in the district. Answering a query, Dr. Sudhakar said that areas both in urban and rural limits were reporting equal number of cases.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI seeks early allotment of TIDCO houses||CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy has said that members of the Rajaka community, who were made to vacate their place with the promise of being allotted TIDCO houses within six months, were not handed over the same even after four years. Speaking to the media , Mr. Murthy said that the beneficiaries had paid amounts ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh. It was wrong on part of the State government not to allot the houses, he said.
18 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prepare lists for allotment of TIDCO houses, officials told||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana asked the officials to get ready for making arrangements for allotment of TIDCO houses to the beneficiaries. She conducted a review meet at the GVMC office here on Tuesday. Ms. Srijana asked the officials to prepare a list to sanction various categories of houses which are being constructed to the eligible beneficiaries.
18 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ACB raids DEE’s houses||The ACB sleuths raided the houses of Panchayat Raj Deputy Executive Engineer Karri Nageswara Rao on Tuesday. The team led by Srikakulam DSP Ramanamurthy raided the house at Saluru . Another team conducted raids at Yelamanchili in Visakhapatnam district. The officials may make a statement about ‘disproportionate’ assets on Wednesday.
18 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘All traditions, rules ignored in Sanchaita’s appointment’||Taking strong exception to the appointment of P. Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju as the chairperson of MANSAS Trust and a group of temples in East Godavari district, former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju on Tuesday said that the State government had ignored all traditions, rules and regulations. He questioned the authority of the government in making Ms. Sanchaita as the head for 104 temples in East Godavari district. “Ms. Sanchaita has never visited the 104 temples under the supervision of the MANSAS Trust. The State government has no role in appointment of the chairperson of MANSAS Trust as it has always been done following the traditions and wishes of my father and its founder P.V.G. Raju. Her appointment has been done in violation of rules and regulations. The government is trying to control the temple land and properties of the MANSAS Trust with this unilateral decision,” Mr. Ashok told the media here on Tuesday. He also criticised Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana for the latter’s reported remarks that the MANSAS Trust issue was a family dispute. Answering a question, Mr. Ashok said he was not joining any party and that he was committed to the principles of TDP.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Panchayat polls tentatively in Feb.’||“The State Election Commission is encouraged by the success in the COVID-19 containment measures taken by the State, where the daily infections have come down to as low as 753 from a peak of 10,000. All the safeguards will be put in place, duly considering the best practices, including those being taken by the neighbouring Telangana for the GHMC elections,” he said. “The model code of conduct will not be in force as it is only an in-principle decision. The actual schedule will be finalised in consultation with the government. Once the schedule is drawn up, the code of conduct will come into force,” Mr. Ramesh Kumar said. The commission had also taken note of the fact that conducting elections was not only a constitutional obligation but also a prerequisite for the release of the Finance Commission funds, he said. “The commission has addressed all the concerns, especially those aired by the government and the Health Department, and will leave no stone unturned on the safety front,” he added.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joy ride||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hungry birds||
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 510 crore released for zero interest scheme||The State would be paying Rs. 1,800 crore towards crop insurance premium in December while farmers would contribute a premium of just Rs. 1. The State had purchased Rs. 15,000 crore worth paddy during 2019-20. During COVID situation, Rs. 3,200 crore worth of commodities like sweet lime, banana, maize, millet, tobacco, onion and turmeric were purchased. Several farmers interacted with the Chief Minister and lauded his farmer-friendly schemes. Ministers K. Kannababu, Ch. Venugopala Krishna, Avanti Srinivas, AP Agri Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy, government and bank officials were present.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Wildlife beckons||
18 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Adivasis unhappy with delay in 2BHK houses||Leaders of various Adivasi organisations on Tuesday expressed their ire over the alleged delay in construction of double bedroom houses taken up under the State government's flagship 2BHK scheme in Bhadrachalam a few years ago. A delegation comprising leaders of the Adivasi Sankshema Parishad, Adivasi Nayakpodu Seva Sangham and Adivasi Konda Reddi Sangham visited the double bedroom houses under construction at two separate locations — AMC colony and Manubothulacheruvu area — in the temple town on Tuesday. They condemned the alleged tardy progress of the works and wanted the authorities to ensure speedy completion of the houses in conformity to set standards.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||GHMC poll schedule strategy stings Opposition parties||With a spree of welfare and developmental programmes inaugurated in the past 10 days, the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) is a step ahead of rival parties in the GHMC elections, and has now caught them unawares with an election schedule that doesn’t give much scope to step up the heat on the government. Municipal Administration Minister and TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao had made the intentions clear by opening new roads and projects, laying foundation stones, announcing 50% waiver in the property tax apart from the cash distribution of Rs. 10,000 for those affected by the recent floods in the city. But with a series of leaks to the media on the GHMC election schedule, the party was able to confuse the opposition. With strong finances and information well in advance apart from its own strategies to scout for the right candidates, the ruling party has prepared a strong ground for itself. With the friendly MIM on its side, a big share of the minority vote is already in its kitty. The first blow that the ruling party gave to the Opposition was in the form of women reservations ensuring 50% of seats to them. Under the given circumstances, Congress and BJP will struggle to find the right candidates on such short notice while the TRS has made plans in advance identifying the potential candidates. “Half of the battle is already won,” said a senior TRS MLA. In fact, it had adopted a similar strategy in the previous GHMC elections in 2016 when it got 56 women corporators elected from among the 99 seats it won apart from some from the AIMIM. Interestingly, 79 women were elected crossing the 50% reservation of 75 seats. The same strategy is likely to be adopted this time, too, to beat the BJP and Congress in the first step itself. With money undoubtedly playing a huge role in the elections now, the ruling party definitely has an advantage. The tight schedule also limits opportunity for Opposition parties to scout for funds, and campaigning will pick up and end by the time they are ready with the campaign material. TRS has cleverly restricted the Opposition understanding their limitations. The only worry it sees is the resurgence of BJP, particularly after the Dubbak result. But this schedule is expected to plug that perceived advantage to the BJP.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||952 new COVID cases in State||Telangana recorded 952 COVID-19 cases on Monday, pushing up the tally to 2,58,828. While 38,245 people were examined for the presence of coronavirus, results of 600 were awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases include 150 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, 77 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 71 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem, and 68 from Rangareddy. The lowest of one case was recorded in Narayanpet, and six each in Vikarabad and Wanaparthy. Of the 38,245 persons who got tested, 36,747 opted for government healthcare facilities and 1,498 chose private labs. From March 2 to November 16, a total of 49,29,974 samples have been examined. Of the total cases detected so far, 13,732 are active cases while 2,43,686 have recovered. The death toll stands at 1,410. At the 61 government hospitals, there was an availiaility of 4,762 oxygen beds and 1,453 ICU. At the 220 private hospitals, there were 2,803 oxygen beds and 2,198 ICU beds for patients to take up.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CREDAI-Hyd hails TS-bPASS as ‘revolutionary reform’||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) Hyderabad has hailed the Telangana government for launching Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS) portal for building and layout permissions, in a transparent time-bound manner, on Tuesday. “TS-bPASS is a pioneering and revolutionary reform in obtaining building permissions making approvals more user-friendly by providing a streamlined online system for hassle-free, time-bound speedy approvals. We are happy to have played a key role in the formulation of the policy,” said president P. Rama Krishna Rao, general secretary V. Rajashekar Reddy and others at a press conference. The new policy makes citizens responsible for adhering to the building and layout permission rules. Those constructing a building within 75 sq. yards need not obtain any permission but must register with the urban local body using TS-bPASS. Citizens can obtain instant permission for constructions from 75 sq. yards to 600 sq. yards through self-certification under TS-bPASS and start constructions, they pointed out. Applications seeking permissions for building constructions in an area of more than 600 sq. yards will get permissions within 21 days and in case of shortfall of any documents, the same will be intimated to the applicant within 10 days. All municipalities including GHMC/HMDA are mandated to clear building applications within stipulated 21 days failing which the permission is deemed to have been approved. An automated certificate will be issued to the applicant with the signatures of relevant authorities, including the municipal commissioner and the town planning officer on behalf of the municipality concerned, to enable them to obtain bank loans or other financial assistance. The occupancy certificates also will be issued within 15 days upon submitting relevant documents, they explained. “Time is of the essence to the construction business and the government has considered our request. This will help to reduce human interference and bring transparency in issuing building permissions. Our role in the policy making was to study best practices across the country, research and discussions with the stakeholders. A single form is sufficient to obtain no objection certificates or NOCs across all departments,” said Mr. Rao. The Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act (TRLPP) and Dharani paves the way for registration and instantaneous mutation of agricultural lands by a Tahsildar and it will further benefit the sector. “The government has swiftly acted on the revenue side by making the right moves in making registration and mutation of properties easier. This along with TS-bPASS will help the real estate sector see massive surge in activity driving growth and employment generation,” observed Mr. Reddy. CREDAI-Hyd claimed TS has attracted investment over Rs. 1.96 lakh crore over the last five years with Rs. 5,950 crore across sectors coming in this year’s August alone due to the government policies. The city has already seen the highest number of launches for commercial real estate, backed by rapid absorption, hence “prospective buyers should pick up the flat/commercial space of their choice now before the rates rise”.  Highlights of TS-BPASS  TS-bPASS will procure clearances from various departments such as fire services, electricity boards, traffic and planning departments, through a single window. Acceptance of self-certification of buildings constructed up to ground plus one floor (G+1) on a plot area of under 675 sqft. Penalty on all departments for delaying clearance The facility would first be mainly applicable for residential properties
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC allows registration of AIMIM-Inquilab party||Justice Challa Kodanda Ram of Telangana High Court on Tuesday set aside the State Election Commission order rejecting the application for registration of All India Majlis-E-Inquilab-E-Millat party. The judge also directed the SEC to consider the party’s application afresh for registration. The SEC should also take into consideration the party’s willingness to add Inquilab to the party’s abbreviated name AIMIM-Inquilab, the order said. In an order issued on this April 13, the SEC had rejected the application of the party represented by its general secretary MA Quddus Ghori for the party’s registration. Initially, an application was sent to the Election Commission of India to register the party with the name ‘All India Majlis-Itehadul-Millat’. However, the ECI raised objection stating that there was a party with similar name in Telangana. Hence, the party founders gave five alternative names out of which the ECI approved the name of ‘All India Majlis-E-Inquilab-E-Millat’. Subsequently, an application was submitted to the SEC on October 7, 2019 for registration of the party to contest the elections to local bodies. They submitted to the SEC that they would not use the abbreviated name of AIMIM (which is similar to the All India Majlis-e-Itehadul Muslimeen) and would use the name of AIMIM-Inquilab. However, the SEC eventually rejected the application for registration of AIMIM-Inquilab stating that an objection was raised by AIMIM MLA Syed Ahmed Pasha Qadri. The latter contended that AIMIM-Inquilab was duplication of his party’s name. The party moved the HC stating that the SEC had taken a decision without giving an opportunity to represent its contentions. It also pointed out that there were examples of parties having similar abbreviated names being permitted for registration like Bharatiya Janalok Party (BJP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). When other political parties were registered with similar-sounding names (with necessary distinctions), there was no reason why such benefit should not be extended to the petitioner, the judge said in its order.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress surprised but says it is ‘well prepared’||Congress, although surprised by the release of GHMC election schedule, appears confident of a better performance than in the 2016 elections when it won just two seats. The party has strong reasons to believe it could improve its tally this time. One reason is that Malkajgiri Parliamentary constituency is represented by TPCC working president, A. Revanth Reddy and it has 48 GHMC divisions. Mr. Reddy won the constituency against all odds plugging a 3.75 lakh lead the TRS had in the 2018 Assembly elections, six months before Parliament elections. In fact, Mr. Revanth Reddy has done his exercise on the candidates selection a few months ago within his constituency realising it was the numbers that matter at the highest level to show his strength. Another constituency where the party polled significant votes in the Parliament elections is Chevella that has 24 divisions of GHMC. Congress candidate Konda Vishweshwer Reddy polled 5,13,831 votes as against 5,28,148 of TRS candidate Ranjit Reddy. Given the Congress support and that Mr. Vishweshwer Reddy is still active in the constituency, the party expects to gain a decent share this time too in the 24 divisions. However, the party looks quite weak in the 40 divisions in the Secunderabad constituency that was won by BJP candidate, G. Kishan Reddy, who is now a Union Minister. Congress candidate Anjan Yadav performed poorly, figuring at a distant third in the constituency that was once its stronghold. Even in the MLA elections it figured in the third position in several constituencies under Secunderabad. “We are way behind in Hyderabad Parliamentary constituency, that has about 35 divisions, as traditionally we have been supporting the MIM that is now siding with TRS,” a senior leader said, adding, “Our only hope are Malkajgiri and Chevella constituencies. We may finish with 20 seats.” Some Congress seniors have left the party further damaging any chance of putting up a good show. Former Mayor Banda Kartika Reddy along with her husband and TPCC leader Banda Chandra Reddy are set to join the BJP on Wednesday. But the enthusiasm is somewhat intact as the party has received about 300 applications from aspirants despite the application fee. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy announced in-charges for five Parliament constituencies that GHMC is spread into for finalising the candidates. “We will finalise candidates by Wednesday and give the B forms on Thursday,” he said, adding that the party is well-prepared.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MIM confident of retaining seats||With the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) polls scheduled to be conducted on December 1, All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) workers and sitting corporators have been submitting their nominations. The party is confident of retaining its seats. The party won 44 wards in the 2016 GHMC polls. Party workers on Tuesday unofficially said around 250 nomination forms filled by those hopeful of getting a ticket were submitted on Tuesday. Forms are being accepted till 12 noon on Wednesday by the party. “We were expecting a little more time. However, with the sudden announcement, and last day for filing nomination being Friday, things are moving faster,” said a party functionary. Party sources said as per practice, there would soon be daily padayatras by the Owaisi brothers with soon-to-be-announced-candidates, followed by public meetings in the evenings. At a recent event, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi said public meetings would be organised across assembly segments where the party would ‘speak a lot’ about those who accused it of splitting votes. A senior party functionary reiterated that the party would comfortably win seats in its strongholds, primarily comprising wards in Old City. He added that with an emaciated Congress and a ‘non-existent’ TDP, the party is likely to have a smooth sailing. He also dismissed claims that BJP, which won the recent Dubbak bypoll, would make inroads into AIMIM’s bastions. “BJP will create a lot of hype, but it will not meet with success. In any case, they cannot have a mayor. MIM will win from its areas. We do not see any issue,” he said. BJP in the last elections won Gowlipura, Ghansibazar and Begum Bazaar which are in Hyderabad Parliamentary constituency. Despite the senior party leadership — Asaduddin Owaisi and Akbaruddin Owaisi — urging voters to increase the polling percentage, the party does not seem to be worried about this aspect. “It is for the State Election Commission to inspire confidence among the voters. It is not just the MIM, all parties should increase polling percentages,” a senior party functionary said.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Public reaction muted, expectations low||Election to a civic body in the midst of a raging pandemic in a city battered by floods is hardly a space for rational thinking. But with just 13 days to go for voting, reaction to the announcement has been muted and the expectations are low. “We have got Rs. 9,000 as flood relief assistance till now. All we got are rations, some clothes and a few utensils. We haven’t seen any politician in our street. We don’t know if the elections will bring them here,” said Muhammad Asif, a resident of Kabgir Nagar who saw all his household goods destroyed during the October 14-15 flood. The area comes under the Falaknuma ward of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and was represented by K. Thara Bai of AIMIM. Many residents could not even remember the name the corporator, when asked by this reporter. The localised flooding in many parts of the city may play a key role. Hyderabad Urban Lab (HUL) mapped 29 locations where flood relief agencies worked. “I don’t think the flooding will play a role as relief money is being distributed. Property tax also has been cut which is a big thing,” said Anant Maringanti of HUL. On Tuesday, almost all MeeSeva Centres saw huge crowds as flood relief money was credited to the affected. “The biggest issues are that of water and sewage management. Floods caused great loss to us as a city and community. But once the dry spell hits, we will run from pillar to post for tanker booking,” said Haseeb Jafferi, who lives in Shaikpet area. “We need to reform the way we treat water and land. Land reforms and lakes restoration hold the key to solving this problem,” says Mr. Jafferi. For Jasmine Singh, an urban design professional, timing of the election is the key. “I hope all protocols are strictly followed for canvassing and voting, else we may end up in Delhi-like situation,” she warns. “The next five years should be to make Hyderabad a walkable city with wide, accessible shaded sidewalks and proper crossings,” adds Jasmine.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Studying the inequities in dealing with the pandemic||The Edinburgh Global Health Academy, a medical education arm of University of Edinburgh, has collaborated with Helping Hand Foundation, a city-based NGO, to understand the inequities in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. The Edinburgh Futures Institute and Global Health Academy is collaborating with different stakeholders, including public health experts, NGOs and the medical fraternity. The academy educators conducted tutorials for the undergraduate medical students from the live discussions through the video feeds on the health inequities encountered during the pandemic in some of the low-income countries. The video recordings of the online discussions with HHF were very well received by the undergraduate students at Edinburgh University who are completing a course on Global Challenges said Dr. Jenny Reid, Course lead and coordinator at Edinburgh Futures Institute and the Global Health Academy. He said that the university is collaborating with Royal College of Physicians, Edinburgh, Public Health experts in SE Asian Countries like Singapore and an NGO in Hyderabad, India to put together the module that will help the undergraduate students get a broad understanding on the inequalities in the COVID-19 pandemic, that will help them make informed choices about the future needs in public health policy in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic. “Students came up with lots of ideas in response to the tutorials,” said Professor Liz Grant, Head of Global Head Academy, Edinburgh University. “What was of interest to the medical educators at Edinburgh was the medical relief services like Home Isolation care which the NGO provided to over 5,000 patients and health services to the doorstep like provisioning O2 supplies, labs and medicines,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of Helping Hand Foundation.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shapoorji Pallonji starts work on new secretariat complex||Infrastructure development company Shapoorji Pallonji Group has started mobilising labour and material required for the construction of the new integrated secretariat complex. The company has entered into an agreement with the Roads and Buildings department late on Monday evening after completing formalities like furnishing bank guarantees (performance security) for undertaking the works. The agreement, according to the R&B officials, runs into around 2,000 pages incorporating in detail all the provisions mentioned in the tender document, including the one year timeline set for the completion of works in all respects. “It is like any other building contract agreement. There are no special features,” was how a senior official responded when asked about the salient features of the 2,000-page agreement. The one-year timeline for completion of the construction of the integrated complex in all respects started immediately and the company has to handover the complex to the government on November 16 next year. As the government has completed land levelling and other civic works before handing over the site to the contracting firm, Shapoorji Pallonji Group has started works on mobilisation of labour and material to the site to begin with. The company, as part of the agreement, has to establish concrete batching plant and put up labour camps while simultaneously mobilise construction material like cement, steel and sand in required quantities. Shapoorji Pallonji group bagged the contract outbidding L&T.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC refuses to hear poll-related pleas||Telangana High Court on Tuesday declined to hear a writ petition filed by BJP leader and former Hyderabad Deputy Mayor Subhash Chander Ji relating to rotation of reserved divisions in GHMC elections. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said it refused to pass any interim orders the previous day in a PIL petition with near similar content. The writ petition filed by the BJP leader was first heard by Justice A. Abhishek Reddy the previous day. The judge transferred the plea to the bench headed by the CJ. The petitioner’s lawyer B. Rachna Reddy requested the bench in the morning to urgently take up the matter as it pertained to GHMC elections. However, the bench declined to hear the matter. The bench declined to hear two more PIL pleas on the issues of reservation of divisions in GHMC.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||VRS to TRS will help remove LRS, says BJP||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party has appealed to the people of twin cities to support its party candidates in the GHMC polls to “remove LRS” as the TRS government was forced to reduce the property tax due to the Dubbak bypoll effect. Give ‘VRS to TRS’ by voting our candidates so that it will reduce corruption among the ruling combine corporators and make MLAs/Ministers focus on people’s issues,” said convenor of party election committee and national OBC president K. Laxman on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference flanked by chairman of the committee and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, he accused the government of advancing the polls without the present council not completing its term thereby making a mockery of democracy where even the voters list preparation is not complete. “This is because of fear of losing out to the BJP and to prevent debate on the “failures” in improving the city infrastructure, tardy 2BHK houses construction, unemployment and corruption of the TRS-MIM combine in the last five years. Post Dubbak victory, the political climate is favouring us and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is well aware of it so was in a tearing hurry in making his son K.T. Rama Rao announce “temporary sops” to lure the electorate,” he said. This was to cover up for the “mismanagement” of relief and rehabilitation during the recent floods and lack of empathy during the COVID-19 surge leaving common people at the mercy of corporate hospitals fleecing and keeping just one Gandhi Hospital open in the government sector, alleged the BJP leader. Mr. Kishan Reddy demanded the government to explain its contribution for the city’s development and people’s welfare. “The TRS government has totally failed in all basic aspects of good roads, drinking water and sewage as was exposed during recent floods when upto 20 lakh were affected. Its contribution towards public transport is zero,” he asserted. The BJP has been consulting with residential welfare associations, retired officials, intellectuals, voluntary organisations for a city manifesto is under preparation by former MP Vivek Venkataswamy, he added.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||OU-Western Australia varsity’s online lecture series takes off||A joint lecture series between Department of English, Osmania University (OU), and English and Cultural Studies, University of Western Australia (UWA) began online with a lecture on ‘Law, Literature, and Indigenous Recognition in Australia’ by Kieron Dolin. The professor articulated on the processes of giving land rights to the indigenous people of Australia and thoroughly looked into intersections between law and literature. He covered aspects relating to naturalisation of the Whites’ possession of the country originally inhabited by the indigenous populations, and also the emerging presence of the indigenous in the centrality of place in literature and arts. OU Registrar Gopal Reddy highlighted the enormous potential for collaborative academic and research work in the fields of literature and culture studies. Dean of Arts, OU, A Karunaker; C. Muralikrishna, English department head, OU; Y.L. Srinivas, chairman, Board of Studies- department of English and University of Western Australia (UWA) representatives Cynthia Vanden Driesen, Raymond da Silva Rosa and Anu Rammohan shared their views. The online meeting is perceived as a timely effort when in both India and Australia, many emerging fields of study under Literatures in English, Culture Studies, Arts, Humanities like Indigenous expressions, gender studies, women’s writing, critical thinking and creative writing have attracted the attention of scholars and academics.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to be hub for Mahindra’s new tractors||Mahindra & Mahindra will manufacture a new tractor series called the ‘K2’ exclusively at its tractor manufacturing plant in Zaheerabad, a decision translating into incremental investments of Rs. 100 crore on the facility. Also, it is expected to double employment at the plant by 2024. Result of collaboration between the engineering teams from Mitsubishi Mahindra Agricultural Machinery of Japan and Mahindra Research Valley, India, the K2 series is aimed to create a lightweight tractor programme for domestic and international markets, including the U.S. and Japan, a release from M&M’s Farm Equipment Sector said on Tuesday. The new series would enable Mahindra to introduce products across four new tractor platforms — sub-compact, compact, small utility and large utility tractor — covering 37 models across various horsepower (HP) points. Describing the K2 series development as one of the most ambitious tractor programmes of Mahindra, executive director, Automotive & Farm Equipment Sector Rajesh Jejurikar said the project is focused on diversity and scalability, to meet the expectations and different regional requirements of customers and markets across the world. “Our Zaheerabad facility, which has always received tremendous support from Telangana government is very well equipped to meet this challenge. We hope to substantially improve employment opportunities through this project,” he said. The Farm Equipment manufacturing unit has a capacity of over one lakh tractors per year on a two-shift basis and employed over 1,500 workers. Mahindra has invested nearly Rs. 1,087 crore on the Zaheerabad facility, the release said. Thanking Mahindra for the investment, Industries and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao said one of the remarkable features of Telangana’s investment landscape is a series of repeat investments by existing investors. The new investment by Mahindra is one such example and “goes on to show existing investors find the policy is working on the ground and the going to be good, leading them to invest continuously.” The release said the Zaheerabad plant is technologically advanced, with flexibility to roll-out over 330 different tractor variants ranging from 30 to 100 HP. Around 65% of its tractor production is being exported. The plant also makes Rice Transplanters and Tractor Mounted Combine Harvesters.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Heritage building partly damaged||Hyderabad woke up to the news of demolition of a portion attached to the heritage precinct of Asmangadh Palace in the Malakpet area. The heritage premises is being used by St Joseph’s Public School. “The heritage structure received Intach Award in 2004 for the upkeep and preservation. Today, I got this news. The state of preservation of heritage is really sad,” said Anuradha Reddy of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage after learning about the destruction. A bunch of images clicked by a neighbour in a high-rise began circulating in the morning. “Before & After pictures of the heritage structure that was used as a Primary School demolished this morning by St Joseph’s School authorities,” tweeted Mohammed Habib sharing the images of destruction. However, the iconic building of Asmangadh is intact. Built as a hunting lodge by Sir Asman Jah sometime in 1885, with finishing touches of Gothic elements, the building is a landmark as it is built on a small hillock and can be seen from a distance. The area and the school has seen huge changes from the time it was given an award in 2004. A new multi-storeyed block has been constructed on the southern side dwarfing the palatial structure. The building enjoys protection as it is a Grade-II B site under Hyderabad Urban Development Authority notification.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gandhi Hospital junior doctors call off strike||Gandhi Medical College junior doctors called off the strike on Tuesday after meeting Director of Medical Education (DME) Dr K Ramesh Reddy. They boycotted services from November 11 demanding non-COVID services to be resumed at Gandhi Hospital where only COVID-19 patients are admitted currently. Apart from the tertiary care hospitals, COVID-19 patients are admitted in Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS), District Hospital in King Koti, Chest Hospital, Erragadda. In other districts, the patients are admitted in District Hospitals and Area Hospitals. The DME on Tuesday issued orders further decentralising COVID-19 patient load. He directed superintendents of teaching hospitals to treat non-critical COVID cases in the respective hospitals, and only those patients who need tertiary care have to be referred to Gandhi Hospital.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three die in separate road accidents||A father-son duo died after the bike they were travelling on collided with a TSRTC bus in Yacharam here on Tuesday. The victims are T Ramesh (32), a daily wager and his father T Jangaiah (60) from Yacharam. “While trying to overtake another bike, Ramesh collided with the RTC bus coming in the opposite directions, as a result they died on the spot,” police said. Ramesh was not wearing a headgear. At LB Nagar, a teenager died and three others suffered injuries after a speeding car hit their bikes on a flyover. Uday Raj (18), a student from Fathenagar along with Durgam Anusha (20) was going to Sanghi Temple, Abdullapurmet, on their scooter. When they reached LB Nagar flyover around 12 noon, a speeding car hit their bike from behind and went on hitting another scooter. Uday Raj fell on the road below and suffered severe injuries and died.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NSE Academy set to acquire TalentSprint||NSE Academy, a wholly owned subsidiary of the National Stock Exchange (NSE), is acquiring Hyderabad-headquartered deep tech education firm TalentSprint. While specifics of the acquisition were not shared, in a release on Tuesday, sources said, to begin with, NSE Academy is picking up a majority stake and existing investors in TalentSprint, including Nexus Venture Partners, prominent angel investors and the National Skill Development Corporation, will exit. Over the next three years, NSE Academy will acquire 100% stake in TalentSprint. During this period, the management and founders of TalentSprint will continue and build the company to the next level using NSE’s blend and packing. Their shares will be bought out overtime, a source said. The release said TalentSprint augments NSE Academy’s objective to be the leader in the education segment with the aim of continuous life long learning from K12, university to executive level/corporate learning, not only in finance skills but also emerging technology areas such as AI, ML, fintech and Blockchain in the capital market and BFSI domain through online and offline modes. TalentSprint offers advanced certification programmes in emerging and deep technologies to aspiring and experienced professionals using a hybrid online/onsite model, in partnership with academic institutions and global corporations.  Tech-enabled NSE MD and CEO Vikram Limaye said as the BFSI industry becomes more tech enabled, it is imperative “we strengthen our expertise in the education space by adding new and emerging technologies. TalentSprint’s vision and portfolio offerings complement our growth ambitions in this space.” The acquisition comes at a time when there are six million working professionals in India in need of deep tech knowledge interventions and another 10 million college students waiting to enter the workforce with adequate future-proof skills. TalentSprint co-founder and CEO Santanu Paul said “we are delighted and privileged NSE Academy is entering the space of deep tech education with TalentSprint as its strategic partner.” NSE Academy CEO Abhilash Misra said the partnership creates unique possibilities within the professional education ecosystem.
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CP holds preparatory meeting||Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar held a preparatory meeting in view of upcoming GHMC elections at the Institute of Engineering Complex, Khairatabad, here on Tuesday.  He said that history sheeters are likely to create fear and conflict, so police should be alert to conduct peaceful elections. “Our goal is to see to it that the elections are held peacefully without any conflicts or riots. Special focus should be on history sheeters, as well as those who may create riots and those who do not follow the election rules,” Mr. Kumar said. “We have trained every police officer on how to shine during election times. We must pay special attention to non-bailable warrants and bound over cases,” he said, adding that individuals must surrender their weapons. Additional Commissioners of Police Shikha Goel, Anil Kumar, D.S. Chauhan and Joint CP (Special Branch) Tarun Joshi were among those who participated in the meeting.
18 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Bid to steal computers from libraray||Miscreants made a vain bid to steal computers from the District Central Library near Pavilion Grounds here around Monday night. The theft attempt came to the fore when the staff concerned found the lock of one of the rooms inside the library building broken on Tuesday morning. However, all the computers and other equipment were found intact. Miscreants attempted to shut down the power supply by removing fuses. Sources said that the in-charge of the library brought the matter to the notice of the local police on Tuesday.Following the incident proposal for appointing a watchman has come under the spotlight.
18 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||New electric scooter to hit markets on Dec. 1||PURE EV, a startup incubated at IIT-Hyderabad, is ready to launch its high-speed long-range model on December 1. The new model, Etrance Neo, offers offers a pick-up speed of 0 to 40 kmph in five seconds. Its 2,500 Wh-patented battery offers the vehicle a range performance of 120 km for a single charge in ‘Eco Mode’. The scooter chassis is designed for higher speeds at par with the conventional ICE (Internal Combustion Engine) two-wheelers. Etrance Neo will be launched at ex-showroom price of Rs. 75,999 and comes with a patented battery and in-house technical developments for BTMS (Battery thermal management systems), to ensure a long life and high performance. PURE EV, which raised funding in 2019 at a valuation of USD 35 million dollars, has a 70,000 sq.ft. factory with manufacturing capacity of 2,000 EVs per month and a Battery Production Capacity of 10 MWh per month. The startup has dealers in 100 locations across 20 Indian states and recently launched its products in Nepal, with more export markets targeted in the near future. “The new model has better aerodynamic features for additional improvements in power-train efficiency. The vehicle has faster pick-up and longer range. It is being launched mainly targeting youngsters who will find this model very appealing. We are targeting sales of 10,000 units of this model in the first year alone. The new model will be available first in Hyderabad and then at our outlets pan India from mid-December,” said PURE EV co-founder and CEO Rohit Vadera.
18 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Vasalamarri residents to get health cards||As part of the special services being extended to residents of Vasalamarri, the village adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, a free health camp sponsored by Yashoda Hospitals was organised at the village on Tuesday. Alair Legislator G. Sunitha and District Collector Anita Ramachandran inaugurated the camp and encouraged the residents to get a complete health profile test. Ms. Ramachandran said each resident would be offered medical tests, diagnostic services and medicine supply worth Rs. 10,000, for free, as part of the exercise. “We are preparing a health index, capturing all required indicators, for Vasalamarri. The residents will also be issued health cards, through which they can avail all the services online,” she said. Further, the comprehensive village survey was in progress, and department-wise reports and village blueprint would be ready by November 20. The report will be submitted to Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao, she said. The additional works being taken up at Vasalmarri would change the face of the village, Ms. Sunitha said. She participated in the health camp by undergoing tests, inspecting the medicine stock. The MLA urged the villagers to make the best of the opportunity. Officials said about 40 medical personnel from Yashoda Hospitals, Hyderabad participated in the free the health camp. DRDO and village special officer Upender Reddy and Vasalamarri sarpanch Pogula Anjaneyulu supervised.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Have to wait 4-5 hours to get plasma’||Many people who approached the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) to get plasma for their family members or friends infected by COVID-19 said that the process at the hospital was smooth but they had to spend about “four-five hours” to get the alleged life-saving fluid. They further said that finding a replacement donor to get plasma of required blood group from the ILBS proved to be difficult. Relatives of patients said that the government should step in and help them find replacement donors.  Delhi’s first convalescent plasma bank for COVID-19 was started at the government-run ILBS over four months ago and the institute has since then issued more than 3,000 units of plasma. If a person needs plasma for a friend or a family member who is suffering from COVID-19, then he/she has to find a replacement donor of any other blood group and approach ILBS for plasma of the required blood group. The person has to get approval from the hospital in which the patient is admitted for getting plasma from ILBS. After coming to the institute, the donor will be tested and can donate only if he has the required level of antibodies, even if he meets all other criteria. Around 1 p.m. on Tuesday, Kapil Israni, 44, was waiting near the emergency ward of ILBS with a white insulated box in his hands while his sister was busy on a call. “We were struggling to find a donor and may have just got one,” he said, referring to the phone call his sister was on. Mr. Israni’s sister’s mother-in-law is admitted at a city hospital and they have come to get a second unit of plasma for her. “The process is not bad here, they are very helpful. But finding replacement donors is difficult. We are still lucky as my cousin works at a hospital and she helped us.” The box was to carry blood samples of the patient to ILBS and also take back the plasma. Dheeraj Gureja, 40, from Ghaziabad, who was sitting on a raised platform outside the emergency ward said that he has been waiting for about two and a half hours and the process has to be made quicker. “I have come from Ghaziabad and my father is in the ICU. There should be more counters to manage the process here and more manpower too,” he said. Others also said that the process was smooth but it was time consuming. ‘Few voluntary donors’ “Many times, people come to us for plasma of rare blood groups such as AB, which is difficult as our stocks are also not so high. Voluntary donations are very low and its mostly replacement donors that come to us. For every 30-40 replacement donors, there are only 2-5 voluntary donors,” ILBS director S.K. Sarin told The Hindu . Voluntary donors are people who donate plasma without the requirement of plasma of another blood group for a patient. When asked about the wait time of about five hours at ILBS to get plasma, Dr. Sarin said: “First, we test the donor's blood for diseases. Then we test his blood for antibodies (against COVID-19). That is why the process takes time.” Though conditions say a replacement donor is needed to get plasma, Mr. Israni said that they had got the first plasma unit for the patient from ILBS without a replacement donor, after giving an undertaking that they will bring a donor later on. “Today, we have come for a second unit of plasma and we are trying to arrange two donors as we have given an undertaking,” he said.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital breathes easy after weeks of toxic air||After days of “severe” and “very poor” air pollution, the air quality of Delhi improved to the “moderate” category on Tuesday, the best in more than one and a half months, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of Noida also got better and came to the ‘moderate’ category, while that of Gurugram continued to be in the ‘poor’ category. In a related development, AAP leader Atishi on Tuesday said that “criminal negligence cases” should be filed against Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana. “Due to criminal negligence of Chief Ministers of Punjab and Haryana, the people of Delhi NCR have been suffering for the last 1.5 months from pollution due to stubble burning. Criminal negligence cases should be filed against both the CMs,” Ms. Atishi said. The air quality index of Delhi was 171 on Tuesday, better than 221 on Monday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 204 and 178 respectively. The last time the air quality of Delhi was better than Tuesday’s was on October 1, when the AQI was 152. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good’’, 51 and 100 “satisfactory’’, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. Ms. Atishi said that the pollution due to stubble burning has further weakened the lungs of the people already affected due to COVID-19. “Due to reduction in stubble burning incidents in the last two days, Delhi is witnessing cleaner air and lower pollution,” she said. Pollutant dispersion “The overall air quality of Delhi is in the ‘moderate’ category as of today morning. Surface winds are west-southwesterly and energetic, very favorable for pollutant dispersion. Rainfall along with stronger winds under the influence of western disturbance helped to clean the build-up of pollution in the Indo-Gangetic plain,” said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research) in a statement. The AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and stay in the ‘moderate’ to the ‘poor’ category on Wednesday. “The AQI is forecasted to further deteriorate to the higher end of ‘poor’ to lower end of ‘very poor’ category on November 19 and 20,” SAFAR said. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring states to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 3% on Tuesday.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU conducts webinar for PG aspirants||The Delhi University’s admission branch conducted a webinar on Tuesday for postgraduate aspirants on the admission process, which is set to begin from Wednesday. Urging students to not visit colleges or the university campus, DU officials said that admission to 52 out of a total of 74 courses will begin from November 18. Admissions to the other courses will begin as and when DU releases respective results for the corresponding undergraduate courses. “All applicants whose final-year results have been declared by the university must update their marks on their dashboard,” said officials. “Students have to upload the marks by the date specified by DU. For those who haven’t received marks, they will have to upload an undertaking stating that they understand that admission will be cancelled if they don’t meet the basic criteria as specified by the university,” added Dean of Admissions Shobai Bagai. Grievance form Officials said that a grievance form will also be made available on the online portal for aspirants. “We are aware of the challenges posed by the pandemic. We would like to reassure our applicants that we are looking into all issues so that no meritorious student is left out of the admission process. We will try and accommodate all concerns,” Ms. Bagai said. DU has also specified that admissions to MA psychology and MA English courses have been kept on hold as final-year results have not yet been declared by the university for these subjects. Ms. Bagai added that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, interviews and viva voce will also not be held this year expect at St. Stephen’s College.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Daily infections drop as testing dips||Delhi recorded 6,396 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total to 4,95,598, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The daily cases are lower than recorded over the past few days as only 49,031 tests were done in the past 24 hours— much less compared to last week, when daily tests were as high as 64,000. The death toll has reached 7,812, with 99 more fatalities recorded in 24 hours. Of the total cases, 4,45,782 people have recovered and there are now 42,004 active cases. Also, out of the total 16,889 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 55.07% are now occupied. About 89.7% of ICU beds with ventilators were occupied by Tuesday night and 87.5% of the ICU beds without ventilators were full, said the government. Many hospitals, including GTB and Deen Dayal Upadhyay, did not have a single ICU bed with or without ventilators. Meanwhile, the government will start a door-to-door survey from November 20 in areas where the cases are high, said officials. The move comes after Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting on Sunday and gave a set of directions to tackle surge in cases in Delhi. An official order on the survey, however, was not issued till Tuesday evening by the Delhi government. “Directions have been given to start the survey. Thermal scanning of all people living in areas where cases are high will be done so that people with symptoms can be tested and isolated,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . During the survey, the residents will also be required to answer a questionnaire, the official added.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Find out what happened to missing circus animals during inspection’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to find out what happened to the circus animals which were missing when inspection was carried out at circuses across the country. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar said it was surprised by the huge gap in the number of animals found by the AWBI, as against those registered with it, when inspection was carried out. The court said that out of 740 animals registered with AWBI, information is available regarding only 28. This, the court said, was a serious issue as it inquired about the rest of the animals. It also sought an explanation on why the Board inspected only 19 out of the 28 circuses in the country. The court direction came after the Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation (FIAPO) said, according to the survey report filed by AWBI, that around 740 circus animals were registered with it, but in the survey only 28 were found. Exact data The counsel appearing for the federation submitted that many circuses have closed down as per the information received from AWBI, and hence it is important to know how many circuses are functioning as on date. The court’s direction came while hearing two separate petitions filed by FIAPO and People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India seeking directions for protection of animals in circuses due to the pandemic. PETA India has claimed that due to the pandemic outbreak and the lockdown, circuses are finding it difficult to feed the animals who are at various stages of starvation. PETA has also sought a direction to the Centre to immediately notify the Performing Animals (Registration) Amendment Rules of 2018, which expressly prohibit training and exhibition of performing animals in circuses and “mobile entertainment facilities”. FIAPO has challenged the Performing Animal Rules, 1973 and Performing Animal (Registration) Rules, 2001 to the extent that they allow registration of animals as ‘performing animals’ for circuses as against the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Constitution of India. Their plea stated that on account of the pandemic, there have been numerous reports of animals being stranded or abandoned.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||New virtual hearing rules for lower courts in Delhi||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday tightened the rules on videoconferencing hearing, which has become the norm since the outbreak of the pandemic, for its subordinate courts in the Capital. The High Court notified that if an advocate or litigant stays away from virtual proceedings after being intimated that the case would be taken up on a particular date, the district courts are free to proceed with the case depending on the urgency and other attending circumstances. Earlier, there was an embargo on the district courts from passing any adverse order in non-urgent or routine matters when the advocate or litigant is unable to join the proceedings through videoconferencing. Technical acquaintance The earlier rules were placed since many lawyers and litigants were not technologically acquainted with the videoconferencing form of hearing, which was introduced as the preferred form of court hearing to decongest court complexes after the outbreak.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man beaten to death by stepsons||A 45-year-old man was beaten to death allegedly by his stepsons and their accomplices following a quarrel in Sangam Vihar, the police said on Tuesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the victim has been identified as Ajay Tiwari who was attacked by his stepsons — Raman (22) and Omprakash (24) along with their accomplices Yogesh (26), Neeraj Gupta (26) and Arjun Solanki (20) on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. While the four have been arrested, efforts are being made to arrest Raman, the police said. According to the police, Ajay and his stepsons often quarrelled following his marriage with their widowed mother in 2007. The police said that Ajay was taken to AIIMS after being thrashed where he was declared brought dead. A case was registered under sections of the IPC, Mr. Thakur said. Ajay’s sister allegedly told the police that he and his stepchildren often had minor quarrels over his drinking habits and on that day too, they had a quarrel. Later, around 10 p.m., the accused came and beat the victim up.
18 November 2020||Mumbai,||No relief for power consumers: govt.||Contrary to its earlier claims, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Tuesday clarified that it would not be able to extend any concessions in power bills. Domestic consumers in Maharashtra have been complaining of inflated electricity bills during the lockdown period. State Power Minister Nitin Raut said, “Mahavitaran (the State government company) is also a consumer. It buys electricity from different sources and provides it to consumers. At present, the corporation has a debt of over Rs. 69,000 crore and we cannot go further down. We did try to extend benefits to the affected consumers for which we approached the Centre, but no help came our way.” Mr. Raut had earlier said that the MVA government was in the process of extending Deepavali gift to the people of Maharashtra, hinting concessions in power bills. “We had sought financial aid from the Centre. But we were told to take loan with interest rates of 9% to 10%. We already have a burden of massive debt and we cannot have more,” he pointed out. The minister said that the bills sent to consumers would have to be paid. “We have given an option of paying those bills in instalments,” he said. The Opposition was quick to react. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar said he would be introducing a breach of privilege motion against the minister. “The minister had earlier assured of a relief package. He had even said that the matter was discussed in a State Cabinet meeting and a proposal regarding the same had also been prepared. But today’s statement from the minister is nothing but backstabbing people’s trust,” he said.
18 November 2020||Mumbai,||Cong. to submit petition against farm laws||The Maharashtra Congress on Tuesday said that it would not allow the farm Bills to be implemented in the State. The party has collected 60 lakh signatures from farmers, agricultural labourers, and workers opposing the laws, which will be sent to Delhi. “We will not allow the laws that destroy the green revolution brought by Indira Gandhi to be implemented in the State. The present BJP government has continuously worked to weaken the farmers and the agricultural systems of the country. The State government will soon take a call,” State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said. A petition against the laws along with the 60 lakh signatures will be handed over to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and on November 19, they along with signatures from farmers across the country will be presented to President Ram Nath Kovind. H.K. Patil, State in-charge of the party, said that these 60 lakh signatures showed farmers’ opposition.
18 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Used hand gloves case: Kochi hospital says key accused was not its employee||Two months after the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch, probing the used hand gloves case, arrested the main accused, Dheeraj Rishikeshan (28), supervisor of waste management of the Kochi-based Amritha Institute of Medical Science and Research Centre, the hospital claimed that Mr. Rishikeshan was not an employee, but a devotee. The police had written to the hospital seeking details of employment of Mr. Rishikeshan and about others from the hospital who were associated with him. “We had sent two letters. The hospital finally responded stating that Mr. Rishikeshan was not their employee but a devotee of ‘Amma’. The hospital said that they had no idea how he was disposing of the used gloves which he used to collect from the hospital,” assistant police inspector Rahul Rakh from the Crime Branch said. Meanwhile, Mr. Rishikeshan told the police that he was the waste management supervisor with the hospital. He also said that he was not aware that used gloves were being recycled, as he was made to believe by the other accused who took the gloves from him that they would be used for making rubber chappals. On August 18, as per the information received by Mr. Rakh, the Crime Branch Unit I seized around four tonnes of used hand gloves at a unit in Gami Industrial Park, Pawane MIDC, Navi Mumabi, which were being washed and repacked for selling them further. In the raid, Prashant Ashok Surve (38), a resident of Belapur, who ran the unit, was arrested. Mr. Surve led the police to Vipul Shah (52) from Malad, and Nazeem Khan (30), who ran a godown in Bhiwandi.
18 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Nine including Goa policeman held for running Ponzi scheme||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has recently arrested nine people, including a Goa policeman, for allegedly running a Ponzi investment scheme in Mumbai and Navi Mumbai. The nine were picked up from an investment seminar organised at a five-star hotel on November 15. The accused have been identified as Anand Tole, Pradip Maurya, Bhupendra Morada, Vinayak More, Raviprakash Gherade, Anand Sapkal, Anil Bhoir, and Milkeram Prajapati, all from Thane district, and Goa traffic constable Satish Maji. The nine were the core committee members of Smart Vision Products India Pvt. Ltd. which had an office in Bhandup. The company’s CMD Salil Gauss and directors Pratiksha Mote and Rashmi Hiranandani are still at large. According to the police, the accused had started the company around three years ago and took several seminars promising people huge returns in lesser time. “The accused told people that if they invested Rs. 13,000, the company would take Rs. 3,000 while the remaining amount would be used in a multi-level marketing programme. Hence, with an investment of Rs. 13,000, one could get Rs. 1 lakh in return within one-and-a-half months using the investor’s referrals. During the lockdown, the company shut its business and there was no sign of the accused,” Amar Desai, senior police inspector, Crime Branch Unit I, said. One Rajaram Gholap (58) from Sanpada registered a police complaint on November 15 after he got to know that the same accused had started a new firm named Richhood Club and were to conduct a seminar at a five-star hotel. A team from the APMC police station along with senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar from the central unit of the Crime Branch and Mr. Desai raided the hotel and nabbed the accused.
18 November 2020||Pune,||Pawar cancels tour after Khadse quarantines self||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday temporarily called off his two-day tour of north Maharashtra after former Maharashtra minister Eknath Khadse, who recently joined the NCP, quarantined himself after his daughter, Rohini, tested positive for COVID-19. This was to be Mr. Pawar’s first visit to the region after Mr. Khadse, hitherto an influential force in the BJP, switched his political colours following months of disenchantment with the saffron party. According to sources, Mr. Pawar was due to visit Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts on November 20 and 21 to strengthen the party in the northern part of the State in the wake of Mr. Khadse’s defection. A rumoured meeting with Mr. Khadse in his stronghold in Muktainagar was also on the cards. The much-anticipated tour was considered to be of significant political importance, given that Mr. Khadse was working to get several of his supporters into the NCP fold. “As my Covid-19 test has returned positive, I have been admitted to a hospital as a precautionary measure. However, my health is perfectly fine,” Ms. Khadse tweeted earlier. Khadse denied ticket Mr. Khadse had been denied a ticket for contesting from Muktainagar – his bastion — for the 2019 Assembly polls. Instead, the BJP brass had given ticket to his daughter. However, following her defeat in the election, Mr. Khadse has been vocal about his disenchantment with the BJP. Since the conclusion of the Assembly polls, a schism had emerged within the State BJP leadership, with the brass fearing a possible intra-party revolt by its notable OBC leaders led by Mr. Khadse, former ministers Pankaja Munde and Prakash Mehta, and other leaders who were either denied ticket or suffered upset defeats in the election. Meanwhile, senior BJP leader and former Union minister Jaysingrao Gaikwad Patil resigned from the party on Tuesday for being reportedly sidelined by the State BJP brass despite having served at both the Centre and the State government. The Aurangabad-based Mr. Gaikwad, who wields influence in the Marathwada region, sent his resignation letter to the State BJP president Chandrakant Patil in the morning.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Devotees’ delight||
18 November 2020||Washington,||Trump sought options for attacking Iran nuclear site||President Donald Trump asked senior advisers in an Oval Office meeting on Thursday whether he had options to take action against Iran’s main nuclear site in the coming weeks. The meeting occurred a day after international inspectors reported a significant increase in the country’s stockpile of nuclear material, four current and former U.S. officials said on Monday. A range of senior advisers dissuaded the President from moving ahead with a military strike. The advisers — including Vice-President Mike Pence; Secretary of State Mike Pompeo; Christopher C. Miller, the acting Defense Secretary; and Gen. Mark A. Milley, chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — warned that a strike against Iran’s facilities could easily escalate into a broader conflict in the last weeks of Mr. Trump’s presidency. Natanz on the radar Any strike — whether by missile or cyber — would almost certainly be focused on Natanz, where the International Atomic Energy Agency reported on Wednesday that Iran’s uranium stockpile was now 12 times larger than permitted under the nuclear accord that Mr. Trump abandoned in 2018. The agency also noted that Iran had not allowed it access to another suspected site where there was evidence of past nuclear activity. Mr. Trump asked his top national security aides what options were available and how to respond, officials said. After Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Milley described the potential risks of military escalation, officials left the meeting believing a missile attack inside Iran was off the table, according to administration officials with knowledge of the meeting. Mr. Trump might still be looking at ways to strike Iranian assets and allies, including militias in Iraq, officials said. A smaller group of national security aides had met late Wednesday to discuss Iran, the day before the meeting with the President. White House officials did not respond to requests for comment. The episode underscored how Mr.Trump still faces an array of global threats in his final weeks in office. A strike on Iran may not play well to his base, which is largely opposed to a deeper American conflict in West Asia, but it could poison relations with Tehran so that it would be much harder for President-elect Joe Biden to revive the 2015 Iran nuclear accord, as he has promised to do. Since Mr. Trump dismissed Defense Secretary Mark T. Esper and other top Pentagon aides last week, Defense Department and other national security officials have privately expressed worries that the President might initiate operations, whether overt or secret, against Iran or other adversaries at the end of his term. The events of the past few days are not the first time that Iran policy has emerged in the final days of a departing administration. During the last days of the Bush administration in 2008, Israeli officials, concerned that the incoming Obama administration would seek to block it from striking Iran’s nuclear facilities, sought bunker-busting bombs, bombers and intelligence assistance from the U.S. for an Israeli-led strike. Cyber options Vice-President Dick Cheney later wrote in his memoir that he supported the idea. President George W. Bush did not, but the result was a far closer collaboration with Israel on a cyberstrike against the Natanz facility, which took out about 1,000 of Iran’s nuclear centrifuges. Ever since, the Pentagon has revised its strike plans multiple times. It now has traditional military as well as cyber options, and some that combine the two. Some involve direct action by Israel. The report from the IAEA concluded that Iran now had a stockpile of more than 2,442 kg, or more than 5,385 pounds, of low-enriched uranium. That is enough to produce about two nuclear weapons, according to an analysis of the report by the Institute for Science and International Security. But it would require several months of additional processing to enrich the uranium to bomb-grade material, meaning that Iran would not be close to a bomb until late spring at the earliest — well after Mr. Trump would have left office.Ny times
18 November 2020||Washington,||‘Will work with democracies on trade to counter China’||Joe Biden’s economic and trade policies, outlined by him for the first time since he became U.S. President-elect, appeared to blend some themes from President Donald Trump’s ‘America First’ policy with some traditional pre-Trump American multilateralism. Mr. Biden, speaking with reporters on Monday, said America would work with other democracies on international trade to ensure China does not set the rules of the game. However, he also said government contracts would not go to companies making their products abroad. Responding to a question on whether America would join the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), an Asia-Pacific trade deal signed last week by 15 countries, including China, Mr. Biden said he had told several world leaders that he could not get into detail until he becomes President but signalled a multilateral approach to trade to counter China. Set the rules “I’ve talked with a number of world leaders and told them under the law I’m not able to begin to discuss with them, there’s only one President at a time,” Mr. Biden told reporters in Wilmington, Delaware, following a discussion he and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris had held with union and business leaders. “But here’s what I can say. We make up 25% of the world’s trading capacity, of the economy of the world. We need to be aligned with the other democracies — another 25% or more so we can set the rules of the road instead of having China and others dictate outcomes because they are the only game in town,” he said. Mr. Biden said he had told some world leaders that three things would happen under his administration’s trade policy. “One, we’re going to invest in American workers and make them more competitive. Number two, we’re going to make sure that labour is at the table and environmentalists are at the table in any trade deals we make and I’m not looking for punitive trade... the idea that we are poking our finger in the eyes of our friends and embracing autocrats makes no sense to me.” He said he had a “pretty thorough plan” that he would be prepared to announce on January 21. Earlier in his remarks, Mr. Biden had specified that no government contracts would be awarded to companies that do not make their products domestically. “From autos to stockpiles... we’re going to buy American. No government contract will be given to companies that don’t make their products here in America.” Mr. Biden also warned of severe consequences due to the coronavirus pandemic if President Trump — who is yet to concede the election and provide Mr. Biden with official transition support — continues to stonewall the transition process. ‘Lives at risk’ “More people may die if we don’t coordinate,” he said. Waiting till January 20 would delay things by 1-1.5 months,” he said. More than 247,000 people have died of the virus and some 11.3 million have been infected in the country. Mr. Biden said getting a vaccine and vaccination [ i.e., mass administration of the vaccine] were two different things and called for access to the Trump administration’s vaccine distribution plan. He said the county was heading into a “very dark winter” and urged Congress to pass a COVID-19 relief package along the lines of what the House of Representatives had passed earlier this year.
18 November 2020||Bangkok,||41 injured as pro-democracy activists clash with Thai police||The Thai police on Tuesday fired water cannon and tear gas on pro-democracy protesters trying to reach Parliament, where lawmakers were debating possible changes to the military-scripted Constitution. Eighteen people were injured in clashes as protesters inched closer to Parliament, in the latest round of demonstrations demanding reform to the Thai constitution, monarchy, and for the current Prime Minister to quit. As night fell, protesters and the police were locked in a tense stand-off at the main gates of the Parliament building. “Stop accusing us of violating the law, you (police) are violating the law by hurting people,” prominent student leader Parit “Penguin” Chiwarak said through a megaphone from a truck. “We are fighting for a better future of our country and for everyone so don’t fire water cannon on us.”  Student-led rallies have rocked Thailand since July, demanding the removal of Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha -- who took power in a 2014 coup -- and reform of the military-scripted constitution. Some have also called for reforms to the monarchy, sending shockwaves through the Thai establishment.
18 November 2020||Washington,||‘Elements in Pak. military had Qaeda links’||Barack Obama has said he had ruled out involving Pakistan in the raid on Osama bin Laden’s hideout because it was an “open secret” that certain elements inside Pakistan’s military, and especially its intelligence services, maintained links to the Taliban and perhaps even the Al Qaeda, sometimes using them as strategic assets against Afghanistan and India. Giving a blow-by-blow account of the Abbottabad raid by American commandos that killed the world’s most wanted terrorist on May 2, 2011 in his latest book A Promised Land , the former U.S. President said the top secret operation was opposed by the then Defense Secretary Robert Gates and his former Vice-President Joe Biden, who is now the President-elect. In the book that hit the stands globally on Tuesday, America’s first Black President described the various options of killing bin Laden once it became increasingly clear that the elusive al-Qaeda chief was living in a safe hideout on the outskirts of a Pakistani military cantonment in Abbottabad. “Based on what I’d heard, I decided we had enough information to begin developing options for an attack on the compound. While the CIA team continued to work on identifying the Pacer, I asked Tom Donilon and John Brennan to explore what a raid would look like,” Mr. Obama writes in his memoir. “The need for secrecy added to the challenge; if even the slightest hint of our lead on bin Laden leaked, we knew our opportunity would be lost,” he said. “We had one other constraint: Whatever option we chose could not involve the Pakistanis,” he wrote. Strategic asset “Although Pakistan’s government cooperated with us on a host of counterterrorism operations and provided a vital supply path for our forces in Afghanistan, it was an open secret that certain elements inside the country’s military, and especially its intelligence services, maintained links to the Taliban and perhaps even al-Qaeda, sometimes using them as strategic assets to ensure that the Afghan government remained weak and unable to align itself with Pakistan’s number one rival, India,” Mr. Obama revealed.
18 November 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka to open up Chinese-backed ‘port city’||A mega Chinese real-estate development in Sri Lanka will open early next year offering tax concessions to attract investors and revive the struggling economy, the government said on Tuesday in its first budget. Colombo Port City — a $1.4 billion land reclamation project beside the capital’s port which started in 2014 — has doubled the size of Sri Lanka’s current financial district. The development — the largest single foreign investment in Sri Lanka so far — is one of several massive Asian infrastructure projects funded by China as Beijing increases its footprint in the region. “I expect to present to Parliament a new legal framework conducive to promote commercial services and investment in this Special Economic Zone in January,” Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who is also the Finance Minister, told Parliament in his budget address. He said the Port City — an area of 269 hectares reclaimed from the Indian Ocean — will offer tax concessions to attract trade, banking and foreign exchange transactions. He did not give further details. Mr. Rajapaksa also said Sri Lanka will aim to cut its fiscal deficit to 4% over the medium-term, without specifying an exact time period, from the 9% foreseen in 2021. “This is a development budget presented to elevate an economy that has been shattered,” he said.
18 November 2020||London,||Johnson raises ire over remarks on Scotland||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has inflamed Scottish discontent with his Conservative government by reportedly saying that giving governing powers to Scotland had been a “disaster.” Mr. Johnson reportedly made the remarks during a video meeting with Conservative Party lawmakers on Monday evening, in which he also said Scottish devolution had been former Prime Minister Tony Blair’s “biggest mistake.” Scotland has an Edinburgh-based government and Parliament, set up in 1999, with broad powers in areas including health and education. Wales and Northern Ireland also have their own legislatures and regional administrations. Mr. Johnson’s office did not deny he made the comments. But it said he was not criticising devolution, only its use “by separatists and nationalists to break up the U.K.”. “The PM has always supported devolution,” Downing St. said in a statement. The Scottish National Party, which wants Scotland to become an independent country, leads the government in Edinburgh. It is strongly critical of the decision to leave the European Union. Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon tweeted that Mr. Johnson’s remarks showed his government was “a threat to the powers of the Scottish Parliament.” “The only way to protect & strengthen ScotParl is with independence,” she said.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||With over 300 tweets, Trump attacked poll integrity||President Donald Trump has posted more than 300 tweets attacking the integrity of the 2020 election since election night, unleashing a cascade of false and misleading claims. Just hours after polls closed on November 3, Mr. Trump began sowing mistrust in the vote counting process, as he tweeted ominously about “surprise ballot dumps,” “finding Biden votes” and “miraculously” disappearing leads. What he was describing was simply vote counting. Election officials warned for months that counting ballots might take days or even weeks to complete, given the prevalence of absentee ballots this year. Mr. Trump has repeatedly and falsely claimed to have “won” the election or predicted that he will win after recounts in Georgia and Arizona and lawsuit verdicts. In reality, he has virtually no chance of winning, given the large margins held by President-elect Joe Biden in those States. About two dozen of Trump’s tweets included broad allegations of “widespread voter fraud,” “illegal votes” and “a stolen election.” Election officials across the country toldThe New York Timesthat there was no evidence that irregularities affected the outcome of the election. In a few instances, the President gave specific examples of what he suggested amounted to fraud, but those claims lacked context, were disputed or were flat-out wrong. He claimed that military ballots in Georgia were “missing.” They were not, according to election officials.NY TIMES
18 November 2020||Brussels,||‘Price of hasty Afghan pull-out could be high’||A hasty pullout of U.S. and allied troops from Afghanistan could see the country become a “platform for international terrorists” again, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg warned on Tuesday. His blunt message, given in a statement, was in response to reports that U.S. President Donald Trump is planning to accelerate the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan, where they support a NATO mission, and from Iraq. “The price for leaving too soon or in an uncoordinated way could be very high,” Mr. Stoltenberg said. “Afghanistan risks becoming once again a platform for international terrorists to plan and organise attacks on our homelands. And ISIS (the Islamic State group) could rebuild in Afghanistan the terror caliphate it lost in Syria and Iraq,” he said. The warning was unprecedented criticism by Mr. Stoltenberg of a decision by Mr. Trump. Up to now, the NATO secretary general has been careful to not publicly contest statements by Mr. Trump relating to the Alliance. But after his defeat in the U.S. elections, Mr. Trump — who remains in power until January 20 next year — fired his Defense Secretary Mark Esper, replacing him with Christopher Miller, who said last weekend of American troops in conflicts abroad: “It’s time to come home.”
18 November 2020||Washington,||Washington, Nov 17, 2020 (AFP) -||Twitter chief Jack Dorsey said in remarks prepared for a Senate hearing on Tuesday that the social network’s filtering during the U.S. election campaign was not a sign of bias, despite claims to the contrary by President Donald Trump and Conservatives. “In the lead up to the 2020 elections, we made significant enhancements to our policies to protect the integrity of the election,” Mr. Dorsey said in his written remarks, obtained by AFP. “We applied labels to add context and limit the risk of harmful election misinformation spreading without important context because the public told us they wanted us to take these steps.”AFP
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Under Biden, security empathy, liberal antipathy||After telephonic conversations with a few European leaders last week, U.S. President-elect Joe Biden told the media, “I’m letting them know that America is back. We’re going to be back in the game.” Mr. Biden has signalled that he will revert to the traditional norms and patterns of American foreign policy and, more so, its diplomacy. The abrasive turbulence of the Donald Trump era will give way to calmer and predictable American policies and postures as Mr. Biden will seek to re-establish, in large measure, American involvement in the critical issues of our times. Like Mr. Trump, he will manage China’s aggressive rise but in a sober diplomatic style. What New Delhi can expect How will Mr. Biden impact Indian interests? In particular, how will India handle what can be anticipated to become a strand in Mr. Biden’s, the Democratic Party’s and the American liberal community’s agenda, namely, an emphasis on civil and human rights and freedoms? Specifically, will the Narendra Modi 2.0 government continue to ignore, as it did last year, the concerns expressed in American liberal circles about some of its decisions? Or, will it in the wake of Mr. Biden’s victory, purposefully engage this opinion? There is no doubt that there is bipartisan support for the Indian-American partnership; it is based on a congruence of interests especially in the security and economic spheres. Mr. Biden is part of the American consensus supporting a deepening of bilateral ties in these areas. India’s political and security elites have shed their inhibitions of a closer relationship with America. China’s actions since April this year along the Line of Actual Control have strengthened the case of India-America defence and security cooperation. India’s signing of all the foundational agreements and its full participation in the Quad did not attract domestic criticism; this would not have been so in the past. It can also be expected that bilateral trade and immigration issues will positively move ahead from an Indian viewpoint under a Biden administration. It is ironic that at a time when Indian and American interests are becoming increasingly congruent in the security sphere, there is a growing perception among American liberals that India is moving away from its foundational moorings. In the earlier eras, while the security interests of the two countries diverged, the American system acknowledged a commonality in national values. India’s democratic order was held as a good example for emulation by the developing world. India then had the empathy of the liberals while there was antipathy in sections of the American establishment dealing with security. Now, the opposite may happen. The Obama phase The Narendra Modi 1.0 government dealt with the Obama administration for the first half of its term and the very different Trump administration in the latter half. Reflecting the American interest in India adhering to its commitment to the values of freedom, including religious, and equality, Mr. Obama laid emphasis on these aspects in his Siri Fort address on January 27, 2015 (https://bit.ly/2KaYRGx). He said, “Our nations are strongest when we see that we are all God’s children — all equal in His eyes and worthy of His love.” He went on to recall, “Our freedom of religion is written into our founding documents.” The context of these remarks was obviously some incidents of lynching that had occurred in the name of cow protection. The Narendra Modi government did not really react to Mr. Obama’s words. Security, economy for Trump The Trump administration was not concerned about human rights not only during the Narendara Modi 1.0 government but also after Modi 2.0 began. It focused on the security and economic spheres though its officials made a few ineffectual noises on the administrative steps taken after the constitutional changes in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) on August 5, 2019. It largely and correctly implied that the constitutional changes were within India’s domestic jurisdiction. However, some members of the Democratic Party and the liberal sections of the American media were deeply concerned with the detentions and other steps taken by the government to ensure peace in J&K. These concerns grew with the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Secure in the support of the Trump administration, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar decided to ignore the more trenchant critics of the government’s decisions on J&K. This included Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal who is of Indian origin and is a left of centre Democratic party member from Washington state. She had introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives criticising the administrative steps taken in J&K after August 5 last year. Mr. Jaishankar said that he was not interested in meeting her and went to the extent of cancelling a meeting with the leaders of the House Foreign Relations committee because Ms. Jayapal would have been present at the meeting. Significantly, the U.S. Vice-President-elect, Kamala Harris, defended Ms. Jayapal and tweeted that she stood with her. Rights issues on the horizon The refusal to not engage American critics of the government’s decisions on J&K and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act because they had ‘closed minds’ was also reflected in Mr. Jaishankar’s comment to a well-known Indian commentator on foreign policy on the lack of diligence in the reporting of “really top line publications” on these issues (https://bit.ly/3kFnAPO). Mr. Jaishankar also asserted, “My reputation is not decided by a newspaper in New York.” It may not be as easy under the Biden dispensation to ignore American liberal opinion as it was during the Trump years. They will bring a degree of pressure to bear on the administration to more vigorously pursue the issues of rights including minority rights with the Modi government. The Biden administration will no doubt be partially responsive to these pressures and some lecturing can be expected. Will the Modi government, on its part, continue to ignore the likes of Ms. Jayapal especially because of the certainty that on account of the Chinese challenge to world order, India-U.S. cooperation in security and defence will not slow down? The question though is should an Indian government abandon the path of engagement with foreign critics even if they are prejudiced? The disengagement policy being pursued with Pakistan is valid because dialogue with a country which uses terrorism as a part of its security doctrine should be unacceptable. But American liberals do not promote violence. Should not correct perspectives be provided to even biased critics among them? Of course, it is only for the Indian people and government to take sovereign decisions, and while doing so, reject any and all intrusiveness. But such rejection is also best done through engaging critics. Reaching out It is sad that Mr. Jaishankar’s interlocutor did not probe him on his ideas regarding what he would like India’s reputation to be. Also, on the values and systems that have gone into the making of India’s reputation. The Sangh Parivar puts a premium on India being recognised as Jagadguru. The Modi government has sought to spread India’s soft power with some success. The path to recognition as a guru for India lies through becoming a strong but humane state and achieving the constitutional aspiration of an inclusive and just society. Indeed, these objectives animate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of sabkasaath , sabkavikas , sabkavishwas not only for the country but the world. Indian diplomacy must realise that it cannot promote these ideas without engaging the country’s foreign critics even those with seemingly closed minds. And is not opening closed minds the ultimate test of diplomacy? Vivek Katju is a retired member of the Indian Foreign Service
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Shifting sands for Asian economies||Discussions on the post-pandemic global economy have often predicted that China’s appeal as a business destination would fade, losing favour as the global manufacturing hub. Arguments have been made that production would be dispersed to other appealing locations mostly in Asia, and even to those outside. It was expected that this relocation of production would benefit emerging labour-abundant economies. The reality, however, is more nuanced. Some labour-intensive industries, such as textiles and apparels, have been moving to Bangladesh and Sri Lanka as labour costs in China are increasing. But trends in other industries show that businesses have mostly remained in China. China’s importance Yossi Sheffi, professor at the the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an expert in systems optimisation and supply chain management, points out in a recent article that the combination of the trade war and the COVID-19 crisis has resulted in firms establishing relatively small-scale operations elsewhere. This is perceived as a buffer against being completely dependent on China, referred to as the ‘China +1’ strategy. There are three reasons for firms to remain in China and pursue this strategy: First, starting an enterprise and maintaining operations in China are much easier than elsewhere. Second, Chinese firms are nimble and fast, which is evident from the quick recovery of Chinese manufacturing after the lockdown. Third, many global companies have spent decades building supply chains in China. Hence, getting out would mean moving the entire ecosystem, which involves time and expenditure. This strategy of global firms has led to an intensification of competition among Asian economies to be that ‘plus one’ in the emerging manufacturing landscape. In 1968, Swedish Nobel laureate Gunnar Myrdal published the monumental ‘Asian Drama – An Inquiry into the Poverty of Nations’, which, focusing on South and Southeast Asia, was pessimistic about their development prospects. Half a century later, there has been remarkable growth in the very region in which ‘Asian Drama’ was set. Openness and trade exploded, and these newly industrialised economies rode the wave of exporting goods to the rest of the world, while raising their own levels of living. A new ‘Asian Drama’ is likely to unfold with the formal launch of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP). Asia’s growth would hinge on the role of trade and investment flows into these economies, and this would again be the centrepiece of global growth, as the 15 member countries account for nearly 30% of the global GDP. This largest free trade agreement in the world includes provision to cover the entire gamut of trade and commerce. Unlike the portrayal in ‘Asian Drama’, these economies have spruced up their institutional and infrastructural settings, which would be the deciding factor in the new edition of ‘Asian Drama’. A host of challenges The RCEP and the ‘China +1 strategy’ is likely to impact investment flows into Vietnam, India, Bangladesh and Indonesia, which have emerged as key investment destinations. India faces three challenges in this race. First is the task of increasing domestic public investments, which have a central role in economic activity, for both demand and supply sides. According to the International Monetary Fund, “increasing public investment by 1% of GDP could boost GDP by 2.7%, private investment by 10%, and employment by 1.2%, if investments are of high quality and if existing public and private debt burdens do not weaken the response of the private sector.” In India, even before the pandemic, the growth in domestic investments had been weak, and this seems to be the opportune time to bolster public investments as interest rates are low globally and savings are available. Private investments would continue to be depressed, due to the uncertainty on the future economic outlook, which underscores the need to undertake high-quality public investments. Second, India needs a major overhaul in her trade policy, as in the pre-COVID-19 era, world trade had been rattled by tendencies of rising economic nationalism and unilateralism leading to the return of protectionist policies. A revamped trade policy needs to take into cognisance the possibility of two effects of the RCEP: the ‘Walmart effect’ and a ‘switching effect’. The first would sustain demand for basic products and help in keeping employee productivity at an optimum level, but may also reduce wages and competition due to sourcing from multiple vendors at competitive rates. Switching effects would be an outcome of developed economies scouting for new sources to fulfil import demands, which requires firms to be nimble and competitive. Trade policy has to recognise the pitfalls of the present two-track mode, one for firms operating in the ‘free trade enclaves’ and another for the rest. A major fallout of this ‘policy dualism’ is the dampening of export diversification. The challenge is to make exporting activity more attractive for all firms in the economy. Third is to increase women’s participation in the labour force. While India’s GDP has grown by around 6% to 7% per year on an average  in the recent years, educational levels of women have risen, and fertility rates have fallen, women’s labour force participation rate has fallen from 42.7% in 2004–05 to 23.3% in 2017–18. This means that three out of four Indian women are neither working nor seeking paid work. Globally, India ranks among the bottom ten countries in terms of women’s workforce participation. When Bangladesh’s GDP grew at an average rate of 5.5% during 1991 and 2017, women’s participation in the labour force increased from 24% to 36%. India could gain hugely if barriers to women’s participation in the workforce are removed, for which the manufacturing sector should create labour-intensive jobs that rural and semi-urban women are qualified for. A new approach India’s approach to the changed scenario needs to be well-calibrated. The intensity of competition is evident from the fact that after India passed three labour code Bills on September 23, Indonesian Parliament on October 5 passed a legislation that slashes regulations contained in more than 70 separate existing laws, to open up the country to more foreign investment. Bangladesh on its part plans to start negotiations with a dozen countries, including the U.S. and Canada, for signing preferential trade agreements. Thus, the stage is set for a new ‘Asian Drama’. What will be India’s role in it? Well, it will not be on the basis of past accolades, for sure. M. Suresh Babu is Professor of Economics at IIT, Madras
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Changing the discourse on victim jurisprudence||With the state firmly planted in the driver’s seat, the engine of our criminal justice system runs full throttle in the name of justice; but on-boards only the accused and the functionaries. The primary victims — mere witnesses in the eyes of the law — are side-lined and left to their own resources. The victims, for no fault of their own, are frequently left without remedy where the institutions geared towards securing justice to them fail to deliver. Any reform in criminal laws would be incomplete without accounting for these concerns. While several steps have been taken to come up with remedies, progress has been piecemeal and marked by judicial initiative rather than legislative enterprise. While the Supreme Court has led the movement for recognition of victim rights to access to justice, compensation and assistance, little has changed in terms of both the black letter of the law and the ground realities. There is an overwhelming need to re-conceptualise the institutions of our criminal justice system to account for victims both at the pre- and post-crime levels. As opposed to post-crime mitigation and rehabilitation, a pre-crime conceptualisation of victimisation is geared towards prevention. Crime prevention is an oft-cited but least studied aspect of our criminal justice system. Examination of crime-prevention from the victim’s perspective is even rarer. Among other methods, situational crime prevention through risk-mapping and vulnerability-mapping stands out in terms of viability and efficacy. A truly effective criminal justice system can identify potential victims and to put measures to protect them in place — before the incidence of crime itself. Capacity building and effective implementation are key to such endeavours. Victim’s rights and needs In a post-crime scenario, however, there is a need to shed the image of the victim as a mere witness and to institutionally recognise their rights and requirements. The same thing can be achieved through a legislative recognition of the following points. First, the conceptualisation of access to justice for victims requires viewing such access less in terms of Directive Principles of State Policy under Article 39A, and more as a fundamental right under Articles 14 and 21. There is an urgent need to strengthen the complaint mechanism for non-registration of FIR u/s. 154(3) Code of Criminal Procedure, and extension of Section 166A(c) in the Indian Penal Code to all cognisable offences. Further, access to justice also requires the creation of victim-friendly procedures that are aimed at reducing their inconvenience. Second, it is imperative to recognise the need for effective victim participation. Currently, the victims and their counsels are entitled to extremely limited participation. In line with the global trend, there is a need to recognise the right of victims to be heard at all appropriate stages of a trial. Victim Impact Statements can help accord this right. Moreover, substantive access to justice also requires access to legal aid. Such legal aid has the potential to culminate in effective victim participation if provided to the victim from the stage of reporting to the stage of sentencing and appeal. Right to information Third, such legal aid to victims is also imperative for fruition of their right to information. The right to information, in turn, enables their access to all other rights. Ergo, victims must be entitled to information regarding their role in the criminal justice process, what they can expect from the criminal justice system, status of the trial,and also their other rights and entitlements as a victim of crime. Fourth, the right to information can also go a long way in securing the right to protection. The victim must be kept abreast of all developments in the trial process which may potentially compromise their security. This would require intimation of the victim in connection with any hearing changing the nature of the accused’s custody including his release on bail or parole. The framework for such intimation is already available to specific victims in Section15A of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Other measures for witness protection such as relocation and change in identity, as provided for in the Witness Protection Scheme, too need to be reviewed and enforced effectively. Fifth, the concept of assistance as envisaged in the 1985 UN Declaration of Basic Principles of Justice for Victims of Crime and Abuse of Power needs to be recognised as a right, not merely for victims of rape and acid attack, but for all victims of crime in general. The state must play the role of a facilitator in providing to the victims all such assistance as is necessary — medical, psychological, financial and material. The same would require institutional capacity building, through ramping up of infrastructure such as one-stop centres, training of existing functionaries, and by engaging with and promoting the non-governmental organisations involved in providing such assistance to victims. Compensation and restitution Sixth, the right to compensation, recognised to a limited extent under our current laws, is lacking in many respects. Primarily, the political will for its enforcement at a state level has been found to be wanting. Additionally, the Victim Compensation Scheme provided for under Section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure must be revitalised by revising it in terms of accessibility and adequacy. Finally, the right to restitution must be separated from the right to compensation. Both terms have been used inter-changeably in our criminal justice system, leading to a large degree of confusion. But if the scheme of the 1985 Declaration is adopted, restitution can be differentiated from compensation in that the first right is enforceable against the accused while the second right is enforceable against the state. In this sense, the right to restitution is already present to some extent in Section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, but has been mis-termed as ‘compensation’. Section 357 provides that where the court imposes a sentence of fine, the court may use the same, in whole or in part, for paying compensation for any loss or injury. The Supreme Court has repeated that the provision should be used liberally. The same must be made mandatory wherever appropriate. The global discourse on victim jurisprudence has now matured enough to be incorporated directly into our laws. In his seminal piece, Herbert L. Packer stressed that a criminal justice system focuses on two values — of crime control and due process. But in line with Douglas E. Beloof’s addendum to Packer’s models, there is a need to introduce a third value — victim participation. Without such a value, the aim of justice will remain unfulfilled; always just a little out of reach. G.S. Bajpai is a Professor and Chairperson of the Centre for Criminology and Victimology at the National Law University Delhi, where Ankit Kaushik is a Research Associate. The views expressed are personal
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||T-cell immunity and COVID-19||Our immune system responds to virus infections with a first-line defence called ‘innate’ immunity, followed by the second-line called ‘adaptive’ immunity. Innate immunity is like first aid — an immediate response, not strong enough to prevent pathology if the virus is highly virulent or the ‘inoculum’(infecting virus load) is heavy. Innate immunity then passes the baton to adaptive immunity, which takes several days to develop and become effective. Adaptive immunity has two arms — antibodies and T-cell immunity. Antibodies are protein molecules that recognise and bind to viral antigens. Some among them tend to neutralise viruses from infecting fresh host cells. Some viruses then adopt other mechanisms to infect host cells, and that is when T-cell immunity may come to the rescue. In most viral infections, the presence of antibodies in the blood is sufficient to classify individuals as immune. But unlike them, antibodies for COVID-19 wane fairly soon. In persons with asymptomatic infections or mild COVID-19, nearly half will have no detectable antibodies after two months. This phenomenon of short-lived antibodies and consequent re-infection is also seen in some other respiratory tract viruses. Generally, re-infections are mild or asymptomatic, presumably due to protection afforded by T-cell immunity. Does disappearance of antibodies for the COVID-19-causing virus mean that protection after one infection does not last? Knowing that reinfection with symptoms has so far been proven in only about ten cases among millions infected, protective immunity after the first infection is probably durable. The observed protection in the face of non-detectable antibodies highlights the need to study T-cell immunity. More long-lasting In COVID-19 infection, T-cell immunity is more long-lasting than antibodies. It resides in a subset of white blood cells called T-lymphocytes, or T cells. However, the test for assessing T-cell immunity is complicated and expensive. Researchers from CardiffUniversity have come up with a simplified and rapid T-cell immunity test, called ‘T- SPOT test’, that can be done in many laboratories. Serial evaluation of T-cell immunity can help determine its durability after vaccination. Therefore, it is no surprise that vaccine trials have started testing for T-cell immunity too. In a recent study from Karolinska Institute, there were many surprises. About 25% of blood donors in 2019, prior to the outbreak of COVID-19 infection in Sweden, had T-cell immunity against it. This increased to 50% in 2020 after the pandemic had entered the country. These observations imply that prior exposure to some other coronavirus(es) had evoked “cross-reacting” T-cell immunity towards the COVID-19 coronavirus. In the same study, many contacts of proven COVID-19 patients had T-cell immunity, even though antibodies were undetectable. This indicates that in those exposed to the COVID-19 virus, T-cell immunity occurs even without a detectable antibody response. The Karolinska investigators found that the immune T cells had ‘stem-cell’ like characteristics — indicating their long-term survival and potential of quick multiplication. A study from Birmingham confirmed that in COVID-19, T-cell immunity is durable and lasts for more than six months. Four coronaviruses causing common cold are widely prevalent in human communities. Two of them are Beta-coronaviruses, the phylogenetic group to which the COVID-19 coronavirus belongs. The prevalence of cross-reacting T-cell immunity from the common cold coronaviruses is likely to vary from country to country, depending partly on population density and the frequency of recurrent viral infections of the respiratory tract. Countries with high population densities, where such infections spread quickly, may be expected to have a higher proportion of the population exposed to them. This may explain the relatively lower impact of COVID-19 (in terms of number of cases and deaths per million population) in countries like India and many low-income countries. Obviously, T-cell immunity is a better and more durable marker than antibodies of past infection for this novel virus. If India’s vaccination policy, when made, recommends that vaccines may be conserved for priority use for non-immune subjects, then, a rapid T-cell immunity test, such as the one developed in Cardiff, will be better than antibody tests. Therefore, developing simple and rapid assays for T-cell immunity should be a priority for Indian scientists to work on, quickly. Those with T-cell immunity may need no vaccine, or only a single dose of a two-dose vaccine regimen. Dr. M.S. Seshadri retired as Professor of Medicine and Clinical Endocrinology, Christian Medical College (CMC). Dr. T. Jacob John retired as Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Constitutional fault lines||The Governor of Tamil Nadu (T.N.), Banwarilal Purohit, has continued to withhold his decision on an application seeking pardon filed by A.G. Perarivalan, one of the seven prisoners convicted in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. In September 2018, the Supreme Court (SC) had observed, while hearing a connected writ petition, that the Governor should take a decision. A subsequent resolution passed by the Council of Ministers in favour of releasing all seven prisoners had rendered the matterfait accompli. The inaction by the Governor now has given rise to constitutional fault lines within the Executive arm of the government. A five-judge Bench of the Supreme Court in Maru Ram v. Union of India (1981) held that the pardoning power “under Articles 72 and 161 of the Constitution can be exercised by the Central and the State Governments, not by the President or Governor on their own.” In that case, Justice V.R. Krishna Iyer, speaking for the majority judgment, reiterated that the “advice of the appropriate Government binds the Head of the State”. Therefore, a Governor is neither expected, nor is empowered, to test the constitutionality of the order or resolution presented to her. That is a power reserved exclusively for constitutional courts of the country. Past judgments Only recently, the Supreme Court, had examined the inordinate delay by constitutional authorities — the President and the Governor — in taking decisions on mercy petitions. The Supreme Court, in the case of Shatrugan Chouhan v. Union of India , laid down the principle of “presumption of dehumanising effect of such delay”. Taking cognisance of undue delay in the cases of the petitioners who were incarcerated prisoners, the Supreme Court confirmed that the due process guaranteed under Article 21 was available to each and every prisoner “till his last breath”. The Supreme Court had exercised its powers under Article 32 of the Constitution to commute the death sentences of 15 convicts and essentially interfered when an inordinate delay to perform a constitutional function was brought to its notice. For long, Governors, like Speakers, considered themselves to be unanswerable for their actions. However, the apex court has clarified that constitutional functionaries are not exempt from judicial scrutiny. In the recent case of Keisham Meghachandra Singh v. Hon’ble Speaker (2020) ,  the Supreme Court was asked to examine the Speaker’s inaction with regard to disqualification proceedings. It was hitherto believed that the powers of the Speaker, holding a constitutional office and exercising powers granted under the Constitution, were beyond the scope of a ‘writ of mandamus’. However, the apex court, recalling an earlier judgment in Rajendra Singh Rana v. Swami Prasad Maurya (2007) ,  had confirmed its view that the “failure on the part of the Speaker to decide the application seeking a disqualification cannot be said to be merely in the realm of procedure” and that it “goes against the very constitutional scheme of adjudication contemplated by the Tenth Schedule”. Consequently, breaking years of convention, the SC, in the Keisham Meghachandra Singh case issued a judicial direction to the Speaker to decide the disqualification petitions within a period of four weeks. By doing so, the Supreme Court has indicated that it would only exercise caution when it comes to providing injunctions in quia timet actions, but would not be precluded from issuing directions in aid of a constitutional authority “arriving at a prompt decision”. In the present case, there has been a substantial delay at the hands of the Governor. The fifteenth Legislative Assembly of Tamil Nadu and consequently, the Council of Ministers, will end in May, 2021. This calls for the immediate interference of the Supreme Court, for it otherwise would render the resolution passed by the Council of Ministers and words contained in Article 161 of the Constitution meaningless. The author is an advocate and spokesperson for the DMK
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Shot in the arm||Close on the heels of the multinational, Pfizer, announcing promising results from its ongoing phase-3 trial of a potential COVID-19 vaccine, Moderna, the U.S.-based biotechnology firm, has indicated similar news from human trials (again phase 3) of its m-RNA vaccine. An analysis of 95 of the nearly 30,000 volunteers — they are exclusively from the United States — who tested positive, revealed that 90 had only got a placebo and five the double-vaccine shots. This led to the vaccine being declared as ‘94.5% effective’ and well past the U.S. FDA’s requirement that a potential vaccine must be at least 50% effective. Encouragingly, the company also said that 11 volunteers manifested moderate to severe disease and all of them were those who did not get the real vaccine. This is a sign that the vaccine is successful in its primary job of protection though its efficacy at curbing disease transmission is still to be evaluated. The results were announced as a company news release and not in a scientific journal, implying that a review by independent experts is pending. Moderna’s results, like Pfizer’s, are a boost for a new approach to vaccine design. The m-RNA class of vaccines are a synthetic construction of a piece of genetic machinery that viruses need to replicate. There are twin advantages. No physical part of a virus is introduced, reducing the odds of adverse reactions, and the number of doses can be quickly scaled up as they do not need mammalian cells. The cons are that such vaccines have never been commercially produced and require sub-zero refrigeration facilities, which is a rarity in most of the world. In the case of Moderna, there is more optimism as the company claimed that the vaccine was able to survive for 30 days — and not the supposed seven — in a refrigerator and could last 12 hours at room temperature. Its vaccine is primarily for the U.S. However, this vaccine, unlike Pfizer’s, was developed with support from the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations and other global alliances. Under this arrangement, member-countries, and this includes India, are in line to get a minimum number of doses, however few, to cover a fraction of their population on priority basis. Moderna says it can ready 20 million doses by the year end. By late next year, this can be ramped up to the billions but by then it is expected that several more vaccines that are in large trials, including those in India, will be available. India does not stand to directly and immediately gain significantly from Moderna. However, every vaccine candidate that passes a significant hoop is a win for the world as it opens the way to new practices and ways of applying science that would have been otherwise implausible in the pre-pandemic world.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Fragile ceasefire||The six-week-long war over Nagorno-Karabakh has come to a halt following a Russian-brokered ceasefire agreement between Armenia and Azerbaijan, but only after altering the balance of power in the region. Before Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev went to war in late September, Nagorno-Karabakh and its surrounding villages connecting the enclave with mainland Armenia were controlled by either Armenian troops or their proxies. Armenia had captured the mountainous region within Azerbaijan — populated by ethnic Armenians — in the earlier war in the 1990s. But tensions continued even after the 1994 ceasefire. When he launched the offensive, Mr. Aliyev, backed by Turkey, vowed to capture Nagorno-Karabakh. Last week, when the ceasefire was announced, Azeri troops had captured several areas around Nagorno-Karabakh from Armenia, including the strategic Shusha, a city just 16 km from Nagorno-Karabakh’s capital, Stepanakert. If Armenia was seen as the victor in the 1991-94 war, Mr. Aliyev has claimed triumph this time. On the other side, Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan is facing a political backlash. Yerevan has seen protests against the troops’ withdrawal, Foreign Minister Zohrab Mnatsakanyan has quit over the ceasefire and the country’s President has asked Mr. Pashinyan to resign and hold a snap election. Even if the direct conflict was between Armenia and Azerbaijan, two bigger powers had high stakes — Russia and Turkey. While Turkey strongly supported Azerbaijan, reportedly with armed drones and military advisers, Russia, which has a security agreement with Armenia, tried to remain neutral. While Azerbaijan made military progress, Russia resisted calls to back Armenia and continued with its push to bring the conflict in its backyard to an end, which it managed to do, finally. Vladimir Putin is the only signatory to the agreement besides the leaders of Armenia and Azerbaijan. While Armenia was forced to pull back from several villages and Shusha, it avoided defeat in Nagorno-Karabakh. Russia would send 2,000 peacekeepers to protect the remaining Armenian population and patrol the corridor that links the enclave with the Armenian mainland. While the ceasefire has reinforced Russia’s influence in the region, the war itself pointed to its declining clout in its backyard. Turkey did not only help Azerbaijan fight a war against Moscow’s wishes but also made sure that the Azeris prevailed in the conflict. So now, there is a triumphant Azerbaijan, a wounded Armenia, a cautious Russia and an ambitious Turkey, with a fragile truce over an unresolved dispute. For peace to prevail, Armenia and Azerbaijan must find a lasting settlement to the status of Nagorno-Karabakh. The ceasefire in 1994 did not resolve the conflict. And unlike 1994, when Russia was the only big power, now, the South Caucasus is open for contest between Russia and Turkey, which makes the crisis even more dangerous.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Swatantra Party ends alliance with DMK||The Swatantra Party has broken away from the electoral alliance it had entered into with the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam at the time of the last general elections. Mr. C. Rajagopalachari, founder-leader of the Swatantra Party, has said that his party had to break away from the D.M.K. on account of the latter’s resolve to support the “Indira Congress-cum-communist regime”. Commenting on this, the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, Mr. M. Karunanidhi, said to-day [November 17] that just as Dronacharya had all his affection and sympathy for the Pandavas though he was fighting them from the side of Kauravas in the Kurukshetra war, he expected that the D.M.K. would have the sympathy and affection of Rajaji – even though he had gone to the other side. Mr. Rajagopalachari has asked his partymen not to support the D.M.K. in the elections to 10 municipalities coming off next month, but to back the party candidates and those of the Congress (0) wherever they oppose the D.M.K., the new Congress and the C.P.I.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||ONGC doubles down on capex to make up for COVID-19 delays||ONGC on Tuesday said capital expenditure during the current fiscal is likely to be close to the Rs. 32,500-crore target as it is redoubling efforts to make up for the time lost due to the pandemic. On an investor call, Oil and Natural Gas Corp. (ONGC) Director (Finance) Subhash Kumar said the COVID-19 outbreak and the global restrictions that followed had disrupted the supply chain, hitting project implementation. Oil and gas exploration and production projects are highly dependent on foreign vendors for the supply of equipment and services. Also, facilities like rigs are operated by foreign crews. Resumption to aid However, with the gradual resumption of economic activity globally, ONGC is hopeful of making up for the lost time, Mr. Kumar said. “We had in April-May recalibrated capex spending to Rs. 26,000 crore on the assumption of a long-drawn impact of the pandemic on economic activity. But with things opening up, we will be able to achieve spending of close to Rs. 32,000 crore... maybe Rs. 29,000 crore to Rs. 30,000 crore or Rs. 32,000 crore,” he said. India’s top oil and gas producer had budgeted Rs. 32,501 crore of capital expenditure for the year to March 2021.  PSU capex as stimulus The government is looking at increased public spending to give a boost to the pandemic-hit economy. It is pushing public sector companies to not just meet the stated capital expenditure targets but even go beyond them. On the outlook for coming quarters, Mr. Kumar said “the worst is behind and things will improve”.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Cities need a reset as pandemic exposed frailties’||The pandemic had exposed the vulnerabilities of cities that served as the world’s growth engines till now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, calling for a post-COVID-19 change in protocols, similar in scale to the post-war rebuilding efforts, to develop more sustainable and resilient cities. “Many cities around the world declared themselves on the brink of the worst economic downturn since the Great Depression. The very things which represented living in a city, are facing a question mark. Things like community gatherings, sports activities, education and recreation are not the same as before. The biggest question before the entire world is how to restart,” Mr. Modi said, in an address to the Bloomberg New Economy Forum. Mindset reset Stressing that the restart would not be possible without a reset of mindsets, processes and practices, he said the historic reconstruction efforts after the two World Wars offered several lessons. “Post the World Wars, the entire world worked on a new world order, new protocols were developed and the world changed itself,” he said, adding that COVID-19 had provided a similar opportunity to develop new approaches in every field. Making a pitch to rejuvenate cities that were now home to half the world’s population, Mr. Modi said urban development should focus on ensuring better housing and work environment as well as shorter and efficient travel options for citizens. “During the lockdown, many cities saw cleaner lakes and rivers as well as cleaner air, so many of us saw the chirping of birds not heard before. Can we not build sustainable cities where this is the norm and not the exception? It has been our endeavour in India to build urban centres which have the amenities of a city but the spirit of village,” he said.  Tech versus travel  Referring to the government’s decision to simplify norms for technology and knowledge-based tech businesses, Mr. Modi said this would allow people to work from home or anywhere. “In today’s age, empowering people to work from anywhere, to live anywhere, to plug into global supply chains from anywhere is an absolute necessity,” he said. While the use of videoconferencing had helped him hold many more meetings, it also posed an interesting question for the post-COVID-19 world. “Will we continue with the learnings of COVID times like videoconferencing or will we travel across continents to participate in a conference? Reducing stress on urban systems will depend on our choices,” he noted. Inviting investors to consider the ‘exciting opportunities’ in urbanisation, mobility, innovation and sustainable solutions, Mr. Modi said India was set to achieve its target to build 1,000 km of metro lines and provide 10 million urban housing units by 2022.
18 November 2020||COIMBATORE,||Sugar mills in three States begin production||Sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka have started production for the current sugar season — from October 2020 to September 2021 — having produced 14.1 lakh tonnes till November 15. The Indian Sugar Mills’ Association said in a release that 274 mills in Uttar Pradesh, 117 sugar mills in Maharashtra and 49 units in Karnataka had started operations so far this season. Only about 4.84 lakh tonnes of sugar had been produced by the mills in the year-earlier period. With an estimated production of 310 lakh tonnes this year, India is expected to have another surplus season and will have to export 60 lakh to 70 lakh tonnes of sugar, the association said. Ethanol supplied between December last year and November 9 this year stood at 160.23 crore litres. For 2020-2021, the total requirement as per the tender floated by oil firms was about 457.64 crore litres. This indicated that about 20 lakh tonnes of sugar would be diverted for ethanol production from B heavy molasses and sugarcane juices, it added.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Goldman sees narrower GDP contraction of 10.3%||Goldman Sachs has revised upwards its estimate for India’s GDP this year to a 10.3% contraction from a 14.8% contraction projected earlier, and expects the economy to grow by as much as 13% in 2021-22, higher than other forecasts made so far. The financial services firm’s projections are driven by expectations of broad-based availability of an effective vaccine in India that could allow containment policies and mobility to normalise by mid-2022. This would allow activity to rebound in consumer-facing sectors that continue to languish significantly below pre-COVID activity levels, it said. “The pace of the rebound will be restrained by some economic scarring and ... factors including a weak labour market, the hit to private sector incomes and balance sheets, tighter credit supply conditions and a limited impetus from fiscal policy,” Goldman Sachs’ Economics Research team said in its latest macro outlook report released on Tuesday. “Overall, we expect real GDP growth to rebound to 13% in FY22 (above consensus expectations of 10.9%), after an expected -10.3% contraction in FY21,” it added.
18 November 2020||Chennai,||RBI moots DBS takeover as LVB faces moratorium||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Tuesday proposed a draft scheme of amalgamation that entails the Indian unit of Singapore’s DBS Bank taking over the capital-starved Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), within hours of the Centre imposing a one-month moratorium on the Karur-based lender that temporarily capped withdrawals at Rs. 25,000. The moratorium commenced with effect from the close of business on November 17. The RBI also superseded the private lender’s board in order to protect the depositors’ interest following a “serious deterioration” in the bank’s financial position and appointed T. N. Manoharan, a former Non Executive Chairman of Canara Bank, as Administrator. Observing that DBS Bank India Ltd. (DBIL) was ‘well capitalised’, the RBI said, “it will bring in additional capital of Rs. 2,500 crore upfront, to support credit growth of the merged entity”. “The Reserve Bank assures the depositors of the bank that their interest will be fully protected and there is no need to panic,” it said.
18 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Dutch unit sale’s proceeds to help cut debt: Tata Steel||The proceeds from the sale of Tata Steel Europe’s Netherlands plant to SSAB of Sweden will go towards reduction of debt, the steelmaker said on Tuesday. The due diligence would be completed in two months following which the transaction value would be known, the top brass of Tata Steel said. The deal would further strengthen the company’s balance sheet. Currently, Tata Steel Europe has a consolidated long term debt of €1.7 billion, they said. The 7.5-million tonne per annum plant in the Netherlands is being separated from Tata Steel U.K. to facilitate the sale. The Netherlands unit does not have any material debt, Koushik Chatterjee, ED and CFO, Tata Steel, said. This year, Tata Steel has already reduced debt by Rs. 8,000 crore and efforts are on to pare more debt. The company has a target to reduce debt by $1 billion every year. T.V. Narendran, CEO and MD, said Tata Steel had been improving its performance quarter by quarter and the next two quarters in India would be better than the previous quarters.
18 November 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Barely 1% may opt for RBI’s debt recast’||Confirming a trend reported by commercial banks, a study by Crisil indicated that there would be few takers for the one-time COVID-19 debt restructuring offered by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to help stressed companies and lenders to tide over the crisis. Improving business sentiment and the ongoing, gradual recovery has minimised the need to avail of the facility, according to Crisil. It said about 99% of companies (excluding MSMEs) rated by it are unlikely to opt for the RBI’s one-time-debt-restructuring announced on August 6. This is as per a preliminary analysis of 3,523 such non-MSME companies.
18 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Embassy REIT enters realty deal for $1.3 bn||Embassy REIT, a publicly listed REIT, on Tuesday announced it has agreed to purchase Embassy TechVillage’s assets from affiliates of Embassy Sponsor, Blackstone Sponsor and other selling shareholders for a total consideration of Rs. 9,782.4 crore ($1.3 billion), subject to regulatory approvals. Embassy REIT is exercising its right under the rights of first offer (ROFO) agreement to acquire the realty asset. The acquisition comprises 6.1 million sq. ft of completed area, 3.1 mmsf of under-construction area, of which 36% is pre-leased to JP Morgan, and two proposed 518-keys Hilton hotels within the overall ETV campus.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||ADB allocates USD 20 mn to help developing members access vaccines for COVID-19||The Asian Development Bank (ADB) on Tuesday said it had allocated $20.3 million in aid to developing member countries to access COVID-19 vaccines and establish systems to enable equitable vaccine distribution. The technical assistance will also support identification and promotion of innovative cold chain and vaccine-tracking technologies. In April, ADB had approved a $20-billion package to support members’ COVID-19 response.pti
18 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Pfizer moves US court against Aurobindo Pharma, Dr Reddy’s on cancer drug||Pfizer Inc. and its group companies have filed a petition in a U.S. court against Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. and Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories alleging that the Indian drug makers were planning separately to come out with generic versions of its blockbuster multi-billion dollar drug Ibrance (palbociclib) before expiration of its patent.
18 November 2020||TOKYO,||‘Athletes won’t be forced to get vaccinated’||International Olympic Committee (IOC) president Thomas Bach said on Tuesday that athletes would not be forced to get COVID-19 vaccinations ahead of the Tokyo Olympics, but added they should as a “demonstration of solidarity” with the Japanese. Bach visited the Athletes' Village on Tuesday before concluding his two-day Tokyo trip with a visit to the National Stadium. “We will encourage athletes that whenever possible they have the vaccination because it is better for their health, and it is also a demonstration of solidarity with their fellow athletes and also the Japanese people,” said the German. Upbeat Bach, on his first to Japan since the decision to postpone the Games in March, has been upbeat throughout and he has spoken about the great impact a vaccine could have on Tokyo’s ability to host the Olympics next year. More than 11,000 athletes are expected to descend in the Japanese capital for the Olympics, which is due to begin on July 23, with thousands more coming for the subsequent Paralympic Games. However, when pressed whether athletes were going to jump the queue to get any potential vaccine before the Games, Bach was adamant this wouldn’t be the case. First priorities “We made it clear from the very beginning that the first priorities are for the nurses, medical doctors and everybody who keeps our society alive, despite the coronavirus crisis,” Bach told reporters at the National Stadium . “These are the people who deserve to be the first ones to be vaccinated.” Tokyo 2020 organisers are holding a project review meeting this week and hope to decide on a range of COVID-19 counter-measures, including whether spectators will be allowed in venues next year.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Encouraging return for Prajnesh||It has been an encouraging return for Prajnesh Gunneswaran after tennis’ post-lockdown revival. Reaching the semifinal of the Ismaning Challenger (Germany) on carpet, and following it up with a final last week in Cary (USA) on hard courts, hinted at the left-hander getting into his groove. Impressive Coach Balachandran Manikkath was impressed by Prajnesh’s ability to eke out wins from tight situations. “Against a big server like Jack Sock, Prajnesh was able to win the third set tie-break. In fact, he was up 5-2 in the third set and [was] serving for the match at 5-3. To be able to win at the end was special. In the next round, he was down 1-5 in the third set tie-break but won 7-5. Learning to win is a skill,” observed Balachandran. Prajnesh flew into New York for the US Open but wasn’t able to play, despite being first on the alternate list, owing to the restrictions of the bio-bubble. Yet, the 31-year-old was able to achieve quite a lot in the season and reach a rank of 137. “It was hard to miss the US Open like that. But, he got into the qualifying draw of Kitzbuhel in Austria and won his first match on return. That was a positive,” said the coach. Boosting confidence Balachandran, who has coached Prajnesh since his junior days, felt that once the left-hander got into his serving rhythm, he would hit a different level and win many more matches. Prajnesh had gained with every outing in recent weeks, the coach said, and that winning matches had cleared a lot of self-doubts and given him clarity and confidence. By setting high standards for himself and measuring his game against the best in the world, Prajnesh is keen to keep improving.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||When India ignored Bradman’s advice, and other Aussie matters||When, soon after Independence, India toured Australia under Lala Amarnath, rival skipper Don Bradman advised them to play the matches on covered wickets, saying “it would be more advantageous”. It was a gesture from an established cricketing nation to one making its first tour of that country. But for some reason, India insisted on playing on uncovered wickets. “The Indians suffered grievously through being caught on wet wickets,” Bradman recorded in his autobiography. The final result — of the four Tests Australia won, three were by an innings and one Test was drawn — might not have been too different, with or without covered wickets but, as Bradman said, “the end was expedited.” India were not able to send their best team, with Vijay Merchant, Mushtaq Ali, Rusi Modi and Fazal Mahmood withdrawing for one reason or another. Bradman was not too far off the mark when he wrote, “…it must have been obvious to experienced observers that the Indian tour would make very little if any profit…” Popular tourists That was seven decades ago. It is interesting how things have changed. Thanks to television and a large audience at home, Indian cricketers are the most popular tourists wherever the game is played. The Indian diaspora in and around cricket-playing countries has ensured that almost every ground they play on is India’s ‘home ground’. Other players have pointed out, half jokingly, that they have felt like outsiders at their own grounds. Back in April, the Chief Executive of Cricket Australia had said that by August, the governing body would be broke. Salary cuts and redundancies struck alongside the COVID-19 pandemic. The board still expects a deficit of around 120 million, but some tough decisions have made a difference. It is a measure of our times that, as an important series approaches, two non-cricketing, but related issues lead the conversation: finance and the pandemic. The fresh outbreak in South Australia has added to the problem. The white ball series is only days away, and not all the tension is due to purely cricketing matters. Finest match-up An India-Australia series, whatever the colour of the ball, but especially if it is red, is the finest the game has to offer currently. While Australia might have to rethink their plan to allow small crowds in the stadiums under the current circumstances, things might change later. In March, a spectator at the Women’s World Cup final in Melbourne had tested positive for the coronavirus, and authorities will be mindful of that as well as the later cases. The texture of the Indo-Australian rivalry has always been different from the Anglo-Indian one. This is partly because Australia traditionally paid India the compliment of sending their best teams to this country, partly because Australia demonstrated — in the days before Sourav Ganguly and Virat Kohli — how you could play a brand of cricket that was tough but fair, and mainly because there was, in the early years when such things mattered, far less condescension from the Australians than there was from the English.  The Indian connection with Australia was established long before the first Test series between the two. Frank Tarrant, an all-rounder for Victoria and Middlesex, had served as cricket aide both to the Maharajahs of Cooch Behar and Patiala. “A canny adviser and an astute lobbyist with impeccable connections, Tarrant helped lay the foundations of Indian cricket,” wrote Mike Coward whose book on Tarrant has just been published. Some reckon Tarrant was probably the finest player not to have played Test cricket. He umpired the first two Test matches played on Indian soil in 1933-34. Some months later, he organised a private tour of Australian cricketers to India, led by Jack Ryder, Bradman’s first Test captain and having in their ranks Charlie Macartney. Writing in The Hindu after the tour, Macartney said, “We have done our best to please…Maybe our work has been of some little instruction to some and if so then that will give us added pleasure.” As Kohli’s men get ready, it is not pre-Independence history they will be thinking of so much as the more recent one. India are the holders of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy, having won the last series in Australia. But that team did not have either Steve Smith or David Warner, suspended for ball tampering. That should not be an issue for India, likely to be unchanged from the team that made Australia follow-on in the final Test then. India are ranked No. 3 in Tests as well as T20Is, while Australia are at the top in both. In ODIs, India at No. 2 are two places higher. With the finalists of the World Test championships next year likely to be decided by percentages of victories or split points over series not played, the series that are actually played take on greater importance.
18 November 2020||SYDNEY,||Indians train under simulated Test match conditions||The limited-overs competition awaits them first, but the Indian players, led by captain Virat Kohli, focused on next month’s Tests against Australia as they trained in simulated long-format match conditions with the red and pink balls here on Tuesday. All the top batsmen and bowlers, from all three squads, took part in the practice session. Kohli will feature only in the opening day-night Test, starting on December 17 in Adelaide, before flying back to India for the birth of his first child. ‘Love Test sessions’ Senior pacer Mohammed Shami and the 26-year-old Mohammed Siraj were seen bowling to Kohli in a video posted on Twitter by the captain himself. “Love Test cricket sessions,” read Kohli’s tweet. The video showed the players using the centre strip of the ground, employing a Test match field and a batsman at the non-striker’s end. The 30-year-old Shami is part of all three squads and India will rely heavily on him during the four-match Test series. Siraj, who is only in the Test squad, sent down a few deliveries even as the other seniors watched him bowl. “The master and his apprentice. When @MdShami11 and Siraj bowled in tandem at #TeamIndia’s nets. Fast and accurate!” the BCCI tweet read. On Monday, the star studded batting line-up was seen gearing up for the lively Australian pitches with the traditional tennis ball training after competing on the slow UAE tracks during the IPL.
18 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Natarajan will be the X-factor: Laxman||Sunrisers Hyderabad mentor V.V.S. Laxman believes left-arm pacer T. Natarajan can be the X-factor in the Indian attack in the future. “I am not surprised by his selection for the Australian tour, for which he was originally named as a net bowler. Being a left-armer, Natarajan will be the X-factor. Probably that is the reason the selectors wanted him and drafted him as a full-time member of the squad,” said Laxman. The 29-year-old Natarajan was one of the standout performers for SRH this season, with 16 wickets. “I am sure he will succeed against the Aussies after the way he performed in the IPL, which is like any international tournament featuring the best from across the world. He will do well if he reads the surface and bowls the right line and length,” Laxman told The Hindu . “Natarajan has been known for sending down the yorkers very well. But I must say he has got a lot of variations which he didn’t use in the IPL. He has the sharp bouncer, slower one, off-cutter and wicket-taking ability with the new ball,” Laxman said. “Natarajan has the mindset and the confidence to bowl yorkers, which we generally believe are the toughest to deliver. His dismissal of Royal Challengers Bangalore’s A.B. de Villiers was the pick of the lot. It showed the kind of confidence he now has as a bowler.” Laxman’s message to Natarajan: take care of the body and workload.
18 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Vultures CC takes the honours||Official cricket tournament action returned with Vultures CC edging out Swastic Union CC (1) in the KSCA Twenty20 final at M. Chinnaswamy Stadium on Tuesday. The likes of K. Gowtham, Karun Nair, J. Suchith, Abhimanyu Mithun, R. Samarth and Praveen Dubey took the field in the first KSCA-sanctioned match since the long break forced by the COVID-19 pandemic. Batting first, Vultures CC rode on fifties from Karun Nair and K.L. Shrijith to post 186 for seven. Gowtham excels Kings XI Punjab all-rounder Gowtham, who picked up three wickets in the last over of the Vultures innings, came good with the bat as well. Gowtham smashed a 30-ball 83, with four fours and nine sixes, but his effort went in vain as Swastic Union CC (1) fell short by nine runs while chasing a revised target of 179 in 19 overs. The key wicket of Gowtham was taken by left-arm spinner and KXIP teammate Suchith. Pacer M.B. Darshan finished with a five-for for Vultures CC.  The scores: Vultures CC 186/7 in 20 overs (Karun Nair 53, K.L. Shrijith 54, Anirudha Joshi 41, K. Gowtham 3/34) bt Swastic Union CC (1) 169 in 18.5 overs (K. Gowtham 83, M.B. Darshan 5/28).   Revised target: 1 79 in 19 overs .
18 November 2020||Augusta,||Johnson’s tears for a green jacket and major validation||For someone with a reputation of lacking a pulse and fist pumps, the raw emotion from Masters champion Dustin Johnson was as startling as a virtually vacant Augusta National. Why was he so choked up he couldn’t speak? Why was the smile so much brighter on Sunday at the Masters than when he won his first major four years ago at Oakmont, as esteemed a U.S. Open course as there is? Part of it was location, sure. Johnson grew up about an hour away in South Carolina, and the Masters is the one Major every Southern kid dreams about winning. “Since I played my first Masters, it’s been the tournament I wanted to win the most,” he said, after setting the scoring record at 20-under 268 in his five-shot victory. As much as location, however, this also was validation. The question there wasn’t time to ask on Sunday night was whether this victory was enough to atone for all those other majors that went wrong. The suspicion is he would have agreed. Two elements of validation were in play. Johnson already had become owner of a label not talked about enough: The best player to have only one major. That’s a list that would include Tom Kite and Lanny Wadkins, Fred Couples and Davis Love III. Going into the Masters, the 36-year-old Johnson had them all beat because of 23 wins on a PGA Tour that has never been deeper, and the number of chances he had in other Majors. He has the career Grand Slam of silver medals. The other part of validation was his reputation as a closer. No one wants to be perceived as the player who can’t hold a lead. Johnson could sense that was the reputation he was developing. He said as much in his news conference. It was a surprising concession from Johnson, who is not easily bothered. For so many years, one of his greatest assets was a short memory. The day after he shot 82 in the final round of the 2010 U.S. Open at Pebble Beach when staked to a three-shot lead, he could be found in his boat off the Florida coast without giving it a second thought. One of the most crushing losses was the 2015 U.S. Open at Chambers Bay. He went from a 12-foot eagle putt for the win to a three-putt par to finish one shot behind. Johnson headed to Idaho that night. Amazing resiliency. But now, he can’t wait for the next Major, only five months away. It will be the shortest time any Masters champion gets to keep the green jacket with him. Johnson knows one will always be waiting for him in the locker room at Augusta.
18 November 2020||SYDNEY,||Australians airlifted to ‘save series’||Cricket Australia on Tuesday airlifted players, including Test skipper Tim Paine and star batsman Marnus Labuschagne, to New South Wales from Adelaide in an attempt to ‘save the series’ against India as a coronavirus outbreak in South Australia threatened the upcoming summer. As Western Australia, Queensland and Tasmania closed their borders to South Australia on Monday, the country’s cricket board brought players from Australia’s white-ball, Test match and Australia-A squads into Sydney from Adelaide to ensure that the upcoming fixtures of the 300 million dollars season remain unaffected. “CA has taken a proactive approach and mobilised a number of people across the country over the past 24 hours to shore up our men’s domestic and international schedules,” CA’s interim chief executive Nick Hockley was quoted as saying by ESPNCricinfo . “I would like to thank the players and staff for their understanding regarding the changes to their travel schedules and for their commitment to ensuring the summer of cricket is a huge success.”
18 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Women’s U-17 WC cancelled||The Women’s U-17 World Cup in India, which was postponed to 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was on Tuesday cancelled by FIFA. The country was, however, handed the hosting rights of the 2022 edition. Costa Rica will host the FIFA U-20 Women’s World Cup 2022. The decisions were taken by the Bureau of the FIFA Council which took stock of the current global pandemic situation and its continuing impact on football. “... with the inability to further postpone these tournaments, the FIFA-Confederations COVID-19 Working Group subsequently recommended that the 2020 editions of the two women’s youth tournaments be cancelled and that the hosting rights for the 2022 editions be offered to the countries that were due to host the 2020 editions,” the FIFA said in a statement. AIFF’s reaction “We will continue all the initiatives that were planned for the development and promotion of women’s football. “We now look forward to an exciting 2022, with India hosting not one but two international women’s tournaments [the AFC Women’s Asian Cup],” read a statement from the All India Football Federation (AIFF). “In light of not being able to host the tournament next year, FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup taking place in India in 2022 comes as a delightful silver lining,” said Praful Patel, AIFF president and chairman, Local Organising Committee (LOC). The Women’s U-17 World Cup was originally scheduled to be held in India November this year.  It was later postponed to February-March next year due to the coronavirus crisis. Club WC in Feb. 2021 Qatar will host the coronavirus-delayed Club World Cup, an important test event ahead of the 2022 World Cup, in February, FIFA said. The tournament, scheduled to be held in Doha in December, will now be staged from February 1 to 11, 2021.
18 November 2020||KOLKATA,||48 drafted for Bengal T20 Challenge||Forty-eight players were drafted by six teams on Tuesday for the inaugural edition of the Bengal T20 Challenge, starting at the Eden Gardens here on November 24. They were picked from a pool of 200 players who performed well last season. Besides the above, 24 players were selected as stand-by for the tournament which would provide some competition to the cricketers who have been out of action due to the pandemic. Earlier, the participating clubs — Mohun Bagan, East Bengal, Tapan Memorial, Town Club, Kalighat and Customs — had retained 42 players. A total of 33 matches, including semifinals and the final, will be played and most of them would be under floodlights. Bio-bubble “All the players, coaches and match officials will remain in the bio-bubble during the entire course of the tournament… There will be health officers who will ensure that the bio-bubble norms are followed. If anyone is out of the bio-bubble, he will be out of the tournament,” said Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) president Avishek Dalmiya. Bengal head coach Arun Lal said this tournament prior to the BCCI events would help Bengal cricketers. “I have been telling the marquee players that this is a godsend opportunity,” said Lal. The CAB is planning to set up a bio-secure venue with accommodation facilities at Kalyani to conduct camps.  The teams (first seven in each team are marquee players):   Mohun Bagan Club: Manoj Tiwary, Debabrata Das, Anustup Majumdar, Vivek Singh, Akash Deep, Sayan Ghosh, Rajkumar Pal, Writtick Chatterjee, Ankur Paul, Shivam Sharma, Saurabh Singh, Prince Yadav, Anurag Tiwari, Sandipan Das (Jr), and Suraj Sindhu Jaiswal.   Town Club: Mohd. Kaif, Aritra Chatterjee, Sudip Gharami, Mirza Danish Alam, Ayan Bhattacharjee, Golam Mustafa, Kazi Junaid Saifi, Arikta Das, Azaz Ansari, Gitimoy Basu, Avijit Singh, Purab Joshi, Ananta Saha, Pankaj Shaw, and Naved Ahmed.   Tapan Memorial: Shahbaz Ahmad, Koushik Ghosh, Sandipan Das, Prayas Ray Barman, Nilkantha Das, Sumit Mohanta, Abhishek Porel, Gaurav Chauhan, Kaif Ahmad, Debopratim Halder, Roshan Singh, Ramesh Prashad, Sourav Chanda, Shakir Habib Gandhi, and Tarun Godara.   East Bengal: Abhimanyu Easwaran, Shreevats Goswami, Arnab Nandi, B. Amit, Abhishek Raman, Dipanjan Mukherjee, Mukesh Kumar, Sayan Shekhar Mandal, Kanishk Seth, Akash Pandey, Arindam Ghosh, Anubhav Ahuja, Raju Halder, Sujit Kumar Yadav, and Durgesh Kumar Dubey.   Kalighat: Subham Sarkar, Subham Chatterjee, Jayojit BAsu, Sudip Chatterjee, Pradipta Pramanik, Mithilesh Das, Aamir Gani, Amit Kuila, Pritam Chakraborty, Amit Banerjee, Satyaki Dutta, Abhishek Bose, Sourav Mondal, Shubhrajit Das, and Prinan Dutta.   Calcutta Customs: Shreyan Chakraborty, Abhishek Das, Chirag Pathak, Sumanta Gupta, Karan Lal, Agniv Pan, Ravikant Singh, Dip Chatterjee, Bapi Manna, Suvankar Bal, Prosenjit K. Das, Arjun Kumar, Kunal Kumar, Arka Sarkar, and Abhilas Semwal .
18 November 2020||Chennai,||‘Focus is on playing beautiful football’||Sergio Lobera — who gave FC Goa its identity and first title — will be managing Mumbai City FC in the upcoming ISL season, and the Spanish coach will be in familiar settings as the tournament’s seventh season will be held across three venues of the coastal state. Lobera admits he has many fond memories from his time at Goa. “We implemented a new style of play, won the first trophy of the club (Super Cup 2019), produced more players for the Indian national team and qualified for the AFC Champions League,” he said, with no hint of bitterness over his mid-season sacking last year. The Spaniard is now keen to make a mark at Mumbai City. “Every team wants to win but my focus is on playing beautiful football, implementing a new style of play and the final target is to win. It is a process and will take some time,” he said. From Goa to Mumbai Mumbai City has assembled a formidable squad, making reinforcements in every department — Mourtada Fall and Mandar Rao Dessai in defence, Ahmed Jahouh and Hugo Boumous in midfield and Bartholomew Ogbeche and Adam Le Fondre leading the attack. Interestingly, four out of these five players followed Lobera from FC Goa to Mumbai City. “The most important thing I have learned during my career is to manage the group well. Everyone needs to know what the collective objective is and that the team always comes first. It is impossible to win a league if you want to play with only 11 players,” he said. With the ISL expanding to 11 teams from this season and the arrival of Kolkata heavyweights ATK Mohun Bagan and SC East Bengal, Lobera is excited about what he thinks will be “the most competitive season” of the ISL. “It is going to be the most competitive and a very different season. There are some very good teams and top signings,” he said.
18 November 2020||Mumbai,||ISL to bring the fans closer to the game||The seventh edition of the Indian Super League (ISL) will feature a series of technological innovations, including a ‘Fan Wall’, in a bid to bring supporters closer to the action. The franchise-based event, starting on November 20, will be staged behind closed doors in three venues across Goa due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Broadcasters will connect fans, through two LED scre+ens mounted in the stadiums, to soak in the experience. The ‘Fan Wall’ will allow supporters an opportunity to catch the action live from the comfort of their homes, a media release said. Enhanced audio There will also be an enhanced audio for the game along with an additional mix of cameras and access to the players through pre- and post-match shows which will ensure that fans remain close to all the action even beyond the field. A few select fans will also get the opportunity to interact with experts and special guests during the pre- and post-match shows. “Fans are an integral part of the Hero ISL which is the first major sporting league to be played in the country during these unprecedented times. “With the addition of new teams and all the international partnerships, this season is expected to be more thrilling. “Using technology, we will make sure that fans do not miss out on the action while also ensuring that the essence of the game is not lost,” said a Star Sports spokesperson.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Enough opportunities for players now: Mithali||There were limited opportunities for the players to showcase their potential when Mithali Raj broke into the Indian team two decades ago, but India’s ODI captain says tournaments such as the Women’s T20 Challenge, which was played alongside the IPL in the United Arab Emirates recently, have helped unearth new talent. “The best example is Shafali (Verma), who used the Women’s T20 Challenge platform last year. She was the find of the tournament. There are also a couple of other players who are young and talented. They just need some exposure so that when they represent India-A or the National team, they will have the experience to handle things at the top level,” Raj said on the Tissot Presents Sportstar Extras T20 Time show. “When I started playing, we did not have these platforms. Back then, players would take two or three years to find their feet in the international arena. But today, with the Women’s T20 Challenge, India-A and Emerging Teams, the BCCI has taken so many initiatives to get the girls going,” said Mithali. Watch the full interview on youtube.com/watch?v=TTSUNF_8Kgg
18 November 2020||Karachi,||England’s tour of Pakistan set to be put off||England’s much-awaited tour of Pakistan for a short T20 series early next year is set to be postponed to October due to unavailability of top players and matters related to costs. According to reports the tour, which was tentatively scheduled for January-February, is expected to be moved to October before the T20 World Cup in India. “The problem arising is that early next year England will be engaged in series with Sri Lanka and India and some of their T20 specialist players are also signed up for the Big Bash in Australia,” a source aware of the developments said.  “The other problem is the costs involved in England touring Pakistan.”
18 November 2020||Sharm El Sheikh (Egypt),||Kadhe in quarterfinals||Top-seeded Arjun Kadhe and Vladyslav Orlov of Ukraine beat Remy Bertola and Erik Crepaldi 6-1, 3-6, 10-6 to move into the quarterfinals of the $15,000 ITF men’s Futures tennis tournament here on Tuesday.  The results: $15,000 ITF, Sharm El Sheikh:   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Men: Vladyslav Orlov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Remy Bertola (Sui) & Erik Crepaldi (Ita) 6-1, 3-6, [10-6]; Aidan Mchugh (GBR) & Siddhant Banthia bt Miljan Zekic & Arsenije Zlatanovic (Srb) 6-4, 6-1; Kelsey Stevenson (Can) & Sidharth Rawat bt Bekkhan Atlangeriev & Maxim Krapivin (Rus) 6-3, 6-3.   Women: Larisa Bekmetova (Uzb) & Saumya Vig bt Midori Castillo Meza (US) & Amelie Claire Montalvo Lundy (Mex) 6-4, 6-4; Jelena Stojanovic (Aus) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi bt Amira Badawi & Aya El Sayed (Egy) 6-0, 6-4 .
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sudeep Tyagi calls it a day||Former India pacer Sudeep Tyagi on Tuesday announced his retirement from all formats of the game. The 33-year-old played four ODIs, taking three wickets, and one T20 International. He last played for India in 2010. He also featured in 14 IPL matches for Chennai Super Kings and Sunrisers Hyderabad.
18 November 2020||MUMBAI,||MPL Sports is Team India kit sponsor||MPL Sports, an arm of an online gaming platform, has been announced as the official kit sponsor and merchandise partner of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI). The jersey sponsor’s three-year association starts with the tour of Australia. According to a statement issued by the BCCI on Tuesday, besides the senior men’s national team, the deal will be extended to the women’s and under-19 teams as well. While the statement didn’t specify the financial terms of the contract, The Hindu understands that the BCCI will earn Rs. 65 lakh per match and an annual royalty of Rs. 8 crore. The BCCI was forced to invite tenders after apparel giant Nike decided to end its long association with the Indian team after the expiry of its last deal on September 30. When the initial tender process didn’t attract any response, the BCCI allowed non-apparel-manufacturing entities to bid for the rights. MPL Sports thus becomes the second e-sports platform to be associated with Indian cricket. Dream11 came on board as the Indian Premier League title sponsor ahead of the 2020 edition.
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI:,||It’s Pratyushraj vs Aarav||Top seed Pratyushraj Goel booked a summit clash with Aarav Chawla in the AITA Talent series under-14 tennis tournament on Tuesday.   The results: Boys: Under-14: Semifinals: Pratyushraj Goel bt Kunsh Kakkar 9-2; Aarav Chawla bt Viraj Chawla 9-5; Quarterfinals: Pratyushraj bt Eshant Patra 9-1; Kunsh bt Dhruveer Grover 9-3; Aarav bt Mayank Ujjainwal 9-1; Viraj bt Vishesh Kumar Singh 9-7.   Girls: Under-14: Semifinals: Anisha Sivakumar bt Nafeesa Zafar 9-5; Anya Gupta bt Stuti Kumar 9-4; Quarterfinals: Nafeesa bt Mannika Sansanwal 9-3; Anisha bt Tanvi Arora 9-1; Stuti bt Snigdha Ruhil 9-6; Anya bt Khushi Gaur 9-6 .    Daniel Otamendi and Padmanabh Singh scored 11 goals between them to power Sahara Warriors to a 14-9 victory over Sona Polo in the final of the Sir Pratap Singh Cup 14-goal polo tournament on Tuesday.  The result (final): Sahara Warriors 14 (Daiel Otamendi 6, Padmanabh Singh 5, Kuldeep Singh Rathore 2, Gaurav Sahgal) bt Sona Polo 9 (Jack Richardson 7, Angad Kalaan, Sunjay Kapur) .    Prashant Bhandari scored 55 and took two wickets to help Telefunken Club beat Sporting Club by three wickets in the 5th Shanti Devi memorial tournament.  The scores: Sporting Club 185 in 39.3 overs (Rajesh Sharma 50; Sikander Kumar 3/19, Prashant Bhandari 2/48) lost to Telefunken Club 188/7 in 20 overs (Bharat Sindwani 59 not out, Prashant Bhandari 55, Yash Dabas 32; Vision Panchal 3/37, Yogesh Kumar 2/33) .    Sunil Dagar and Vikas Dixit took three wickets apiece as Delhi Cricket Hub beat CAF Academy by five wickets in the All India Unique T20.  The scores: CAF 107 in 20 overs (Money Grewal 26; Sunil Dagar 3/13, Vikas Dixit 3/28, Ganesh Vashishth 2/11) lost to DCH 108/5 in 17.5 overs (Hiten Dalal 30, Pradeep Malik 24; Gaurav Gaur 2/05) .    Abhishek Kumar’s four wickets and a half century by Shresth Yadav saw Rohtak Road Gymkhana beat GR Academy by four wickets in the third Vicky Bandrey memorial tournament.  The scores: GRA 133 in 34 overs (Dilshad Ahamad 53, Abid Malik 31; Abhishek Kumar 4/41, Anshul Sehrawat 3/31) lost to RRG 134/6 in 19.3 overs (Shresth Yadav 51; Sanjeet Kumar 3/36) .    Aamir Khan and Saksham Negi took three wickets each as Telefunken Club beat Wonders Club by 29 runs in the Turf Youth Cup under-13 tournament.  The scores: Telefunken 181/7 in 40 overs 9Shaurya Seth 33, Chinmoy Vashishth 32; Ayush Agarwal 2/27) bt Wonders Club 152 in 37.1 overs (Sambhrant Panndey 42; Aamir Khan 3/13, Saksham Negi 3/16) .     Top seed Harleen Kaur Dhanda and second seed Radhika Vasudeva set up a title clash in the under-16 girls’ section of the AITA Championship series junior tennis on Tuesday.  The results: Boys: Under-16: Semifinals: Aditya Chauhan bt Rakshit Dhankar 9-6; Aarush Sharma bt Arnav Bishnoi 9-2; Quarterfinals: Aditya bt Anirudh Sangra 9-4; Rakshit bt Akshat Dhull 9-5; Aarush bt Rishi Dahiya 9-3; Arnav bt Keshav Dangi 9-5.   Girls: Under-16: Semifinals: Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Vanya Arora 9-3; Radhika Vasudeva bt Harnoor Kaur Sidhu 9-4; Quarterfinals: Harleen bt Riya Kaushik 9-5; Vanya bt Rubani Kaur Sidhu 9-5; Harnoor bt Shriya Singh 9-1; Radhika bt Sidhak Kaur 9-5 .
18 November 2020||Madrid,||Luis Suarez||Luis Suarez has tested positive for COVID-19, the Uruguayan Football Association (AUF) confirmed on Monday. It added that the Atletico Madrid striker is currently following self-isolation guidelines. Suarez will miss Uruguay’s World Cup Qualifying match against Brazil and Atletico’s match against Barcelona in the La Liga on Saturday. Goalkeeper Rodrigo Munoz and backroom staff member Matias Faral have also tested positive.ANI
18 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Murali Krishna Entertainment in final||Murali Krishna Entertainment scored a 29-run win over KK Blasters in the first semifinal of the GO SPORTS Cup T20 league cricket championship here on Tuesday. Batting first, Murali Krishna scored 170 for nine in 20 overs with Abdullah (49, 30b, 4x4, 4x6) being the top-scorer. In reply, KK Blasters was restricted to 141 for eight in 20 overs with Sudhakar picking three wickets.  The scores: Murali Krishna Entertainment 170/9 in 20 overs (Abdullah 49) bt KK Blasters 141/8 in 20 overs (Sudhakar 3/34). MoM: Abdullah .
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandavas’ messenger||Sita is worried about how the monkey army will reach Lanka, for how can they cross the ocean? Only Garuda, Vayu —the wind god — and Hanuman are capable of crossing the ocean, She says. Hanuman very humbly says, “ I am the least significant in Sugriva’s army, and if I could cross the ocean, then the rest of the army can easily do the same.” Hanuman says the very fact that he is sent as a messenger shows his insignificance, for the mighty are not sent on such errands. The incident is indicative of Hanuman’s way with words, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. What he tells Sita is not strictly the truth, for none of the monkeys can accomplish what he has. And yet, what is needed here is for him to drive away Sita’s fears. Had he not given her this answer, she would have been depressed again. Hanuman’s humility is evident in the manner in which he refers to himself as being inferior to the rest of the army, for which reason he has been sent as a messenger. While Hanuman thus plays an important role in the Ramayana, the other Itihasa, Mahabharata, has the Supreme One being a messenger. Lord Krishna volunteered to be a messenger of the Pandavas. For the Paramatma to be a messenger seems unbelievable. Why would One who is unsurpassed in power be someone’s messenger? His Paratva (Supremacy) is like an elephant in a rage. The goad that can control this elephant is His sauseelya. It is this sauseelya that prompts Him to be a messenger of the Pandavas. He is close to His devotees and does not hesitate to do anything for their sake. That is why Mundakopanishad describes Him as Paraavara. Para means the most superior One; avara means the most inferior. He is at once the Supreme One and the One who assumes any role for the sake of His devotees.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 07:45 IST,||Sudoku - November 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Baby steps||Mamta Mohandas wants to throw mainstream light on up-and-coming artists — writers, directors and actors — through her production company Mamta Mohandas Productions, which she launched on November 14. The date is not to be missed; it was her birthday and this year she completes 15 years in filmdom. The plan was to launch the production house in March, along with the announcement of an yet-untitled film. The pandemic, however, had other plans. The scheduled film, of which pre-production was on pre-lockdown, has been set aside for now. Mamta met her business partner, entrepreneur Noel Ben when she was involved with the Celebrity Badminton League; the two kept in touch over the years and finally ventured into business together. She has a team of writers, who work on content. They are also on the lookout for new scripts that can be worked on in the present circumstances. About the selection process, the actor says, “We are listening to all genres of scripts. I want to make an entertainer now, make people smile as we are getting out of the present, difficult situation. A light film with music and dance; when I say ‘entertainer’ it will be on a larger scale with a complex script.” She does not want to hurry into a project and instead, wants to choose carefully.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Festival of gratitude||At the Therkkuvasal Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) in Madurai, Deepavali eve acquired a different meaning for Medical Officer (MO) Dr I Aishwarya and the five staff nurses. They reported for duty as they usually did, ever since the Coronavirus struck eight months ago. “Leaving behind our families to attend to COVID-19 patients is such a routine now that we have stopped caring about our emotions,” says Dr Aishwarya. But when a school teacher walked in unannounced to hand over customised Deepavali greeting cards and a box of sweets each, they were overwhelmed. “It was the first-ever recognition we got for our 24x7 work during the pandemic; the first appreciation of our efforts,” says Dr Aishwarya. Staff nurse R Jeya broke down seeing her name written on a handmade greeting card. The messages inside in English and Tamil lit up her small world on the day of festivities when she was away from her loved ones. Written straight from the heart by an anonymous young writer, the card mentioned how everybody was proud of the work she was doing, and that her dedication would not go unnoticed. Across the 31 UPHCs in the city, several such moments could be witnessed last Friday evening, when teachers of Lakshmi School walked in with Deepavali cards made by the students exclusively for Government health workers who were silently safeguarding the lives of people and yet stayed forgotten. Dr S Ravikumar, MO, Aruldosspuram Centre in Thathaneri, says frontline COVID-19 warriors in the Government sector are rarely lauded. “Coming from youngsters whom we do not know, and who do not know us either, makes the appreciation even more endearing for those of us who set out for surveys, bring patients with symptoms to the health centre, face physical and verbal attacks from the community, and yet advise everybody on how to stay safe everyday,” he says. The team under him has showcased the cards with pride; framing and hanging them on the walls of their homes or workspaces; or carrying them on their daily rounds. Dr Gigi Rajan, MO at Munichalai UPHC, admits that there were moments when she felt she was risking herself in a thankless job leaving behind her eight-month-old baby at home. “But receiving a card that exclusively thanks me for the extraordinary help and support during trying times encourages me to go on forever,” she says. The thoughts that count The earnest appreciation from the school students has renewed hope among 300 nurses and doctors in PHCs, 200 village health nurses and 31 lab technicians. S Srinivas, the school’s Interact Club president, says his fellow schoolmates heartwarmingly agreed to make the cards following an online request. “Embellishing the cards with personal messages, drawings and quilling was their personal choice to express love,” he says. The project coordinator, English teacher, R Padmaja says the high school students usually distribute clothes and sweets in orphanages and old age homes every Deepavali. In these unusual times, when they were thinking aloud how to spread cheer this year, the School Principal narrated an experience about her COVID-positive relative admitted to a hospital. This prompted the students to honour the over-worked Government health workers. “From the Health Commissioner’s office, we collected names and details of all UPHC workers in Madurai to help students lend a personal touch to each card,” says Padmaja. The effort is appreciated warmly: “The surprise cards were sweeter than the sweet boxes,” says Dr Ravikumar.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Alone in the big city||‘Electric Flu’, by Sanjana Rajnarayan aka Madm and Purnet Moirangthem aka Ten Purr, stems from a place of loneliness and isolation. But it has nothing to do with the strings of lockdown and social isolation that the world has been grappling with these past few months. Madm’s lyrics have a simpler genesis. “I had titled this around November or December 2019, when I was spending a lot of time making music in my tiny Mumbai flat. I did not have much company, and the song encapsulates that emotion, coming from that space of solitude, of loneliness,” she says over phone from Mumbai. Madm “had the beat sitting in my laptop ever since,” and it might still have remained just there, had she not met guitarist Ten Purr on her Mumbai campus. The singer-producer, who had left her Chennai home in 2018 to study music at Mumbai’s True School of Music, put the song together with fellow student Ten Purr. The guitarist took an instant liking to what he heard, and thereon began the collaboration. Now, though Madm finished her course a while ago and Ten Purr continues to attend classes, their joint project has seen light of day. The slow, groovy piece has an oddly calming impact despite its catchy rhythm and electronic treatment. The arrangement seems complex, but the song nevertheless leans heavily on the lyrics as well. Pensive words and origin story notwithstanding, the overall number is surprisingly upbeat. Deliberately so. Explains Madm, “The lyrics are about wanting validation from people who don’t give it to you, and at the same time pushing away the people who really love you. The arrangement, on the other hand, is a lot more hopeful than melancholic.” Listeners have given her varied reactions to the piece because of this dichotomy, she adds. Solitude, its gloomier partner loneliness, and the not-so-simple dynamics involved in forging human connection are what the duo has explored in this number, coincidentally releasing it at a time when much of the world is dealing with similar struggles. While the lyrics lean into this, ironically, the music arrangement is layered and intriguing enough to form a distraction unto itself. The duo is working on separate projects as well — Ten Purr has an EP coming up with his band Peach Envy, besides a number of solo numbers slated for release.  ‘Electric Flu’ can be streamed on Spotify, YouTube and other music streaming platforms.
18 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Central govt. not sympathetic to Sikhs, says Akal Takht chief||Giani Harpreet Singh, chief priest of the Akal Takht — the highest Sikh temporal seat — on Tuesday said the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) was presently facing similar challenges like it did in the year 1984. “The Sikh body was being targeted by the authorities because they felt that the SGPC was like a state within a state. Even the present Central government was not sympathetic to the Sikhs,” Mr. Singh said. He added “The Indian State does not like this independent nature”. Mr. Singh was addressing a religious function to commemorate the first centenary of the SGPC in Amritsar. He said the Sikhs have always faced challenges since independence, which continue to this day. The chief priest said in 1984 the then Congress government wanted to break the SGPC, but thanks to the then SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, who did not let the conspiracy succeed. Mr. Singh urged the ‘sangat’ to be aware of those trying to destabilise the “Panth” (Sikh religion) from within. At the function, Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said there was an urgent need to ensure and safeguard “security, equality and dignity” of the minority communities. He called for more concrete and credible steps to stop insecurity and alienation in the minds of the minorities. Mr. Badal cautioned that ‘mischievous elements’ were against attempting to undermine “the unique, separate and sovereign religious identity of the Sikhs. “The Khalsa Panth takes deep pride in its unique separate religious identity. The Khalsa never interferes in the religious affairs of others but nor does it tolerate interference in its own religious affairs,” he said.  Badal flays Congress Mr. Badal hit out at the Congress party and described it as “the worst enemy of the Sikhs.” Describing the SGPC as a unique achievement and a mini-religious parliament of the Sikhs, Mr. Badal said that the Sikhs are the only religion in the world which runs its religious affairs democratically.  SGPC presently facing similar challenges like it did in 1984 Giani Harpreet Singhchief priest of the Akal Takht
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||A mutlipronged approach to tackle COVID surge in Delhi||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said it will augment Delhi’s ICU bed capacity from 3,500 to 6,000 over the next few days, bring in 325 doctors and paramedical staff to address manpower shortage, and double COVID-19 testing capacity in the city, which has seen a surge in infections and deaths over the past few weeks. Speaking at a press conference, NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr. V.K. Paul said that several important decision were taken during the November 15 high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah to review the situation in Delhi. “We have arrived at a multipronged approach to tackle the situation in Delhi. Existing capacity of about 3,500 ICU beds will be increased to over 6,000 in the next three-four days in cooperation with the Delhi government as well as the private sector,” he said. Dr. Paul said that 537 new ICU beds have been arranged at a DRDO facility, the Delhi government will procure additional beds and capacity will also be bolstered at Central government-run hospitals. “The Railways has provided a large number of beds by re-purposing coaches, about 800 beds have been arranged in Delhi,” he added. Around 75 doctors and 250 paramedics from central forces are also being roped in. “Half of them have already joined and the rest will be in soon. This will ensure that there is no shortage in trained manpower to tackle the COVID situation in Delhi,” he said. The Centre has also announced it will double COVID testing capacity to ensure that over one lakh tests are conducted in Delhi every day. “For this, we are roping in institutions that have research labs. Ten mobile test labs are also being arranged,” said Dr. Paul. Strict implementation Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan noted that Delhi currently has over 4,000 containment zones where all safety guidelines and protocols will be strictly re-enforced. “We have also stressed on aggressive contact tracing and isolating. Our strategy for Delhi includes doubling testing to 1-1.2 lakh per day with the right mix of RT-PCR and antigen tests, augmenting home care support, mobilising doctors and nurses, enforcing quarantine of contacts, and ensuring compliance of COVID-appropriate behaviour.”
18 November 2020||Bhopal,||13 gas survivors died of COVID-19 at Bhopal hospital, says RTI reply||The Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) in reply to an RTI query has admitted 13 survivors of the gas tragedy have died of COVID-19 in March-October on its premises. The Indian Council of Medical Research-run hospital gave the reply on November 9 in response to a query by Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information and Action who had asked for the death count at the main hospital and its isolation ward. While accusing the hospital of misleading the State government, Ms. Dhingra pointed to a letter dated October 1 in which the hospital’s Acting Director informed the Chief Medical and Health Officer (Gas relief) that nine COVID-19 deaths had occurred at the hospital until October. “Sources have confirmed just one-two deaths in November have occurred there,” she contended.  ‘Undermining deaths’ She has written to the Additional Chief Secretary, Public Health and Family Welfare, exhorting the State government to hold the hospital accountable for reportedly providing misleading information and thereby “undermining” the deaths of gas survivors owing to COVID-19 pandemic. Further, Ms. Dhingra claimed the hospital didn’t report COVID-19 deaths to the local authorities. And in response to her RTI query requesting copies of the duty roster of full-time doctors posted at the hospital’s isolation ward, the hospital said doctors from all departments provided services to patients admitted under them to isolation ward, but didn’t provide their roster. “The hospital didn’t disclose any duty roster of doctors at the isolation ward because none is posted there. The institution needs to be held accountable for callously responding to the concerns of the gas tragedy survivors,” she said.
18 November 2020||Guwahati,||Nagaland groups spar over ‘Indian’ security||Security cover sought for a few of their leaders has provided ammunition for two extremist groups in Nagaland to engage in a war of words. The Neiphiu Rio government had a week ago sought the view of the Minister of Home Affairs on Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi’s directive to the State police to provide security to the leaders of the working committee of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), a conglomerate of seven extremist groups. ‘Move justified’ The NNPGs justified the move saying security of a negotiating team and its leaders “is paramount during any negotiation involving a nation and people’s destiny”. The NNPGs took a swipe at the rival Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (IM), for asking why the conglomerate was demanding protection from Indian security forces. “This question is best answered by those who were being provided with 24-hour Z category security by Indian security forces and with India MP status and residence in New Delhi,” the NNPGs said. Reacting to the barb, the NSCN (IM) said its leaders neither asked for security nor MP status from the Indian government during negotiations in New Delhi.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Over 1 lakh cases, 1,200 deaths in Capital between November 1-16||Delhi recorded over 1 lakh COVID-19 cases and 1,200 deaths between November 1-16, according to official data. 94,000 recovered Also, 94,000 COVID-19 patients recovered during the same period. Meanwhile, in view of the increasing cases, 20 ICU beds were earmarked for COVID-19 patients at Hind Rao Hospital on Tuesday. North body Mayor Jai Prakash said number of beds will be further increased. From October 1 to 15, 41,316 cases and 563 fatalities had been recorded in the city while 45,056 people had recovered from the virus. The Capital had recorded 65,675 COVID-19 cases and 587 deaths between October 16-31. Also, 54,974 COVID-19 patients had recovered during the same period, according to data. Sudden spike The city has witnessed a sudden spike in cases since October 28 when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and it crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. On November 12, 104 COVID-19-related deaths, the highest in over five months, were recorded in the city. According to the health department data, 1,01,070 such cases have been recorded so far this month. Also, 1,202 people have died of COVID-19 while 93,885 patients have recovered from the virus since November 1. Delhi had recorded 5,664 cases on November 1 which increased to 8,593 on November 11, the highest-single-day spike till date. The city had recorded 7,053 new cases on November 12, followed by 7,802 (November 13), 7,340 (November 14), 3,235 (November 15) and 3,797 (November 16).
18 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shutdown markets to deal with spike: Maken||Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday called for a complete lockdown of markets, offices and public transport in the Capital to deal with the rising number of COVID-19 cases and warned that if projections given by experts come true the health infrastructure of the city is set to crumble. According to projections by the National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), Mr. Maken said the number of cases in the Capital will touch 15,000 cases a day soon. Looking at the current infrastructure available in the city, he added there will not be enough ICU beds and hospital beds available to treat patients. “We have already crossed 8,000 cases a day, and 15,000 cases daily is not far away if Central and State governments do not work together and prepare,” said Mr. Maken. Mr. Maken said the Delhi government should not take a lockdown decision by calculating the loss in revenue that the step would cause but as a measure for public health and safety that will save lives. The former Union Minister also hit out at Delhi Heath Minister Satyendar Jain for saying that the “third wave” was past its peak and that cases would come down now. “Such statements give people the impression that all is well, leading to people not taking adequate precautions,” said Mr. Maken. Meanwhile, the Delhi Congress said that daily tests should be ramped up to two lakh per day.“The Delhi government has failed in checking the COVID spread and making adequate infrastructural arrangements. It is now asking the Centre for help when the situation has become bad,” said party unit Chief Ch. Anil Kumar.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||BJP doing shameful politics over Chhath puja celebrations: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party government said the decision to not allow Chhath puja celebrations in public came after the Centre issued a set of guidelines. It added that if Home Minister Amit Shah allows the celebrations, the city government will ensure that the order is followed. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has issued an order stating that Chhath puja this year will be a public holiday. At a press meet, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak, said: “The guidelines issued by the Central government’s Home Ministry have imposed several restrictions on celebration of Chhath puja and this is why in Delhi, and in many other States, the puja will not take place in public. But it is unfortunate and shameful that the BJP on one side is stopping the celebration and on the other side are politicising the issue.” He added that this kind of politics by the BJP is “shameful”. “Today, AAP demands that the BJP should immediately get the permission for celebrating Chhath puja from the Home Minister. The Delhi government will coordinate in the process to ensure the celebrations,” Mr. Pathak said. AAP MLA Sanjeev Jha said that earlier there were only 72 places in Delhi where Chhath puja used to take place, but after the AAP government came to power, they increased the number of Chhath ghats to 1,200 by 2019. Protest outside CM house Earlier in the day, the BJP staged a demonstration outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence demanding a rollback of the ‘Delhi government’s decision’ to ban the observance of Chhath puja at public places within 24 hours. Delhi BJP Poorvanchal Morcha president Kaushal Mishra led the protest with scores of party cadre. State general secretary Dinesh Pratap Singh said Mr. Kejriwal had allowed the opening of weekly markets, malls, liquor shops, and running of e-rickshaws and DTC buses with full capacity. “Even on Diwali, he performed puja at Akshardham temple, then why is he discriminating against lakhs of Poorvanchalis by banning Chhath Mahaparva? This mistreatment of Mr. Kejriwal with the Poorvanchalis is unbearable,” Mr. Singh said. Demands by Congress Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar also demanded that the Delhi government allow people from the Poorvanchal region to conduct their Chhath puja festival while strictly adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines. He said the religious sentiments of Poorvanchalis would be gravely hurt if they were prevented from holding the Chhath puja at public places.
18 November 2020||Agartala,||Bru refugees demand immediate implementation of settlement pact||Leaders of the Mizoram Bru refugees have demanded commencement of their permanent rehabilitation in Tripura in the light of the quadripartite agreement signed in New Delhi in January. They made the demand during a meeting with Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar in the presence of the State’s royal scion and activist Pradyot Kishore Debbarman. “We have urged the Chief Secretary to start our settlement work within two weeks,” one of the Bru leaders told newsmen on Tuesday. He said the rehabilitation process was already delayed by six months due to the COVID-19. Mr. Debbarman, who played a key role in the signing of the pact, discussed the issue with Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb. He expressed displeasure over the delay in the rehabilitation work. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had presided over the signing of the accord by the MHA with the State governments of Mizoram, Tripura and the leaders of the refugees to permanently settle some 35,000 evacuees in Tripura. Officials said the State government had selected 12 places including the Kanchanpur subdivision in north Tripura where the Brus have been housed in six makeshift camps since 1997. However, the decision to settle some of the refugees is facing protests from a local forum called Joint Movement. Indefinite strike The Joint Movement has enforced an indefinite strike in Kanchanpur from Monday to press the State government to give up plans to rehabilitate the Brus in the area.
18 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Police may seal banquet halls with large gatherings||Ahead of the wedding season and a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases, Gurugram Police has formed teams to identify places hosting large gatherings, including banquet halls, and to monitor them to ensure that guidelines are strictly being implemented. The police said such places could be sealed in case of violation of norms. The move came after directions were issued by Gurugram Police Commissioner K.K. Rao. Comply with guidelines The team members would also create awareness among the owners of such places to comply with the guidelines — maintaining social distance, wearing mask and frequently washing hands — to prevent the spread of infection. The teams would also, ensure that the number of guests is not more than the limit fixed by the government. The owners of banquet halls have also been directed to inform the local police stations about the upcoming events at their premises. Any violation of guidelines or the failure to inform the police station about upcoming events could invite strict legal action, including the sealing of the premises, the police said. Also, tent owners are being sensitised on the need to inform the police about the events and comply with the guidelines.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Strict action against favouritism’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday directed labour department officials to ensure that workers receive benefits of various labour welfare schemes within 72 hours of filing an application. “If there are cases wherein a few select files are forwarded or favoured and the rest of the files are stopped in the system, strict action will be taken against the officers engaging in such activities," Mr. Sisodia said. The Deputy Chief Minister also added that the execution of all files should be done on a "first come, first serve basis". Mr. Sisodia gave the direction during an inspection at the eastern and north-eastern sub-labour commissioner's office at Shahdara.
18 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Package for Swabhiman Anchal hiked||The Odisha government on Tuesday said the development package for Swabhiman Anchal, which remained cut-off from mainland for decades due to Balimela dam project, was increased from Rs. 100 crore to Rs. 215 crore. Swabhiman Anchal in Malkangiri district got its first road connection to rest of Odisha in July 2018 when Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik inaugurated the Gurupriya bridge. Reviewing the progress of the area with officials and people through videoconferencing here, Mr. Patnaik said every village would have concrete roads. He also announced to make smartphones available for every family in the area.
18 November 2020||noida,||Random tests for people going from Delhi to Noida||People coming from Delhi to Noida will be randomly tested for COVID-19 from Wednesday, the Gautam Buddha Nagar administration said on Tuesday. The decision came during an online meeting of senior officials with District Magistrate Suhas L.Y. amid a spike in cases in Delhi. There will be no restriction on free movement of people between Noida and Delhi, Mr. Suhas added.
18 November 2020||November 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Testing times||
18 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||2 Bangladeshis arrested in Saharanpur||The anti-terror cell of the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force arrested two Bangladeshis who were illegally residing in Saharanpur, an official release said. Mohd. Iqbal and Mohd. Farooq were originally residents of Chittagong district in Bangladesh. They were in touch with foreign nationals and were allegedly conspiring against India, the release said. They have been booked under sections 120B, 121A, 420, 467, 468, 471 of IPC and relevant sections of Foreign Exchange Management Act the Passport Act. The brothers crossed over to India in 2007.
18 November 2020||New Delhi,||Youths stabbed by group in Azadpur||An 18-year-old youth and his friend were stabbed allegedly by a group of men in north-west Delhi’s Azadpur, the police said on Tuesday. Two of the accused have been arrested. The incident was captured on CCTV. The injured have been identified as Shivam and Mohit, both from Azadpur. They are undergoing treatment at a hospital and are stable. The victims were allegedly attacked following an altercation on Diwali over sitting on a seat at a park. The police said the CCTV footage shows a man being attacked by a group. After being stabbed and thrashed, he is dragged to a narrow bylane, and when his friend tries to save him, he also gets stabbed. An officer said passers-by can be seen as mute spectators in the video.
