23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ensure speedy access to vaccine: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for full preparedness to ensure speedy access to COVID-19 vaccines for every citizen. Chairing a meeting to review the pandemic situation in the country, Mr. Modi directed that every step in the logistics, delivery and administration of the vaccine should be put in place rigorously and it must include advanced planning of cold storage chains, distribution network, monitoring mechanism, advance assessment and preparation of ancillary equipment such as vials and syringes, according to a release issued by the government. The Prime Minister’s instructions came on a day India reported an active caseload of below eight lakh for the first time after one-and-a-half months. “The positive cases are 7,95,087, while 70,816 patients have been discharged in the last 24 hours, whereas the new confirmed cases are 62,212. Maharashtra contributes more than 13,000 to the single day recoveries followed by Karnataka with more than 8,000. 837 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. Of these, nearly 82% are concentrated in 10 States/UTs, with Maharashtra reporting the maximum — 306,” said the Health Ministry.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,||Mangaluru Dasara gets off to a colourful start||The famed Mangaluru Dasara was off to a colourful start, albeit on a low key, at the Kudroli Gokarnanatha Temple here this morning with former vice-chairperson of the Karnataka NRI Forum Arathi Krishna inaugurating the same. The first day’s programmes started with Guru Prarthane and other rituals at the temple while Ms. Krishna inaugurated the festivities by lighting the lamp at noon. Nava Durge idols were installed at the temple hall thereafter. With the COVID-19 pandemic still looming large, the temple’s main architect B. Janardhana Poojari wanted the festivities to be celebrated with absolute precaution, Temple treasurer R. Padmaraj has said maintaining social distance, wearing masks, and using sanitisers were mandatory for devotees even as children below six years were not allowed inside the premises. Barricades were erected across the temple premises to ensure devotees move in queues and maintain social distance. The inauguration of Mangaluru Dasara at Kudroli was followed by performance of traditional Pili Vesha (tiger dance) by a few devotees. The district administration permitted the performance by not more than 10 persons strictly inside the premises of temples . Festivities begin Meanwhile, Navaratri festivities began in all temples across Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Saturday, including Mangaladevi, Kadri Manjunatha, Mariyamma, Marigudi, and others in Mangaluru; Kateel Durga Parameshwari, Dharmasthala Manjunatha, Kukke Subrahmanya, Polali Rajarajeshwari, and others in Dakshina Kannada; Sri Krishna Mutt, Ambalapadi Mahakali, Kadiyali Mahisha Mardini, Kollur Mookambika, Kamalashile Durga Parameshwari, Anegudde Vinayaka. and other temples in Udupi district. While temple managements have kept the celebrations as low-key affairs, devotees thronged temples in large numbers on the first day of Navaratri. Officials of Gokarnanatha Temple, which will organise cultural programmes every evening from 6 p.m., has said no audience would be permitted inside the hall. Instead the programme will be beamed on large screens on the temple premises as well as live on Namma Kudla cable channel. Many other temples too have been holding cultural programmes in open spaces, including the Dharmasthala temple where the programmes will be held in front of the temple.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Before his pen went dry, Pranab wrote on 1971, love for Mujib family||In June 1971, a young Member of Parliament stood up to initiate a discussion, calling for the Government of India to accord diplomatic recognition to the Bangladesh government-in-exile based in the Bangladeshi town of Mujibnagar, the provisional government, while its leader, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, was in a Karachi prison. The MP, 36-year-old Pranab Mukherjee, spoke at length about the precedents to intervention in world history, and the brutal atrocities being carried out in Bangladesh that necessitated Indian action. “I am talking of a political solution which means categorically recognising the sovereign democratic government of Bangladesh. Political solution means giving material help to the democratic, sovereign government of Bangladesh,” he said. The speech and his memories of 1971 and the liberation war of Bangladesh are found in one of the last, long articles the former President completed before he died in August last, a part of an anthology of essays in honour of the birth centenary year of Mujib, as Bangladesh’s founding father is known. The book, called Voice of Millions, was published earlier this year but is yet to be launched formally. What makes the essay more poignant is that Mukherjee was due to address another session of Bangladesh’s Parliament, this time a Special Session on March 22-23 to mark the Mujib centenary, and also to attend the book’s launch. However, the functions in Dhaka were put off due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and when they are held, the former MP, Minister and President will not be a part of them. Lone foreign contributor According to the editors of the book, Pranab Mukherjee was the only foreign dignitary asked to contribute, and he readily agreed to their request. “Mr. Mukherjee was invited to contribute to the book as a ‘family member’ of the Prime Minister,” explained Asif Kabir, part of the Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman centenary committee, referring to the close relationship he shared with Mujib’s daughter and Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Mukherjee’s private secretary, Abhijeet Rai, said the essay, which was the last extensive piece penned by the late President, needed considerable research on Mujib’s life and political career and Mukherjee drew from Mujib’s own Unfinished Memoirs that were published years after his death by Ms. Hasina. Mujib was freed only after the Pakistan Army surrendered in Dhaka in December 1971, and as recorded by Mukherjee, for many days he was kept unaware of the incidents, while Pakistan’s soon to be President, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, attempted to negotiate with him. Eventually, Bhutto gave up and Mujib returned to a triumphant welcome in Dhaka with a brief stopover in Delhi to thank Prime Minister Indira Gandhi for India’s support.
23 October 2020||Kolkata,||Turban case: DGP meets family members in Kolkata||The family members of Balwinder Singh, who has been arrested by West Bengal police for carrying a firearm at a rally organised by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), met senior police officials late on Friday evening. After the meeting, family members including Mr. Singh’s wife, Karamjit Kaur, said they have been assured that cases against her husband would be withdrawn. Mr. Singh is in the custody of Howrah police. Earlier, the family had threatened to sit on hunger strike outside the State Secretariat. Mr. Singh was arrested on October 8, during the BJP march to the State Secretariat. During the scuffle with the police his turban came off, triggering a controversy. Meanwhile, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar asked the State government to “immediately release” Balwinder Singh and withdraw cases against him. “A delegation of Ex Servicemen Veterans called on me seeking immediate release, withdrawal of case #BalwinderSingh. Painful case of gross human right abuse and police highhandedness @WBPolice @HomeBengal. Appeal @MamataOfficial to forthwith #Balvindrasingh and withdraw case,” he tweeted.
23 October 2020||Kalaburagi,||Authorities sound alert after water release from Sonna Barrage||The district administration has sounded an alert in the wake of 8 lakh cusecs of water being discharged from the Sonna Barrage to the Bhima in Afzalpur taluk on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna in a video message has appealed to residents of the villages on the banks of the Bhima in Afzalpur, Chittapur, Jewargi, and Shahbad taluks to move to higher places. As a huge amount of water was released to the Kagina, the people residing along its banks in Sedam taluk have also been asked to move to safer places. Ms. Jyothsna also appealed to flood victims to cooperate with the officials in rescue operations. Officials have been asked to check for people dwelling in high-risk areas on the banks of the river and shift them to the relief centres. The Deputy Commissioner also visited several villages, including Bandarwada and Ghattaraga in Afzalpur taluk, which have lost road connectivity owing to floods in the Bhima.   Fire and Emergency Services personnel rescued seven people stranded on an island in the middle of the Bhima at Bhosga village in Afzalpur taluk. The team also rescued two persons from Hiriyal village and one in Mannur village on Saturday. The authorities have deputed 22 ambulances and boats to carry out rescue operations.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||At 17.31%, test positivity rate high in State||The State on Saturday reported 9,016 new COVID-19 cases when 52,067 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 3,34,228. The number of recoveries registered on Saturday is 7,991. The test positivity rate of the day is 17.31%, higher than the 14.05% reported the previous day. However, after testing as many as 73,816 samples on October 7, the highest number of samples processed in a day so far, the subsequent days showed the testing drop to as low as 38,259 samples on October 12. After October 12, the number of samples tested in a day has barely gone above 50,000. The sudden drop in testing has been attributed to the technical glitches in the new Lab Diagnosis and Management System which require an elaborate data entry process. The number of samples tested in a day, as given out by the Health Department, is an ambiguous figure which does not specify the number of tests done daily to detect new cases. Since the total samples processed in a day also include repeat sample tests and antigen tests done prior to discharging patients (which on an average have been 7,500-8,000 a day), the actual number of samples tested to detect new infections daily must be a little over 40,000 only. If this fact is taken into account, the actual test positivity rate in the State must be way over the projected 17.3%, indicating the extent of disease transmission in the community.  The Health Department added 26 more deaths which occurred in the past several days to the official death list on Saturday, taking the cumulative toll to 1,139. Thiruvananthapuram reported seven of these deaths, four in Malappuram, three each in Kollam, Kottayam and Thrissur, two each in Kozhikode and Alappuzha and one each in Ernakulam and Kannur. Of the new cases reported on Saturday, 98.5% cases – 8,889 cases – are locally acquired infections, including the 1,321 cases wherein the source of infection remains untraced. These include infections contracted by 104 health-care workers also. Among districts, Malappuram’s case graph continues to climb with 1,519 cases. Thrissur follows with 1,109, Ernakulam 1,022, Kozhikode 926, Thiruvananthapuram 848, Palakkad 688, Kollam 656, Alappuzha 629, Kannur 464, Kottayam 411, Kasaragod 280, Pathanamthitta 203, Idukki 140 and Wayanad 121 cases.
23 October 2020||Coimbatore,||Two from rural govt. school clear NEET in first attempt||Two girls who studied at the Government Higher Secondary School at Velliangadu, near Karamadai, in Coimbatore district have cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in their first attempt without any special coaching. S. Ramya of a Scheduled Tribe (ST) and P. Bistis Prisca of a Scheduled Caste (SC) scored 145 and 167 marks respectively. The qualifying marks for the SC/ST candidates ranged from 113 to 146. Neither attended any private coaching class. “I prepared only using the Class XI and Class XII textbooks,” said Ms. Ramya, daughter of a daily wage labourer. She did not attend the online crash course organised by the Department of School Education in June. “Passing this [NEET] itself is an achievement,” said Ms. Bistis, daughter of a tailor. Both want to become cardiologists. M. Vasanthamani, who teaches Biology at the school, said students were made to solve sample question paper issued by the government. Headmaster A. Bellie said the school would give financial help to students if their medical seats were confirmed.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||14,238 more recoveries in State||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally increased to 15,86,321, with 10,259 new cases being recorded on Saturday. The State also reported 250 deaths, taking its death toll to 41,965. A total of 14,238 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 13,58,606. There are now 1,85,270 active cases. Mumbai reported 1,791 new cases, pushing its overall case tally to 2,40,335, while its death toll rose to 9,739, with 47 new fatalities. Pune city added 417 fresh cases, raising its cumulative case load to 1,67,823, while 22 deaths took its toll to 3,888. So far 80,69,100 samples have been tested in the State. Gyms to open from Oct. 25 Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said gymnasiums and fitness centres in the State will be allowed to reopen on October 25. During a virtual meeting with representatives of gyms, the Chief Minister said group activities like zumba and yoga, and steam and sauna facilities will not be allowed. “Gymnasiums and fitness centres are for the welfare of citizens, so care should be taken to ensure that there is no virus spread. SoPs should be strictly followed,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said that the State government was going slow on lifting restrictions because there should be no complacency. Safety measures such as disinfecting premises at hourly intervals, physical distancing, sanitisation and use of masks will be made mandatory, Mr. Thackeray said, adding that health check-ups of trainers and staff should be done regularly.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,||‘Risk of disease, pressures affecting lifespan of doctors’||Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research Dr. C.N. Manjunath on Saturday expressed concern over declining lifespan of doctors who, he said, were being exposed to the risk of diseases and to professional pressures, shrinking their life expectancy by nearly 10 years. The noted cardiologist argued that attacks on doctors and ransacking of hospitals were unacceptable as doctors always strove to give quality healthcare. Speaking after inaugurating the Dasara festivities atop Chamundi Hills here, Dr. Manjunath said COVID-19 patients should not be stigmatised and they needed support and care. “In my view, patients are wrecked by two diseases – one from the virus and the other from mental agony of contracting the virus. Love, sympathy, and self-confidence is what they need to recover,” he observed. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, his Cabinet colleagues, and local elected representatives attended the event. Dr. Manjunath urged the people not to panic over the pandemic and said 90 per cent of patients recovered on their own or with mild medication, while only 8 per cent of the patients needed oxygen support and one per cent ventilator support. Recalling the contribution of Mysuru kings, Dr. Manjunath said Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar was a progressive king who was hailed as “the people’s maharaja”. The contribution of Mysuru maharajas, especially to health, education, agriculture, and irrigation, was far-reaching. ‘Confined to tradition’ Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar said this year’s festivities had only been confined to tradition as the events that were part of the celebrations every year had been cancelled owing to the pandemic. Despite suggestions stakeholders not to scale down Mysuru Dasara, the government, after considering the advisories from the Centre and the views of experts, decided to keep it simple. To express its thanks to COVID-19 warriors, the government invited Dr. Manjunath for the inauguration and felicitated six warriors. Mr. Somashekar urged people not to venture out unnecessarily, as cultural events and Jamboo Savari could be watched on TV and other digital platforms. In the evening, the cultural events got off to a start at the palace. The State Sangeeth Vidwan award was conferred on vocalist Pandit Vinayak Torvi. This year, connoisseurs of music will miss the famed concerts as entry to the palace has been restricted to less than 50 persons, but the programmes can be watched live on social media and YouTube platforms.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,||Centenarian Yakshagana artist passes away||Yakshagana artist and freedom fighter Hiriyadka Gopal Rao, popularly known as ‘Maddale Mantrika’, a maestro in playing the maddale, a percussion instrument, passed away at his residence in Ontibetti near Hiriyadka in Udupi on Saturday. He was 100. Mr. Gopal Rao was unwell for the last two days and he spoke to a few of his family members on Saturday morning. He passed away at around 9 p.m. A Rajyotsava awardee, the veteran Yakshagana artist served in many melas and played maddale in the ballets of Kota Shivaram Karanth. He was also part of Kinnara Nritya and Mooka Nritya programmes of Karanth. Mr. Gopal Rao was instrumental in introducing the forearm-long maddale instead of the traditional maddale that is 30-inch long. These two maddales are now used in Yakshagana shows. Born to Ayurveda doctor and Yakshagana artist Sheshgiri Rao and homemaker Lakshmibai on December 15, 1919, Gopala Rao learnt to play the maddale from his father. He learnt the Yakshagana dance under Nagappa Kamath. He further trained in the instrument under Perdoor Venkata Rao. He donned some roles in the Hiriyadka mela and picked up ‘Bhagavatige’ (singing) from Srinivas Uppoor, father of renowned Bhagavatha Narayana Uppoor. He was part of the Mandarthi Yakshagana Mela for three decades and was instrumental in forming the first Yakshagana mela in Hiriyadka. Mr. Rao served as principal of the Yakshagana Kendra and taught various aspects of this traditional art form. Among the artists he trained are American national Martha Bush Aschan, who came to India to learn Yakshagana in 1969. He held Yakshagana training sessions and maddale classes at Ambalpady and other places. He learnt about traditional medicine from his father and was treating patients. He stopped practising following stringent regulations.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,||Cases predicted to touch 1 mn by Nov. 12: Study||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Karnataka is expected to touch one million by November 12, by which time the number of victims may reach 12,800. These are among the predictions by Jeevan Raksha, an initiative of Proxima, a management consulting firm, with the support of Public Health Foundation of India. By deploying the Pandemic and Epidemic Management System to study COVID-19 trends across India, Jeevan Raksha made two forecasts for Karnataka during August and September, whose margin of error was 3%. Karnataka’s COVID-19 positive cases, which increased from 2,19,926 on August 16 to 4,40,411 on September 12 and to 7,17,915 on October 12, is expected to touch 10,00,000 on November 12. Positive cases are likely to touch a million when India’s surge is anticipated to reach 92,35,000 on November 12 from 71,65,741 on October 12. No. of deaths Jeevan Raksha has predicted the number of deaths in the State to reach 12,800 by November 12 from the 10,314 on October 12. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 in Karnataka had gone up from 3,832 on August 16 to 7,067 on September 12 before reaching 10,314 on October 12. The accuracy of Jeevan Raksha’s earlier two predictions on the number of deaths were 93 and 92% of the actual. Across India, the number of deaths, which stood at 1,10,173 on October 12, is expected to reach 1,34,860 by November 12. Jeevan Raksha’s convener Mysore Sanjeev said Karnataka’s Test Positivity Rate of 11.6% was the second highest among the 12 mega States in the country that also include Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, and West Bengal, which together account for 70% of the country’s total COVID-19 cases. Claiming that the Test Positivity Rate in Karnataka has not reduced for the last 10 weeks, Mr. Sanjeev said this indicated that the virus was spreading faster and wider in the State. “Based on the Critical Medical Infrastructure resource planning module of Proxima, Karnataka might require 22,500 oxygen beds, 16,800 ICU beds, and 11,200 ventilators over the next three to six weeks. The government needs to immediately examine the available resources,” he said.
23 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||A ‘Zero Rajdhani’ skirts Guwahati, cuts travel short||Bogibeel, India’s longest rail-and-road bridge across the Brahmaputra, had in December 2018 brought the two “emotionally connected” banks of eastern Assam closer by more than seven hours. A ‘Zero Rajdhani’ train via this 4.94 km bridge has now brought the people of the two banks closer to New Delhi by more than 100 km. The 02505/02506 between New Delhi and Dibrugarh on October 12 was technically not a Rajdhani, whose train number starts with 2 while those of mail, express trains start with 1. The zero makes it a special train, usually operated temporarily. “The train will officially become the biweekly Rajdhani we had planned to introduce from May 3 once train services become regular. The plan had to be shelved because of COVID-19,” said Subhanan Chanda, spokesperson, Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR). The special ‘Rajdhani’ could be a first, deviating from the train definition, bypassing Guwahati, the original terminal for Rajdhani, by some 50 km. For people in Dibrugarh and eastern Arunachal Pradesh, what matters more is the option of reaching Delhi or other stations on the ‘normal’ Rajdhani route faster. The track via Bogibeel is 117 km shorter. Gateway to Arunachal “Our town, one of Assam’s oldest, is often called the gateway to Arunachal Pradesh. But we had to catch superfast trains from Naharlagun [near Itanagar] to Delhi at Harmuti, about 30 km away,” said Sailen Baruah, a resident of Assam’s North Lakhimpur. Lakhimpur and Dibrugarh districts had always been psychologically, economically and culturally linked to Dibrugarh but the river forced residents to maintain distance. The alternative was a 12-hour road trip via Kaliabhomora bridge or a time-consuming river ferry service. The special ‘Rajdhani’ service offers the fourth pair of trains connecting North Lakhimpur and Dibrugarh, after the Tinsukia-Naharlagun Express was introduced in 2018, five days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the Bogibeel Bridge. “Faster trains are an alternative to Lilabari Airport, where flights have reduced drastically,” said resident Sazzad Hussain. The bridge had also made connectivity between the eastern and western halves of Arunachal Pradesh faster. “We are looking forward to the resumption of regular train services to save on travel time,” said B. Namchoom of Namsai in eastern Arunachal Pradesh. On the flip side, the bridge has led to traffic congestion in Dibrugarh. “Half the vehicles on the streets here are from Lakhimpur and Dhemaji districts,” said local resident Rukmini Bora.
23 October 2020||Dinara,||The din in Dinara is about BJP-LJP||After being denied the BJP ticket to contest in the Bihar Assembly election, Rajendra Singh, former State vice-president of the party, was the first among senior leaders to join the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). He is now set to contest from Dinara in Rohtas. The action quickly triggered speculation that the top BJP leadership might give tacit support to such veterans for any emerging post-election calculations to form the next government in the State.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Dr. Reddy’s gets nod for Sputnik V trials||Pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories and Russia’s sovereign wealth fund RDIF have received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India to conduct an adaptive phase 2/3 human clinical trial for the Sputnik V vaccine in India. It is the world’s first registered vaccine against COVID-19. This will be a multi-centre and randomised controlled study, which will include safety and immunogenicity study.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘76% of rural Indians can’t afford nutritious diet’||Three out of four rural Indians cannot afford a nutritious diet, according to a paper recently published in journal Food Policy . Even if they spent their entire income on food, almost two out of three of them would not have the money to pay for the cheapest possible diet that meets the requirements set by the government’s premier nutrition body, it says. Unlike the Economic Survey’s ‘Thalinomics’, which provided a rosier picture of meal costs, this study uses the wages of unskilled workers who make up a larger proportion of the population than industrial workers, and includes items such as dairy, fruit and dark green leafy vegetables that are essential as per India’s official dietary guidelines. The paper, titled “Affordability of nutritious diets in rural India”, is authored by International Food Policy Research Institute economist Kalyani Raghunathan and others. The study uses the latest available food price and wage information from the National Sample Survey’s 2011 dataset. The findings are significant in the light of the fact that India performs abysmally on many nutrition indicators even while the country claims to have achieved food security. On Friday, the Global Hunger Index showed that India has the world’s highest prevalence of child wasting, reflecting acute undernutrition.
23 October 2020||WELLINGTON,||New Zealand PM Ardern wins historic re-election||Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern delivered the biggest election victory for her centre-left Labour Party in half a century on Saturday as voters rewarded her for a decisive response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The mandate means Ms. Ardern, 40, could form the first single-party government in decades. Labour was on track to win 64 of the 120 seats in the country’s unicameral Parliament, the highest by any party since New Zealand adopted a proportional voting system in 1996. Ms. Ardern promised supporters she would build an economy that works for everyone, create jobs, train people, protect the environment and address climate challenges and social inequalities. “We are living in an increasingly polarised world,” she said. “A place where more and more have lost the ability to see one another's point of view. I hope that with this election, New Zealand has shown that this is not who we are.” Opposition National Party leader Judith Collins said she congratulated the Prime Minister for an “outstanding result”. Labour had 49.0% of the votes, far ahead of National at 27%, the Electoral Commission said, with 95% of ballots counted.
23 October 2020||KALIDINDI (KRISHNA DT.),||Road link to many villages in Krishna district cut off||Road transportation has been cut off to many villages in the downstream and island villages of Krishna river due to heavy rains in the catchment areas for the last three days. Water was flowing on the main road at Madvanigudem, Gurvayipalem and other villages near Kalidindi, as the canal was overflowing due to continuous downpour. Many families were shifted to safer places from the island villages downstream of the Prakasam Barrage as the discharge was heavy on Saturday. Officials were supplying food, milk, drinking water to the people, who were accommodated in rehabilitation centres. Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana has directed the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) officials to prepare a permanent plan to prevent inundation of low-lying areas in the district. The Minister reviewed the flood situation with MLA Malladi Vishnu, Commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh and other officials at Command and Control Centre on Saturday. Mr. Venkatesh explained that food was being provided to 5,000 people who were shifted to rehabilitation centres, and health camps were arranged at Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation Stadium and at the Municipal School. Flood continuing The Minister asked the officials to search for permanent accommodation for 2,500 families staying on the river bund. Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that second warning level had been withdrawn as the discharge from Prakasam Barrage was 5.42 lakh cusecs by Saturday afternoon. “Flood is continuing to Krishna, but the release from the barrage is decreasing and water level is less than the danger levels. However, instructions have been given to all the officers to be alert and continue relief operations,” Mr. Imtiaz said. Avanigadda MLA Simhadri Ramesh and Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu visited the flood-affected villages in Avanigadda area and enquired about the facilities in the rehabilitation centres. “About 70 villagers trapped in Pata Yedla Lanka village, which was marooned in flood, were shifted to Avanigadda Government Girls High School,” said the SP and enquired the police about the facilities in the rehabilitation centre.
23 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||‘Mumbai can’t depend on Tata Power, AEML alone’||Dinesh Waghmare, chairman and managing director of Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Co. Ltd. (MSETCL), said Mumbai needs additional sources of electricity to prevent another blackout, like the one experienced on October 12. “Mumbai needs additional sources of electricity. Power should also be brought from outside. The city cannot depend on Tata Power and AEML alone. The Vikhroli substation project had been stalled for a long time, but now the Chief Minister has resolved the land issue,” Mr. Waghmare said.
23 October 2020||Srinagar,||Lashkar IED expert killed in Anantnag||A Lashkar-e-Taiba militant, who was the outfit’s improvised explosives device expert, was killed in an operation by the security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Saturday. “The terrorist was given the opportunity to surrender but he fired indiscriminately. In the ensuing encounter, one foreign terrorist was killed,” IG) Vijay Kumar said.
23 October 2020||CHITTOOR,||TTD clarifies on row over FDs||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) on Saturday clarified that in view of the dip in the interest rates on fixed deposits (FDs) in the banking sector, the TTD Trust Board studied the possibility of investing in the securities of the Central government and the governments of Andhra Pradesh and other States, considering it as optional. A TTD press release said there was a no secret agenda. A decision was taken in a transparent manner in the TTD board. Investing in the Central and State government securities was not new as its was in tune with Section 30 of 113 (3) of the Endowments Act, 1987, TTD Rule 80 of G.O. 311. The release said so far the TTD had not made any investments. The board had deemed it fit not to consider the option of investing in securities, but to continue with fixed deposits in banks with a projection of possible hike in interest rates.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Dr. Reddy’s gets nod for Sputnik V trials||Pharma major Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories and Russia’s sovereign wealth fund RDIF have received approval from the Drugs Controller General of India to conduct an adaptive phase 2/3 human clinical trial for the Sputnik V vaccine in India. It is the world’s first registered vaccine against COVID-19. This will be a multi-centre and randomised controlled study, which will include safety and immunogenicity study. Developed by Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Russia, Sputnik V vaccine is based on the human adenoviral vectors platform.  The vaccine was registered by Russia’s Health Ministry in August. The DCGI approval “is a significant development that allows us to commence the clinical trial in India. We are committed to bringing in a safe and efficacious vaccine to combat the pandemic.”
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Rhythmic beat||
23 October 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars warn of stir over quota row from Nov. 1||Gujjars demanding reservation in jobs and education as a “most backward class” (MBC) on Saturday gave an ultimatum to the Congress government in Rajasthan for resumption of their agitation from November 1, unless urgent steps were taken to protect their “rightful share” and apply the quota provisions to the ongoing recruitments to 15 services.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Four arrested for bar owner’s murder||The Central Division police on Saturday opened fire and arrested four men who were behind the murder of Manish alias Sarvottam Shetty, 41, on October 15. Police suspect underworld rivalry but are yet to ascertain the gang’s affiliation or motive behind the murder.
23 October 2020||Mysuru,||Low-key Mysuru Dasara inaugurated||The fight against COVID-19 resonated in this year’s Mysuru Dasara too, with festivities atop Chamundi Hills here on Saturday being inaugurated by C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. Nada Habba this year is a low-key affair.
23 October 2020||Kolkata,||covid update||West Bengal on Saturday registered its highest single day spike of 3,865 COVID-19 cases taking the tally in the State to 3,17,053. With 61 deaths, the fatalities touched 5,992. The active cases in the State increased to 33,121 and the discharge rate in the state dropped marginally to 87.66%. Of the 61 reported deaths, Kolkata and North 24 Parganas accounted for 15 each. The number of deaths in Kolkata rose to 1,971 and in North 24 Parganas to 1,357. Kolkata recorded 784 cases taking the total to 69,031. Meanwhile, West Bengal’s BJP president Dilip Ghosh tested COVID-19 positive on Saturday. Mr. Ghosh, who was active over the past few months meeting party leaders, has been admitted to a private health facility in Salt Lake. In another related development, the Centre will send a team to five States, including West Bengal, to help with COVID-19 management.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,||COVID-19 awareness campaign launched||J.N. Subrahmanya, Principal District and Sessions Judge, Udupi district, on Saturday launched a COVID-19 public awareness campaign as per the direction of the National Legal Services Authority and participated by various government departments. Mr. Subrahmanya said officials of various departments would visit every household in the district to create awareness
23 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Fire at Income tax office||A fire mishap occurred at the office of Commissioner of Income Tax located at Navanagar in between Hubballi and Dharwad on Saturday evening. According to preliminary investigation, the blaze was caused due to a short-circuit and a few computers have been gutted.
23 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘Ensure effective use of grants under Smart City’||Commissioner of Social Welfare and District in-charge Secretary Ravi Kumar has asked municipal officials to ensure effective utilisation of funds under the Smart City scheme and the timely completion of various projects taken up under it.
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Express RT-PCR tests for passengers at city airport||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport has introduced express COVID-19 RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test facility for all passengers departing from the airport.
23 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Ranchi rally demands release of Stan Swamy||All major non-BJP political parties and social activists on Saturday took to the streets in Ranchi, demanding the immediate release of Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old tribal rights activist, who was arrested last week by the National Investigation Agency in connection with Bhima Koregaon case.The march culminated with a dharna in front of the Raj Bhawan.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Republic TV and Arnab move HC to quash FIR||The Republic TV media group filed a criminal petition before the Bombay High Court to quash the FIR registered in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation case by the Mumbai Police. ARG Outlier Media Private Ltd. and Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami moved the court on October 16 to quash the FIR registered on October 6 and called it, “misconceived, politically motivated and frivolous”.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s air quality likely to improve tomorrow||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram remained in the ‘poor’ category on Saturday, while that of Noida deteriorated to the ‘very poor’ level, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. Delhi’s air quality is expected to improve on Monday and Tuesday, as per monitoring agency SAFAR.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth beaten to death by two for ‘stealing phone’||A 20-year-old youth was allegedly beaten to death by two persons who suspected him of stealing their mobile phones, the police said on Saturday. Both the accused have been arrested. DCP (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said the accused — Ajit, 23, a resident of Gautam Buddha Nagar and Rajkumar, 24, a resident of Rajokri village — are both ragpickers.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU’s second list sees marginal decline||The second cut-off list anno-unced by Delhi University on Saturday saw a marginal dip with several arts courses being closed across colleges. At Lady Shri Ram College, the asking score dipped from 100% to 99% for economics, while political science and psychology cut-off remained at 99.75%. BA (Hons) English cut-off reduced to 97% at Gargi College and 97.75% at Hans Raj College.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,||State gets 7.5 tmcft excess Cauvery water||Tamil Nadu has realised about 7.5 tmcft more than its share of Cauvery water during the current water year. Between June 1 and October 15, the State received around 140.4 tmcft against the stipulated quantity of 132.9 tmcft.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,||‘Theerthodbhava’ occurs as scheduled||A small number of people witnessed the Cauvery Theerthodbhava at Talacauvery in Kodagu on Saturday amidst strict enforcement of precautions.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Bypolls: Health officials in a quandary||With a little over two weeks left for the bypolls, health officials are in a quandary as they are finding it hard to stop crowding during nomination filing and roadshows, which are going on as it was during pre-COVID-19 times.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 4,295 fresh COVID-19 cases||Eleven districts accounted for nearly 70% of the 4,295 new COVID-19 cases reported on Saturday. Chennai reported 1,132 cases, while 389 persons tested positive for the infection in Coimbatore.
23 October 2020||Chennai,||Feat by students from government schools||As many as 1,633 students out of 6,692 students from government and aided schools in Tamil Nadu have cleared NEET. These are candidates who were attempting the examination for the first time this year.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Festival bonus worries for MSME sector||With the festive season drawing near, businessmen and entrepreneurs in the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector are facing a new challenge of paying their employees festival advance and bonus.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,||210 cases filed against medical shops||In the last six months, the Drugs Control Department has filed around 210 prosecution cases against medical shops and manufacturers for various violations across the State. Some of the manufacturers are facing action for selling substandard sanitisers and adulterated sanitisers.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A work-in-progress campaign for rights||On October 13, elections were held for the cohort of member nations who will serve for the next three years (2021-23) in the UN Human Rights Council. Among the five countries that were vying for membership from the Asia-Pacific region, four — Pakistan, Uzbekistan, Nepal and China — made it, while Saudi Arabia lost out. The UNHRC has 47 members serving at any time with elections held to fill up seats every year, based on allocations to regions across the world to ensure geographical representation. Along with the aforementioned countries, the others who booked a seat in the council included Russia and Ukraine from Eastern Europe; France and the U.K. from Western Europe and other states; Ivory Coast, Gabon, Malawi and Senegal from Africa; and Bolivia, Cuba and Mexico from the Latin American and Caribbean States. Countries are disallowed from occupying a seat for more than two consecutive terms. The election to the Asia Pacific cohort this year was eventful. Saudi Arabia which had controversially earned a representation twice (2014-16, followed by 2017-2019) despite a known reputation for several human rights violations, could not secure a seat this time. In the secret ballot conducted in the 193-member UN General Assembly, Saudi Arabia could manage only 90 votes in comparison to Pakistan (169), Uzbekistan (164), Nepal (150) and China (139). For a nation with immense clout in West Asia, the inability to secure a seat despite the regime’s efforts to refurbish its image could be chalked up to the fallout of the assassination of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi and the detention of several women rights’ activists, among others. Yet, despite the exclusion of Saudi Arabia, the record of some other member-states such as China and Russia in the council has also not lived up to the aims and mission of the UNHRC, which has led to critics questioning its relevance. Powerful countries such as the U.S. have refused to participate in the Council, with the Trump administration taking the country out of the Council in 2018, years after it was reinstated under President Barack Obama. Mission The UNHRC, which was reconstituted from its predecessor organisation, the UN Commission on Human Rights, is a United Nations body whose mission is to promote and protect human rights across the world. The council is seen as a central structure in the global human rights architecture, a political body with representatives drawn from the General Assembly. Apart from the council, the UN has also set up a number of treaty-based organisations to monitor compliance with human rights standards and international human rights treaties such as the Human Rights Committee and the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The UNHRC, headquartered in Geneva, Switzerland, has two key functions — the council passes non-binding resolutions on human rights issues through a periodic review of all 193 UN member states called the Universal Periodic Review (UPR), besides overseeing expert investigation of violations in specific countries (Special Procedures). Human rights breaches that are investigated by the UNHRC across UN member states relate to themes such as freedom of association and assembly, freedom of expression, freedom of belief and religion, women’s rights, LGBT rights and the rights of racial and ethnic minorities. However, what makes the Council’s composition problematic is that several of its members run afoul of its proclaimed aims (for example, the one-party systems of China and Cuba that have a controversial record on freedom of expression or the anti-gay policies of Russia). Structure At one level, the UNHRC’s structure — drawing a group of nations from the General Assembly through rotation and election via a “one state, one vote” principle — has allowed the organisation to be fairly representative of the General Assembly without special privileges for the more developed Western countries, as is the case with other multilateral institutions such as the IMF or the World Bank. The UNHRC replaced the Human Rights Commission in 2006 after a vast majority of the UN member States endorsed the then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan’s proposal to create a new institution that would overcome the “credibility deficit” of the previous organisation. The General Assembly Resolution 60/251 helped establish the Council, whose detailed workings were negotiated subsequently. The mechanism of Universal Periodic Review (UPR) was incorporated into the functioning to give teeth to the organisation. The UPR, which has a national report from the state under review plus a compilation of UN information prepared by the Office of the UN High Commission for Human Rights, also allows for a summary of information from civil society actors. Countries such as Israel, Syria, Iran, North Korea, Myanmar, Sudan, Cambodia, Belarus, Burundi and Eritrea have been investigated and strongly condemned by the UNHRC for violating various human rights. Sri Lanka, for example, had, in a co-sponsored resolution in 2015, provided commitments to the council to promote reconciliation, accountability and human rights, following the end of the civil war in 2009. The Gotabaya Rajapaksa-led government withdrew the country from those commitments earlier this year. In a unanimously passed resolution that was sponsored by African states, the UNHRC in June 2020, ordered a report on “systematic racism” against people of African descent following the murder of the African-American George Floyd in the U.S. India has not been spared from scrutiny either. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, had earlier this year expressed concern over the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the clampdown in Kashmir, besides the “inter-communal attacks” in Delhi in February. Later, Ms. Bachelet had welcomed the release of political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir, but expressed concern over the communications restrictions as part of “Global Human Rights update” at the start of the 45th session of the UNHRC in September 2020. While the U.S. has stayed away from the council, keeping in line with the isolationist impulse of the Trump administration, other Western countries have actively participated in the UNHRC despite their misgivings about countries with a blemished rights record. There has always been an inherent tension between countries from the West that espouse an individualist notion of human rights that lays emphasis on political and civic rights and those from the developing world who have laid greater emphasis on socio-economic and cultural rights (such as Cuba). Between these “extremities”, there are other rising powers such as Brazil and India who have committed to hold states to account for human rights issues. The unique arrangement of representation, review and collaboration (with civil society groups over and above nation-states) has certainly improved the functioning of the UNHRC in comparison with its predecessor Commission. But the challenges remain high. The UNHCR is still a work in progress.  In Focus  The UNHRC replaced the UN Human Rights Commission in 2006 after a vast majority of the UN members endorsed a proposal to create a new institution to promote and protect rights  The Geneva-based council has 47 members serving at any time with elections held to fill up seats every year, based on allocations to regions  It passes non-binding resolutions on human rights issues, besides overseeing expert investigation of violations in specific countries   There has always been a tension between the West that lays emphasis on political rights and the developing world that has laid greater emphasis on socio-economic rights
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Huge inflows continue into Telangana, A.P. dams||Heavy to very heavy rains in the upper Krishna Basin in Maharashtra and Karnataka, including in the catchment areas of several tributaries of Krishna are getting huge flood continuously to Jurala and Srisailam and it is forecast to increase further over the next couple of days. Bhima, one of the major tributaries of the river Krishna, is in spate and has already crossed the record flood level at Deongaon bridge in Kalaburagi district of Karnataka. According to Central Water Commission (CWC) officials, the flood level in Bhima was 408.35 metres, “at extreme flood level”, against the danger level of 404.5 metres. As it is, the river is flowing over 1.01 metres level above the highest ever flood of 407.34 metres recorded there on August 13 in 2006. The CWC has forecast that the flood level is expected to reach 410 meters by noon on Sunday and it would result it further increase in inflows into Jurala project in Jogulamba-Gandwal district of Telangana. On Saturday night, Jurala was getting inflows of nearly 5 lakh cusecs with lion’s share of the flood contributed by Bhima although the flood from Almatti-Narayanpur was also sizeable around 1.5 lakh cusecs. The discharge of flood at Jurala was about 4.7 lakh cusecs. In the downstream, Srisailam was getting a flood of nearly 6 lakh cusecs with supplementation from the Tungabhadra, which is also expected to rise according to an advisory of the CWC by Sunday morning. The discharge of flood as also nearly 6 lakh cusecs from 10 spillway gates lifted for 25 feet height each (over 5.67 lakh cusecs) and from the right bank hydel station of AP (22,000 cusecs). At Nagarjunasagar, the discharge of flood was about 5.31 lakh cusecs including about 5.02 lakh cusecs from the 18 spillway gates lifted for 20 feet height each and another 29,000 cusecs from power generation. “As of Saturday morning nearly 904 tmc ft of flood has gone into the sea from Prakasam Barrage in AP and it has already crossed the last year’s quantity of 797 tmc ft for the entire flood season”, a flood monitoring official stated. All the projects in the Godavari Basin too are getting heavy inflows with the help of rains in Maharashtra and excess flood is being released at Singur, Nizamsagar, Sriramsagar, Mid Manair, Lower Manair, Yellampally and other projects. Over 3,503 tmc ft of flood has already gone into sea from Dowlaiswaram Barrage in AP.
23 October 2020||Dinara,||The din in Dinara is about BJP-LJP undercurrents in this election||After being denied the BJP ticket to contest in the Bihar Assembly election, Rajendra Singh, former State vice-president of the party, was the first among senior leaders to join the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). He is now set to contest the Dinara seat in Rohtas district. The action quickly triggered speculation that the top BJP leadership might give tacit support to such veterans for any emerging post-election calculations to form the government in the State. LJP chief Chirag Paswan has repeatedly said it would be “a BJP-LJP government this time”. Though the BJP later expelled nine leaders to dispel rumours, some of its workers appeared to be distancing themselves from campaigning for candidates of its ally Janata Dal(U), especially in constituencies where such “expelled” leaders are contesting on the LJP ticket. “BJP-LJP saath saath hain [BJP and LJP are together]” and “Narendra Modi-Amit Shah zindabad ” are slogans shouted by campaigners accompanying the “expelled” leaders at rallies in remote areas of their constituencies. At Dedhgaon village in the Geedha panchayat of Dawath block in the Dinara constituency, supporters of Rajendra Singh had assembled on the campus of the village panchayat and were shouting these slogans. Mr. Singh smiled a bit and had a word with one of the campaigners. Soon, “Chirag Paswan zindabad , Ram Vilas Paswan zindabad , LJP zindabad ” also became part of the chorus. “The BJP and RSS are in my blood and veins. I have been there for the past 37 years. I have dedicated my whole life to the RSS-BJP,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu on the occasion. No grudges Asked about the party expelling him, Mr. Singh maintained a moment of silence. “I’ve a lot of pain inside but I have no grudges against anyone,” he said. “I’ve nothing to say on this.” Would he move to the BJP if he won the election? Mr. Singh, after a long pause, quipped, “Only time will tell. Who knows what will happen in the future?” Asked if he had met BJP leader Amit Shah before joining the LJP, there was a pause again. “No such meeting took place,” he said. Mr. Singh’s main party office at a local hotel-cum-marriage hall at Dinara bazaar, however, has no party flag unfurled or cut-outs, hoardings and posters. A few vehicles, though, were parked outside and some party workers were chatting and taking rest on the ground floor, while rooms on the first floor were occupied by young workers busy drafting a campaign plan on a computer and taking prints. In the 2015 election, Mr. Singh, who was said to be the chief ministerial candidate of the BJP, lost by a thin margin of nearly 2,000 votes to JD(U) candidate Jai Kumar Singh. Mr. Singh got over 62,000 votes while Mr. Jai Kumar Singh got 64,000. Mr. Jai Kumar Singh later became the Information Technology Minister in Nitish Kumar’s Cabinet and is contesting as the NDA candidate for the fourth time from Dinara. Near Natwar village of the constituency, Mr. Jai Kumar Singh’s cavalcade was escorted by hundreds of motorbike-borne youth unfurling flags of the BJP and JD(U) on their two-wheelers. When asked, they denied they were BJP workers. “ Humlog mantriji ke supporter hain. BJP mantriji ko support kar rahi hai [we’re supporters of the Minister. BJP is supporting him],” they yelled and sped away. Besides these two contenders, RJD candidate Vijay Mandal too has been making his presence felt in the electoral battlefield. The constituency has about 55,000 voters of the Rajput caste — to which both Mr. Rajendra Singh and Mr. Jai Kumar Singh belong — and 40,000 Yadav, 15,000 Paswan, 10,000 Kushwaha, 15,000 Brahmin and 6,000 Bhumihar voters. Mr. Rajendra Singh from Gaura village of the constituency was seen riding on a motorcycle at Dedhgaon and Hathdiha villages and meeting people, touching the feet of elders and greeting others with folded hands. On the panchayat campus, he asked a young supporter to show the villagers a video that had recently gone viral on social media, in which NDA candidate Jai Kumar Singh had allegedly “boasted” that he was known to have rifles packed in five vehicles and those opposing him were badly thrashed. “Now you all should decide whether you want to elect a person who talks about goli-banduk [guns and cartridges] or a person who always has been with you through thick and thin during the last five years, even after losing the poll,” he told villagers, who shouted, “This time you will be our choice, no one else.” Mr. Rajendra Singh also listed the work done by him for the constituency, from construction of roads to medical help. “He has been the only leader who responds to our call and comes to meet us on our invitation whenever we wish,” said Vikas Singh from the village. Farmers’ issue But what are the other issues of his constituency he wants to address, if elected? “One of the main issues will be to address the farmers’ problem. You know, this area has famously been known as ‘the rice bowl of Bihar’, for its abundant paddy production, and it had over a hundred rice mills, but today it has only three-four rice mills.” On being asked why, he stated, “Because of the pathetic approach of the State government.” Does he support the farm laws introduced by the Centre recently? “Yes, they are pro-farmer and a good step by the government for the welfare of the farmers of the country,” he said. Dinara goes to the polls in the first phase on October 28.
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Focus on individual manipulators: BARC||The Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC India) on Saturday said its efforts on “combating infiltration” were focused on the individual(s) responsible for manipulating the TRP system. “We firmly believe that television channels are committed to maintaining a clean and transparent ecosystem,” the BARC said in a statement. “Over the last several days, there have been various news reports as regard to Television Ratings and BARC India. BARC India as an industry body has representation from bodies that represent Broadcasters, Advertisers, and Advertising and Media Agencies. BARC India owns and manages a transparent, accurate and inclusive TV audience measurement system,” it said. The council said it was providing the necessary assistance to the ongoing investigation by law enforcement agency and this should be seen in “the light of larger stability of the panel and in the interests of self-regulation, rather than in isolated cases of particular channels which leads to a distortion of facts,” the statement said. “BARCs management team works with full confidence and support of Board and the various Committees. BARC continues to be driven by only one goal: to generate ratings that its subscribers rely on which are deeply rooted in science, report with the greatest sense of responsibility and truly reflect ‘What India Watches’,” it added.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||In a race to be kingmaker||The Bihar Assembly election, scheduled to begin later this month, is no longer a bipolar contest between the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Opposition United Progressive Alliance (UPA), thanks to Chirag Paswan, president of the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The 37-year-old walked away from the Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA in Bihar, while at the same time continuing to support the BJP. If the LJP successfully cuts into the Janata Dal(U)’s vote share and seat tally without affecting the BJP’s performance, the State, for the first time, could see a BJP Chief Minister. This is a scenario that Mr. Chirag claims to be working for. On the other side, the Opposition Mahagatbandhan (grand alliance), led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), is hoping to gain from the divisions within the NDA. On October 4, four days after the LJP announced its decision to go solo, party patriarch and Mr. Chirag’s father Ram Vilas Paswan died of a prolonged illness, leaving the son in charge of the party’s election tactics. The LJP had seen a smooth transfer of power between the father and the son, something the senior Paswan was proud of. On November 5 last year, he handed over the reins of the party to Mr. Chirag. He often cited the bitter political feud between Mulayam Singh and son Akhilesh Singh Yadav when the latter took over the Samajwadi Party. The warmth between the two Paswans was visible and often advertised. During the lockdown, a video of the son giving the father a shave was circulated by the party. The two sat for interviews together. Dalit Sena Mr. Chirag’s first appearance at a political event was as a one-year-old sitting on his mother’s lap during the launch of the Dalit Sena in 1983. Ram Vilas Paswan built the LJP 17 years later on the foundations laid by the Sena. Born to a Bihari father and Punjabi mother (Reena Sharma Paswan), Mr. Chirag is part Punjabi and part Bihari, though, it is the latter part that he wants the world to concentrate on. To assert his Bihari identity, he recently changed his social media name to ‘Yuva Bihari Chirag Paswan’. He did his schooling from the Air Force Golden Jubilee Institute in the Army Cantonment area in Delhi. Later, he joined Amity University for the B.Tech. Computer Science programme, but left it mid-way. In Mr. Chirag’s own words, his friends, impressed by his “good looks”, prodded him to go to Mumbai to try his luck in Bollywood. By 2002, he was travelling between Delhi and Mumbai, training to be an actor. In 2010, Miley Naa Miley Hum , his only film, co-starring Kangana Ranaut, was released. Three-years later, well in time for the 2014 Lok Sabha poll, Mr. Chirag was back in Bihar. He is often nostalgic about his foray into the Bollywood. “There was a very famous song from my movie, “Katto Gilehri...” , written by Javed Sahab [lyricist Javed Akhtar], that happens to be a popular song in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. So when I go out at times, they sing the song, the youth tell me that I look good, and I must make another movie, but politics is a full-time and the only job for me,” he told The Hindu in 2019. His entry into politics meant a new chapter for the LJP. In March 2014, he steered his father towards Narendra Modi, 12 years after the senior Paswan quit the NDA, criticising Mr. Modi over the Gujarat riots. “My father was my best friend. While everyone else in the party was scared to tell him their minds about joining hands with Modi ji , I could easily talk, argue and goad him,” Mr Paswan later said. While his father struggled to justify the switch, Mr. Chirag had no such qualms. Questions on Mr. Modi’s “secular credentials” were deflected by listing out the 1984 anti-Sikh riots or the 1989 Bhagalpur riots, among others. In 2005, Ram Vilas Paswan played a key role in changing the political course of Bihar. He walked out of the RJD-Congress alliance, and the LJP contested against the RJD but not against the Congress. The gamble paid off, as it brought an end to the 15-year rule of Lalu Prasad. In the election held in February 2005, the LJP got 29 seats. This led to a hung house and fresh election in which Nitish Kumar swept to power. Mr. Chirag wants history to repeat in 2020. The difference, however, is that this time, Mr. Kumar could be at the receiving end.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||China’s city of change||As soon as you enter the gleaming lobby of the Tencent Binhai Mansion, a twin skyscraper-edifice that serves as the headquarters of China’s most well-known tech giant, attendants, dressed in white lab coats, converge on visitors. They ask how you can be helped, before ushering you into a small 3D-exhibition hall that abuts the lobby. Every inch of the hall, including its ceiling and floor, are covered with screens, displaying images and numbers showcasing the all-pervasive reach of Tencent, and in particular of its WeChat ecosystem that powers China today, offering everything from social media messaging and mobile payments to e-government services. If the lab coats, sliding doors and flashing lights at Tencent HQ all seem very Star Trek, there is a reason for the elaborate messaging. It is aimed at showing the company’s role in China’s evolution from the world’s workshop to a tech power. And it is no accident that Tencent is headquartered in Shenzhen, a city that has, for four decades, been at the cusp of driving change in China. On October 14, China marked the 40th anniversary of the setting up of its first Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Shenzhen, a key step in China’s economic reforms and opening up process that would also transform a provincial backwater, whose only claim to fame then was serving as the last stop on the mainland on the Canton (Guangzhou)-Kowloon rail, before it entered then British-controlled Hong Kong. In 1978, at the start of the reforms process, China’s GDP was $149 billion, not much greater than India’a $140 billion. Its GDP per capita of $156 was less than India’s $203. Fast-forward four decades, and it is now five-times India’s, while the city of Shenzhen alone has a $400 billion GDP, which overtook Hong Kong’s in 2018 and is about the same as Maharashtra’s, India’s biggest state economy. Experimentation has been key to Shenzhen’s success, and it is still the mantra that drives its firms, big and small. Up the road from Tencent on Binhai Boulevard is the company Royole, a seven-year-old Shenzhen start-up that manufactures foldable electronic displays. “Innovation is at the heart of the Shenzhen spirit,” explained Thalia Cheng, a manager at one of its Shenzhen showrooms, in a conversation last November, as she outlined the company’s next big plan — weaving in electronic displays on clothes and handbags (Louis Vuitton is one of their customers). In transition Ms. Cheng, and many in Shenzhen, see the city’s access to a large pool of trained and talented labour as one reason behind its rise, both 40 years ago and today, when it is looking to transition from workshop to innovator. If it was the millions of rural workers who descended on this city in the 1980s seeking jobs that offered a way out of rural poverty, today, it is university graduates seeking a fortune in China’s tech sector. But 40 years on, as they embark on their Shenzhen adventures, a remarkably different world awaits them. If the success story of the world’s workshop coincided with the start of the era of globalisation, China’s tech giants are finding a much more frosty reception today, with much of the world, including India, now reassessing how it wants to do business with China Inc. No surprise that President Xi Jinping, speaking in Shenzhen on the October 14 anniversary, warned of a turbulent world and unprecedented global challenges. Yet, the changes abroad are, in a sense, reacting to changes within China too. If decentralisation and a retreat of the party-state paved the way for reforms and experimentation in the 1980s, today, the Communist Party is seeking to exert ever greater sway over how even private tech companies are run (all of which, incidentally, are mandated to have internal Party units). This strange dichotomy was on display outside the Shenzhen Stock Exchange one November morning, a building known for the distinctive statue of two giant charging bulls that stand at its entrance, a symbol of the city — and the country — embracing the market. And just across the square, an electronic screen flashed a banner in bright red, showing a waving flag of the Party and a slogan urging everyone to abide by the values of Mr. Xi’s signature slogan, called ‘Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a new era’. Only in Shenzhen.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We want to consolidate the anti-BJP vote’||For the first time, the CPI(ML) is fighting an election within the constraints of an alliance. Having won three seats in the 2015 Assembly election, when it fought alone amid a wave in favour of the RJD-Janata Dal(U) alliance, expectations are sky high. CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya speaks of an anti-incumbency wave and anger among voters.  This is the first time you are fighting an election in an alliance. What compelled you to do so? Certainly, this is not with the view of winning seats alone. We have demonstrated over and over again that you can independently contest and win seats. In fact, our very emergence in 1989 for the first time when Dalits exercised their franchise, we won the Arrah Lok Sabha seat, against the established political wisdom. The main issue is that the BJP poses a real threat to our democracy and Constitution. Our primary concern was to ensure consolidation of the anti-BJP vote as much as possible. Of course, we tried in the 2019 Lok Sabha election too, but it didn’t happen. It was limited to some kind of goodwill gesture on the part of the RJD, where they left one seat for us and we reciprocated by extending support to them. What made it possible this time is that the RJD drew its lessons from the 2019 election, and there has been a tremendous demand for this alliance from the ground. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, only on four seats the Opposition candidate managed to poll more than four lakh votes; these were the seats where our votes and RJD votes converged. Next to the RJD, the CPI(ML) has the biggest cadre. Are you happy with the seat-sharing arrangement in the grand alliance? I don’t want to talk about the seat-sharing arrangement. The Left together got 29 seats, which is fewer than what the Left should get. So I will not say I am fully satisfied. But this alliance is a result of a felt need of the people; it has not been imposed from above, it is a natural alliance that has emerged. If the grand alliance  was to win, will the CPI(ML) be part of the the government? If you go by our programme, it is unlikely that the CPI(ML) will be part of the government. I believe that the Left lends credibility and stability to the government. Right now, what we have is a seat-sharing arrangement; it is not a front that has emerged through a shared ideological coalition. But definitely, there is some ideological common ground to work against the BJP and their threat to destroy democracy. Post elections, we will take a call. But let me make it very clear, to help form the government and we will see to it that the government delivers. How hopeful are you that the CPI(ML) will be able to better its 1990 record of winning nine seats, in the then undivided Bihar. Certainly we are hopeful. In an election, till the vote is cast and counted, confidence is a very difficult word to use. But politically, we are hopeful, particularly, because in the 19 seats we are contesting, we have done solid work and decades of struggle and sufficient influence among the people. This time there is a powerful anti-incumbency factor against Nitish Kumar and anger runs high among people. And this anger doesn’t respect the established social equations and political boundaries. In our areas too, we are finding that cutting across castes, people are responding to our campaign. It is fallacious to think that the BJP will emerge unscathed and that the anger is only directed at Nitish Kumar. Probably for the first time in many years, people are disillusioned by Narendra Modi. The lockdown revealed the open secret that migration from Bihar has never really declined because there are no decent job opportunities in the State. Look at BJP’s cheek, one of their bill boards is about bringing back migrant workers when each of them had to spend out of their pocket to return to their homes.  Anger runs high among people and it doesn’t respect established social equations and political boundaries
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Many farmers take to bio-capsules||The use of bio-capsules, a bio-fertilizer technology developed by the Indian Institute of Spices Research (IISR), is picking up among farmers. Scientists with the IISR say that the sale of the new product has been on the rise since the lockdown days which witnessed the entry of many young entrepreneurs into the organic farming sector. A report released by the IISR on Thursday says the number of bio-capsules sold to small-scale and large-scale farmers in May 2020 alone is 4,000. Between May and August, 6,000 tablets were sold to farmers in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. Farmers from Telangana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, and Himachal Pradesh too have started using it. According to IISR scientists, the average monthly sale of this product stood at just 400 before the lockdown period. Santhosh J. Eapen, Director, IISR, says bio-capsule is a revolutionary technology which ensures the successful delivery of biologically competent and beneficial microbes. Advantages Priced at Rs. 100 a capsule, it uses a select combination of beneficial microorganisms such as Trichoderma, Pseudomonas and Bacillus. Unlike traditional microbial formulations, the novel technology developed by a team of scientists led by former IISR Director M. Anandaraj gives it the advantage of easy storage, usage and transport. The production is being controlled by two licensed private firms. Diluted in water A key attraction of the fertilizer is that a capsule can be diluted in 100-200 litres of water as per requirement. Researchers say 4,000 capsules are equivalent to 4,000 kg talc-based formulation of microorganisms. As the weight of the capsule is only one gram, a farmer can easily replace 4 tonnes of formulation with 4 kg of capsules. Most farmers are exploring its scope for improving organic vegetable and spice cultivation. Researches say it does not create harmful residuals. It also suits the requirement of urban farmers who farm in grow bags.
23 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Joseph faction won’t cede seats to Cong.||The plans of the Congress to expand its presence in central Travancore using the space vacated by the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani appear to have suffered a setback with the rival faction led by P.J. Joseph asserting its right over all seats that traditionally belonged to the regional party. Talking to presspersons on Saturday, Mr. Joseph said the seats where the Mani faction had contested during the previous local body elections now belonged to his party. The stand would be the same for the Assembly elections as well. “Ideally, the seats vacated by the Mani group should be left to us as almost all leaders from the Mani group have joined our ranks. For, it will be the most suitable option to ensure a drubbing to the Mani group and the matter will be discussed in detail within the United Democratic Front (UDF),’’ he said. The statement assumes significance as reports have emerged that the Congress, as the leading partner of the UDF, looks set to take back seats, including Kanjirappally and Changanassery, from the KC(M) in view of a decline in its collective bargaining power. The number of seats at its disposal will come down further in case of the Kerala Janapaksham led by P.C. George, MLA, and the Nationalist Congress Party, a Left Democratic Front ally that currently faces the prospect of losing Pala and Kuttanad to the Mani group, decide to align with the UDF. Mr. Joseph, on the other hand, will be hard-pressed to ensure seats for at least a handful of leaders who switched from the various splinter groups of the regional party to join him recently. An array of leaders, including Johnny Nellore, Francis George and Joseph M. Puthussery, have joined Mr. Joseph. Meanwhile, in a related development, the Mani faction sought to dismiss the allegations raised by Mr. Joseph over the selection of candidates for the Pala byelection.
23 October 2020||Srinagar,||J&K topper is from trouble-torn area||The Kashmir Valley’s most troubled and militancy-affected Pulwama district has earned a new distinction — that of being home to J&K’s National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) topper, Basit Bilal Khan. The 18-year-old Khan scored 695 marks out of 720. “My parents had shifted me from Pulwama three years ago to Srinagar. I was insulated from what was happening in my district, whether favourable or unfavourable. It did contribute to my success,” Mr. Khan told The Hindu . Pulwama remains the restive district in south Kashmir and witnessed encounters, search operations and protests very frequently. On the Internet ban and slow connectivity in J&K, Mr. Khan said students in Kashmir need to find new ways and means to achieve their goals. “If your goal is important to you, find ways rather than excuses. We are not having favourable conditions for many many years now. We should be prepared to face the tough conditions, as we may face more hardships,” he said. Advisor to the Lieutenant-Governor, Farooq Khan, felicitated Mr. Khan for his “historic feat of securing 99.98 percentile in the NEET-2020 exam”. “I hope he (Khan) would inspire many other youth from the region to crack other prestigious exams in order to serve the society in the best possible way so that their energy would be utilized for the development of the nation,” the official said. National Conference president Dr. Farooq Abdullah and vice-president Omar Abdullah also congratulated the topper. “The-18-year-old boy has proved the youth of Kashmir are second to none in academic excellence and chasing dreams for a better tomorrow. If students like Bilal can do it despite all challenges due to the prevailing situation, other students can do it too,” Dr. Abdullah said.
23 October 2020||Srinagar,||Lashkar IED expert killed in encounter||A Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) militant, who was the outfit’s improvised explosives device (IED) expert, was killed in an operation by the security forces in Anantnag of south Kashmir on Saturday, the police said. “A joint cordon and search operation was launched in the Larnoo area on Saturday following an input. The trapped terrorist was given the opportunity to surrender, but he fired indiscriminately. In the ensuing encounter, one foreign terrorist was killed,” Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. The police identified the slain militant as Nasir, alias Shakeel Saab, alias Shak Bhai. “He was an ‘A’ category terrorist and an IED expert of the LeT,” Mr. Kumar said. The police said incriminating materials, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site of encounter. In another operation in the Awantipora area of south Kashmir, a militant associate linked to the LeT was arrested. “Haris Shareef Rather, a resident of Zaffron Colony, Pampore, was involved in providing shelter, logistics and other support to the LeT militants. He was also assisting active terrorists in transporting arms and ammunition in the Pampore, Khrew and Kakapora areas,” the police said.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Owners can now upload data on Dharani portal||The State government has further eased the modalities for updating the non-agricultural properties for Dharani portal. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar in a statement on Saturday night said to further supplement the effort, two new channels have been created for property owners in GHMC and other municipalities to furnish information. Property owners can access the portal and update details on their own using the URLwww.npb.telangana.gov.inor using the services of Mee Seva This facility of enlisting properties at Mee Seva will be available free, service charges payable to Mee Seva will be borne by GHMC/municipality concerned. Property owners will have to furnish the Aadhaar number (to protect property from fraudulent transactions), mobile number (to send alerts/ information to owners regarding their property), family member details as declared by owner (for securing property rights of family members), photograph of owner (for printing on the maroon NPB), extent of plot/built-up area. The information is required to be furnished by property owner on voluntary basis. However, properties of such owners would not be migrated to the new system, the release said. Both the above channels are available with immediate effect for GHMC and municipalities. Those who have already enlisted through property through Mobile App need not enlist again using the above channels. NRI owners The modalities for registration of properties by NRIs, OCIs and foreign nationals will be issued separately. The maroon passbooks will be printed with state-of-the-art security features. The data will be stored in encrypted format on dedicated state government servers. Over 24,400 officials have been deployed across the State to interact with property owners for collection of data.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Gold smuggling probe reaches Sivasankar’s doorstep||The Customs (Preventive) is reportedly set to question M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, on suspicion of using the heft of his office to aid gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh to convert the proceeds from the economic offence into foreign currency and spirit it away to Dubai. Opposition parties, particularly the BJP, claimed on Saturday that the move to detain Mr. Sivasankar underscored the allegation that organised crime had access to the highest level of the State government. Mr. Sivasankar, who was suspended for misconduct, had often reported directly to the Chief Minister. Parallel investigations Parallel investigations by the Customs and Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the shadowy finances of the gold smuggling racket had reached the doorstep of Mr. Sivasankar on Friday evening. Armed with a summons, Customs agents escorted Mr. Sivasankar into a car for transit to the Commissionerate in Kochi for questioning. En route, Mr. Sivasankar reported sick and they hospitalised him. The Customs was likely to seek the constitution of a medical board to gauge Mr. Sivasankar's health before executing its summons for interrogation. The manager of a private bank which handled the consulate's account had reportedly told the ED that Swapna had pressurised him to convert vast amounts of Indian currency into U.S. dollars in violation of Reserve Bank of India norms and Foreign Exchange Management Act provisions. Swapna, who was an influential official at the diplomatic mission at the time, threatened that she would shift the consulate's account to another bank if the manager did not comply with her demand. He alleged that Mr. Sivasankar had thrown the heft of his office behind Swapna. Concurrently, the Customs also perused Immigration Department documents and "found" that Mr. Sivasankar had travelled to Dubai along with Swapna several times during the 2017-19 period. The agencies suspect that Swapna used the trips to smuggle foreign currency out of the country. Officials tight-lipped Investigators were tight-lipped about the exact charges Mr. Sivasankar would face, if at all. They said at present he remained a ‘person of interest’ and they wanted to find out whether he had colluded with Swapna to launder the proceeds from crime and helped her smuggle it abroad.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,||FEMA case against Swapna, Sarith||The Customs has filed a case before the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, against Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, key accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, for violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The case has been filed based on the inference that the accused had abetted smuggling of foreign currency from the country with the help of their consulate identity card. Both are former employees of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The court is likely to consider the application of the Customs to arrest the accused on Monday. The investigating team is tight-lipped on whether they have included M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, as an accused in the case. However, they confirmed that he remains a ‘person of interest’ in the case. The Customs in a recent petition filed before a court in Kochi had claimed that $1.90 lakh had been taken out of the country with the help of Swapna. The illegal transportation of currency via an airport comes under FEMA and it allows the Customs to register a case under Section 11 of the Customs Act. The Customs had found that she received help from a carrier to transport the cash to the UAE.  Gunman questioned According to a Malappuram report, Customs officers investigating the gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage have reportedly confiscated a mobile phone used by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel’s gunman. Dr. Jaleel was under a cloud of suspicion after he was found to have been involved in the import of religious texts using the same diplomatic channel. Sources said the Customs team questioned Dr. Jaleel’s gunman Prajeesh at his house at Edappal and confiscated his mobile phone.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Despite a drop in tests, fresh cases in Kerala edge past 9,000||Kerala reported 9,016 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday from 52,067 samples. The test positivity rate stood at 17.31%, higher than the 14.05% of the previous day. After testing 73,816 samples on October 7, the highest number, subsequent days showed testing drop to 38,259 samples on October 12. Samples tested in a daybarely went above 50,000, since then. The sudden drop in testing has been attributed to technical glitches in the new Lab Diagnosis and Management System. The total samples tested in a day, as given out by the Health department, does not specify daily tests carried out daily to detect new cases. Since the total samples includes repeat samples and antigen tests done prior to discharging patients (on average, 7,500-8,000 a day), actual samples tested to detect new infections daily were described as likely lower than the claimed figure. The Health department added 26 more deaths from the past days to the death list on Saturday. Thiruvananthapuram reported seven deaths. There were four at Malappuram, three each at Kollam, Kottayam and Thrissur two each at Kozhikode and Alapuzha and one each at Ernakulam and Kannur.  Karnataka on Saturday reported 7,184 new cases and 71 more deaths. Bengaluru Urban district reported 3,371 cases. With 14 of 71 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll rose to 3,500. The State carried out 1,01,016 tests including 24,174 rapid antigen tests on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh reported less than four thousand new infections. It recorded 3,676 new infections and 24 fresh deaths on Saturday. At 5.19%, the positivity rate of 70,881 samples was the lowest in over three months. The overall positivity rate dropped to 11.14%. Telangana’s incidence stood at 1,451 on Friday and nine more COVID-19 patients died. On October 16, a total of 42,497 people were tested for the virus. While 3,9861 people underwent the tests at government facilities, 2,636 opted for private labs. Results of 1,174 were awaited.The new 1,451 cases included 235 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 104 from Rangareddy, 101 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 92 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, 84 from Nalgonda and 71 from Khammam. Seven cases were recorded in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, and eight in Adilabad. From March 2 to October 16, a total of 37,89,460 samples were tested. Of the total, 2,20,675 cases detected during the period, 22,774 were active, 1,96,636 were discharged, and 1,265 died. The recovery rate in the State is 89.1%. Eleven districts, including Chennai, accounted for a major chunk of the fresh COVID-19 cases in the State. On Saturday, nearly 70% of the 4,295 new cases were reported in these districts. Chennai reported 1,132 cases of COVID-19, while 389 persons tested positive for the infection in Coimbatore.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Chennai bureaus)
23 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Voice of farmers has been gagged: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the voice of the farmers was gagged in Parliament but it will now resonate in the Punjab Assembly and echo in every part of the country till the Central government is compelled to withdraw the farm laws. Sepecial session The Punjab government has decided to convene a special session of the Assembly on October 19 to bring in a legislation to counter them. Mr. Gandhi, along with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, kickstarted the second phase of the Smart Village Campaign with the virtual launch of a Rs. 2,775-crore campaign to power the rural transformation. He said if farm laws were in the interest of the farmers, why did the BJP-led government not allow a debate on them in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Condemning the laws as a blatant attack by the BJP on the soul of each and every farmer, Mr. Gandhi said the Centre had launched an assault on Punjab and its farmers with these ill-conceived and unconstitutional legislations and every farmer and labourer is feeling the pain of this attack. Mr. Gandhi hit out at the BJP accusing it of imposing laws on the nation from the top, without taking people at the grassroots into confidence. “That was the difference between the BJP and the Congress, with the former talking about buildings and not foundations,” he said, noting that farm land was the foundation of every village. He said the Congress will not allow India’s foundations to be weakened in this manner and will go all out to strengthen these foundations. Referring to his “tractor rallies” against the laws during his recent visit to Punjab and Haryana, Mr. Gandhi said, “I came to Punjab and Haryana a few days ago and every farmer and labourer knows that these three laws are an attack on them.”
23 October 2020||Bhopal,||Congress manifesto for M.P. focuses on Gwalior-Chambal||The Madhya Pradesh Congress on Saturday released a 52-point manifesto for the forthcoming byelection to 28 seats with a focus on the economic development of the Gwalior-Chambal region and COVID-19-related relief measures. Releasing the manifesto before presspersons here, former Chief Minister Kamal Nath said, “The election is about the future of Madhya Pradesh. Why will the public change its decision after our 15 months?” He added that the party made 974 promises ahead of the 2018 Vidhan Sabha election, of which it kept 574 in 11-and-a-half months. Accusing Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan of using diversionary tactics, Mr. Nath said voters would not “fall in his trap”. He added the public would vote to protect the future of Madhya Pradesh, which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was destroying. The Congress needs to win all the seats to return to power single-handedly, while the BJP requires nine seats to breach the simple majority mark and retain government. Farmer protection In the manifesto, the Congress promised voters to resume the ‘Jai Kisan Crop loan Waiver Scheme’, first announced ahead of the 2018 election, under which crop loans of up to Rs. 2 lakh had to be waived. Further, the party said it would not implement in the State “anti-farmer” laws enacted by the BJP government at the Centre, and would start afresh buying farm produce at the support price. For the Gwalior-Chambal region, the stronghold of former Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia, where 16 seats are up for contest, the Congress has promised voters the formulation of a policy for land use in the interest of landless workers by converting ravines and barren lands into arable ones. In addition, the party has made the promise of opening schools on the pattern of Sainik schools, and improving sporting facilities in the region in a bid to prepare the youth for defence forces. The Congress also said it would invite new industries in the region and develop industrial corridors on both the sides of the Chambal expressway. Further, the party said it would review changes to labour laws made by the BJP government.
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Mumbai airport offers express RT-PCR tests for passengers||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has introduced express COVID-19 RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test facility for all passengers departing from the airport. The fastest such facility in the city, it is also available for non-passengers visiting the airport to drop-off or collect their loved ones. “This initiative addresses passenger concerns regarding the different COVID-19 regulations across domestic and international destinations,” Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), the airport operator said in a statement. Departing passengers can undergo the test at CSMIA before travelling to their onward destination and produce their negative test report to skip institutional quarantine at their destination. Initially launched under a directive from the Ministry of Civil Aviation for international transit passengers arriving at the airport, CSMIA has extended the facility for passengers departing from the airport as well. The testing facility is located at the kerbside of Level 4 at Terminal 2. Departing passengers can make an online booking through the test feature available onwww.csmia.aero, or register themselves at the helpdesk set up at the departures section to enroll for the RT-PCR test before entering the terminal and receive a digital copy mailed directly, or collect the physical copy of the test report within 8 hours. “Passengers departing from the airport are encouraged to arrive at the terminal 8-12 hours before their scheduled departure,” the statement said.  Since the facility was launched, 3,340 passengers have opted for the test at CSMIA, with an average of 100 tests per day.  Out of the tests conducted at the airport till date, 38 passengers tested positive and were transferred by State authorities to designated COVID-19 institutions.  “With test facilities now available at both departures and arrivals at the airport, passengers can easily transit to and from CSMIA with comfort,” MIAL said.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC takes note of Chardham Chairman’s letter||The Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognisance of a letter by Chardham High-Powered Committee (HPC) Chairman Ravi Chopra about the Centre’s “wilful non-compliance” to comply with the top court’s order against building full-fledged roads cutting across the fragile Himalayan slopes. The project includes developing highways in Uttarakhand to improve access to the four shrines — Yamunotri, Gangotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath. On September 8, a Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman had ordered the Centre to adhere to a March 23, 2018 circular of the Ministry of Roads, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) and reduce the width of the roads to 5.5m from 12m. The court had ordered the Centre to plant trees in “right earnest” to recover the green cover ‘devastated’ by construction. When the Centre had argued that the 2018 circular would apply only for future projects and not the Chardham, the court had reminded it that Chardham was still an ongoing project. The Justice Nariman Bench had observed that the 2018 circular would indeed apply for Chardham considering the “current situation” of the fragile mountain terrain. However, Mr. Chopra conveyed his distress at the Centre’s attitude in his letter on October 5. “Till date no plan or approach to bring the Chardham Pariyojana roads in compliance with the Supreme Court’s order of September 8 has been submitted,” Mr. Chopra wrote to the court. The case is likely to come up for hearing on October 26.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Rain ravages portions of Golconda Fort||Relentless rain over the past week in Hyderabad has ravaged the 500-year-old Golconda Fort. On Saturday, a team of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials inspected damaged portions of the fort, which have been cordoned off to prevent further damage. “The steps and rocks of the kingsway, the wall near the Jagadambika temple, the rear wall and a structure near the second well have suffered damage. We are regulating the movement of tourists so that they don’t come to any harm. Luckily, visitors or tourists were not present at the locations where the damage took place,” said an ASI official at the site office. The kingsway with wide steps is the path the Qutb Shahi royalty that ruled over the Golconda Kingdom used to ride up on horses to the top of the fortress known as Bala Hissar (high fortress). Nearly five metres of the rock wall gave way, exposing soil on the path to the temple. The ASI is the custodian of the inner fort. A few days earlier, a portion of the Majnu burj (bastion) had collapsed in rain in another part of the fort. The Golconda Fort was built and modified by successive generations of Qutb Shahis who ruled for 160 years from the fort. It was considered an impregnable fortress with multiple rock curtains and was never conquered, except by treachery. “The rain has been unprecedented. But we cannot gloss over the fact that there is not enough budget with ASI for upkeep,” said Anuradha Reddy of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, adding: “The staff taking care of the fort is limited. The fort is a vast expanse of land and multiple structures which need constant monitoring. They also need highly trained technical personnel.” The Archaeological Survey of India comes under Ministry of Culture which has been asked to curtail budget to 60% as part of economic austerity measures by the Centre. In the damaged portion of Majnu Burj bastion, an eight-metre long brass cannon is perched precariously as ASI officials try to get approvals for repair of the structure. “The big rocks have been dislodged due to human intervention,” says Ms. Reddy.
23 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Activists push for the release of Stan Swamy||All major non-BJP political parties and social activists on Saturday took to the streets in Ranchi, demanding the immediate release of Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old tribal rights activist, who was arrested last week by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. The ‘Nyay March’ started from the Zilla School and culminated with a dharna in front of the Raj Bhavan. “Mr. Swamy has been working for tribal rights for years now. His credentials as an activist has never been in question. It is illegal to lodge him in jail for a crime which he has not committed,” said Prafulla Linda, Adivasi Adhikar Manch, a CPI (M)-affiliated organisation. Mr. Swamy’s arrest was a part of the central government’s strategy to intensify loot of Jharkhand’s natural resources, alleged Sanjay Pandey, the district secretary of the Congress. Activist Dayamani Barla said, “Father Stan Swamy had been fighting for protection of water, forest and land. Following his footsteps, hundreds of grassroot level workers and activists have been doing the same work in villages.” Political parties including the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, CPI and CPI (ML) and organisations such as Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha and Jan Mukti Sangharsh Vahini participated.
23 October 2020||New Delhi/ Srinagar,||Amended law omits pay for J&K sarpanches||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has amended the Jammu and Kashmir Panchayati Raj Act, 1989, omitting a provision requiring payment of honorarium to panches and sarpanches (village head) in the newly created Union Territory. The amended law also says that Halqa Panchayat shall be required to get its accounts audited by a chartered accountant every year. Halqa means the area comprising a village or contiguous number of villages determined by the government. Section 10 of the 1989 Act on “remuneration to Sarpanch and Panches,” which said every Sarpanch and Panch shall be entitled to such monthly honorarium as may be specified by the government, has been omitted through an order issued by the MHA on Saturday. Currently, a sarpanch and panch get Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 1,000 as honorarium respectively. A senior J&K government official told The Hindu that the omission will not affect the remuneration and the panches will continue to get paid. “The section has been removed for administrative flexibility, so that when the government wants it can increase the honorarium without amending the whole Act. For now, every time it has to be increased, the Act will have to be amended,” said the official. The amendment also paves way for creation of District Development Councils in the Union Territory (UT). The DDCs will have jurisdiction over the entire district excluding those areas designated as municipality or municipal corporation. “All members of the DDC, whether or not elected by direct election from territorial constituencies in the district, shall have the right to vote in the meeting of the District Development Council,” reads the amendments. “But the MLAs will have no voting rights in the case of election or removal of the Chairman and vice-chairman only the directly elected members shall have the right to vote,” it added. J&K parties are wary. Shafiq Mir, the chairman of Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference, said, “The move will have an Assembly member just a spectator in the DDC meeting.”
23 October 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars give November 1 ultimatum on quota issue||Gujjars demanding reservation in jobs and education as a “most backward class” (MBC) on Saturday gave an ultimatum to the Congress government in Rajasthan for resumption of their agitation from November 1, unless urgent steps were taken to protect their “rightful share” and apply the quota provisions to the ongoing recruitments to 15 services. Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla announced at the community's 'Mahapanchayat' (Grand Convention) at Adda village near Bayana in Bharatpur district that Gujjars were willing to give some time to the State government, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the sowing season for rabi crops, to act on its promises. Several meetings Col. Bainsla indicated that the agitating Gujjars could block traffic on the Delhi-Mumbai railway tracks passing through Bharatpur, Karauli and Sawai Madhopur districts and on the highways to press for their demands. “We have held several meetings with the government's representatives, but there was no result... The agitation will begin on November 1,” he said. Gujjars have been seeking inclusion of a reservation law passed by the State Assembly last year in the Ninth Schedule of the Constitution, appointments to backlog posts, benefit of 5% reservation in the ongoing recruitments, regularisation of 1,252 employees appointed through the MBC quota and implementation of Devnarayan Scheme for the community's progress and welfare. Internet services remained suspended in parts of Bharatpur district on Saturday in view of the Mahapanchayat, in which about 5,000 people participated. State Labour Secretary Niraj K. Pawan, sent to interact with the Gujjar leaders, said all demands of the community had been fulfilled, though some minor subjects were pending because of technical issues. Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra said the Gujjar leaders should talk to the 25 BJP MPs elected from the State to get the reservation law included in the Ninth Schedule, as it fell within the domain of the Centre in order to protect the legislation against judicial scrutiny.
23 October 2020||Pilibhit (U.P.),||9 killed, over 30 injured as jeep collides with bus||At least nine people lost their lives and around 32 were injured in a collision between a jeep and an Uttar Pradesh roadways bus in Pilibhit on Saturday, police said. Due to the impact of the collision, the bus fell into a nearby ditch, they said, adding that the driver of the bus is among the dead. The accident occurred in the Puranpur police station area of the district, a senior police officer said. Superintendent of Police, Pilibhit, Jaiprakash Yadav said, “In an early morning accident involving a jeep and a roadways bus, nine persons were killed, while around 32 persons were injured.” He added that the deceased include passengers of the bus as well as the jeep. “Seven of the passengers died on the spot and the injured are undergoing treatment at the district hospital in Pilibhit,” he said. “The bus was coming from Lucknow to Pilibhit, and most of the passengers are from Pilibhit and nearby areas,” he said. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath has condoled the loss of lives in the accident. In a statement issued by the State government, the Chief Minister directed officials to provide Rs. 5 lakh financial assistance to the family of each of the deceased.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Dr.Reddy’s gets nod for Sputnik V trials||Developed by Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, Russia, Sputnik V vaccine is based on the human adenoviral vectors platform. The vaccine was registered by Russia’s Health Ministry in August. The DCGI approval “is a significant development that allows us to commence the clinical trial in India. We are committed to bringing in a safe and efficacious vaccine to combat the pandemic,” Dr. Reddy’s Co-chairman and Managing Director G.V. Prasad said in a statement issued by the company and RDIF. Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) CEO Kirill Dmitriev said, “We are pleased to collaborate with the Indian regulators and in addition to Indian clinical trial data, we will provide safety and immunogenicity study from the Russian phase 3 clinical trial. This data will further strengthen the clinical development of Sputnik V vaccine in India.” Dr. Reddy’s and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) had last month announced a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and its distribution in India. Under the partnership, RDIF will be supplying 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr. Reddy’s upon regulatory approval in India. Sputnik V is currently undergoing phase 3 clinical trial in Russia and the proposed number of subjects is 40,000. Additionally, phase 3 clinical trial of the vaccine has commenced in the UAE last week, the release on Saturday said.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Ensure speedy access to vaccine, says Modi||The meeting, which was attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and officials from various departments, noted that three vaccines are in advanced stages of development in India, of which two are in Phase II and one is in Phase III. “Indian scientists and research teams are collaborating and strengthening the research capacities in neighbouring countries viz., Afghanistan, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal and Sri Lanka. There are further requests from Bangladesh, Myanmar, Qatar and Bhutan for clinical trials in their countries. To help the global community, the Prime Minister further directed that we should not limit our efforts to our immediate neighbourhood but also reach out to the entire world in providing vaccines, medicines and IT platforms for the vaccine delivery system,” the release said. It added that the national expert group on vaccine administration for COVID-19, in consultation with State governments and all stakeholders, had presented a detailed blueprint of vaccine storage, distribution and administration. Mr. Modi said India should make use of its experience in conducting polls and disaster management. “The Prime Minister said that in a similar manner vaccine delivery and administration systems should be put in place. This should involve the participation of States/UTs/district level functionaries, civil society organisations, volunteers, citizens and experts from all necessary domains. The entire process should have a strong IT backbone and the system should be designed in such a manner as to have a lasting value to our healthcare system.” The Prime Minister also cautioned against complacency in efforts to contain the pandemic. He insisted on continued social distancing, appropriate behaviour such as wearing the mask andwashing of hands. Two pan-India studies on the Genome of SARS CoV-2 (COVID-19 virus) conducted by the ICMR and the Bio-Technology (DBT) have now suggested that the virus is genetically stable and there is no major mutation.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘76% of rural Indians can’t afford nutritious diet’||Three out of four rural Indians cannot afford a nutritious diet, according to a paper recently published in journal Food Policy . Even if they spent their entire income on food, almost two out of three of them would not have the money to pay for the cheapest possible diet that meets the requirements set by the government’s premier nutrition body, it says. Unlike the Economic Survey’s ‘Thalinomics’, which provided a rosier picture of meal costs, this study uses the wages of unskilled workers who make up a larger proportion of the population than industrial workers, and includes items such as dairy, fruit and dark green leafy vegetables that are essential as per India’s official dietary guidelines. The paper, titled “Affordability of nutritious diets in rural India”, is authored by International Food Policy Research Institute economist Kalyani Raghunathan and others. The study uses the latest available food price and wage information from the National Sample Survey’s 2011 dataset. The findings are significant in the light of the fact that India performs abysmally on many nutrition indicators even while the country claims to have achieved food security. On Friday, the Global Hunger Index showed that India has the world’s highest prevalence of child wasting, reflecting acute undernutrition. On indicators that simply measure calorie intake, India performs relatively better, but they do not account for the nutrition value of those calories. Even if they spent all their income on food, 63.3% of the rural population or more than 52 crore Indians would not be able to afford that nutritious meal. If they set aside just a third of their income for non-food expenses, 76% of rural Indians would not be able to afford the recommended diet.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Pranab wrote on 1971, love for Mujib family||Mukherjee’s private secretary, Abhijeet Rai, said the essay, which was the last extensive piece penned by the late President, needed considerable research on Mujib’s life and political career and Mukherjee drew from Mujib’s own Unfinished Memoirs that were published years after his death by Ms. Hasina. Mujib was freed only after the Pakistan Army surrendered in Dhaka in December 1971, and as recorded by Mukherjee, for many days he was kept unaware of the incidents, while Pakistan’s soon to be President, Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, attempted to negotiate with him. Eventually, Bhutto gave up and Mujib returned to a triumphant welcome in Dhaka with a brief stopover in Delhi to thank PM Indira Gandhi for support. The book contains an emotive essay by Ms. Hasina, entitled “My Brothers”, who along with her sister Rehana, were the only survivors when Mujib, his wife, all his other children and their spouses (15 family members in all) were gunned down at their home by army officers a few years later in 1975. In later years, when Ms. Hasina was in exile herself and lived in Delhi with her family, it was Mukherjee and his wife Suvra, who had lived in East Bengal before Partition, who became their closest friends. “It’s so hard to lose one’s parents even when they have a natural death,” said Mukherjee’s daughter and Congress leader Sharmistha Mukherjee. “It is unimaginable what Sheikh Hasina has gone through, and I think the bond between her and my parents was stronger because she needed emotional support at the time.”
23 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Family’s efforts, own hard work bear fruit for Soyeb||As National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET)-2020 results were declared, 18-year-old Soyeb Aftab from Odisha’s Rourkela city found his name atop 7,71,500 aspirants. He made history by securing a perfect 720 out of 720 marks. While student fraternity and society went gaga over his spectacular feat, the sacrifice of a lower middle class family to use education to move up the social ladder came to the fore. Since his childhood, Soyeb has been brilliant in his studies. But academic brilliance alone does not ensure success. And Soyeb’s family understood this reality. Coaching at Kota After he secured 96.8% marks in Class 10, the family took a conscious decision to facilitate medical coaching for him at Kota. In April 2018, Soyeb was not alone to move to Kota. His mother, Sultana Razia, a homemaker, went with him. His father, Sheikh Mohammed Abbas, kept working in Rourkela to earn to fund their stay at Kota.  “I had not been to home during COVID-19 lockdown. In fact, I had stayed in Kota since April 2018 without a vacation. Probably the consistency which I maintained in preparation was the reason behind the feat I have achieved today,” he noted. Aspiring to study in the AIIMS, Delhi, he owed much of his success to his mother.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Republic TV and Arnab move HC to quash FIR||The Republic TV media group filed a criminal petition before the Bombay High Court to quash the FIR registered in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation case by the Mumbai Police. ARG Outlier Media Private Ltd. and Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami moved the court on October 16 to quash the FIR registered on October 6 and called it, “misconceived, politically motivated and frivolous”. The petition seeks a stay on the investigation, and restraining the State; Station House Officer of Kandivali police station; Crime Intelligent Unit; and Commissioner of Police (CP) Param Bir Singh from taking any coercive steps. It also urges the case be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. The plea mentions, “The Mumbai police is reportedly investigating the alleged role of certain news channels in connection with the impugned FIR, including the Group which owns and operates the TV news channels, Republic TV and R. Bharat.” The petitioners state that they had moved the court under extremely urgent circumstances as the CP on October 8 alleged that the group was involved in the alleged fake TRP scam, and the promoters and directors of the group, which included Mr. Goswami, would be summoned.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Akanksha hopes to do neurosurgery research||It’s been a long journey from a village school in Abhinayakpur in Kushinagar district of Uttar Pradesh to become the topper of the NEET rankings for Akanksha Singh. The girl from rural Purvanchal has become one of only two students to score a historic perfect 100% in the medical entrance examination. “I studied in my own hometown till Class 10, but after that I came to Delhi with my father. He stayed with me in a hostel so that I could study Classes 11 and 12 there and achieve my dream of becoming a doctor,” Ms. Singh said on the phone soon after the results were published. Her father is a retired sergeant with the Indian Air Force, while her mother is working as a primary school teacher. She credits her parents as her inspiration, as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Earlier, I wanted to be an IAS officer, but from Class 9 onwards, I wanted to be a doctor only. I liked that medicine is a job where you can interact with people. My dream was to make it to AIIMS,” she said. She hopes to specialise in neurosurgery research someday. “I hope that my research will benefit people not only from my village, but all over India,” she added.
23 October 2020||NALGONDA,||Protest forces police to flee police station||The sudden death of Kethavath Sakri, a woman in her 50s and a resident of Ulshayapalem village of Adavidevulapally mandal in Nalgonda, sparked protest by her relatives forcing the police to briefly flee from the Adavidevulapally police station and closing its doors on Saturday. Residents and her relatives staged a protest outside the Adavidevulapally police station with her body, pelted stones and damaged minor property, alleging that police torture caused her death. According to information, Ms. Sakri was taken by the police on Friday morning, reportedly telling her that she would be given pension. She was dropped back at the village in the night. Her relatives said that by midnight she developed severe fever and was taken to a private hospital next morning where she died around noon. It was reported that the woman’s upper body showed signs of blow injuries, allegedly from police torture. Ms. Sakri was reportedly engaged in preparation of country made liquor, and the local police had found some quantity at her residence. Learning of the tension at the police station, Miryalaguda DSP Venkateswara Rao along with his team rushed to the village and pacified the residents and brought the situation under control. A police source said the relatives were assured that the post-mortem will be video-taped, to prove that there was no torture. They were also assured of a full inquiry.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,||Actor rape case: WCC urges CM to intervene||The Women in Cinema Collective (WCC) has sought the intervention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to end the inordinate delay in ensuring justice for the victim in the sensational actor rape case. In a social media post on Saturday, the organisation termed the news that the prosecution has moved court to stop the proceedings and shift the trial to another court fearing that the survivor will not get fair trial and justice as ‘shocking’. ‘Biased’ It is learnt that the special public prosecutor believed that the court was highly biased, said the collective. The WCC pointed out that “it was a tragedy to sow uncertainties in a case where our colleague remains waiting for justice to be delivered in the case reported three years ago. We request the Chief Minister and society to intervene and put an end to this deadlock. It’s not the responsibility of the government alone to resolve the inordinate delay in getting justice. We remind everyone that it's the responsibility of all who are concerned about the future of girls and women in the country,” it said. Prosecution case According to the police, the first six accused in the case abducted the actor and sexually assaulted her in a moving car in February 2017. Actor Dileep, eighth accused, is facing conspiracy charges in the case.
23 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,||Release of Kerala scribe demanded||A people’s collective held here on Saturday demanded the release of journalist Siddeek Kappan from detention in Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Kappan, who is secretary of the Delhi unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police from Mathura on October 6 while he was on his way to Hathras for covering the gang-rape and murder of a Dalit woman. Mr. Kappan’s wife Raihanath, his two children and brother were among those who joined the collective. T.N. Prathapan, MP, inaugurated the programme. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee general secretary Noushad Ali organised the gathering. Mr. Prathapan said the arrest and detention of Mr. Kappan was a pointer to the increasing incidence of anti-democratic tendencies across the country. He called upon the people to join hands to resist the anti-democratic behaviour of the government. Journalist N.P. Chekkutty said Mr. Kappan’s arrest reflected the increasing fascist tendencies in the country. He said the U.P. government arrested Mr. Kappan to divert the attention of the world from the human rights violations taking place in that State. Ms. Raihanath demanded the intervention of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for the release of her husband. She said nobody from the State administration had offered them even a word of solace. “If it is Mr. Siddeek today, it can be anyone of you tomorrow,” she said.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||CRPF signs MoU with IIT-D, DRDO||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has signed an agreement with the Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi and the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to create a pool of officials who will work to find technology solutions for its operational challenges. The about 3.25 lakh-strong force has about 500 officers and sub-officers who hold professional degrees in engineering and technology. The Memorandum of Understanding will enable these officers to undertake short-term specialised courses at these institutions and also pursue research work. “A batch of 40 engineering graduate officers and subordinate officers of the CRPF with right aptitude and potential will undergo a certificate course of about three to six months under IIT-Delhi’s continuing education programme,” a CRPF spokesperson said. A selected group of officers from this trained batch would undergo higher degree courses at IIT-Delhi. They would act as tech advisors to the force, he noted. The chosen officials would be associated with joint research projects undertaken by the DRDO and IIT-Delhi.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Probe ordered on plea against Kangana, sister||A magistrate’s court in Mumbai has asked the police to investigate a complaint against actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel for allegedly trying to create tensions between communities through their tweets. Bandra magistrate Jaydeo Y. Ghule passed the order on Friday on a complaint by casting director Sahil Ashrafali Sayyed. The complaint said, “Her tweets are creating divisions between Hindu and Muslim artistes. I say that she is maliciously bringing religion in almost all her tweets... She has gone to such an extent that she has also blamed Jamaatis for spreading coronavirus etc., trying to create hatred and communal tensions between Hindus and Muslims as she is well aware that she is a well known actress and has a big fan base so her tweets will be seen and will reach out to many people...”
23 October 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars give ultimatum on quota issue||Gujjars demanding reservation in jobs and education as a “most backward class” (MBC) on Saturday gave an ultimatum till November 1 to the Congress government in Rajasthan before resumption of their agitation, unless urgent steps were taken to protect their “rightful share” and quota provisions applied to the ongoing recruitment to 15 services. Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla announced at the community’s ‘Mahapanchayat’ (grand convention) at Adda village near Bayana in Bharatpur district that Gujjars were willing to give some time to the State to act on its promises.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 70% of fresh cases in 11 districts||Eleven districts, including Chennai, accounted for a major chunk of the fresh COVID-19 cases reported in the State on Saturday. Nearly 70% of the 4,295 new infections were recorded in these districts. Chennai reported 1,132 cases, while 389 persons tested positive for the infection in Coimbatore. Three districts had 200-plus cases — Chengalpattu (231), Salem (240) and Tiruvallur (218). The remaining six districts had 100-plus cases — Cuddalore (113), Erode (122), Kancheepuram (148), Namakkal (131), Thanjavur (101) and Tiruppur (159). Vellore, which had been reporting over 100 daily cases continuously, saw 91 fresh cases on Saturday. The State’s tally climbed to 6,83,486. As many as 5,005 persons, including 1,458 from Chennai, were discharged, taking the total figure to 6,32,708. The State’s toll rose to 10,586, with 57 more persons succumbing to the infection. Of them, 15 died in Chennai, six in Coimbatore, five in Chengalpattu and four in Vellore. A total of 3,504 persons have died in Chennai till date. Among the deceased was a 30-year-old man from Salem who was admitted to a private hospital on September 27 with complaints of fever, cough and breathing difficulty for seven days. He died on October 17 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Seven persons in their 40s also succumbed to the infection. They included a 40-year-old man from Chengalpattu who had chronic kidney disease. He was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on October 16 with complaints of breathing difficulty. He died within three hours of admission due to COVID-19 pneumonia. As of date, a total of 40,192 persons are undergoing treatment in the State. They include 12,907 persons in Chennai and 3,861 persons in Coimbatore. As many as 90,242 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, a total of 88,56,280 samples have been tested.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||222 new COVID-19 cases recorded in U.T.||The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 222 new COVID-19 cases and three deaths. Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao told presspersons that two patients at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute and one at a private hospital died on Saturday. Of the new admissions in the Union Territory, 190 are in Puducherry region and the remaining in the enclaves. The death of three persons took the toll to 574 and the number of active cases rose to 4,420. Of the active cases, 2,814 were under home isolation and remaining at various hospitals. The district’s tally touched 32,978 as on Saturday. So far, 27,984 people had been treated and discharged, he said and added that the recovery rate had gone up to 84.86%. The case fatality rate had come down to 1.74%, Mr. Rao said. On Saturday, 4,209 people got tested for the virus taking the number of people screened for the virus to 2,59,482. Food supply The Minister said he visited the medical college to personally look into complaints about food being brought from home for patients. Instructions were issued not to allow any person inside the ward, he said. “We have directed the hospital authorities to stop those coming with food at the reception itself. Security will be strengthened in the hospital,” he said. He said from Monday healthcare workers would visit the houses of patients under quarantine to check their condition. When the Minister visited a screening centre at Manakula Vinayagar Temple, healthcare workers there complained about poor quality of PPE kits provided to them recently.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Small and medium units face new challenge||With the festive season drawing near, businessmen and entrepreneurs in the Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector are facing a new challenge: paying their employees festival advance and bonus. With trade yet to revive and reach pre-COVID-19 levels, businessmen are worried. While some units are requesting their employees for more time, the others are giving a fraction of the amount. K.E. Raghunathan, convener of the Consortium of Indian Associations, said two things happen in the sector during Ayudha Puja — a bonus is given, almost one-month salary, and a request for salary advance, which is another one-month salary. The money given varies from company to company and depends on the number of years an employee has worked. “Currently, almost 70% of MSMEs have no additional cash left. EMI pressure is quite high. Most of the entrepreneurs paid money during non-working days during the lockdown,” Mr. Raghunathan said. With no relief from the State or the Centre, payment of bonus and salary advances are going to be a big challenge...,” he added. The head of an MSME unit in Coimbatore said he would be able to give only 50% of the bonus. Only 60% of his workforce resumed work, while the others were yet to return from their respective States. “I’m already paying salaries (a certain amount) to the migrant workers who are yet to return. If I don’t pay, they will not come back,” he said, adding the order inflow was yet to pick up. “Being a small-scale industry, we want to retain our staff. So we are planning to give 50%-60% bonus,” said K. Baskaran, secretary of the Kakkalur Industrial Estate Manufacturers Association. He said business was picking up, but there was a huge manpower shortage. R.G. Chakrapani, secretary of the Thirumazhisai Industrial Estate, said only some segments were doing fairly well. Among them were two-wheeler, small car, tractor-based units. Some were exporting spill-over orders. “The companies which are catering to these segments are planning to pay 8.33% (one-month salary) in bonus. Other companies are planning to pay 50% of the 8.33% for Deepavali and 50% for Pongal.”  A. Shanmugavelayutham, who runs electrical transformer manufacturing units in Guindy Industrial Estate and Thirumudivakkam, said, “Many units are wondering how to pay bonus. But I have decided to pay my employees and I’m working on a formula.” Mr. Shanmugavelayutham said raw material costs had increased suddenly, casting a burden on the sector. At the Ambattur Industrial Estate, the business is better since many units are supplying to the automobile sector. Orders are coming in for these companies, but payments are getting delayed.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET pass percentage goes up in T.N.||Tamil Nadu, for the first time since the introduction of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), exceeded the nationwide pass percentage this year with 57.44% of participants clearing the examination. The national pass percentage was at 56.44%. Among the major States, the biggest gain in pass percentage was by Gujarat that saw its pass percentage going up by 9.3 percentage points. Tamil Nadu gained 8.87 percentage points compared to its 48.57% pass percentage in 2019. The State had the 15th highest pass percentage in the country. Ahead of Tamil Nadu were States like Rajasthan, Delhi, Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, and Andhra Pradesh. Tamil Nadu was the only major State to gain a significant increase in pass percentage continuously in the past two years. Less participants The number of registered participants for NEET from Tamil Nadu, however, came down significantly by 12.5% compared to 2019. This is despite the registered participants across the country going up by 5.1%. Tamil Nadu saw the biggest drop in the country of 17,380 registered students from a total of 1,38,997 in 2019. It was followed by Kerala where the decline was only 1,775 (1.5%). The remaining eight that witnessed a decline were all Union Territories or States from the Northeast where the number of participants did not exceed 5,000. The year 2020 also saw a decline in the number of participants taking the examination in Tamil. While 31,239 students took the examination in Tamil in 2019, it was 17,101 in 2020, down by 45.26%. Among the 11 languages in which the examination can be taken, Tamil saw a significant decline. Though there was a decline in Gujarati, Kannada and Telugu as well, they were negligible. G.R. Ravindranath, general secretary, Doctors’ Association for Social Equality (DASE), said that the increase in pass percentage must be seen positively. “Since our students were not used to medical entrance exams for quite a few years, they could not do well initially. The increase in pass percentage shows that they are beginning to cope up,” he said. While stressing that he was opposed to NEET for a number of reasons, he said that the Tamil Nadu government must allocate a considerable portion of its budget towards education for NEET coaching centres. On the decline in the number of registered participants, he said that it was necessary to wait for another year to see if it is a continuing trend. He pointed out that the numbers were growing in the previous year. “This year, many rural students may not have applied due to the COVID-19 situation and the inability to apply online,” he said. He added that if Tamil Nadu could implement 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students, it will bring in more students.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||KMC alumni association helps govt. school students crack NEET||P. Banupriya was waiting at a bus stand in Vadalur to cross the road, when a bus ran her down. “The driver’s eyesight was poor. In the accident the bone of my right leg was broken,” she says. The incident that took place when she was seven years old. “I cannot walk too long as my feet hurt, and I become sick. I wear a prosthesis, but doctors said I would have to undergo a major surgery. We postponed it as I was going to take the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) this year,” she says. She has scored 116 and hopes to get into a government medical college. Her father was recently promoted as a lineman at the electricity board. Banupriya has an older sister who has completed ITI and is awaiting a job. At the age of 12, N.N. Darshana was waiting at the bus stand to go to school. A car rammed into her and dragged her along. She remembers waking up to learn that her left leg had been amputated. The government school student from Mondaikadu in Kanyakumari district is the daughter of a welder. She did not let her disability come in the way of preparation for NEET. “A few akkas who are studying at Kilpauk Medical College helped me. I would contact them through WhatsApp or call them to clear doubts. With a score of 157, she too hopes to get into a government medical college. As a result of a congenital deformity K.S. Kishore Kumar does not h ave two toes in one lower limb. His father is a farmer in Nochili panchayat in Pallipattu village of Tiruvallur district. His father is a graduate, and his brother is preparing for the Chartered Accountancy exam. Kishore Kumar has scored 201, which he attributes to the KMC students who taught him over the phone. “They taught me 33 of the 38 biology lessons over the phone,” says the candidate who hopes to pursue a post-graduation as well. S.M. Suriyalakshmi, who has scored 536, is an alumna of the Government Girls School in Madhuravoyal. She scored 368 marks in 2019 but did not get a seat and decided to repeat NEET this year. “Last year I was coached by the KMC students for 48 days. This year, they funded my training in a private coaching centre. The students who mentored me last year guided me by giving tips on taking the test,” she said. Her father works in a flour mill. “Will the 7.5% reservation for government school students apply for repeaters too,” she wondered. She has not applied anywhere as she wants to pursue medicine. Vasudevaa K.R., a student of an aided school in Madurai has scored 521. A repeater, he said his mentors gave him the confidence to take the test again. In the first attempt he scored 225 marks. His father is a farmer. Prasad Manne, secretary of the Government Kilpauk Medical College Alumni Association said they started to train students to qualify in NEET from 2018 onwards. A handful of students have benefited from their effort. Each student is assigned a mentor, who is either from the first or second year of the college. The association provides the students with study materials. This year six students have cleared, of which four are disabled. “They are from less privileged families. I hope this turns around their fortunes,” he added.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 57% of students who appeared from State cross the NEET hurdle||Tamil Nadu performed better than last year with 57.44% of the candidates who appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test 2020 qualifying in the exam. However, in absolute numbers it is lower than last year, when 59,785 candidates of the 1,23,078 students who appeared for NEET qualified. The number of candidates who registered for the Tamil version of the test this year was higher. Last year, 1,071 candidates had registered whereas this year, 17,101 candidates had opted for it. This year though 1,21,617 candidates had registered, only 99,610 took the test. As many as 57,215 candidates have qualified. The State topper, R. Srijan, scored 99.998 marks. Two girls are ranked among the top 100 candidates — Mohanaprabha Ravichandran with 705 marks (99.99605) is ranked 52 and G. Swetha with 701 (99.995172) is ranked 62. As many as 15,97,435 aspirants had registered for the test of which 13,66,945 appeared. A total of 7,71,500 have qualified, which accounts to 56.44% of the total test takers. The National Testing Agency has cancelled the results of five candidates for adopting unfair practices in the examination. Two candidates were reported from Uttar Pradesh as well, according to a release. Cut-off rises The cut-off for this year for the unreserved category will be 147 marks. Last year, the cut-off was 134. Of the 7,71,500 candidates who have qualified, 6,82,406 fall in the range of 720-147 marks. For OBC, SC and ST candidates, the cut-off is 146-113; for candidates in the EWS, unreserved and physically-handicapped categories, it is 146-129. For the physically-handicapped candidates in the OBC, SC and ST category, the cut-off is 128-113 marks. The Directorate General of Health Services will conduct counselling for 15% of All India Quota seats, deemed universities, central universities, seats in Employees State Insurance Corporation-run colleges, Armed Forces Medical College, Benaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University. From this year, NEET will be the qualifier for admission to the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences and Jipmer. The details of counselling would be made available on www.mcc.nic.in The information and schedule of counselling would be made available on the websites of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and State medical education directorates.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses Theni MP’s plea||The Madras High Court on Friday dismissed an application preferred by Theni MP P. Raveendranath Kumar to reject an election petition filed by a voter challenging his electoral victory on the ground of having allegedly indulged in corrupt practices. Justice M.S. Ramesh also refused to entertain another application made by the MP to strike off certain contentious paragraphs from the complaint. He agreed with advocate V. Arun, representing the petitioner, that the MP should face a full-fledged trial. P. Milany, a 38-year-old mechanical engineer from Palanichettipatti in Theni taluk, had filed the election petition under Section 81 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 which permits individual voters from a constituency to challenge the election of a candidate. He accused the MP of having indulged in electoral malpractices to win last year and alleged that the legislator’s father, O. Panneerselvam, Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, had also misused government machinery to get his son elected from the constituency. However, Mr. Kumar denied all allegations levelled against him as well as his father and urged the court to reject the election petition since it was ‘bereft of material facts and particulars’. He claimed the case had been filed on assumptions and presumptions. Filing a counter to the application for rejecting the election petition, Mr. Milany said his plea was not bereft of material and particulars since he had mentioned the date, time and place where he had witnessed the distribution of clothes and money to voters. The petitioner was confident of proving all his allegations if his counsel was allowed to examine and cross-examine the witnesses during the trial proceedings. He claimed that the MP was just dragging out the proceedings by filing applications to reject election petition and strike off paragraphs. Mr. Milany said the Election Commission itself ought to have rescinded the election notification for Theni constituency as it had done in the case of Vellore since there were equally serious charges of voters having been bribed in Theni too.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,633 from govt. and aided schools clear NEET in State||As many as 1,633 students out of 6,692 students from government and aided schools in Tamil Nadu have cleared the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2020. These are candidates who were attempting the examination for the first time this year and had attended the free coaching provided by the State government through the year. Four students from government-aided schools have scored over 500 marks, and 14 students from government-aided schools and one student from a government school have scored between 400 to 500 marks, data made available by the School Education Department indicated. In 2019, only two students from government-aided schools had scored above 400 marks and no students from government institutions had scored above 500 marks. A senior official of the School Education Department said that this year, more students had scored better than the previous years. “There are 71 students, who include four students from the Tamil medium branch, who have scored between 300 and 400 marks. This is a definite improvement from last year,” he said. Online course While the Education Department annually conducts a month-long residential crash course programme, ‘Thoduvanam’, it was done away with this year owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and an online free coaching programme was introduced. Students like S. Achuthan from Tiruchi depended on this online coaching entirely. “They provided a mobile application called E-Box with explainer videos and daily tests. When I had doubts, I could go back to that specific video,” he said. For some other students, a mix of the coaching provided by the government as well as self-study worked. R. Aishwarya, a resident of Poondi Village in Ranipet district, who scored 353 marks in the examination, said that she mainly relied on self-study. N.D. Keren Luxia Mai, a student of the Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Othakkadai who scored 320 in examination, said the online classes were out of reach for many government school students. “Many of my friends did not have smartphones and hence they couldn’t attend the online classes. There were also some difficulties in understanding classes that were held in English” she said. In districts like Madurai, the Education Department stepped in to help students with phone data recharge to attend classes. K.P.O. Suresh, president, Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers Association, said there were still concerns that had to be addressed with regard to effective coaching. “We are hoping that there is a positive outcome to the quota being asked for government school students in the MBBS seat intake to ensure that they have a level playing field,” he added. Apart from the crash course which is conducted in the run-up to NEET for these students, there are free weekend coaching classes conducted in their schools from September. “This year, however, there is no word on when this coaching will begin for students... If we want students to do better, we should keep the momentum going right from the start,” said a teacher from a government school.  (With inputs from P.A. Narayani, Vivek Narayanan and Kathele Antony)
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hybrid aortic arch procedure done||A team of doctors took a hybrid approach to treat two patients with traumatic aortic injury and thoracic aortic disease. The patients — a 46-year-old police official who had suffered a tear in the aorta, a major blood vessel of the body, and a 55-year-old shopkeeper, who had earlier undergone aortic dissection, and had a residual dissection in the lower half of his body growing in size and causing severe pain — underwent the hybrid aortic arch procedure at the Madras Medical Mission (MMM). According to a press release, the police official had sustained multiple injuries in a road traffic accident. He had multiple fractures of the ribs and a vertebra with spinal cord compression. The injury caused a tear in the aorta. Anbarasu Mohanraj, senior cardiac surgeon, MMM, said traumatic rupture of the thoracic aorta was a life-threatening lesion and occurred in 10 to 30% of fatalities from blunt thoracic trauma. Delayed repair of traumatic aortic injuries have significant survival benefits and a much lower mortality rate when compared to early open repair, he said. Extensive surgery with the cooling of the body to 16 degree Celsius, stopping the blood supply to the whole body and replacing that part of the aorta with a synthetic graft was the routine treatment till a few years ago. Ezhilan J., head, Peripheral Vascular Department, MMM, said hybrid procedures have come for the safe management of such complex cases. As a first step in the operation theatre, blood vessels supplying the brain, spinal cord and upper limb are bypassed, creating a landing zone for the stent to be deployed. After this, an endovascular stenting of the thoracic aorta is done in the cath lab (catheterisation laboratory). The second patient had extensive surgery for aortic dissection in 2017. The ascending aorta and the arch of the aorta was replaced preserving his aortic valve. The residual dissection in the lower half of his body that could not be repaired in a single stage was growing in size to 80 mm and causing pain. He was treated in a similar way. Both patients recovered and were discharged five days later, the release added.
23 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Is T.N. under Governor’s rule, asks Ramadoss||Pattali Makkal Katchi founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday invoked the words of DMK founder and former chief minister Annadurai to criticise the role of the Governors in India. Quoting Annadurai, Dr. Ramadoss said, “There is no need for a beard for a goat nor a governor for the States and removing both will have no impact on the goat or the States’. Dr. Ramadoss’ comments come a day after he criticised the Governor of Tamil Nadu for not signing off on State’s decision to provide 7.5% reservations for government school students in Tamil Nadu in medical courses. “Despite 32 days having passed since Tamil Nadu assembly passed a Bill to provide 7.5% reservations for the government school students, Tamil Nadu Governor has not signed it to make it official. This is not a delay that has happened naturally. This is a planned attempt (to cause a delay),” the PMK founder posted on social media on Friday. He further asked whether Tamil Nadu is under Governor’s rule since a Bill passed in the Tamil Nadu Assembly is being thwarted. Dr. Ramadoss also congratulated Jeevith Kumar, a State government school student for securing 664 out of 720 in NEET exam. Testimony “His success is a testimony to the fact that the government school students will do well if they are given motivation and opportunities but not every poor student gets all the opportunities. This is the reason to oppose NEET,” he said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man run over by garbage truck||A 40-year-old man was run over by a corporation garbage truck on Muthurangan Salai in T. Nagar on Friday night. The victim was identified as Kesavan, 40, a resident of Kannamapettai in T. Nagar, who was a daily wage earner. He was returning home on his two-wheeler on Muthurangan Salai at the time of accident.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Give more time for property tax: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday urged the Greater Chennai Corporation to increase to 45 days from 15 days the time given to pay the half-yearly property tax. “On the one hand the Corporation announces 5% incentive for those who pay the tax within 15 days and on the other hand seeks to impose a 2% fine from the 16th day. It is like giving with one hand and taking away with the another hand,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. The DMK chief said that at a time when people were going through untold sufferings and activities have come to a standstill, the decision of the Corporation to impose fine was unacceptable. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should increase the timeframe to 45 days and incentive to 10%,” he said.
23 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has sought one-time LTC for common public: Tourism Secretary||The Tamil Nadu government has suggested to the Centre to provide an one-time leave travel subsidy to travellers to encourage travel and tourism, said Vikram Kapur, Tourism Secretary on Saturday. He was addressing members of the travel and tourism trade at a webinar organised by the South India MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions and Exhibitions) Association and moderated by senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai. Revive the industry Mr. Kapur said this would put money in the pockets of travellers, which in turn would revive the industry and lead to the money being ploughed back into the economy as taxes. He also suggested that the industry, which was the worst affected in the pandemic, should take steps to attract international travellers, who have not flown out of the country. Ajay Bakaya, managing director, Sarovar Hotels, said the industry, which contributed 10% of the country’s gross domestic product and employed 10% of work force, needed some serious intervention. Rendered jobless Thousands of people employed in the sector had been rendered jobless. Requests for a two-year moratorium on interest rates and repayment of the principle loan amount was still under consideration.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC quashes proceedings against web portal||The Madras High Court has quashed criminal defamation proceedings initiated by the State government against the chairman, Editor-in-Chief, Associate Editor and reporter of Rediff.com for carrying a news article on July 10, 2015 accusing the media of not reporting widely about the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa’s failing health. Justice P.N. Prakash said the fact that Jayalalithaa was not keeping well became very obvious on May 23, 2015 when the whole world watched the unprecedented act of her entire Cabinet of 28 Ministers take oath in two batches, in a ceremony that hardly lasted for 30 minutes, instead of the usual practice of taking oath individually. No basis The judge agreed with senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram, representing the chairman and employees of the web portal, that the criminal defamation proceedings initiated against them in 2015 had no leg to stand on. He quashed the defamation proceedings launched through the City Public Prosecutor. The judge also pointed out that the news article in the web portal had only found fault with the mainstream media for not reporting about Jayalalithaa’s health condition and it did not refer to any particular ailment suffered by her or made any disparaging remark about her health. It only highlighted that Jayalalithaa was not very active. The article stated that she had been visiting the Secretariat only twice a week after assuming office as Chief Minister for the second time in May 2015 and did not remain there for more than 30 minutes. Brief window The brief window was used to inaugurate government schemes through video conference and even the prestigious Chennai Metro was inaugurated that way. There was absolutely no interaction with the media and only select television crews as well as photographers were allowed to capture the Chief Minister visually. “Surprisingly, there has not been even a murmur of protest from any of the media outlets for the nauseating development,” the article stated and claimed that her poor health had affected government administration. Pending files Opposing the quash petition, State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan pointed out that the news article had quoted an anonymous IAS officer to have said that files used to move even when a “dummy” government under the Chief Ministership of O. Panneerselvam (now Deputy Chief Minister) was in place whereas an absolute paralysis was staring at them due to Jayalalithaa’s failing health.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone traced within three hours||A mobile phone of a senior citizen, which he left behind in a cab, was retrieved after lodging a complaint on the Twitter handle of Greater Chennai Police. The police delivered the mobile to him at his house within three hours. Devan Doshi, a software professional living in Sunnyvale apartment on Konnur High Road in Ayanavaram, lodged an online complaint about his father’s mobile going missing on Friday night. At 7.30 p.m., his father Bharat Joshi, 65, left it in a cab while going to a hospital in Purasawalkam. When he got down from the vehicle at the destination, he forgot to take his phone with him. He managed to contact his son and informed him about having misplaced the phone. Devan Doshi lodged an online complaint on the police online portal around 8.20 p.m. He tweeted seeking help from Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. Mr. Aggarwal forwarded it to the social media team. At 9.12 p.m., Mr. Doshi received a response from the police Twitter handle informing him that suitable action would be taken. A police officer called him and collected information on the driver and car. Joint Commissioner of Police (South) S. Lakshmi alerted the traffic control to trace the vehicle. The vehicle and its driver Selvam were traced and traffic constable Muruganandham retrieved the missing phone.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||World Trauma Day observed||World Trauma Day was observed at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals, OMR, on Saturday. During the event, a pledge was taken to keep roads safe and prevent accidents. An awareness programme titled ‘The road to recovery’ was also held. M. Ravi, ADGP, Tamil Nadu Special Task Force; N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner, Traffic; J. Kumaragurubaran, Managing Director, SIPCOT and ELCOT; and Suneeta Reddy, managing director, Apollo Hospitals Group took part in the event. World Trauma Day is observed on October 17 every year to propagate the need of averting deaths and disabilities caused by accidents or trauma. According to data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), Tamil Nadu ranks first in road accidents for the third year, with over 156 road accident cases per day. The State recorded 57,228 road accidents in 2019. With statistics revealing that 22.8% of all trauma was due to transport-related accidents, ‘The road to recovery’ programme emphasised the importance of saving and protecting lives in the most critical of situations and the measures to handle and avoid trauma fatalities. Ms. Reddy said that while the pandemic has spread to 188 countries or regions across the world, road accidents affect more people than COVID-19 does. “This day is a call to action to build robust measures to avoid disability and deaths caused by road accidents. Quality emergency and trauma care is essential to save lives; the damage from trauma can be prevented with quick and early medical intervention,” she said. A series of awareness activities has also been planned in partnership with the Tamil Nadu Police Department, government agencies and other NGOs to highlight road safety.  This day is a call to action to build robust measures to avoid disability and deaths caused by road accidents Suneeta Reddy Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online course on epigraphy from Oct. 19||The Tamil Nadu Museums Department will be holding a virtual six-day course on epigraphy from October 19. The classes will be held between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. The course will focus on topics such as Tamil Brahmi on inscriptions, Grantham and Vattezhuthukal related training, and how to read inscriptions. It will be taught by Dr. Marxia Gandhi and Dr. Padmavathi, former officials of the Department of Archaeology. Those interested can contact the department for registration through email atgovtmuse@tn.gov.in. A certificate will be issued to participants after the completion of the course, M. Shanmugam, Director, Museums Department, said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Awareness event held for police||A health awareness programme was conducted for Ambattur police district personnel and their family. Deputy Commissioner of Police Deepa Sathyan said: “We conducted a health awareness programme in which doctors, health insurance experts and myself, an Ayurvedic doctor, participated. About 50 police personnel and their family members benefited. We created awareness on COVID-19, gave tips for leading a healthy life, boosting immunity and insurance policies”.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online acting workshop to be held; 3 candidates to be given free coaching||Artistes with some minimum experience in front of a camera and from an economically backward background now have a chance to hone their skills while sitting at home. Cinema Rendezvous will conduct an advanced online workshop on acting for camera ‘Actor’s Euphoria’, with actor Shylaja Chetlur and director Naga, of Marmadesam fame, training candidates for two weekends. As part of this, three deserving candidates will be able to participate for free. Ms. Chetlur said, “There are several artistes from television or theatre medium who want to hone their skills but owing to various reasons are unable to get the training they require. So, we will choose three persons who have some prior experience from small towns or rural areas to get this online training for free while staying home. The others can register by writing to us and will be chosen based on their experience and will have to pay a fee.” The idea behind hosting such workshops is to provide the right kind of training for artistes with more content being generated online in OTT platforms post-lockdown. “We will teach them how to work with themselves, the character given to them and with the medium they face. They will be taught how to handle silence, props and modulation. This will help them perform well and get better opportunities,” she said. Classes will be held on every weekend between October 31 and November 8 from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. For further details, contact 9514895141.
23 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Book on NEP released||Governor Banwarilal Purohit released a book on the ‘New Educational Policy 2020’ at Raj Bhavan in Chennai on Friday. The book, which discusses the challenges of access, equity, quality, affordability and accountability faced by the current education system in the country, is authored by former Anna University Chancellor Dr. E. Balagurusamy. A release said the book, authored by former Anna University Chancellor E. Balagurusamy, aimed to highlight important recommendations of ‘NEP 2020’ and their implications to make the Indian education system globally relevant and competent. Prof. M.K. Surappa, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University; E. Balagurusamy, Chairman, EBG Foundation; and Anandrao V. Patil, IAS, were present.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4.14 kg gold seized in Chennai||Three persons have been arrested and 4.14 kg of gold estimated at Rs. 2.16 crore was seized at Chennai airport on Friday by Chennai Air Customs. Customs officials stepped up vigil at the airport following information that gold was being smuggled into the country through a flight from Dubai. 14 persons questioned Fourteen passengers who arrived by two flights from Dubai were detained. They admitted that they were hiding gold in their rectum. Officials recovered 38 bundles of gold paste, weighing about 4.14 kg., from these passengers. Three passengers were arrested.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals observe World Trauma Day||Government hospitals in the city observed World Trauma Day through awareness programmes on Saturday. Taking part in a programme at Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said trauma care facilities were made available by the State government from the level of primary health centres to tertiary-care hospitals. The combined efforts of the public, who have to follow road rules, the police and healthcare providers could bring down the number of accidents, thus reducing mortality and morbidity, he said, according to a release. Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Commissioner of Police, Chennai, spoke about the steps taken to prevent accidents. He underscored the importance of obeying traffic rules and following lane discipline by the public, as well as the need to wear helmets to prevent head injuries. Ajay Yadav, project director, Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project, said the 108 ambulance service was fully equipped and provided zero-delay care to trauma victims on the spot and then shifted them to the nearest hospital. Director of Medical Education Narayana Babu and Hospital Dean P. Balaji took part. At the Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital, Dean R. Jayanthi, along with doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, took a pledge on first aid management during trauma, accident and emergency. Students of the college enacted a skit to create awareness of the need to call helpline 108 during emergencies, first aid measures during the first one hour (golden hour) to prevent blood loss, and life-saving measures. Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital also observed World Trauma Day. The need to follow road safety rules, wear helmets, keep a first aid safety kit at home and vehicle and learn basic life support techniques was highlighted.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Action against manufacturers of substandard hand sanitisers||In the last six months, the Drugs Control Department has filed around 210 cases against medical shops and manufacturers for various violations across the State. Some of the manufacturers are facing action for substandard sanitisers and adulterated sanitisers containing methanol. These violations came to the notice of the authorities during their regular inspections from April 1, 2020, to October 15, 2020. K. Sivabalan, Director of Drugs Control, said the departmental inspections and regulatory works continued during the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have filed approximately 210 prosecution cases before the trial court till now. This included violations of sale of drugs without prescriptions, non-maintenance of prescription registers and sale of drugs without the supervision of pharmacists,” he said. In the wake of COVID-19, the use of sanitisers for maintaining hand hygiene had increased. Keeping in line with the increased necessity for sanitisers, the department has started to lift samples of sanitisers to check for quality. “These samples were tested in the department’s laboratory. We found that a number of sanitisers were of substandard quality. In fact, a few sanitisers were adulterated. It contained methanol. Though such sanitisers were manufactured in T.N. and other States, a majority were from other State manufacturers. We have filed cases against makers of substandard sanitisers,” he said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Pandemic accelerating at a faster rate worldwide’||The COVID-19 pandemic is accelerating at a faster rate now than in the previous months, said Soumya Swaminathan, Chief Scientist, World Health Organization. Addressing the virtual conference ‘SICCI 360’, organised by the South Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry on Saturday, she said the world was seeing a million more cases roughly every three days. She said the actual number of infections could be about ten times or even twenty times higher than the diagnosed and reported number of around 39 million cases across the world. Highlighting the importance of having proper death reporting systems, she said the death toll due to COVID-19 and the excess deaths happening during the pandemic could be higher as many countries lacked proper mechanisms. She said India lacked a good death reporting system and only around 20% of the deaths were reported and recorded with proper medical causes.
23 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Governor should clear medical quota Bill: Alagiri||TNCC president K.S. Alagiri on Saturday demanded that Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit immediately give assent to the Bill providing 7.5% reservation for government school students who have qualified in NEET. “This Bill was passed by the Assembly on September 15 but is waiting for the Governor’s assent. All parties have been demanding that this 7.5% reservation be implemented from the current academic year but the Governor has not taken any decision on it yet. This gives rise to suspicion that the BJP has some agenda on the issue,” Mr. Alagiri said. Mr. Alagiri said 19,000 students who had taken training in 412 coaching centres set up by the Tamil Nadu government had not cleared NEET. “Can there be something more shameful for the government? It is because the government not been appointing qualified teachers in these coaching centres this sort of a shameful situation has arisen. The TN government should be held responsible for it,” he said. Mr. Alagiri said till the time the Governor clears the Bill, medical admissions should not be held on the basis of NEET marks.
23 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Amid COVID-19, demand for festival special trains likely to be muted||With the COVID-19 pandemic not abating anytime soon, the demand for the festival special trains which will stop at Coimbatore Junction is expected to be less. Salem Division of Southern Railway recently announced that festival special trains will be run between Thiruvananthapuram and Shalimar (Train No.02641/42), Howrah and Ernakulam (Train No. 02877/78), and Yesvantpur to Kannur (Train No. 06537/38) to clear extra rush. The trains will have stoppages at the Coimbatore Junction and their operations will commence from next week. Sources in the Salem Division said on Saturday that no special arrangements for crowd management were made at Coimbatore Railway Station ahead of the operations of the festival trains. It is expected that the occupancy for the trains will be less at least in the initial few days due to the pandemic. College students, professionals employed in the IT sector and senior citizens are the three largest groups of commuters who frequently travel in trains. With colleges being closed, professionals being asked to work from home and senior citizens being advised not to travel due to the pandemic, the demand is not expected to be normal, according to the sources. As passengers might fear that long-distance travel in trains might pose a risk, those who could afford might prefer flights over trains amid the COVID-19 situation, the sources said. The ticket counters at the passenger reservation system in Coimbatore Railway Station have been reduced to three from five and due to less demand for the existing train services, the railway sources said.
23 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for possessing marijuana||The Madukkarai police arrested three persons on charges of attempting to smuggle 1.5 kg of marijuana to Kerala on Friday. The police said that they stopped a lorry that was heading to Kerala at Thirumalayampalayam around 4.30 p.m., based on specific information that the crew was carrying a narcotic substance. The police checked the vehicle and found 1.5 kg marijuana in the lorry. They arrested driver M. Muneer (33) of Malappuram, co-passengers M. Sherif (37) of Madukkarai who was attached to the Home Guard in Coimbatore rural, and A. Anas (26) of Kozhikode. They were remanded in judicial custody. Case against two persons The Race Course police have registered a case against two persons who made posts on Facebook that they would arrange loan from Canara Bank. On a complaint lodged by the deputy general manager at the regional office of Canara Bank in Coimbatore, the case was registered against Revathi and Nagaraj on Friday. According to the police, the bank official complained that the accused posted the logo of Canara Bank on Facebook without the bank’s knowledge and permission. They also posted that they could arrange loans from the bank.
23 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Need to protect nature stressed||District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh stressed the need to protect nature and conserve wildlife. He was speaking at the prize distribution function held for children from 19 tribal settlements of Anaikatti in Coimbatore district as part of the Wildlife Week celebrations on Saturday. 120 children took part in the competitions. Participation certificates were given to all the children.
23 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Date extended||The district administration that has extended to October 23 the date for submission of applications for obtaining temporary cracker licence has asked the applicants to approach the nearest e-seva service centre for furnishing the documents. This year, like last year, the administration would follow the single window system in allotting the shops, a release said.
23 October 2020||Coimbatore/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized during DVAC raids||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DCAC) on Saturday booked seven Revenue Department staff and three others in connection with the seizure of unaccounted cash of Rs. 86,500 during a raid conducted at Coimbatore north tahsildar office on Friday. Officials with DVAC said that a case was registered against a deputy tahsildar, two revenue inspectors, a surveyor, a village administrative officer, an office assistant, a record clerk and three others. They were booked under Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) read with Section 13 (criminal misconduct by a public servant) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. T.H. Ganesan, Deputy Superintendent of Police with the DVAC for Coimbatore district, led the surprise raid which started around 5 p.m. Friday and went up to 9 a.m. Saturday. Of the three private persons, two were allegedly employed as temporary workers at the office. The third person was a broker, they said. A DVAC official told The Hindu that employing private persons as temporary workers was also against rules. “A report will be sent to the District Collector on the lapses committed by the tahsildar,” said the official. Meanwhile, DVAC officials seized unaccounted cash totalling Rs. 16,105 during the raid conducted at Avinashi Sub-Registrar office in Tiruppur district on Friday. Sources said that the raid lasted three hours. Three officials, including the Sub-Registrar, were booked.
23 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people to offer prayers in protest at temple in forest area||Condemning the Forest Department for removing the stone idols from Pisil Mariamman temple at Arapalayam Junction in Hasanur, members of Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association have decided to offer prayers on the temple premises on October 19. The temple is located inside the forest area coming under the Hasanur Division of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR). On October 13, forest personnel attempted to remove the idols from the temple that was opposed by the local people. However, the officials took the idols in their vehicles stating that idols kept in the open in forest areas would be removed. This evoked stiff opposition from the local community. S. Mohan Kumar, district convener of the association, said there were 268 temples located inside the forest areas of STR and tribal people and others were offering prayers for many centuries. “These temples do not have compound walls or towers and are located in the open with idols of gods or stones,” he said. After the Sathyamangalam forest areas were notified as tiger reserve, the department was refusing the traditional rights of tribal people. “Forest officials had tied a rope to the stone and pulled it with the help of a vehicle despite opposition,” he said and added that people were asked to relocate temples located in forest areas. Forest Rights Act, 2006 gave right to the tribal people to offer prayers at temples located inside forest areas. “But Hasanur Forest Division officials had acted against the law,” he said and added that their act was a crime under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Act, 1989. Hence, demanding installation of the idols and initiating action against Hasanur DFO, Hasanur Ranger and other forest personnel by registering cases under SC/ST Act, tribal people led by former MLA P.L. Sundaram would offer prayers at the temple, he added.
23 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works, power supply will be disrupted in the Ashokapuram electric line from Erode sub-station from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on October 18 in the following areas: VCTV Road, Veerabhadra Street, A.B.T. Road, Cauvery Road, Municipal Colony, Annamalai Layout, Mettur Road, Edayankattu Valasu, Chinnamuthu Street, 16 Road, Veerappanchatiram (Theppakulam) and Devarayan Kadu.
23 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Couple donates land to set up government health centre||A couple from a Shoolagiri village donated a parcel of their patta landholding to set up a government health centre. Nethravathi and Srinivasa Gowda of A.Chettipalli village in Shoolagiri block here chose to give away 8 cents of their patta land for a Primary Health Centre in the village that does not have a government health centre till now. They handed over the documents for power of attorney to Collector Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy to facilitate the patta name transfer process. Deputy Director of Health Services M. Govindan and government surveyor Athimoolam were present.
23 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Killed in accident||A 41-year-old labourer was killed in an accident in a stone quarry here on Saturday. Govindasamy of Kondrampatti in Dharmapuri was working in the quarry in Bargur. On Saturday, he was drilling into a stone, reportedly without assistance, when the drill slipped and fell on him. He died on the spot. The Bargur police registered a case.
23 October 2020||Legal Correspondent Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Madras High Court dismisses criminal revision plea in unlawful assembly case||No force under the sun can prevent police from investigating into the affairs of May 17 Movement coordinator Thirumurugan Gandhi and finding out if he was being operated by international outfits. However, such an exercise need not be carried in a nondescript case booked for unlawful assembly, the Madras High Court has said. Justice P.N. Prakash made the observation while dismissing a criminal revision petition filed by the Central Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID). The revision was preferred against the refusal of a special court for cases against legislators to order reinvestigation in the case booked for assembling at the Marina beach here on May 20, 2018. Initial case Initially, the Zam Bazaar police station had booked the case regarding the unlawful assembly, in violation of prohibitory orders, against Mr. Gandhi, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary Vaiko and others. It was the prosecution’s claim that they had gathered near Kannagi statue to condole the genocide of Tamils in Sri Lanka. However, on July 9, 2019, Justice N. Anand Venkatesh of the High Court refused to quash many other cases booked against Mr. Gandhi and directed the police to investigate thoroughly as to whether he was only the face of a “larger net”. Subsequently, the Director General of Police transferred all pending cases against him from local police to the CB-CID. In the meantime, the unlawful assembly case got transferred to the special court for legislators since Mr. Vaiko had become a Rajya Sabha member. The CB-CID filed a petition before the special court seeking permission to conduct further investigation in the unlawful assembly case. Its plea was turned down on February 7 and hence the present revision. Stating that the charge of unlawful assembly was too ordinary a case to permit further investigation especially when the Zam Bazaar police had already completed the probe and filed a final report, Justice Prakash said: “This court is at loss to understand as to what is there to conduct further investigation in a case which relates to violation of prohibitory orders. Fresh FIR “If the State has credible materials in hand to show that the accused had violated the prohibitory orders at the instance of LTTE or ISI, Pakistan or Lashkar-e-Taiba etc., they can straightaway register a fresh First Information Report under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of 1967 instead of praying for further investigation in this nondescript case. “No power under the sun can prevent the police from investigating into the affairs of Thirumurugan Gandhi and the persons behind him. Even a fresh FIR can be registered against him if the police have the material to show that he is being operated by forces inimical to India.”  Unlawful assembly was too ordinary a case to permit further investigation
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vandiyur tank near full||The Vandiyur tank, one of the largest tanks in the city, is a sight to behold. Following the recent rain and release of water from Periyar Main Canal, the tank is filled up to 90% of its total capacity. M. Pavazhakannan, Executive Engineer, Periyar Main Canal, Melur Division, said that 25 recharge wells were constructed inside the tank last year and the inlet channels of the tank were also desilted. Bund strengthening works were also undertaken. “All these steps ensured that rainwater was effectively stored in the tank. The water released in Periyar Main Canal for irrigation is also sometimes released into the tank,” he added. The DHAN Foundation, in association with HCL Foundation, has taken up a project to revive the Vandiyur tank. N.Venkatesan, Programme Leader, DHAN Vayalagam Tank Foundation, said that Prosopis Juliflora was removed from the Vandiyur and its chain of tanks as part of the revival programme. "In the 9th branch of the Periyar Main Canal, which releases water to Vandiyur tank, garbage was cleared and it was completely desilted," he said. D. Raghavan, President of Gomathipuram - Thendral Nagar Residents' Welfare Association, said that storage of water in the tank will help to increase the groundwater table in the neighbouring areas. "Water was stored in the tank for many months last year. As a result, the residents of Gomathipuram spent very less money on purchasing water from private water tankers," he said. In addition, the tank is an important biodiversity spot which attracts many birds, said Madurai-based ornithologist T. Badri Narayanan, who is an ophthalmologist by profession. Mr. Raghavan added that the officials can consider the possibilities of directing water from Vandiyur tank to Melamadai Oorani.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||12 new cases in Tenkasi||Madurai district recorded 76 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 17,943. A total of 84 persons got discharged and the active cases were 787. There were two deaths, taking the district’s toll to 404. Virudhunagar registered 33 fresh cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 15,102. However, with 50 patients having been discharged, the number of discharged patients has increased to 14,655. With the death toll remaining at 217, the number of positive cases stands at 230. Theni accounts for 32 new cases with which the tally has moved to 15,917, after 65 patients were discharged. Dindigul had 38 fresh cases and the tally till date is 9,549, after 32 were discharged. Ramanathapuram recorded 14 new cases with which the tally moved to 5,849. The hospitals discharged 30 patients. Sivaganga had 23 fresh cases, taking the tally to 5,625. There were 36 discharges. With 65 fresh cases, Kanniyakumari district’s tally has moved to 14,223. After 71 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district had 713 active cases. Thoothukudi district’s tally rose to 14,430 following the admission of 48 new cases. As 68 patients were discharged, the district had 527 active cases. Tirunelveli reported 47 fresh cases that took the district’s tally to 13,839 and the number of active cases to 584 after 70 patients were discharged. Tenkasi Tenkasi was the only district that witnessed the death of a COVID-19 patient that took the district’s fatality to 151. As the district recorded 12 fresh cases, the tally of Tenkasi moved up to 7,716 and the number of active cases to 156 after 37 patients were discharged.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Accused allowed to perform last rites of father||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Saturday granted interim bail to suspended policeman X. Thomas Francis, an accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case, to perform last rites to his father who died on October 16 at Meignanapuram in Thoothukudi district. Justice Abdul Quddhose granted the petitioner interim bail for three days till October 19 with conditions. The court observed that as a son, it is his pious obligation to perform the last rites of his father. It directed the trial prisoner to appear before the Meignanapuram police station daily at 10 a.m. during the period of the interim bail. He shall be brought back to the Madurai Central Prison by 6 p.m. on October 19, the court directed. During the period of the interim bail, the police shall provide proper escort to the trial prisoner to ensure his safety. The petitioner shall bear the escort expenses, the court said and posted the matter for reporting compliance to October 22.
23 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Accused allowed to perform last rites of father||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Saturday granted interim bail to suspended policeman X. Thomas Francis, an accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case, to perform last rites to his father who died on October 16 at Meignanapuram in Thoothukudi district. Justice Abdul Quddhose granted the petitioner interim bail for three days till October 19 with conditions. The court observed that as a son, it is his pious obligation to perform the last rites of his father. It directed the trial prisoner to appear before the Meignanapuram police station daily at 10 a.m. during the period of the interim bail. He shall be brought back to the Madurai Central Prison by 6 p.m. on October 19, the court directed. During the period of the interim bail, the police shall provide proper escort to the trial prisoner to ensure his safety. The petitioner shall bear the escort expenses, the court said and posted the matter for reporting compliance to October 22.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Chain-snatching lands him in too many troubles||Nothing went right for the cargo autorickshaw driver S. Raja Mohammed (29) on his reported maiden attempt to snatch gold chain near Melur on Friday. First, he chose a head constable to snatch the gold chain. Secondly, the anxious bike rider lost his mobile phone in his attempt to pull the chain. To add to his misery, he lost control of the two-wheeler and dashed against another vehicle only to be caught by the public. Raja Mohammed of Kidaripatti followed T. Vidhya, 42, head constable, attached to District Crime Branch in Sivaganga district while she was returning home at N. Perumalpatti near Melur. When she came near Ganapathipuram, the man managed to yank her six sovereign gold chain. The man did not know that he had targeted a police personnel as she was in her civvies. She raised an alarm. It made the thief anxious. His mobile phone fell down. He hardly crossed some 100 metres, his motorbike dashed against a vehicle. He fell down and fractured his left hand. He tried to run away but he was caught by the people. “The alarm raised by the victim drew the attention of the people and that helped us to nab him,” Inspector of Police (Melur), S. Charles, said. Even if he managed to flee from the scene, he would have been apprehended as his mobile phone and number plate of his vehicle had fallen down at the scene of crime. The Melur police recovered the gold chain and seized the two-wheeler. Interrogation revealed that Raja Mohammed had resorted to make quick money as he had fallen in debts. After being provided first-aid at the Government Hospital in Melur, he was sent to remand on Saturday.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court deplores back-door approach||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has deprecated the practice of litigants trying to restore lapsed cause of action by sending representations to the authorities and thereafter filing writ petitions before the court seeking a direction to authorities to consider the representation. It has become a recent trend, the court said. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that the modus operandi of the litigants, with the assistance of the legal brain, involved sending representations to the authorities, immediately followed by filing a writ petition, with a prayer to consider the representation. The court, which was hearing a petition where a representation was sent after a lapse of 19 years, observed that in such cases it would be difficult for the authorities even to trace service particulars of the writ petitioner. The litigants are attempting to re-adjudicate the issues which were settled long back. This back-door approach cannot be encouraged, the judge said. All persons, including government employees, are expected to redress their grievances within a reasonable period of time from the date of arising of cause of action. Once an aggrieved person allows the cause of action to lapse, the court will not entertain any writ petition thereafter. Mere submission of representation after a number of years would not provide any cause of action for the aggrieved to file a writ of mandamus, the judge said. Such writ proceedings filed with an intention to achieve the goal in an indirect manner by illegal or irregular means can never be encouraged and entertained. All such litigations are to be rejected with heavy costs. The High Court being the temple of justice must ensure that speedy justice is provided to the needy and those who approach the court with clean hands by establishing their legal rights, the court said. The court dismissed the writ petition filed by A. Kasthuribai from Dindigul, a Hand Weaving Instructor who retired in 1992. She approached the court in 2011 seeking a direction to authorities to revise her pension benefits.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Out of 226 students, 62 qualify in NEET||Out of the 226 government and government-aided school students of Madurai district, who attended the government-sponsored online crash course for National-Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) during the COVID-19 pandemic, a total of 62 students qualified in the examination. With only 27.43% of the government and aided school students who attended the online crash course being qualified in the examination, teachers and experts stress on the shortcomings of the government-sponsored NEET coaching. According to officials from the School Education department in the last academic year around 400 Class 12 students in the district, showed interest in taking the state-sponsored weekly NEET coaching classes that were held in 15 centres across the district. Usually, the government arranges a residential NEET coaching for the students one month prior to the examination. However, the pandemic robbed the government students of this opportunity. So, the school education department collaborated with a private company for an online NEET coaching crash course that commenced in mid-June. S. Vennila Devi, the district coordinator of government-sponsored NEET coaching, said that the COVID-19 pandemic made it difficult to track down all the students and only 226 students were enrolled for the online coaching course. District Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said that the lower performance of the students can be attributed to the restriction in meeting teachers in person and clarifying their doubts during the pandemic. Concurring with this viewpoint, N.D. Keren Luxia Mai, a student of Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Othakkadai, who scored 320 in the NEET, said that the online classes were out of reach for many government school students. ‘Many of my friends did not have smart-phones at their homes and hence they couldn’t attend the online classes. Many students faced difficulties in understanding classes that were held in English,’ she said. Mr. Swaminathan said that the government recharged data packs for around 45 government students who faced difficulty in attending the online classes. The coaching provided during the online classes were more advanced when compared to the sessions that were held weekly before the pandemic, said Ms. Mai. ‘The students were able to write mock NEET tests only during the online sessions. It would be better if intense training is provided right from the beginning of the year,’ she said. Ms. Vennila Devi said that out of the 15 NEET coaching centres in the district, only around 10 of them had smart classes. ‘It is essential that all centres have advanced infrastructural facilities to coach NEET aspirants,’ she said. A source from the education department said that teachers were deputed on a rotation basis for teaching in the weekly coaching classes. "A team of dedicated teachers must be formed to train the students throughout the year," said Ms. Vennila Devi.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Documentary released||People need to strictly follow safety precautions like wearing facemasks, frequently washing their hands and maintaining personal distance at public places to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, said Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan here on Saturday. He was speaking after releasing a documentary created by Rotary Club of Madurai North West and Vishan Creators. The documentary was created in recognition of efforts taken by the officials of Madurai Corporation in containing the pandemic in the city. He said that all doctors, engineers, staff and conservancy workers of the civic body worked together to reduce the number of positive cases in Madurai. “The cases were at peak during June but new cases have drastically come down. But people must continue to follow all the safety precautions,” he said. He congratulated members of Rotary Clubs as they volunteered in distributing vegetables to residents during the lockdown period. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan and City Engineer S. Arasu were present.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on November 4||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level dak adalat at the office of the Postmaster General, Southern Region here at 11 am on November 4. The Adalat will hear grievances of postal customers and address them. The customers can send their complaints to the office of the Postmaster General on or before October 21. Customers can also send their grievances through e-mail atpg.madurai@indiapost. gov.inwith the caption Dak Adalat. The complaint should contain full details of date and time of posting, addresses of the sender and addressee with phone number, registration receipt number with date and office of booking for money order, value payable post, registered, insured and speed post articles. Complaints on savings schemes and postal life insurance should have account number, postal life insurance policy number and full address of the depositor/insured, name of the post office, details of recovery and any reference from the department. The complaints should be sent through ordinary or registered post, with ‘Dak Adalat Subject’ superscribed on the cover. Correspondence through courier services will not be accepted, according to a press release.
23 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||As TANGEDCO has planned to take up the monthly maintenance works in Manickampatti and Alanganallur sub-stations on October 20, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas: Rajakkalpatti, Maravarpatti, Chathiravellapatti, Valayapatti, Errampatti, Konapatti, Palamedu, Chinnapalamedu, Manickampatti, Senthamangalam, Pondhugampatti, Mettupatti, Usilampatti, Alanganallur, Kottaimedu, NSM Sugar Mill Road, Mettupatti, Kuravankulam, Siruvalai, Ambalathadi, Alagapuri, A.Puthupatti, A.Kovilpatti, Vaikasipatti, Ayyur, Muduvarpatti, Aathanur, Achampatti and other areas, said Executive Engineer S Arumugaraj here on Saturday.
23 October 2020||P. SudhakarTIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Call drop and poor data speed irk Tirunelveli BSNL customers||Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited is yet to provide call drop-free communication, subscribers say. Though the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) slaps fine on telecom firms for ‘call drops,’ BSNL subscribers continue to experience this problem. After complaints of ‘call drop’ exerted pressure on BSNL officials here, a technical team was recently deployed to assess quality of mobile phone signal in Tuckerammalpuram, Government Engineering College area, NGO A, B and C Colony, Tirumal Nagar, Reddiyarpatti and adjoining areas. As the team found that poor quality of signal was the reason behind the ‘call drop’ and other associated issues, upgrading of software and installation of hardware were done in the transmission towers, a source said. 4G service An official admitted that they had not been given permission for 4G service. “What our people are giving in a few places of Kanniyakumari district following pressure exerted by a few MLAs is not 4G service. It’s only an intermediate service between 3G and 4G. If this situation continues, the subscribers will get attracted by private players, who are being given NoCs by the Centre instantly,” said Soosai Maria Antony of Tirunelveli district president of BSNL Employees’ Union. When power supply got disrupted on Saturday in the southern parts of Palayamkottai and suburbs in the wake of monthly maintenance work taken up in the Melapalayam substation, BSNL’s mobile phone communication was almost crippled with a lot of call drops and other related issues. 2G signal only “I can’t even download a 4.40 MB-size 22-second video file sent by a client with the BSNL connection which showed reception of only 2G signal most of the time. When I switched over to a private operator’s data after my repeated attempts with BSNL data, I could do it in no time,” said N. Ramasubramanian, an engineer from NGO Colony. A BSNL official said private operators could keep their transmission gadgets running with diesel generators during scheduled or unscheduled power cuts while the BSNL could not do so. “Owing to mounting arrears for purchase of diesel, the dealer has stopped diesel supply. Only a very few transmission towers were functioning on Saturday with diesel generators and hence the problem,” he revealed. The Telecom District Manager, who joined recently after being transferred from Thoothukudi district, could not be reached for his comments. Saji Kumar, Principal General Manager, BSNL, Nagercoil, said 3G data coverage had increased in Tirunelveli Town area by adding 4th sector of 3G data in 26 sites. “As data usage has increased during the pandemic, customers are experiencing slow speed. For 4G expansion, the process of awarding tenders was on which will take some time,” he said.  State of affairs Private operators keep transmission gadgets running with diesel generators during power cut while BSNL cannot do so  As data usage has increased during the pandemic, slow speed is experienced, says BSNL official
23 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three high school students test positive in Puducherry||Three students tested positive for COVID-19 after the government decided to allow partial resumption of academic activities in high schools in Puducherry. A class 10 student of Anna Sarada Devi Government High School at Vadhanur in Mannadipet constituency tested positive for the virus on Friday taking the total number of students who got infected to three since the Education Department allowed children in higher classes to visit the premises to get their doubts cleared and seek guidance from teachers. Healthcare workers disinfected the premises and closed the particular section where the student attended the class. Earlier, two children studying in Jeevanandam Government Higher Secondary School and Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Kalapet tested positive for the virus. Director of School Education P.T. Rudra Goud told The Hindu that all the three were asymptomatic when they attended school. ‘All were asymptomatic’ “All three have undergone screening using thermal scanner but did not show any sign of fever as they were asymptomatic,” he said. Recently, a student of Manimegalai Government Girls Higher Secondary School, who showed signs of fever during screening, was sent back home, he said. “We are taking all care so that schools don’t become a place for the spread of virus. Our teams are visiting each and every school to check whether the authorities are following the guidelines,” he said. MLA protests Meanwhile, AINRC MLA T.P.R. Selvam, who represents Mannadipet constituency, held a protest at Vadhanur Government School on Saturday morning after authorities decided to conduct classes after closing it for a day on Friday. He asked the students to return home. Mr. Selvam said he would organise a protest again on Monday if the school continued to function. He wanted the department to close all schools in his constituency.
23 October 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Man kills daughter||A father smothered his six-year-old mentally challenged daughter at his house near here on Saturday. Police said V. Palanikumar walked into a police station after killing his daughter. They said that the accused, who was living in Jeyaram Mill Colony, killed his daughter when his wife and son were away. The man told the police that he could not take care of the child. A case has been registered.
23 October 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Five held||Special teams of police arrested five persons and seized 5.7 kg of ganja from them at different police station limits under Rajapalayam sub-division on Thursday and Friday. The police have identified the accused as P. Murali, S. Sathuragiri, B. Baskaran, S. Satheesh Kumar and S. Ganesan. All the accused have been sent to judicial custody. Rajapalayam Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Nagasankar has issued a warning that habitual offenders would be detained under Goondas Act.
23 October 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized||Special teams of police arrested five persons and seized 5.7 kg of ganja from them at different police station limits under Rajapalayam sub-division on Thursday and Friday. The police have identified the accused as P. Murali, S. Sathuragiri, B. Baskaran, S. Satheesh Kumar and S. Ganesan. All the accused have been sent to judicial custody.
23 October 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Man kills daughter||A father smothered his six-year-old mentally challenged daughter Mahalakshmi at his house near here on Saturday. Ppolice said that V. Palanikumar walked into a police station immediately after killing his daughter. They said that the accused, who was living in Jeyaram Mill Colony, killed his daughter when his wife and son were away. The man told the police that he could not take care of the child. Rajapalayam South police have registered a case and are investigating.
23 October 2020||RANIPET,TAMIL NADU||Boy from Arakkonam cracks NEET without private classes||M. Sakthivel of Guruvarajapet in Arakkonam taluk, Ranipet district, is elated now. He has scored 674 out of 720 in the NEET, cracking the exams with the help of social media and some books as his father could not afford fees for private coaching institutes. Mr. Sakthivel is the younger son of J. Mani, a worker in a weaving unit, and Nagajothi, a tailor. His sister M. Suchitra and his brother M. Suresh have completed engineering. His parents educated them despite the hardships. “Till Class X, I studied in a government school in my neighbourhood. As there was no proper maths teacher, I shifted to Vivekananda Vidyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School. I completed my Plus 2 in 2018-19 and scored 588 marks,” he said. After preparing for 45 days, he appeared for NEET but managed to score only 358. Second attempt “I knew I will not get a medical seat and my father cannot afford the admission fee in private colleges, so I decided to study hard and appear for the exams again,” Mr. Sakthivel said. Though some people wanted him to join a private coaching institute, he refused considering the financial situation of the family. “I studied at home and referred social media whenever I had doubts, and sometimes used the National Test Abhyas App for mock tests,” he said, and added that once he became a doctor, he wished to help other students like him.  I studied at home and referred social media whenever I had doubts, and used the National Test Abhyas App for mock tests M. Sakthivel MBBS aspirant
23 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||CM hoists party flag on AIADMK foundation day||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday hoisted the AIADMK’s flag to commemorate the 49th foundation day of the party at his native village Siluvampalayam here. Close to 100 party cadres had gathered at the spot with party flags. Rajya Sabha member R. Chandrashekaran also participated. Floral tributes Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami paid floral tributes to portraits of party founder M.G. Ramachandran and former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa here. He later distributed sweets to the cadres. In Chennai, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam distributed scholarships to the tune of about Rs. 26.4 lakh to 26 students of medical courses and two student of engineering courses, on the occasion of the party’s foundation day. He handed over demand drafts to the students at an event at the party headquarters here, after hoisting the party flag. He also garlanded statues of M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa in the presence of senior leaders and Ministers.
23 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem district reports 240 cases, three deaths||As many as 240 cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous including 142 in Salem Corporation limits. Thirty-five patients returned from Dharmapuri, Kumbakonam, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Kallakurichi. Three patients aged 71, 30 and 76 died of the disease. In Namakkal, 131 persons tested positive of whom eight returned from Karur, Coimbatore, Salem, Erode and Chennai and two from Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. Erode district reported 122 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,029. While 157 persons were discharged, 1,060 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, taking the toll to 113 in the district. Krishnagiri registered 69 cases and Dharmapuri 75. In Coimbatore district, the number of COVID-19 patients who were under care in hospitals and COVID Care Centres (CCC) in Coimbatore district remained below 4,000 mark for the second consecutive day on Saturday. With 428 persons having returned to their homes after recovering from COVID-19 on Saturday, different hospitals and CCCs had 3,861 patients. The Health Department said that six patients from Coimbatore district succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday and Friday, taking the death toll to 518. The district reported 389 new cases of the disease on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 159 cases, taking the overall tally to 10,994 cases. The district did not report any deaths on Saturday. Out of the 10,994 cases, 9,664 have recovered and 1,166 were active cases. The district has reported 164 deaths in total. On Saturday, 193 patients were discharged from various hospitals. In the Nilgiris, 88 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 6,003. The death toll in the district increased from 33 to 34 on Saturday, while 667 people are undergoing treatment.
23 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Close to 11,000 surgeries performed at Salem GH during COVID-19 pandemic’||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital performed close to 11,000 surgeries between March and October 15, Hospital authorities said. World Trauma Day was observed at the Hospital on Saturday. Collector S.A. Raman, Medical Superintendent P.V. Dhanapal, Resident Medical Officer S.R. Rani and other senior authorities took part. The Hospital, being the tertiary care centre for COVID-19 treatment, has been handling other critical cases as well. Dr. Dhanapal said that between March and October, the hospital performed close to 6,000 major and about 5,000 minor surgeries. In October alone, 355 surgeries were performed, he added. Besides Salem, the GMKMCH caters to patients from neighbouring districts like Erode, Namakkal, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Karur and Kallakuruchi. Between March and October, the Hospital handled 7,595 deliveries and 513 cases were handled in October alone. Among the deliveries, 3,235 were normal and 3,749 were done through a c-section surgery. According to authorities, the Hospital set up a separate surgical ward to treat COVID-19 patients who would require surgery and similar arrangements had been made to handle deliveries of COVID-19 positive mothers. Despite the lockdown, between January and September, the Hospital handled 3,785 road accident cases and 5,097 other grievous cases. It also handled 3,066 cases referred from other hospitals here.
23 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Police help man cremate wife||The Salem district police stepped in to help a man cremate his wife on Saturday. According to the police, Pazhani from Nengavelli married Manimekalai (25) from his extended family around four years ago. As their families were against the marriage, they moved to Coimbatore. Recently, the couple returned to Salem. The police said Manimekalai was diabetic and she died on Friday. As there was no support from the families, Pazhani found it difficult to cremate Manimekalai. On information, the Nengavelli police recovered the body in the evening and sent it to Salem Government Hospital for autopsy. The cremation was held on Saturday.
23 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man held for attacking wife||The Salem city police on Saturday arrested a man who allegedly attacked his transwoman wife and adopted son urging her to register her assets in his name. According to the police, Absal Mubarak married transwoman Kanagi a few years ago and she was fostering a boy from a young age. The couple was residing near Four Roads here. Recently, Absal Mubarak allegedly attacked the boy and demanded Kanagi to register her properties in his name. The Palapatti police registered a case based on Kanagi’s complaint.
23 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam increased||The discharge from Mettur dam was increased on Saturday. According to officials from Public Works Department, water level at the dam was 99.2ft against a full reservoir level of 120ft. The storage was 63809 tmcft. The dam received an inflow of 10,318 cusecs and the discharge was increased to 18,000 cusecs from 14,000 cusecs on Saturday. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 900 cusecs.
23 October 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Unaccounted cash seized in DVAC raids||Officials under the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption conducted surprise raids at government offices in Salem and Namakkal and seized over Rs. 7 lakh of unaccounted cash. In Salem, raids were conducted at the office of sub-registrar in Sooramangalam. A team led by Chandramouli, ADSP, DVAC, conducted the raids that started on Friday evening and continued till early hours of Saturday. The officials seized about Rs. 2.53 lakh of unaccounted cash. According to the officials, majority of the amount were stashed at the records room. A case has been registered against sub-registrar Kanagaraj and two office staff. In Namakkal, DVAC officials led by DSP A.T. Jaikumar raided the office of District Town and Country Planning since Friday evening and seized unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 5,25,730. A case has been registered against R. Ramani, Assistant Director, and other staff at the office.  Our Special Correspondent adds from Krishnagiri  DVAC slueths seized unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 2.14 lakh from the Road Transport Office checkpost near the inter-State border at Zuzuvadi. The cash was found stacked under a table. The outpost is mandated with giving temporary permits for vehicles crossing the border into Tamil Nadu and across the border into Karnataka. The DVAC is questioning the Motor Vehicles Inspector and assistant inspector over the seizure.
23 October 2020||Special CorrespondentCHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quack arrested for trying to register as doctor||The Arumbakkam police have arrested a 41-year-old quack who attempted to register with Tamil Nadu Medical Council by producing a forged certificate two years ago. The suspect, who has been identified as Jayapandi of Karur, submitted a certificate to register with the council in 2018. On scrutiny, the staff at the council found that it was forged and lodged a complaint with the police. He was reported absconding from his native place in Karur district since then. Arumbakkam police went to his uncle’s house in Avadi following information that he had come there. As he had left already, the police team went to Koyambedu where they caught him before boarding a bus. After the arrested, he reportedly told the police that he had obtained a forged certificate on payment of Rs. 25 lakh to three persons in Tiruchi. Jayapandi has been remanded in judicial custody.
23 October 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Encroached land retrieved||Revenue officials have retrieved two acres of land that used to be an oorani at Pillaiyarkulam in Srivilliputtur taluk. Work on restoration of Perumal oorani on the site where a lot of trees have been grown started on Saturday. “We are planning to desilt the oorani by sparing the trees in a month,” Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar said. Last month, the officials inspected house site plots given to transgenders in the village. During inspection, the officials found a huge farm along a new layout for residential plots. “Enquiries revealed that some people had filled up the oorani and trees had been grown there,” he said. After issuing notice to the encroacher, the process for retrieving it was set in motion.
23 October 2020||Staff Reporter Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmer injured in sloth bear attack||A 50-year-old farmer near Karamandurai was injured after he was attacked by a sloth bear on Saturday. According to forest department officials, the incident occurred when the farmer Annamalai was working in his farm adjacent to reserve forest area in Karamandurai range. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said that the farmer suffered head injuries and he has been admitted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.
23 October 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Sexual assault: four arrested||The Tenkasi All Women Police have arrested four persons, including a youth on a charge of sexually assaulting and impregnating a 16-year-old girl. Police said S. Subburaj, 26, from a village near Tenkasi sexually assaulted the girl, his neighbour, in March. When she became pregnant, the girl narrated the ordeal to her mother Ramalakshmi, 40, who picked up a heated argument with Subburaj and his parents Sundararaj, 56, and Mariammal, 49, on the issue. When the trio agreed to pay Rs. 2 lakh to her to bury the issue and asked her to abort the foetus her daughter was carrying, Ramalakshmi agreed to it and the unborn baby was terminated medically. On coming to know about this, the village health nurse filed a complaint with the Tenkasi All Women Police who picked up the girl and her mother for inquiry. When the crime was confirmed , the police arrested Ramalakshmi, Sundararaj, Mariammal and Subburaj. Subbura was enlarged on bail only recently in the case pertaining to the sexual assault of his wife’s younger sister.
23 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||No token system for procurement of paddy in delta districts: Minister||Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Saturday said that token system was not being adopted for procurement of paddy at direct purchase centres (DPCs) in delta districts. The remark came when reporters brought the attention of the Minister, who was at Kuruvadipatti DPC, to a complaint that adoption of the system delayed the procurement process. Stating that such system was not implemented in delta districts, where 826 DPCs had been opened for procurement of kuruvai paddy from farmers, Mr. Kamaraj added that additional centres would be opened if needed. In order to expedite the process, the government had instructed Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to increase the number of bags of procurement in a day at a DPC from 800 to 1,000 whenever the inflow of grains was high. As on date, the Corporation had procured 2.10 lakh tonnes of kuruvai paddy through 876 DPCs opened in the State. A sufficient number of tarpaulin sheets had been made available at all DPCs to protect the procured paddy from rain and infrastructure had been created to ensure safe storage. The total storage capacity had been increased to 23 lakh metric tonnes from 11 metric tonnes in 2011, he added.
23 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Role of farm women stressed||A national-level webinar on women empowerment in Indian agriculture was held at Agricultural College and Research Institute, Eachangkottai, Thanjavur district, on October 15 on the eve of National Women Farmers’ Day (Rashtriya Mahila Kisan Diwas) and World Student Day. Topics such as success stories of farm women, integrated farming system, soil health management by women and women agripreneurship, scope for agriculture graduates, perspectives of UG and PG programmes, students skill development, better nutrition for youngster and impact of yoga were highlighted by eminent speakers at the webinar inaugurated by N. Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. In his inaugural address, Mr. Kumar highlighted the role of women in agriculture and domestic care. The marathon webinar, which began around 9 a.m. on October 15, concluded at 6. 30 a.m. the following day. A.Velayutham, Dean, AC and RI, was among the speakers.
23 October 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||NEET topper attributes support from teachers for success||‘I studied 10 hours a day for the last eight to 10 months. My teachers conducted tests twice a week’ - this is the secret behind my success, said Jeevith Kumar, a district topper in National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), who scored 664/720. Jeevith Kumar has become popular on the social media. Collector M Pallavi Baldev congratulated the topper, in the presence of his parents, at the Collectorate here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters, the topper attributed his success to his hard work and support from his teachers and well-wishers. He said he was shocked to learn about the suicides or attempt to suicides by some students across the country over the NEET. “Nothing is impossible. It is the message I want to tell everybody,” he said. The boy said the first attempt was not easy as he scored 193 marks. But he took it as a challenge and came up on top in the next attempt. He said his teachers’ support gave him the confidence. On preparing for the NEET during the COVID-19 times, he said he took time to get enough sleep and had food at the right time. “I never wasted my time and I studied with a focus and determination,” he said. The Collector said Jeevith Kumar’s success story should bring in more students from government schools to take up competitive exams.
23 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||418 new positive cases, two deaths reported in central districts||The central districts on Saturday added 418 more cases of COVID-19 and reported two deaths, one each in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur. A 53-year-old man with a history of diabetes hailing from Nagapattinam and a 41-year-old woman from Tiruvarur with co-morbidities of bronchial asthma, coronary artery disease and hypertension died of the viral infection. Meanwhile, Thanjavur recorded a slight increase in cases and continued to report the highest number of cases among central districts. A total of 101 patients, including primary contacts, patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and asymptomatic patients detected through testing via fever camps were recorded. Tiruvarur reported 87 cases for the viral infection, while Tiruchi reported 67. Patients in both districts were primary contacts, or with history of respiratory illnesses, or travellers. Pudukottai recorded a sharp drop in COVID-19 cases with 48 patients testing positive in the district. Among them were a number of local index cases with no history of travel or contact, their immediate contacts and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses or Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Nagapattinam recorded a slight drop in COVID-19 cases with 56 fresh cases reported. Meanwhile, in Karur, 36 fresh cases for COVID-19 including residents from Thanthonimalai, Pallapalayam, Kulithalai among other localities. Four sanitary workers at the Karur municipality also tested positive. In Ariyalur, 15 patients tested positive. Four hailed from Ariyalur block, two from Thirumanur, one from Sendurai, three from T. Palur, two from Andimadam and three from Jayankondam. In a sudden spike, a total of 86 containment zones were created in the district. Until last week, 61 were present, and since October 11, new ones had been added, official sources said. In Perambalur, eight new cases were recorded. Three hailed from Perambalur, two each from Veppanthattai and Veppur and one from Alathur blocks. There were no containment zones in the district as cases were isolated in nature. Meanwhile, a total of 363 fresh throat swabs were lifted from primary contacts and patients with symptoms and sent for testing.
23 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Talks held on land acquisition for Cauvery-Gundar linking||The Tiruchi district authorities on Saturday launched preliminary steps to acquire land required for the Cauvery-Gundar river link project by holding a meeting with farmers and owners concerned to explore the feasibility of acquisition through private negotiations. The scheme envisages a new 250-km link canal to carry surplus water of the Cauvery from Mayanur barrage in Karur district to Agniyaru, South Vellar, Manimutharu, Vaigai and Gundar under the intra-State river-linking programme. About 6,000 cusecs of surplus water from the Cauvery is planned to be diverted through the canal to drought-prone southern districts. Under the first phase, the link canal from the Cauvery to South Vellar is to be taken up at a tentative cost of Rs. 7,677 crore. Totally, around 6,730 acres are required for the project, which will be executed in three phases. The project, which remained at the drawing board stage for long, got a push after the State government allotted Rs. 700 crore in the Budget for 2020-21 to carry out land acquisition and preliminary works. The canal will pass through the seven villages of Ammapettai, Mathur, Paganur, Alundur, Nagamangalam, Kozhukattaikudi and Mudikandam. About 123 hectares of patta lands are to be acquired for the project in the villages, apart from alienation of 8.59 hectares of poromboke land. The required lands are to be acquired under the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act of 2013 and the State government has allotted Rs. 97.41 crore for land acquisition in Tiruchi district. The land plan schedule from the public works department has been obtained and steps have been initiated to acquire the lands, an official release said.  Collector explains process Meanwhile, Collector S. Sivarasu convened a meeting with presidents of village panchayats and the land owners of Ammapettai and Mathur to explain to them the procedure involved in acquisition and also try and persuade them to agree to provide the land for the project through private negotiations. District Revenue Officer Palanikumar, Srirangam Sub-Collector Nishant Krishna and other officials were present. A revenue official said the meeting was intended to explain the benefits of the land owners concerned coming forward to hand over their land for the project. It would be mutually beneficial for both land owners and the government as it would help complete the process expeditiously. Preliminary works on land acquisition for the project has already been set in motion in neighbouring Pudukottai district, where the extent of land to be acquired is much higher. The project is widely viewed as a boon to Pudukottai district as over a 100 villages in 12 taluks are expected to benefit from the scheme. The canal will bring water to 760 kanmois in the district and irrigate over 20,000 hectares of land. In Pudukottai district, about 653.6 hectares of land in Viralimalai, Kulathur and Pudukottai taluks will be acquired.
23 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Looking at issues involved in pilot initiative: CoP||The city police move to introduce exclusive lanes for two-wheelers as a pilot initiative on Bharathidasan Salai in Tiruchi does not seem to have brought about the much needed lane discipline among motorists despite the best efforts of the traffic police. City Police Commissioner J. Loganathan, who took charge in July, had outlined a plan in August to introduce exclusive lanes for two- wheelers in some of the arterial roads in the city in an attempt to curb accidents and to bring about lane discipline. In a city notorious for lax traffic discipline and enforcement, the move was considered a welcome initiative by many. Subsequently, police identified four arterial road stretches — Bharathidasan Salai (between Head Post Office to MGR statue), Head Post Office to Tiruchi railway junction, MGR statue to Uzhavar Sandhai, and MGR statue to Periyamilaguparai via District Collectorate — for creating to exclusive two wheeler lanes. As a pilot initiative, markings for the two-wheelers lanes were made on both sides of Bharathidasan Salai and the traffic police started asking two-wheeler riders to ride within the lane. After some initial enthusiasm, several two-wheeler riders could be seen riding outside the lane, which, some feel, were too narrow for the heavy two wheeler traffic in the city. Some others complained about vehicles being parked in front of commercial establishments on the road, occupying the lane space. “It is a bit difficult when all two-wheelers are moving on the narrow lane. We need to have some more space. Besides, no vehicle should be allowed to be parked on the lane,” said Vignesh, a young engineering graduate. “It is a good initiative, but apparently there is lack of cooperation from motorists,” observed M. Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumers and Service Organisations and member of the District Road Safety Council. Besides, the lanes were not adequate for two-wheeler population, which was the highest in the city. The city does not have wide enough roads for such exclusive lanes for two wheelers, he said pointing out that Bharathidasan Salai was one of the widest in the city and even here it was difficult to implement the concept. Mr. Sekaran suggested that the city police could instead try and introduce bicycle lanes. “Even I would like to ride a cycle, but am not sure of safety. If there were bicycle lanes, more people will take to them,” he said. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Loganathan did not agree with suggestions that the pilot initiative had not gone down well with the people. “About 80-90% of motorists are using the lanes. We have also deployed police personnel to prevent parking on the lanes. The move will at least help reinforce the norm that two-wheelers should ride on the left side of the road, which will help reduce accidents,” the city police Commissioner contended. He said the police were studying the issues involved in the pilot initiative and the inputs received from various quarters. “We are looking at how best to adopt them and take it forward in other parts of the city,” Mr. Loganathan said.
23 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Retaining wall for Salai road overbridge||Tiruchi Corporation plans to utilise Smart Cities Mission fund to construct a retaining wall along the Salai Road over bridge as a portion of the approach road was eroded on a rainy night in July this year. Though the civic body has made temporary arrangements, the eroded portion is yet to be permanently repaired. The right-side retaining wall and a part of the road overbridge on Salai Road leading towards Mainguard Gate caved in after heavy rainfall amid the COVID-19 lockdown. While the civic body used concrete, sack bags and wooden pillars to strengthen the sides to avoid further damage, a permanent solution is yet to be made. An official of the State Highways said that a proposal for reconstruction of the bridge had been sent to the State government for approval. Once the approval was given, funds sanctioned under a redevelopment scheme would be allotted for the construction. The civic body, meanwhile, has decided to strengthen the soil and construct a retaining wall. “About Rs. 2.5 crore under the Smart Cities Mission fund will be utilised to fix the wall so that the bridge can be utilised until the plan submitted for redevelopment is approved,” City Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said. Since the damage to the overbridge, heavy vehicles, including buses ,are not allowed to travel on that route. A detour is taken via Karur Bypass Road to reach Mainguard Gate. “What is usually a two-minute drive takes us at least 15 minutes due to the traffic on Karur-Bypass Road. The bridge was damaged amid the lockdown and the authorities could have repaired it before resumption of transport services,” R. Kalaivani, a commuter on the route said.
23 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Demand for stoppage of express trains at Tiruverumbur station||The travelling public in Tiruverumbur, Thuvakudi, BHEL Township and residential localities in surrounding areas anticipate stoppage of express trains at Tiruverumbur railway station in the new time table to be announced before December. The long-felt demand for stoppage of express trains gained more attention after Tiruverumbur station was accorded Adarsh status in the 2012 Union Budget. The hopes of the travelling public that express trains will have stoppage at the station after completion of modernisation work have been belied. Only passenger trains continue to have stoppages at the station. Stoppage for express trains will obviate the need for thousands of rail passengers to travel up to Tiruchi junction to board long-distance trains bound for destinations such as Cochin and Chennai. Barring Jan Shatabdi, there are eight pairs of express trains that do not stop at the station. Although operation of several trains have been suspended now due to lockdown, there is no doubt that passenger patronage will be overwhelming at the station once services are restored, said N. Anbalagan, president, Tamil Nadu Makkal Valarchi Kuzhu. The organisation has been in the forefront in mobilising public opinion on the issue. “We have been highlighting the demand for long. A representation was made to the Divisional Railway Manager of Tiruchi Division, and we have also reached out to the Railways Minister. There has been no update so far,” said Tiruverumbur MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi. The benefits of electrification on Tiruchi-Thanjavur stretch can be optimised effectively by sanctioning stoppage for express trains at Tiruverumbur station. Traffic congestion on the road can be lessened to a significant extent, according to regular passengers in the sector. Votaries of stoppage of express trains in the Adarsh station emphasise that contemplation by the Railway Ministry for arriving at ‘zero-based’ time table, implying revision of timings for reducing number of halts in order to bring down the travel time must not allowed to become a hampering factor. Nevertheless, the positive aspect in it is that the demand, utility of passengers and commercial viability are considered for sanctioning stoppages, according to an official. One of the aspects of the initiative for ‘zero-based’ time table is the gradual introduction of the ‘hub and spoke concept’ with a view to facilitating easy transfers between ‘hubs’ and ‘spokes’ and inter-modal connectivity.
23 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionary helps woman to repay loan||The AIADMK functionaries would often proudly and confidently say that even an unknown cadre could reach the top position in their party which would never let them down if the cadre is loyal to it. When party supremo and the late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa hand-picked lesser known faces of the party for prime positions such as Rajya Sabha MP, the cadres’ loyalty and trust in the high command became unassailable. It was reaffirmed once again when the AIADMK celebrated its 49th Foundation Day here on Saturday. After garlanding the statue of party founder and the late Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran at Kokkirakulam along with the cadre, the party’s Tirunelveli district secretary, Thatchai N. Ganesa Raja, handed over 1,000 sweet boxes to the cadre and the public in the party office amid bursting of crackers. Just when the party functionaries thought that the celebrations were over, Mr. Ganesa Raja invited an aged frail-looking woman waiting there to come closer to him. As the crowds gave way for the woman, Mr. Ganesa Raja handed over a cheque for Rs. 1.70 lakh to her and asked her to pay the money to the bank on Monday positively to get back the documents of her mortgaged house. Only after it was handed over, the party functionaries came to know that the woman was widow Avudaiyammal, wife of AIADMK’s secretary of Karaiyiruppu area, the late Jadaamuni. Even before he could repay the loan, he had availed from the bank by mortgaging his house, Jadaamuni passed away, leaving the family in the lurch. On coming to know about the predicament of the poor family, Mr. Ganesa Raja got the loan details and handed over the assistance. He also gave Rs. 50,000 to the family of a party functionary, the late Samsudeen of Pettai, towards marriage assistance for his daughters.
23 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||CM to visit Tiruppur on October 22||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami will visit Tiruppur on October 22 to inspect various projects and the COVID-19 precautionary measures, Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said here on Saturday.  Speaking to reporters after chairing a meeting with District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, he said that Mr. Palaniswami will chair a review meeting at the District Collectorate at 2.30 p.m. The Chief Minister will lay foundation for various projects and inspect ongoing projects in the district. He will also review the COVID-19 precautionary measures taken by the district administration, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Mr. Radhakrishnan also handed over a solatium of Rs. 10 lakh to the kin of T. Prabu, an armed reserve constable, who was killed by a speeding truck near Kangeyam on June 29. The solatium was given from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The kin had already received cash assistance of Rs. 3.5 lakh, he said.
23 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Police say doorstep enquiry system has been received well||In a move to revive traditional policing and to prevent overcrowding in police stations during the pandemic, the North Zone police asked all police stations to hold petition enquiries in the petitioners’ homes or villages. A total of 7,800 petitions were received in the north zone over the last fortnight and out of this 3,900 were disposed of after investigations on the doorsteps of the complainants. Vellore had the highest number of petitions. There are a total of 299 police stations in North Zone police limits, including Ranipet, Tirupattur, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi and Villupuram. In order to ensure petitions were disposed of at the earliest, J.K. Tripathy, DGP, and Rajesh Das, ADGP, Law and Order, introduced the system for doorstep enquiries from October 1. In Vellore, a total of 1,830 petitions were received within the last fortnight and out of this 930 were attended to on the doorsteps of the complainant and were disposed of. In Tirupattur, around 200 petitions were received and 150 were disposed of. The number was 320 and 165 in Ranipet. Earlier, those involved in the case will be summoned to the station for enquiry. Now, a head constable will go to the village of the complainant for preliminary investigation and then the inspector or sub-inspector will follow suit for questioning. “The biggest advantage in this system is that cases are disposed of quickly as petitioners do not have to travel to the station many times. Besides, middle men who often cause problems are eliminated as the personnel directly visit the petitioners. Allegations about harassment by the police will also not arise, and the entire process will be transparent,” a senior police officer said. This also prevents overcrowding in the station during the pandemic, he added.
23 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Cases cross 17,000 in Tiruvannamalai||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Tiruvannamalai district crossed 17,000 with a total of 62 new cases reported on October 17, taking the total number of cases to 17,002. In Tiruvannamalai, 16,121 people have been discharged and there are 628 active cases. The total death toll stands at 253. In Vellore, the number of cases reached 16,944 with a total of 91 new cases reported on October 17. While 15,927 have been discharged, active cases in the district stands at 729. The district’s toll is 288. In Ranipet, a total of 53 cases were reported, taking the total to 14,303. Tirupattur has reported 6,057 total cases with 32 new cases detected on Saturday.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||389 new cases in Coimbatore district||The number of COVID-19 patients who were under care in hospitals and COVID Care Centres (CCC) in Coimbatore district remained below 4,000 mark for the second consecutive day on Saturday. With 428 persons having returned to their homes after recovering from COVID-19 on Saturday, different hospitals and CCCs had 3,861 patients. The Health Department said that six patients from Coimbatore district succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday and Friday, taking the death toll to 518. The district reported 389 new cases of the disease on Saturday. Tiruppur district reported 159 cases, taking the overall tally to 10,994 cases. The district did not report any deaths on Saturday. Out of the 10,994 cases, 9,664 have recovered and 1,166 were active cases. The district has reported 164 deaths in total. On Saturday, 193 patients were discharged from various hospitals. In the Nilgiris, 88 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases stands at 6,003. The death toll in the district increased from 33 to 34 on Saturday, while 667 people are undergoing treatment.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Overpricing: 2 fertilizer retail units to remain shut for a week||Two fertilizer retail units at Ammapettai in Thanjavur district have been ordered by the Agriculture Department to suspended their operations for a week following complaints of overpricing. According to R. Senthilkumar, union secretary, Communist Party of India, Ammapettai, two private retailers engaged in sale of fertilizers area reportedly sold urea and other agriculture inputs at a price over and above the retail price fixed by the government. When the ‘overpricing’ was brought to the notice of the Agriculture Department, officials conducted surprise inspection on October 15 and found the complaint to be true. Subsequently, they directed the two retail outlets to suspend operations for a week and forwarded a copy of the order to Mr. Senthilkumar.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rail passengers with silver anklets weighing 57 kg detained||Two passengers who were found carrying about 57 kg of silver anklets without any bill or documents in their possession at Tiruchi railway junction, were detained by Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel on Friday. S. Sakthivel, 25, and V. Aravind, 27, both from Salem district, came to the railway station on Friday afternoon to board Tiruchi-Howrah special train. Luggage scanner An RPF Constable attached to the Bomb Detection Squad subjected their bags to an examination at the luggage scanner at the station, and found silver anklets in each one of the three bags.  No documents The constable enquired with the duo and ascertained their identities. As the passengers did not have any bill, voucher or relevant documents in their possession for the valuables carried by them, the RPF constable immediately informed his superiors, said RPF sources. The two, along with their bags containing silver anklets, were taken to the RPF post at Tiruchi Junction for further inquiries. Jewellery outlet The two told the RPF personnel that they had received silver metal from a jewellery outlet at Nimchouri in Cuttack in Odisha about eight months ago. They further said that they were proceeding to Odisha to hand over the silver anklets to the same jewellers. The statements of the two passengers were recorded and the State tax authorities were informed. The bags were handed over to the State tax authorities for assessment. The approximate value of the valuables was put at Rs. 35.34 lakh. Online banking Sources said the two passengers subsequently paid the tax and penalty totally amounting to Rs. 2.12 lakhs through online banking and obtained a receipt following which the items were handed over to them and they were let off.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Online applications for MBA programme in fisheries||Tamil Nadu Dr. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University (TNJFU), Nagapattinam, has introduced online application system for its MBA programme on Fisheries Enterprise Management for the academic year 2020-21. The unique MBA programme is offered by TNJFU Business School (Fisheries), Institute of Fisheries Postgraduate Studies, TNJFU OMR Campus, Vaniyanchavadi, Chennai. G. Sugumar, Vice-Chancellor, TNJFU, launched the online application on Friday and it can be accessed on the university websitewww.tnjfu.ac.in, according to a press release. The programme will focus on managing fisheries and aquaculture businesses by optimal utilisation of organisational resources with enhanced entrepreneurial skills and approach. Candidates can submit the online application with application fee till November 10. For more details, dial 98947 35180 / 9442601908 or email: tnjfubsmbaadmission@gmail.com . The varsity has also launched on online application system for admissions to its undergraduate programmes. Applications can be filed till October 26.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Navaratri sale||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNAU rank list on Oct. 23||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University will release the rank list for admission to undergraduate programme on October 23. A release from the university said as it was yet to complete the scrutiny of the 50,000-odd applications received online, it had to postpone the release of rank list. The university had earlier said it would release the rank list on October 15.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||18-10-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA NAADA INBAM, 24992672 Celebrating Devi on Navarathri online at www.youtube.com/parivadinimusic 6.15 p.m Brindha Manickavasakan, Dr. Hemalatha, Delhi Sairam, Anirudh Athreya. MISCELLANEOUS  MAIN GALLERY C.P. ART CENTRE 1 Eldams Road, Alwarpet, Chennai - 600 018. Exhibition of NAVARATRI KOLU - Dolls made of Clay and Papier mach, decorated Marapachi Dolls and Brass items. Today last day, 10.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. All are welcome.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypolls: Health officials in a quandary as people flout COVID-19 protocol||With a little over two weeks left for the bypolls, health officials in the election-bound constituencies of R.R. Nagar in Bengaluru Urban and Sira in Tumakuru district are in a quandary. While there is pressure on them to ensure strict COVID-19 control measures, they are finding it hard to stop crowding during nomination filing and roadshows, which are going on as it was during pre-COVID-19 times. As per the Election Commission’s guidelines, although not more than 200 people can gather in closed spaces and not more than 15 persons per gunta in open spaces, no political party is following this. While social distancing is not being maintained, even masks are not being worn properly, officials said. A senior official from Tumakuru district said there was pressure on the district health administration from higher officials in the department to ensure strict containment and control measures. This, especially because the number of days taken to double COVID-19 cases in this district is 33 — way below the State average of 39 days. Also, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) here is 1.7%, which is higher than the State average of 1.2%. At 13.2%, the test positivity rate (TPR) here is also high. “We have regular videoconferences where our higher officials pull us up for the rising cases. On an average, we have been seeing around 200 cases every day. In Sira, till Friday we have had around 200 active cases and 10 deaths so far. Now, with the election fever picking up, we are finding it hard to control the crowding. Even those under home quarantine are part of the crowds,” said the official. The situation is no different in R.R. Nagar. This constituency that has one containment ward as of Friday contributes 11% of the total cases in Bengaluru Urban. On an average, over 330 cases are being reported from this zone daily in the last 10 days. Bengaluru Urban DHO G. Srinivas said people are careless. “Although public meetings are yet to start here, crowds in the roadshows indicate that people are least bothered. They are ready to pay a fine for not wearing a mask rather than safeguarding themselves,” he said. Set an example COVID-19 experts said political leaders should set an example for appropriate behaviour. “It is very difficult to do away with campaigning in elections. However, it is essential for political leaders to not only follow COVID-19-appropriate behaviour but also set an example as role models for such behaviour. The candidates will have to ensure that they refuse to address/meet people in closed spaces, do not contribute to crowds, and reduce the close-contact settings,” said Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. He said they should set an example by wearing masks all the time during campaigning. “Areas where bypolls are being held are currently witnessing a surge in cases and hence the candidates must ensure that they protect the vulnerable in these areas. As part of their election campaign, candidates can showcase how their leadership will help promote testing in their constituency, ensure timely referral, and save lives. It is time to demonstrate by actions, not words, as speaking aloud may spread the virus,” he asserted.  As part of their election campaign, candidates can showcase how their leadership will help promote testing in their constituency, ensure timely referral, and save lives. It is time to demonstrate by actions, not words, as speaking aloud may spread the virus. Giridhara R. Babu,member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four arrested for bar owner’s murder||The Central Division police on Saturday opened fire and arrested four men who were behind the murder of Manish alias Sarvottam Shetty, 41, on October 15. Police suspect underworld rivalry but are yet to ascertain the gang’s affiliation or motive behind the murder. Manish was shot and then stabbed to death outside Duet Bar, which he owned, on Rest House Road in front of eyewitnesses. Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP, Central Division) M.N. Anucheth said that the accused were arrested based on evidence gathered from CCTV footage. The accused have been identified as Shashikiran, Akshay, Ganesh, and Nitya. After tracking the four men to a lodge in Gandhinagar, the police took them to Barlane Cemetery, Hosur Road, to recover the machete that they had used. “While at the cemetery, Shashikiran and Akshay attacked the escort police in a bid to escape. The police warned them and later fired at their legs to stop them from fleeing,” said a senior police officer. The hit on Manish was a well planned one, said police sources. The accused had been following Manish to gather details of his routine from his residence in Bhoopasandra to his workplace for more than a month. Shashikiran is a habitual offender with several criminal cases pending against him. “The probe has revealed that the murder could be due to old rivalry,” a senior police officer said. Police sources said they have reason to suspect that underworld operative Vicky Shetty was behind it. Shetty, believed to be operating out of Dubai, reportedly called up a Kannada news channel and owned up to the murder on Friday. The police are verifying whether the caller was indeed Vicky. “A close associate of his, Kishan Hegade, was murdered over a business rivalry in Mangaluru and the hit was allegedly financed by Manish. We suspect that in retaliation, Vicky engaged the four accused to eliminate Manish,” said a police source. Incidentally, the Udupi police, who arrested nine people in connection with Hedge’s murder, have not uncovered underworld links or Manish’s role in the hit.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||In R.R. Nagar, Cong. is reaching out to all sections to seek votes||The Karnataka Congress, led by D.K. Shivakumar, seems to be reaching out to all sections in Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency in Bengaluru for drumming up support to counter BJP’s Munirathna, one of the MLAs whose defection to the saffron party led to the collapse of the JD(S)–Congress coalition government last year. Since the day of the filing nomination papers by the party candidate Kusuma H., Mr. Shivakumar has been visiting the houses of prominent people in the constituency and seeking their support. Building network Besides inducting nearly 300 ward-level leaders from other parties into the Congress in the last couple of days, Mr. Shivakumar has met Kannada actor Prem Kumar and his wife, and Karnataka Rakshana Vedike president Narayana Gowda at their residences. Sources in the Congress said Mr. Shivakumar has been meeting families of prominent social workers, artistes, and influential people in the constituency for building a support base cutting across social cleavages to challenge the “money power” of Mr. Munirathna, the film producer-turned-politician and the richest man in the fray going by the assets declared. Ms. Kusuma, wife of deceased IAS officer D.K. Ravi, who quit academics, is testing political waters for the first time, by facing Mr. Munirathna, who won the last two Assembly elections on a Congress ticket. The party has been projecting the clean image of Ms. Kusuma to garner votes of women and youth in the urban constituency, which has a good number of Vokkaliga votes. Women, fans backing The D.K. Ravi Abhimanigala Balaga, headed by N. Murali Gowda, too has pledged its support to Ms. Kusuma. Association members, who are expected to stay back in the constituency till the polling on November 3, have decided to focus the campaign by informing voters of the good work done by Ravi in Kolar and other districts when he was Deputy Commissioner. The Mahila Congress,led by its president Pushpa Amarnath, held a protest against the BJP for a police case registered against “innocent” Ms. Kusuma for alleged violation of the model code of conduct while filing nominations. On the other hand, Mr. Munirathna, who has banking on the support of the BJP government and Ministers, has been developing a narrative of “development works” executed by him in the constituency to get votes. JD(S) candidate is V. Krishnamurthy, also a débutante and a Vokkaliga like Ms. Kusuma.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 8,000 visitors throng Nandi Hills on weekends||Thousands of tourists are flocking to Nandi Hills on weekends ever since the popular attraction was reopened to the public on September 7. According to officials in the Horticulture Department, which manages the popular tourist location, the number of visitors on Saturdays and Sundays is over 8,000, almost back to pre-COVID-19 levels. “In the initial days after re-opening, the hill was open between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. But due to the increase in visitors, which was resulting in traffic jams, we were forced to extend the timing from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m.,” said Gopal N., special officer at Nandi Hills. Holidays in days ahead Before the pandemic, over 10,000 people would visit Nandi Hills every weekend. “Now that it’s the festive season and there are more holidays, we are expecting the number to increase,” he added. To manage the crowd and ensure that precautionary measures are being followed, the Horticulture Department, along with the police, have assigned more personnel on the ground. “Five home guards, our staff, people from the gram panchayat and police personnel are involved in collecting fines from those who are not wearing masks or following social distancing norms,” said another official. Pollution and plastic Locals claim that the influx of tourists has resulted in an increase in pollution levels as well as garbage over the last few weeks. Nandi Hills was free from waste during the lockdown. But now, people leave behind plastic all over the pristine hills,” said an official, who said that even though vehicles are checked, it is not feasible to monitor thousands of people daily. To tackle the plastic menace, India Plog Run and the Horticulture Department along with a local resort have started organising awareness programmes and plog runs with the message ‘serenity with responsibility’. Ramakrishna Ganesh of India Plog Run, who resides near Nandi Hills, said their aim is to create awareness on proper and effective disposal of waste. “When the hills were closed to the public, we collected around 2.5 tonnes of waste, mainly plastic. We want to maintain cleanliness, but it is not possible without community participation. Hence, for the past three weeks, we have been conducting frequent plog runs,” he said. D.S. Kiran Kumar, a volunteer, said that many people have started bringing their own food after COVID-19. “Many tourists discard bottles and disposable boxes carelessly,” he said.  In the initial days after re-opening, the hill was open between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. But due to the increase in visitors, which was resulting in traffic jams, we were forced to extend the timing from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Gopal N., special officer at Nandi Hills
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No recognisable offence by me, Alva tells HC; CCB says otherwise||The Central Crime Branch told the Karnataka High Court that certain incriminating materials like small quantity of psychotropic pills and ganja were seized from the premises belonging to Aditya Alva, one of the accused in the drug racket case allegedly involving Kannada actors. Mr. Alva, in his petition before the court, claimed that the complaint in the drug case “does not even make a remote reference or whisper on any acts or omission or any recognisable offence by him under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.” However, the CCB’s statement claimed that a few grams of pills and certain quantity of ganja were seized during the search at his property, House of Life, near Hebbal in the city, and contended that available materials and statements of other accused are sufficient to attract cognizable offence against him. The CCB had issued lookout notice against him, who is at large since registration of the case. Justice Suraj Govindaraj, before whom the petition came up for hearing on October 16, has adjourned further hearing till November 13.  Degree from London  Stating that he holds master’s degree in International Diplomacy and International Law from SOAS College of University of London and a bachelor’s degree in International Politics from the University of San Francisco, Mr. Alva has alleged that, “without prejudice, he humbly believes that the police has sought to arraign him as one of the accused presumably due to the flood of rumours and false allegations that were peddled by media and certain politically motivated armed chair warriors who have attempted to wreak vendetta against him and his family members.” Pointing out that he hails from a respectable family of politicians who made significant contributions to the State, Mr. Alva, a realtor by profession, said that he has been “painted with a brush of guilt, even before he has been afforded with an opportunity of being heard, by the hoi polloi in general and the media houses in particular solely on the score that a crime has been registered, which is, in fact, an act beyond the purview of the legal sphere.”
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for killing daughter||The police on Friday arrested a 48-year-old man who, along with his two nephews, allegedly bludgeoned his 18-year-old daughter to death in a case of honour killing. The alleged incident took place on the outskirts of Bengaluru. “The girl, Hemalatha, was a B.Com. student. She was in a relationship with a youth who was not part of the same community,” said the police. Honour killing Seemanth Kumar Singh, Inspector General of Police (Central range), said it was a case of honour killing. “The father, Krishnappa, came to know about his daughter’s relationship with Puneeth, a college dropout from the Scheduled Caste community. When he realised that they planned to elope, he decided to take action,” said Mr. Singh. On October 8, Krishnappa, along with Yogesh, 21 and another nephew, a juvenile, attacked the victim and bludgeoned her. They buried her body in his neighbour's field in Betallhalli, Ramanagaram district. “The accused pretended to be concerned when Hemalatha did not come home. They joined other family members and neighbours in searching for her before filing a complaint with the police on October 9, accusing Puneeth of kidnapping her,” said a police official. Her body was discovered on October 10. Father confesses The police zeroed in on Krishnappa and Yogesh as possible suspects. They were taken to the police station for questioning where they allegedly confessed to the crime. “The other nephew is a few days short of 18 years. He will be produced in the juvenile court,” said the police.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC refuses to discharge ex-MLA, partners from illegal ore export cases||The High Court of Karnataka has rejected the plea of several accused persons, including a former MLA, a former deputy conservator of port, and directors of private companies, to discharge them from cases of illegal export of seized iron ore from Belekeri port in Karwar during 2009–10. The court rejected the petitions of Shree Mallikarjun Shipping Pvt. Ltd. and its managing director Satish Krishna Sail, a former MLA for Karwar; Shri Lal Mahal Ltd. and its directors Prem Chand Garg and Sushil Kumar Valecha of New Delhi; and Mahesh J. Biliye, the then Deputy Conservator of Belekeri port (now retired). Special Court orders Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while upholding the orders passed by the Special Court for CBI cases during 2016–17. The Special Court had decided to frame charges against them while declining to discharge them from the cases, in which the Central Bureau of Investigation had filed chargesheets against them after conducting the probe, ordered by the Supreme Court. The High Court has held that the Special Court had followed the procedure prescribed in law while dismissing their plea for discharge and deciding to frame charges against them. Also, the High Court said that the Special Court had rightly decided to frame the charges of criminal conspiracy against Mr. Sail as there were other materials, which independently constitute ingredients of the offences, available against him apart from his role as managing director of the company. “The Special Court has considered these allegations in extenso and having found that the material produced by the prosecution prima facie make out the ingredients of offences under sections 120-B read with Sections 409 and 420 of IPC against petitioner number-2 [Mr. Sail] has proceeded to frame charges for the above offences. I do not find any error or infirmity in the orders warranting interference,” Mr. Justice Cunha observed. On the charges against the former deputy conservator port, the High Court said that the documents clearly reveal that Mr. Biliye himself had allowed export of seized ore under his seal and signature. Also, the High Court declined to accept his contention that he was totally unaware of the transaction and that he has been made a scapegoat by the forest officials to save themselves from the illegalities committed by them in effecting seizure of the ore.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP using app for ABC, ARV programmes||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has taken up mass Anti Rabies Vaccination (ARV) and Animal Birth Control (ABC) programmes in two wards. What is new is that both programmes are being implemented on a pilot basis with some technological help from an app. BBMP’s Joint Director (Animal Husbandry) Lakshminarayana Swamy told The Hindu that the programmes were being implemented in Nagarbhavi in West zone and Herohalli in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone. The civic officials were using an app developed by World Wide Veterinary Services Centre, Goa. “The app has been helpful to geotag stray dogs,” the official said and added that 384 dogs had been sterilised in Nagarbhavi ward and over 1,800 in Herohalli ward. Another official S.M.M. Shinde said that the BBMP was probably the first corporation in the State to make use of the app for implementation of the ABC and ARV programmes. “Once a dog is caught for the ABC and ARV, it will be geotagged. After taking a photo of the stray dog, we will input all details about the animal, such as whether it is a puppy, male or female, colour, whether it is neutered.,” he said. He said geotagging of the location also helps the civic body and animal welfare organisations in releasing the stray dogs after sterilisation. It is mandatory, as per animal rights norms, to release the animal in the same location from where it was caught. The app also helps the civic body with better documentation. Late last year, the city finally had an idea of the stray dog population. The dog census revealed that there were 3.09 lakh stray dogs, of which only 54.24%, i.e. 1.68 lakh, had been neutered. The census showed that the stray dog population was more in the five outer zones of Mahadevapura, Rajarajeshwarinagar, Dasarahalli, Bommanahalli and Yelahanka. In these five zones, the stray dog population was pegged at 1.97 lakh.
23 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BWSSB won’t accept cheques and DDs at kiosks from November 1||Starting November 1, the BWSSB will stop accepting monthly water bill payments through cheques and Demand Drafts in kiosks. BWSSB, in a release, said that payments will be accepted in the form of cash in kiosks and through various digital payment modes.
23 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut||There will be no power supply on October 19 and 20 from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. in areas under ISKCON, Jayadeva, Sarakki and RBI sub-stations for taking up conversion works.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three notices||The State Election Commission has issued three notices for COVID-19 protocol violations in Sira. “We have been closely monitoring the election activities and notices are being issued for violations. People should realise the seriousness of the pandemic and follow rules strictly,” said State Chief Electoral Officer Sanjiv Kumar. He said the commission was hopeful of a good voter turnout. “Response in local elections held in other States during the pandemic has been good and we expect the same in Karnataka,” he added.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMA scam: CBI files supplementary chargesheet||The Central Bureau of Investigation has filed a supplementary chargesheet against 28 accused, including the managing director and CEO of Bengaluru-based investment firm I Monetary Advisory (IMA) which allegedly duped investors across the State to tune of around Rs. 4,000 crore. Six police officers who are under investigation by the SIT for their alleged involvement in the scam have also been named in the CBI’s supplementary chargesheet. They are L.C. Nagaraj, E.B. Sridhara, Hemant Nimbalkar, Ajay Hilori, M. Ramesh, and P. Gowrishankar. As per the supplementary chargesheet, Nagaraj, along with other police officials, had closed inquiries and verifications on complaints they had received from citizens against IMA. The accused did not take necessary action under the law and instead gave clean chit to the company. They allegedly recommended that the complaints be closed stating that IMA had not indulged in any illegal acts.The CBI had registered four cases in connection with the IMA scam, and has already filed several chargesheets.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 7,184 cases, 71 deaths||The State on Saturday reported 7,184 new cases taking the total number to 7,58,574. With 71 new deaths, the toll rose to 10,427. This is apart from 19 non-COVID deaths. A total of 8,893 people were discharged on Saturday taking the total number of recoveries to 6,37,481. Of the remaining 1,10,647 active cases, 940 patients are being monitored in the ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day reduced to 7.7%, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.98%. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,371 cases taking the tally to 3,04,005. With 14 of the 71 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,500. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 64,770. As many as 1,01,016 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 24,174 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 65,62,710.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel set up||The State Health Department has set up a committee to monitor the entry of oxygen consumption details on the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) dashboard. The five-member committee, headed by the district Additional Deputy Commissioner, will have the District Health and Family Welfare Officer, District Surgeon/ Medical Superintendent, District Coordinator (Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust) and Assistant District Drug Controller as members. According to a circular, a dashboard has been developed by the NDMA for capturing the details of daily consumption of oxygen at all government and private medical establishments in the State. The five-member committee will monitor the process, the circular added.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Eco-friendly vehicles||The Horticulture Department has decided to procure eco-friendly vehicles that can be used by the public to reach the top of the hills. Rajendra Kumar Kataria, Secretary, Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture, said a tender will be called soon. “We had trial runs with such vehicles and the results were positive,” he said. Mr. Kataria said that once enough eco-friendly vehicles are on board, one of the two parking lots atop the hills will be closed. “The big parking venue will remain while the one located further up will be closed. We are in talks with the departments concerned to start shuttle services from the foothill to the top. We are getting a few acres of land at the foothill to be be developed as a parking lot so that the vehicle load on the hill can be reduced,” he said.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four bookies arrested||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) police on Friday arrested four bookies who are allegedly part of an online cricket betting racket and recovered Rs. 21 lakh from them. Acting on a tip-off, several CCB teams raided the places in K.R. Puram. Two bookies – Balram Reddy and Nagendra – were arrested at two different locations while they were reportedly receiving bets from punters. Another team nabbed two more bookies, identified as Girish and Lokesh.
23 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Good response to school adoption||The school adoption initiative has got a good response with several peoples’ representatives, universities, institutions and eminent personalities coming forward to adopt government schools, M.R. Doreswamy, Adviser, Education Reforms, has said. He said that 25 universities, both State-run and private, have responded positively to his appeal, and have adopted 10 government schools each for development.
23 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||25 COVID-19 patients with fracture treated at KIMS||During the lockdown and unlock period, the surgeons of the Department of Orthopaedics of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and hospital successfully treated 546 orthopaedic patients, including 25 who had tested positive for COVID-19. Addressing presspersons prior to a World Trauma Day programme at KIMS here on Saturday, institute director Ramalingappa Antarathani and head of the Department of Orthopaedics Suryakant K. said that all precautions were taken while operating on the COVID-19 patients who required surgery for fractures and other orthopaedic problems. They have recovered now and have also been cured of COVID-19, the doctors said. Dr. Ramalingappa said that during the pandemic, the number of patients visiting the hospital for orthopaedic problems went down by 50%. While the lack of public transport was one reason, the other was that accidents had automatically come down because of the ban on vehicular movement, he said. However, lack of transport facilities also delayed the visit of several patients to the hospital, resulting in further complications in some cases. “Our team of doctors and paramedical staff from the Department of Orthopaedics has successfully handled the situation and operated on those in need,” he said. Dr. Suryakant also said that many of the patients who were operated on for orthopaedic problems had recovered completely, and some came back for consultation and further medical advice. “From March to August this year, a total of 546 patients underwent surgery. Several of these patients underwent complicated surgeries,” he said. He said that despite the COVID-19 fear, innovative procedures were used with ample precautions while treating the 25 COVID-19 patients with orthopaedic issues.
23 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure effective utilisation of grants under Smart City’||Commissioner of Social Welfare and District in-charge Secretary Ravi Kumar has asked municipal officials to ensure effective utilisation of funds under the Smart City scheme and the timely completion of various projects taken up under it. Mr. Kumar held a review meeting with officials at IT Park in Hubballi on Friday after visiting various localities where works under the Smart City scheme are under progress. He said that already, various new projects with advanced engineering plans had been approved under the Smart City scheme to ensure the creation of advanced facilities and infrastructure in the twin cities. It is the duty of officials to ensure the time-bound implementation of the projects, he said. Mr. Kumar sought reports on the progress of various ongoing projects under Smart City and asked officials to ensure effective utilisation of the grants already released. He told the officials that in caseswherein the projects were not being executed properly and where there were complaints about poor quality of work, the tenders shouldbe recommended for cancellation. Earlier, Mr. Kumar visited Indira Glass House, HDMC Swimming Pool, Tolanakere, Unakal Lake, the old Hubballi commercial complex, parking complex and other places where Smart City projects are under way.
23 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police distribute masks||At a time when the police are being criticised for imposing fines on members of the public for not wearing face masks, a team of police officials in Dharwad on Saturday tried to create awareness about the importance of wearing face masks and following other guidelines. Leading them was Assistant Commissioner of Police Anusha G., who spoke to street vendors, buyers, and particularly those who had come from villages to sell farm produce in the city but were not wearing masks. She explained to them why it was necessary to follow the COVID-19 guidelines. The police personnel distributed face masks to the vendors, motorcyclists, and the general public, asking them to wear face masks compulsorily. They warned them about the penalty that would be imposed if they were found violating COVID-19 guidelines, and also appealed to them to maintain social distancing. The awareness drive was carried out at the city bus station, old KSRTC bus station, and the market areas. The general public, who initially thought they would have to cough up fines, were taken by surprise when the police offered them masks.
23 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Jatha taken out on COVID-19||In a joint initiative of the Taluk Legal Services Committee, Hubballi Bar Association, Health Department, and Department of Information and Public Relations, an awareness jatha on COVID-19 was conducted in Hubballi on Saturday. First Additional District and Sessions Judge Devindrappa Biradar flagged off the jatha at the New Court Complex and also administered the oath. Addressing members of the legal fraternity, he emphasised the need for utmost precaution and proper awareness to prevent contracting the disease. After administering the oath, he called upon members of the legal fraternity to compulsorily use masks and sanitisers, and to develop the habit of washing hands with soap water and maintaining social distancing. Principal Civil Judge and chairman of Taluk Legal Services Committee A.K. Nagaraj said that while taking precautions was a must, no one should unnecessarily fear COVID-19. He called upon advocates, judges and the litigant public to compulsorily follow the COVID-19 guidelines while coming to the court complex and while in court halls.
23 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Three killed in accident||Three of a family, including a five-month-old baby girl, were killed on the spot in an accident near Sanganakeri Cross in Gokak taluk of Belagavi on Saturday. The deceased have been identified as Sadashiv Durgappa Ganiger, 35, his wife Sakkubai, 30, and their daughter Drishti, of Hidakal village in Raibag taluk of the district. The family was returning to Hidakal village from Hukkeri via Sanganakeri on a motorcycle when their vehicle was hit by a tractor. The Ghataprabha police have registered a case and the bodies have been shifted to Gokak taluk hospital.
23 October 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||PU college students do well in NEET||Umakant B. and Sumedha Kamalapur, students of Sharnbasaveshwar Residential PU Composite College, have brought laurels to the institution by securing high marks in NEET-2020 for medical entrance, the results of which were announced on Friday. Umakant scored 661 marks and Sumedha secured 650 marks out of 720. As many as 17 students scored above 600 marks, 39 students got between 550 and 599, and 48 scored above 500 marks.
23 October 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Provide shelter to homeless flood victims’||Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi in-charge Minister Govind M. Karjol has directed officials to accelerate the pace of work and immediately extend all assistanceto flood victims, those who lost their homes, and farmers whose crops were destroyed in floods due totorrential rain. As thousands of houses lie flattened and hundreds of families have become homeless in the past one week following heavy rainfall, Mr. Karjol on Saturday instructed the district authorities to conduct a damage assessment survey of houses destroyed in floods in each village through the Panchayat Development Officer and the village accountant and to provide immediate shelter to flood victims and the homeless poor living in huts. He also ordered an increase in the number of relief care centres, if needed. Apart from house damage, directions have been given to the district authorities to conduct surveys to assess the damage caused to crops, roads, and other infrastructure. Mr. Karjol asked Kalaburagi Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna to update him with minute-by-minute details of the relief works and to submit a comprehensive report on the relief works taken up in the district. He said the State government has allocated Rs. 800 crore to address the natural disaster, and adequate funds have been released to PD accounts of all the Deputy Commissioners.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 awareness campaign launched in Udupi district||J.N. Subrahmanya, Principal District and Sessions Judge, Udupi district, on Saturday launched COVID-19 public awareness campaign as per the direction of the National Legal Services Authority and participated by various government departments. Administering the awareness oath at the district court complex in Udupi, Mr. Subrahmanya said officials of various departments would visit every household in the district to create awareness about the pandemic and the precautions to be taken to remain safe. People would also be administered the oath to remain cautious. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said people should follow COVID-19 protocol, including wearing face masks, maintaining social distance, frequently washing hands etc., till a vaccine was available. A detailed plan of action was prepared for the awareness campaign wherein people would be told that it would be their responsibility to protect their family members from the pandemic. As many as 172 people have died of COVID-19 in the district and more than 75% of them were aged above 60 and had comorbidities. Therefore, it is the responsibility of every family member to look after elders in their households. That was the reason for holding this massive awareness campaign for the first time, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Zilla Panchayat CEO Y. Naveen Bhat said though the administration offers treatment for COVID-19 patients, it was the responsibility of every citizen not to get infected. Their cooperation was absolutely needed to prevent the spread of the virus. On the occasion, awareness stickers brought out by the Health and Family Department were released. District judges Vivekananda S. Pandith, Lavanya, Bhavani, Shobha, Manjunath, Mahanthesh Busagola, Nirmala, Yadava Vanamala, District Health Officer Sudhirchandra Suda, Bar Association president Divakara Shetty, and others were present.  Campaign in Bantwal While a similar campaign was launched at the Dakshina Kannada district level a few days ago by Principal District and Sessions Judge Muralidhara Pai, it was launched at Bantwal taluk level on Saturday by senior civil judge Mohammed Imtiyaz Ahmed, chairman of taluk legal services committee. An autorickshaw will travel to various parts of the taluk spreading the awareness message.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Potholes resurface on NH 75 at Nanthoor Junction||Potholes and craters have resurfaced on the portion of Mangaluru-Bengaluru National Highway 75 bypass at Nanthoor Junction severely affecting traffic in the busy junction. Parts of the bypass that were repaired with fresh bitumen coat during summer gave way once the South West Monsoon started. As the vehicles towards Bengaluru move slowly to negotiate craters and potholes, traffic through the junction on NH 66 and Kadri Road gets affected, said a traffic police constable posted at the spot. Dinesh Kumar, a resident of nearby Bikarnakatte, said improper rainwater drainage facility at the junction could be the reason for frequent erosion of the road surface. Though the National Highways Authority of India had built a culvert to drain out rainwater on the bypass near the junction, connecting shoulder drains were not properly completed, thereby causing water stagnation. Meanwhile, the portion of the railway underbridge on the same stretch at Padil continues to be inundated when it rains.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Jyothi Advertisers’ association with beach project ends||The 12-year-long association of Jyothi Advertisers with the Panambur Beach Development Project ended on Saturday. The district administration is yet finalise a new organisation to look after the beach. It was in 2008 that Jyothi Advertisers signed an agreement with the Dakshina Kannada district administration for management of the beach under the Panambur Beach Development Project. Yatish Baikampady was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the project. In a statement on Saturday, Mr. Baikamapady thanked the district administration for its support in this long journey, which, he said, was challenging. “..We have the satisfaction of not only making the beach active but brought in change of attitude towards upkeep, maintenance, safety, and cleanliness of the beaches in our country.” They were able to change the face of the beach without hurting the sentiments of the local fisherman community for whom the beach was a part of their life, he said. Emphasising on the human lives saved at the beach, Mr. Baikampady said the project trained local residents as lifeguards and beach marshals, who have saved the lives of 300 people. Ajith, 42, from Hospete, was saved on Saturday by life guards who had come to the beach to take their belongings on the last day of their service. There has been good footfall on the beach, which has been the venue for boat races, international kite festival, national-level kabbadi matches, beach festivals, and surfing competition, he said.  It was in 2008 that Jyothi Advertisers signed an agreement with the Dakshina Kannada district administration for management of the beach under the Panambur Beach Development Project. Yatish Baikampady was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the project.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘MLA’s relatives involved in illegal bauxite extraction’||Former Minister B. Ramanath Rai on Saturday alleged that relatives of a ruling party MLA were indulging in illegal bauxite extraction in Mudipu and surrounding areas in the district, thereby causing huge loss to the State exchequer. He told reporters that those engaged in the illegal extraction were using permits given for laterite stone extraction at Ganjimutt in Mudipu, Balepuni, Innoli, and surrounding areas. Along with the relatives of the MLA, people from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Kerala too were involved, he said. Misuse of the permit given for Ganjimutt in Badaga Yedapadavu village was known to the MLA as well as the district administration. The Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner, who led a raid on illegal extraction at Mudipu, was abruptly transferred by the government, Mr. Rai said. Comparing it to the Ballari mining mafia, he demanded a high-level probe. Asked to name the MLA, Mr. Rai said the probe would bring out the names. District Congress president K. Harish Kumar was present. ‘Not my relatives’ Responding to Mr. Rai’s charges, Bantwal MLA Rajesh U. Naik, who has permit for laterite stone extraction in Ganjimutt, said he had stopped a year ago as the royalty was steeply increased. “Those engaged in illegal extraction at Mudipu belong to another religion. How could they be my relatives? It is Mr. Rai’s imagination,” he said, adding they must be relatives of the Mangaluru MLA. He told The Hindu that those engaged in illegal extraction of bauxite at Mudipu now bought laterite stones from him at the Ganjimutt block earlier. Later, they stopped. Regarding the transfer of Mangaluru Assistant Commissioner (Madan Mohan C.), Mr. Naik said he was the one representing to the Chief Minister the other day to cancel the transfer order and retain him in Mangaluru.  The former Minister said that those engaged in the illegal extraction were using permits given for laterite stone extraction at Ganjimutt in Mudipu, Balepuni, Innoli, and surrounding areas.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Restrictions in vehicle movement||Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash has banned movement of vehicles from Ocean Pearl Hotel to Sharada School for the ongoing underground drainage network work taken up on the stretch. In a notification, Mr. Vikash said when work is underway on the Ocean Pearl Hotel-Sharada School stretch till October 30, vehicles will have to move on the PVS Circle-Besant College stretch. When work is taken up on the PVS Kalakunaja Road from October 31, commuters can take the stretch between Sharada School and Besant College. The residents of the locality can make use of internal road joining Venkataramana Temple in Dongarkeri, the notification said. In another notification, he banned vehicles on the service road between Govindadasa College and Surathkal Junction till October 31 to facilitate the work of laying pipes for the UGD network in the area. Vehicles coming from the Surathkal Junction to Govindadasa College should move on the National Highway. Those coming from the college towards the junction and to Chokkabettu have to go on road connecting Sacred Heart Church and Surathkal Market, the notification stated. He banned vehicles on the Yeyyadi-Dhandakeri Road to facilitate construction of a bridge. The vehicles going to Shaktinagar from Yeyyadi can take a right turn near the place of construction and move on the Eden Park-Nantoor route. These vehicles can also go on the KPT-Nantoor-Bikarnakatte route. Similarly, those coming from Shakti Nagar to Yeyyadi can move on the Suryanagar-Mary Hill-Guru Nagar route or the Bikarnakatte Cross-Nantoor-KPT route, he said in another notification.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada teachers begin video lessons for I PU students too||Having provided video lessons for II PU students across the State, lecturers from Dakshina Kannada have now taken the lead in providing similar lessons for I PU students too. Video lessons for the I PU are made available under Swabhoda (self-learning) classes on YouTube. The Department of Pre-University has asked PU colleges across the State to make use of these lessons. “Lectures of teachers from Dakshina Kannada are made available now. We has sought similar video lessons from lecturers of Udupi and other districts. We hope to get it next week and make it available under the Swabhoda classes link,” R. Kusuma Kumari, Joint Director (Academics), Department of Pre University Education, told The Hindu.  The Swabhoda video lesson series is brought out by a group of committed PU lecturers from government, aided and private PU colleges. “There was a demand for such lectures from students who do not have online class facilities,” said Mohammed Yusuf, principal, Government PU College, B. Mooda, Bantwal, who is among the lecturers involved in the Swabhoda series. A. Vittala, principal, Kittel Memorial PU College, Gorigudde, Mangaluru, said the Swabhoda series is prepared on the lines of video lectures prepared for II PU students. “The preparation began a month ago. We released a couple of videos for our students. Since October 12, we are releasing videos as per the schedule given by the department,” Mr. Vittala said. “On an average there are 1 lakh viewers every day of these lessons.” The video lessons for II PU was brought out by the Dakshina Kannada Pre University Principals’ Association. Started in May, the PU Department issued a circular to colleges across the State to make use of these lessons. So far, the association has put out more than 500 video lectures that covered 40% of the syllabus of the arts, commerce and science streams. On an average 2wo lakh views are recorded every day, Mr. Vittala said.  There was a demand for such lectures from students who do not have online class facilities.  Mohammed Yusuf  principal, Government PU College, B. Mooda, Bantwal
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Sticker campaign launched||“My family, my responsibility” awareness campaign against the spread of COVID-19 was launched in Udupi by district legal services committee member secretary Kaveri and Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha by pasting stickers on the doors of houses on Saturday. The campaign was designed by the district administration as a part of intensified campaign against COVID-19 wherein stickers stating the precautionary measures would be pasted on the doors/walls of every household. Such stickers were pasted by the dignitaries at a residential complex near the district courts initially. The stickers would also have copy of the self-declaration oath by the head of the family that he or she would take all precautionary measures, including wearing masks, protecting family members from the disease, getting family tested if they have symptoms, and that he or she was committed to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Udupi ZP CEO Y. Naveen Bhat, DHO Sudhirchandra Suda, district COVID-19 nodal officer Prashanth Bhat, and others were present.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||New Yakshagana mela to debut on Vijayadashami||A new Yakshagana mela (troupe), Shri Jnanashakti Subrahmanya Swami Krupaposhita Yakshagana Mandali, Pavanje near Halayangadi with Patla Satish Shetty as Bhagawata (singer and director of Yakshagana), will start its activities from Vijayadashami (October 26). The troupe will start its tour from November 27, said M. Shasheendra Kumar, managing trustee of the temple on Saturday. Talking to reporters, Mr. Kumar said the temple will have overall administrative control of the new troupe, while the Mr. Shetty will look after staging of shows. He will look at grievances of Yakshagana players, distribution of roles and other issues related to the shows. More than 100 devotees have already booked the shows to be staged as ‘seva’ and there was demand for more ‘seva’ shows, he said. The troupe will be touring different parts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, and Kasaragod districts, he said. He said due to pandemic, the troupe will perform only between 6 p.m. and 11 p.m. The troupe includes Prafullachandra Nellyadi, Padmanabha Upadhyaya, Prashant Vagenadu, Guruprasad Bolimjadka, Poornesh Acharya, Ujire Narayana, and Sandesh Mandara.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Keep Dasara celebrations in Mangaluru low-key’||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday ordered low-key Dasara/Navarathri celebrations in the district till October 26, with not more than 100 people attending programmes at a time in view of the pandemic. Passing a magisterial order under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and as chairman of the district disaster management authority under the Disaster Management Act, Dr. Rajendra said programmes without maintaining social distancing cannot be conducted. Organisers and temple managements should obtain permission from the authorities concerned before holding any programme. They will be held responsible if COVID-19 guidelines, including using sanitisers, face covers etc., were not ensured. Dr. Rajendra said since festivals would contribute to enhancing social amity and peace, they should be celebrated with required decorum. Organisers should follow directions and instructions from local authorities, police as well as the district administration. The administration has permitted performance of Pili Vesha (tiger dance) on the premises of temples with a limit of 10 participants. There should not be any public performance of Pili Vesha, he reiterated. Any violations would be viewed seriously and action as per law would be initiated, Dr. Rajendra cautioned.  Not more than 100 people are allowed to attend programmes at a time in view of the pandemic, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said.
23 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||383 new COVID-19 cases in DK and Udupi||Four COVID-19 patients with comorbidities died, while 172 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. With 212 patients discharged, the number of active cases came down to 3,487. A fine of Rs. 9.45 lakh has been collected so far in 8,104 cases of people not wearing masks, said a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration.  A 57-year-old COVID-19 patient with comorbidities died, while 211 new cases were reported in Udupi on Saturday. With 169 patients discharged, the number of active cases in the district stood at 1,948. A fine of Rs. 12.89 lakh has so far been collected in 11,478 cases of people not wearing face masks and violating social distancing norms, said a bulletin from the Udupi district administration.
23 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru on top||Bengaluru Urban, whose COVID-19 cases crossed three lakh, now not only has more positive cases than Mumbai, but also the highest among all the districts in India. Accounting for 8% of the total active cases in India, Bengaluru Urban’s total positive cases is expected to reach 4.2 lakh by November 12, leading to a demand for critical infrastructure, according to Jeevan Raksha. “Bengaluru Urban alone might require 13,000 oxygen beds in the next six weeks,” Jeevan Raksha’s convener Mysore Sanjeev said.
23 October 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||briefly||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadessha on Saturday directed the police to impose spot fine on a conductor of a KSRTC bus for not wearing mask. The incident occurred when the DC came out of the district court complex and was crossing the main road. On noticing many passengers in the bus not wearing masks, Mr. Jagadeesha asked the police to impose fine on them too.    Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Commissioner has urged residents to allow representatives of M/s Simplex Infrastructure to provide connection of their domestic sewage line to the underground drainage network. An official release said Simplex was awarded the contract for rejuvenating UGD system in zones 1, 4 and 7. The company has to disconnect the existing connections and reconnect domestic lines to the new UGD system. If its representatives approach house owners/residents with identity cards, they should be allowed to do the job, the Commissioner said.    The Dakshina Kannada District Samyuktha Jamaath Quazi Qurrathussadath Sayyid Fazal Koyamma Thangal Madani Al Bukhari on Saturday announced that as the moon was sighted on Saturday, Sunday would be the first day of Rabeeul Avval. As such, Id Milad would be celebrated on October 29, he said.
23 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||12 villages in Yadgir district face serious threat of flood: DC||In view of a serious flood threat, Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has strictly directed officials of various departments to take immediate action and shift the residents and livestock of 12 villages on the Bhima river bank in Yadgir district to safer place as there is a possibility of the release of 8 lakh cusecs of water from Sonna barrage at Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi district into the river. Chairing an emergency meeting with officials in Yadgir on Saturday, Ms. Ragapriya said that officials of the department concerned at Sonna bridge had informed that they had already released 2.7 lakh cusecs of water into the river, with an increase in quantum to 8 lakh cusecs now possible. “If they release 8 lakh cusecs of water, 12 villages in the district which are in a 500-metre radius of Bhima river will be affected by floods, and another 33 villages will be disconnected from the outside world. Therefore, officials should take immediate steps to shift the residents and animals at safer planes and also distribute foodgrains to the residents of 33 villages by taking elected representatives into confidence," she said. Ms. Ragapriya also said that 14 Kalaji Kendras have already been established and provided the basic needs for the people shifted there. But the officials who have been deployed should ensure cleanliness and sanitisation of the area and ask the inmates to maintain social distancing to prevent a spread of COVID-19. She directed officials of the Education and Social Welfare departments to clean the schools and hostels where additional Kalaji Kendras can be established.
23 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Free osteoporosis camp in Yadgir on Tuesday||VBR Mudnal (Veerabasanth Reddy Mudnal) Multi-speciality Hospital in Yadgir will conduct a free osteoporosis camp on Tuesday to mark the celebration of World Osteoporosis Day, Veerabasanth Reddy Mudnal, founder of the hospital, said on Saturday. Addressing a press conference in Yadgir, he said this would be the first free camp organised in the city to help those in need. Dr. Reddy, former MLA of Yadgir city, said that anyone above the age of 35 can undergo the test and get a week’s worth of tablets for the disease for free. Sunil Mooknoor, the key medical practitioner to organise the camp, said the camp would be organised to create awareness about the disease, its diagnosis and treatment. “A bone mineral density (BMD) test will measure how much calcium and other types of minerals are in an area of the bone. This test helps healthcare providers detect osteoporosis and predict the risk for bone fracture,” Dr. Mooknoor said. The campaign will emphasise the direct link between osteoporosis (the silent, underlying disease) and broken bones, which have a serious, life-changing impact in terms of pain, disability, and lose independence. Itwill also focus on osteoporosis as a “family affair”, with family caregivers often carrying the burden of care, and the disease affecting multiple generations of the family, he said. He added that osteoporosis was a growing global problem — worldwide, fractures affect one in three women and one in five men over the age of 50. He appealed to the public to make use of the camp and to call 86183 97140 or 86608 54904 for registration.  A BMD test will measure how much calcium and other types of minerals are in an area of the bone. This test helps healthcare providers detect osteoporosis and predict the risk for bone fracture   Family affair  There will be a campaign with focus on osteoporosis as a “family affair”, with family caregivers often carrying the burden of care, and the disease affecting multiple generations of the family
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tourist places not to be closed during Dasara holidays||The notification on closure of tourist places in Mysuru from October 17 to November 1 issued by the district administration to curb the surge in COVID-19 cases, has been withdrawn following protests by stakeholders. The district in-charge Minister, S.T. Somashekar, made the announcement during the inauguration of Dasara on Saturday that consequent to the appeal by the stakeholders and to ensure that tourism does not suffer another crippling blow, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has directed the district administration to withdraw the notification. Mr. Somashekar said it will be mandatory for the tourists to ensure social distancing and personal hygiene besides wearing masks. Mysuru Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri had issued a directive last week that the closure would come into effect from October 17 coinciding with the beginning of Dasara. This was to discourage tourists from surrounding districts to make a beeline to Mysuru during the festival holidays and to participate in Dasara which, the authorities fear, will result in a surge in COVID-19 cases. Some of the tourist spots including the palace, zoo, Chamundi Hills, and KRS in the neighbouring district of Mandya, used to register a high footfall during the pre-pandemic times and hence there were concerns about the fallout of huge congregation amidst the ongoing war against the pandemic. The decision was also taken based on the Kerala experience when the number of COVID-19 cases registered a sharp surge after the Onam holidays. As Mysuru draws a huge crowd during Dasara, the district administration which is under pressure to reduce the case load and take appropriate measures, thought it fit to discourage tourists from visiting the city during the festival holiday season. Though Kodagu and Mandya disricts too followed suit, the closure was limited to a few specific days and not the entire duration of the holiday season. But stakeholders represented by Mysuru Travels Association, Hotel Owners Association, registered guides etc., opposed the move on the grounds that the closure of tourist places amounted to imposing new restrictions at a time when the State government itself was in favour of opening up public places. The association members pointed out that the State Tourism Department was promoting Karnataka stating it was safe to travel and they were ready to welcome the tourists. But the directives closing tourist places was antithetical to the government’s move on graded unlocking to revive the economy. They submitted a memorandum to the Chief Minister who was in Mysuru for Dasara inauguration and pleaded their case following which he sought a review of the original decision. However, this volte face by the government on a measure to curb the spread of the pandemic, has also come under criticism from various quarters on the grounds that it went against the stated objective of tackling the pandemic. A section of the officials, on condition of anonymity, underlined the contradiction in the government’s stated objectives and deeds. They said on the one hand the elected representatives are appealing to people to watch the proceedings live on TV and not venture outside. On the other hand they are opening up tourist places, illuminating Mysuru etc which encourages congregation and tourist movement. KRS to be open The Mandya district administration has also withdrawn its order closing KRS and Ranganathittu bird sanctuary for tourists from October 24 to 27.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Theerthodbhava’ occurs as scheduled||A small number of people witnessed the Cauvery Theerthodbhava at Talacauvery in Kodagu district on Saturday amidst strict enforcement of safety precautions over COVID-19 scare. The usual bustle and congregation of thousands of devotees on the foothills of Brahmagiri for witnessing the divine occurrence was missing this year with restrictions imposed on public entry to the site for controlling the pandemic spread. However, all traditions and rituals were carried out by the priests at Talacauvery since the early hours of Saturday, complying with the mandated SOPs. The sacred water or ‘thirtha’ gushed from the ‘Brahma Kundike’ (a tiny pond) at the Talacauvery temple at 7:04 a.m. The water, said to be the source of the Cauvery, was sprinkled on the gathering by the priests. As per the Hindu almanac, the time specified for the emergence of thirtha was 7.03 a.m. This time, it emerged a minute late. Minister in-charge of Kodagu V. Somanna, MLA Appachu Ranjan, other elected representatives, Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy and others witnessed the occurrence. Mr. Somanna, after the event, said curbs had caused disappointment to the people as they used to participate in large numbers with great enthusiasm to witness the occasion besides taking a dip in the pond and collecting the holy water. But in view of the pandemic, curbs had become necessary. He said the rituals associated with the event had been carried out and thanked the people for cooperating with the administration over its measures. “I have prayed to the Goddess Cauvery to end COVID-19 sufferings,” he told reporters. This year, no special buses are running to Talacauvery from Madikeri and other places, and the movement of private vehicles too had been restricted.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Labourer arrested on charge of killing friend||The Byadarahalli police on Saturday arrested a 21-year-old construction labourer who allegedly killed his friend on October 12. The accused, Rahul Kumar, hails from Uttar Pradesh, and worked at a residential apartment with the victim, Kedar Sahani. The duo lived in the outhouse at the apartment complex. According to the police, Rahul came to know that Kedar had accessed his wife’s phone number and would talk to her without his knowledge. “This led to an argument on Monday during which Rahul killed Kedar with an LPG cylinder,” said a police officer. The police tracked down Rahul who allegedly confessed to the crime. “We have charged him with murder. He has been remanded in judicial custody,” the police officer added.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana artist dead||He was part of the Mandarthi Yakshagana Mela for three decades and was instrumental in forming the first Yakshagana mela in Hiriyadka. Mr. Rao served as principal of the Yakshagana Kendra and taught various aspects of this traditional art form. Among the artistes he trained are American national Martha Bush Aschan, who came to India to learn Yakshagana in 1969. He held training sessions and maddale classes at Ambalpady and other places. He learnt about traditional medicine from his father and was treating patients. He stopped practising following stringent regulations.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||To safety||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Honouring a maestro||torvi photo
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ringing in Navaratri||
23 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||629 test positive in Alappuzha||The district logged 629 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. The fresh cases include 604 people who contracted the disease through local transmission. Source of infections of another 17 people remains unknown. Five persons who came from abroad, two from other States and one health worker also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district recorded two COVID-19-related deaths, taking the tally to 70. The deceased were identified as a 79-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man. They died on October 13 and October 15 respectively. Of the 629 new cases, 123 were reported from Alappuzha municipality and 106 from Punnapra South grama panchayat. Meanwhile, 529 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. Active COVID-19 cases in the district stand at 6,682. The police registered 55 cases and arrested 34 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 260 people for not wearing face masks, 1,226 for not maintaining physical distance.
23 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Mystery over truck driver’s death in Alappuzha||A 37-year-old truck driver was found dead under mysterious circumstances in the backyard of a house after he had fled upon seeing a Motor Vehicle Department (MVD) vehicle at Kalithattu Junction here on Saturday. The deceased was identified as Shanavas K., 37, of Karunagapally, Kollam. According to the Mararikulam police, Shanavas and his helper, identified as Vincent, were transporting manufactured sand (m sand) from Marady in Ernakulam to Karunagapally. As per the statements given by Vincent to the police, Shanavas parked the truck at Kalithattu Junction on National Highway 66 after seeing the vehicle of the MVD around 8.30 p.m. on Friday. They both alighted from the vehicle and ran. The helper hid near a shop. The MVD officials noted the number of the truck and later informed its owner about the incident. The police said that the owner of the truck had tried to contact Shanavas on his phone but received no response. The owner then contacted the helper and lodged a police complaint. His body was found in a private property by a police team early Saturday. The helper told the police that they had run away as the truck was overloaded and feared being caught by the MVD officials. ‘Cardiac arrest’ The police suspect that Shanavas died of cardiac arrest. The body was shifted to the morgue of the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for post-mortem. Mararikulam Circle Inspector S. Rajesh said that a case of unnatural death had been registered in connection with the incident. “We have launched an investigation. The cause of the death can only be ascertained after the post-mortem,” Mr. Rajesh said.
23 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Houseboats to begin operations today||Houseboats will start operating from Sunday, adhering to the COVID-19 protocols and guidelines. Tourists should register on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal before checking into the houseboat. They will be allowed into the vessel after checking the body temperature and disinfecting their luggage. As part of the restrictions, check-in will be allowed only at the Punnamada Finishing Point and Pallathuruthy houseboat terminals. A maximum of 10 passengers will be permitted in a boat, while only two persons will be allowed in a room. Village walks will not be allowed. Both check-in and check-out should be done between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Houseboat owners have been directed to disinfect their vessels after each trip. They should ensure that the boat crew and tourists should not come in close contact and install a partition separating the driver’s cabin. All houseboats should display the COVID-19 Jagratha portal QR code.  Squad to keep tabs Authorities said a squad was formed to check violations. Kevin Rozario, general secretary, All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samithi, says a large number of vessels would not be operation-ready on Sunday and the following days as they are yet to complete the maintenance. Although houseboats are ready to sail, both the houseboat operators and Tourism Department are not expecting an influx of tourists any time soon. “There are only minimal inquiries and bookings,” said a Tourism Department official.
23 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||BJP leader calls on Vellappally||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader P.K. Krishnadas called on Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan at the latter’s residence at Kanichukulangara here on Saturday. The visit assumes significance as Mr. Natesan had recently criticised the government for not appointing an Ezhava community member as Vice Chancellor of the newly launched Sree Narayana Guru Open University in Kollam. Mr. Krishnadas said the Communist Party of India (Marxist) had always disrespected Sree Narayana Guru. The appointment of the Vice Chancellor in the university was the latest example.
23 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Story of PB No. 9 as it reaches a milestone||PB No. 9 (Postbox Number 9) has a rare significance in the history of postal services in the State. It is the oldest postbox number still active in Kerala and it has completed a century now. PB No. 9 has its roots in the Raj era of plantation life in Munnar. Here, postal services were started to reach letters and material from Britain to the staff at its plantations in the present Devikulam taluk. Later, its services were extended to workers mostly brought from Tamil Nadu. In course of time, the post offices merged with India Post. As per records, PB No. 9 was started in 1920 and is still being used to provide service to the staff and family members of Kanan Devan Hills Plantation Ltd at a radius of 35 km from Munnar town. Munnar postmaster K. Murugaiah says it is the oldest post box number in use in Kerala. It was discovered as part of an enquiry held in connection with the Postal Week celebrations recently. Started in 1888 The Munnar post office started functioning from a new building in 1932 and it was then under the Madurai division. As per records, post offices were started at Munnar and Devikulam in 1888 and 1892 respectively. The post office at Thalayar was started in 1898 and is still functioning from a British-era building at Thalayar in Devikulam taluk. According to Mr. Murugaiah, Devikulam was the main town then and in old Munnar there was only one ‘satharam’ (lodge) and it was surrounded by plantations. Kiran Mathew, a native of Devikulam, who has studied the British-era plantation history, says plantation workers still depend on postal services to keep in touch with their native places. Mr. Mathew says there was an anchal path (path used by postal runners called anchalottakaran ) across the border with Tamil Nadu at Bodimettu. The British were keen on building a communication network in Munnar as it was required for the tea business. Tea prices were decided in London market and it was needed to be passed on to production units in Devikulam.
23 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level continues to rise in Idukki reservoir||The water level in the Idukki reservoir continued to rise though slowly on Saturday. The water level was 2,393.68 at 10 a.m. . The orange alert level as per the new rule curve level fixed by the Central Water Commission is 2,396.85 ft. The full reserve level is 2,403 ft. The rainfall recorded in the catchment area on Saturday was 7.6 mm.
23 October 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||COVID crisis hits ginger farmers hard||With only a few weeks left for ginger harvest, uncertainties in the market triggered by the pandemic have cast a pall over thousands of farmers who have cultivated the crop in Wayanad and parts of Karnataka. The abrupt closure of major ginger markets in the country coupled with a sharp fall in prices of ginger rhizomes and low production owing to crop diseases are major concerns of farmers. The spot price of ginger in the Wayanad market on Saturday was Rs. 950 to Rs. 1,000 a bag (60 kg) as against Rs. 2,900 a bag during the corresponding period last year. The price went up to Rs. 8,000 in August last year, said Navrang Mohanan, general secretary, All India Ginger Growers Association. K.P. Sandeep, a farmer from Sulthan Bathery, said he had invested nearly Rs. 5 lakh on the crop on one acre of leased land but was compelled to take premature harvest owing to a fungal disease that affected the crop after heavy rain a few weeks ago. “I got only 20 bags of ginger after the harvest,” he said, adding that he had no clue about compensating for the loss. Many a time, traders refused to purchase the produce owing to uncertainties in the market, he said. “Nobody can predict when the authorities will declare containment zones in major markets of the country. Hence, we are not in a position to procure the produce in huge quantities. Moreover, we cannot stock the perishable stuff for a long time,” said Jis Thomas, a ginger dealer in Hassan of Karnataka. Yield declines The area under ginger cultivation had increased nearly threefold this season owing to good prices in the past two years. An average yield of ginger rhizomes from an acre is 18 to 20 tonnes, but it declined to 10 to 12 tonnes this season, as many farmers started cultivation two months later this year owing to the pandemic, Mr. Mohanan said. Around 25,000 farmers in the State had cultivated the crop on nearly 1,50,000 hectares of leased land in Karnataka alone this year.
23 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul to visit Wayanad on Monday||Rahul Gandhi, MP, will visit Wayanad, his constituency, on Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday. Mr. Gandhi will land at the Calicut airport at 11.30 a.m. on Monday, and he will attend a meeting at the collectorate in Malappuram at 12.30 p.m., his office said in a release here. He will leave for Wayanad at 2 p.m. Mr. Gandhi will attend a review meeting on COVID-19 at the Wayanad collectorate here at 10.30 a.m. on Tuesday. He will also attend a meeting of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) at 11.30 a.m. on the day. He will return to Delhi at 3.20 p.m. on Wednesday after a visit to District Hospital, Mananthavady, at 2 p.m.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MVD to act tough on faulty number plate users||Faced with youth and others zooming past in new-generation motorbikes and cars bearing illegible, hidden, or non-existent registration number plates, and not bothering to stop when requested, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) will go into overdrive in the coming weeks to rein them in. Number plate is the basic identity of a vessel, which also enables detection of offences. A total of Rs. 83 lakh was collected as fine in September from motorists, in 3,288 cases. This was for offences ranging from improper number plates and not wearing helmets, to unauthorised alteration of different vehicles, said Shaji Madhavan, Enforcement RTO. The cases registered would have been much more but for COVID-19 restrictions. Subsequently, four interceptor vans of the MVD allotted to Ernakulam district and other enforcement units were not able to function optimally, it is learnt. “As per rules, the automobile dealer must affix high-security registration number plates having dedicated serial number and hologram, which was made mandatory in April 2019, on each vehicle. A special riveting process is adopted for this, to ensure that it is tamper-proof. A rivet remover is needed to remove it. The number is also engraved on the windshield glass, in case of cars and bigger vehicles. Of late, many two-wheeler riders either remove the mud guard which bears the number plate or bend the plate in sharp angles, hampering their visibility,” Mr. Madhavan said. There are also instances of motorists affixing fancy number plates to hoodwink law enforcers and give them the slip. While most other vehicle owners are adhering better to the rule, two-wheeler riders and goods carriers are the worst rule violators. Lorries from other States are especially at fault, even installing rear under guard in a manner covering a view of their number plate. There is no excuse for two-wheelers to shun mandatory number plates, since its cost and that of helmet are covered in the vehicle cost and must be supplied by the dealer concerned, Mr. Madhavan said.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Shoddy state of NH Bypass draws motorists’ ire||With the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) under fire for shoddy upkeep of the 16-km-long Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass and repeated complaints from different quarters remaining unaddressed, regular commuters are planning to approach consumer forum to hold the agency, which collects hefty toll, accountable by citing poor service. The condition of almost all bridges on the bypass is deplorable, with motorists having to endure a bouncy ride at their entry and exit points and over the shoddily-maintained expansion joints of bridges. The Kumbalam Bridge is among the worst maintained, with undulations galore even away from expansion joints. Moreover, potholes dot the road beyond the bridge on the Aroor side and at many other points on the bypass. The NHAI is also reluctant to repair potholed portions in the vicinity of the flyovers that are nearing completion at Vyttila and Kundannur. The agency’s common refrain is that the two sites were handed over to the PWD (NH Wing) three years ago for constructing flyovers, and that the onus is on the PWD to repair them. After negotiating through the two ill-maintained junctions and getting caught in traffic snarls here, enraged motorists often pick quarrel with NHAI personnel who man the Kumbalam toll plaza when they have to pay hefty toll (Rs. 40 for a single trip for cars and much higher for bigger vehicles). They encounter snarls at the toll plaza too, as there are not enough toll booths to cater for burgeoning number of vehicles. There is also confusion among motorists over which lane to enter, since those entering the FASTag lane by mistake are forced to cough up double the toll rate. The NHAI has also not installed street lights and adequate number of reflectors on the busy stretch, despite it catering for intra-district, inter-district and inter-State traffic. This often causes accidents. Interestingly, few people use foot overbridges at five points on the bypass, citing their steep gradient and lack of lights at night. Adding to their misery, pedestrian lines beneath them have been erased. “The NHAI imposing hefty toll on motorists is nothing but ‘highway robbery’,” said D.B. Binu, lawyer and consumer rights activist, who is a regular commuter in the NH corridor. He had filed a case challenging the toll collection, on the basis of data gathered through an RTI query. A senior NHAI official said efforts made to add more toll booths at the plaza did not materialise due to high cost of land acquisition.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Milma regional union to push for paddy farming||The Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union has decided to encourage paddy cultivation in a big way, as it joins the Subhiksha Keralam programme to achieve self-sufficiency in food production. To mark the launch of efforts to take over fallow land and bring it under rice cultivation, the Poothrikka Primary Cooperative Milk Producers Union has taken up cultivation of 2.5 acres of paddy field at the Vallikkatuthazham paddy collective, said John Theruvath, chairman of the Ernakulam region. He said that more primary milk cooperatives were interested in taking up rice cultivation to augment income and to ensure that they have something to fall back on, as the dairy sector went through ups and downs during the pandemic. He added that the Milma union would include a substantial allocation in its annual budget to encourage rice cultivation by primary cooperatives. M. Prabhakaran, president of the primary milk cooperative at Poothrikka, was among those who were present when the 2.5-acre field was sown. Mr. John said the Ernakulam regional cooperative, spread over Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kottayam and Idukki districts, had around 930 primary cooperatives, and that encouraging cooperatives would help in bringing substantial areas now lying fallow under rice and vegetable cultivation. Meanwhile, the cooperative is implementing an insurance scheme in collaboration with Oriental Insurance Company for dairy farmers. The insurance is for protection of farmers afflicted by the pandemic. The ‘Covid Rakshak’ insurance scheme is for those aged between 18 and 65 years and provides a coverage ranging between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 2.5 lakh in case a dairy farmer is down with infection for three days. Milk procurement by the regional cooperative has kept steady after Onam. The daily procurement is to the tune of 3.35 lakh per day in the current week, and sales have touched 3.55 lakh litres per day, Mr. John added.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MGU internal exams go digital||The internal evaluation of students in affiliated colleges under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) has gone online in view of the pandemic crisis. The new system replaces the traditional method of writing internal exams under the supervision of teachers. Several colleges have started offering the internal exam component as part of the continuous evaluation of students through online platforms.  A novel experience The digital evaluation has given a novel experience to both teachers and students. Faculty members say that around an hour is given for an internal exam. The time slot will be informed in advance. Students have to log in to the online platform and finish writing the answers within the specified time. “For those facing Internet glitches or connectivity issues, additional time will be given based on request,” they informed. Students are relieved, as they need not go to the college to write the exam. “The online mode has turned beneficial, as we can sit in the comfort of our homes and appear for the exam,” they said. According to teachers, the possibility of students referring to learning materials cannot be ruled out. “But it is done in the belief that students would not resort to such attempts. We have no other option amid the worsening pandemic crisis but to complete the internal exams through online platforms. Otherwise, the semester sessions will be stretched further,” they said. Nod for colleges Meanwhile, the university authorities said that all affiliated colleges could go ahead with the online internal exams in view of the COVID-19 situation. B. Keralavarma, Syndicate member and convener of its examination sub-committee, said institutions need not wait for official nod from the varsity for starting online internal exams. “We have learnt that some colleges have not yet started the process. To clear the air, we will soon issue a directive permitting the online mode for conducting internal exams,” he added. The authorities pointed out that internal exam was only a component, as assignments submitted by students were also taken into account while making their overall internal assessment.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Vigil up as more health workers test positive||A total of 700 health workers have been infected in the district so far, in a nearly six-fold jump from mid-August when 110 health workers had cumulatively tested positive for the coronavirus. According to health officials and infection control officers at hospitals in the district, the extent of the spread of the virus in the community has made it nearly impossible to ascertain if health workers have contracted the infection from within the health-care facility or outside. Attempts, however, have been made to strengthen infection control measures both in government and private facilities. “Training for health workers on use of personal protective equipment is being provided. The administration liaises with nodal officers at private hospitals every week to monitor their functioning as well,” said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Since pre-COVID-19 times, committees are in place at all government hospitals right from the primary health centre level to monitor infection control measures, said a doctor at the Muvattupuzha General Hospital. These committees are required to meet every week to assess hospital hygiene and practices to maintain it. But crowding and ensuring distancing continue to remain a problem, she added. Dr. Sonya Joy, consultant microbiologist and infection control officer at Aster Medcity, said infection control measures like appropriate PPE use and hygiene were seemingly simple but could be difficult to enforce among a large group of people. CCTV footage is being observed to ensure health workers were wearing appropriate PPE at all times, and restrictions are in place to make sure workers do not gather for meals. “The chances of getting the infection could be higher outside hospitals considering precautions are strict inside a health facility,” she said. It is likely that health workers are contracting the infection from outside hospitals, said Dr. Numpeli. Dr. Neethu Susan Phillip who heads infection control at Rajagiri Hospital said practices like taking patient history, cough etiquette, and hand hygiene had assumed greater significance. With health workers, being careful while doffing contaminated PPE kits is crucial, she said.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Migrant workers volunteer to donate plasma||In a show of affection for their adopted home, 13 migrant workers from the district who have recovered from COVID-19 have volunteered to donate plasma for treatment of infected persons. This was among the many outcomes of the second phase of the migrant-centric ‘Let’s Reach Out Kerala’ an initiative being run by Athithi Devo Bhava, a migrant welfare project of the district unit of the National Health Mission (NHM) in association with the Centre for Livelihoods and Social Innovation of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai, from the IMA House here. The control room set up as part of the initiative encourages COVID-19 patients who turned negative for plasma pooling. “We can receive plasma only from symptomatic patients who have recovered and have so far contacted 56 such migrant workers. Some of them have agreed to look into potential donation once they feel fully fit, which is quite understandable,” said Akhil Xavier Manuel, nodal officer, Athithi Devo Bhava. DYFI initiative Meanwhile, the district committee of the DYFI is also running a campaign for mobilising plasma donors, having already arranged 17 donors since October 9 when a State-wide campaign was launched coinciding with Che Guevara Memorial Day. “We are in the process of compiling a list of potential donors at the grassroots-level committees to keep the campaign running. All such potential donors are approached, and those expressing reservations about plasma donation are being given counselling to allay their apprehensions,” said A.A. Anshad, district secretary, DYFI.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Death knell for private buses?||A recent gazette notification to regulate long-distance private buses to pave the way for introducing/augmenting Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) services has encountered much criticism. It says that private buses can operate only ordinary or ordinary limited stop services. In addition, their route length has been capped at 140 km. It also says that the right to operate any new service and increase the number of trips is reserved exclusively for the KSRTC. Senior Deputy Transport Commissioner (retired) B.J. Antony says this will sound the death knell for the private bus sector, which is reeling due to fall in demand for public transport in the wake of COVID-19. “The number of private buses in the State is down from 35,000 a decade-and-a-half ago to around 12,000 now. The move will further bleed the sector, rendering the workforce of bus operators, crew, workshop, and spare part shop employees jobless,” he says. Private bus operators can challenge it in the court. The notification could well be the last nail in the coffin of public transport, since buses which operated in 400-km routes, will now have to curtail trips to within 140 km. And the loss-making KSRTC is in no position to take over long-distance routes covered by private buses, says Mr. Antony. The managing director of the Kottayam-based Kondody Motors, which operates buses in 18 long-distance routes, says the gazette notification goes against the spirit of the Central Motor Vehicles Act of 1988, which cites the need for efficient, economic, and adequate number of bus services in different routes. The KSRTC has not done any study of passenger needs in any route. The notification will affect all stakeholders, including the KSRTC, he says. The KSRTC has been trying to wipe out private buses from 1997, says Lawrence Babu, general secretary, Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation. “ One has to see whether the RTC, which incurs monthly loss of over Rs. 100 crore, is in a position to roll out adequate number of buses in routes where private buses operated. Bus operators and NGOs have made known their objections to the government,” he said.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Koothattukulam getting rid of legacy waste||After getting rid of nearly all the legacy waste dumped in its yard over the last three decades, the Koothattukulam municipality in the district is set to shift to a waste disposal system converting biodegradable waste into bio-manure by the end of the year. The municipality had roped in a Kattapana-based ex-servicemen charitable society approved by the Suchitwa Mission for the disposal of the piled up waste. The agency, which was selected through e-tender for the Rs. 25 lakh-project, started the work a week ago. While the sorting of waste and loading into lorries were done during the daytime, the transportation was restricted to the night to avoid inconveniencing the public. “Already about 85% of the waste has been removed using the contracted amount. A few more lakhs would be needed to clear the nearly 70 cents of the dumping yard, which will be done soon,” said municipal chairman Joy Abraham. Thumboormuzhi model Once the dumping yard is cleared, the municipality plans to adopt an aerobic composting technique popularly known as the ‘Thumboormuzhi model’ for converting the waste into bio-manure, the sale of which is expected to bring in revenue. Health standing committee chairman Sunny Kuriakose said a green army for waste collection had been formed. However, the waste collection will be largely restricted to traders and only a limited number of households from the town area will be covered. Mr. Abraham said that since the municipality was a largely agrarian society, majority of the households had the capacity to treat waste at source.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MDMA case: cops after more youths, foreigner||The City police are looking at the potential involvement of another foreigner in the backdrop of the seizure of 21 grams of MDMA from a rented room at Edappally in March. The police have so far arrested eight persons in this connection, including a Nigerian who allegedly sold the drug to youngsters. “The Nigerian has confessed to the role of another foreigner, probably of African descent, in Bengaluru from whom he claimed to have bought the drug. We are pursuing that lead as well,” said an investigation officer associated with the inquiry. The Nigerian has a similar case involving LSD in Goa. The police are also on the hunt for four more youngsters who were suspected to be part of the gang involved in drug trade. “As of now, those four along with the foreign suspect remain the only remaining accused in the case. We have been able to nab the ones who supplied the drug, transported it and its potential sellers,” the officer said. All the suspects are college students, and they also targeted youngsters of their age as potential clients. The four youngsters who remain to be nabbed were suspected to be part of an eight-member gang of which other four — Muhammed Yasin, 20, of Koovappady; Jophin Varghese, 19, of Palarivattom; Aftab Liyaqat, 20, of Edathala, and Shifas, 20, of Aluva — had already been arrested. The gang had taken a room adjoining the building from which Ahammad Yasin and Muhammad Shahad, youngsters from Aluva, were arrested with MDMA, triggering the chain of events. The gang had absconded as soon as the youngsters were arrested. “Many of these youngsters were also suspected to be drug users as well,” said sources.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||1,022 fresh cases in Ernakulam||Of the 1,022 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, the source of infection in 480 cases remains untraced. A total of 525 people have contracted the infection through local contact, and one health worker has tested positive. Cases were reported from areas including Thripunithura, Kadungalloor, Chellanam, Vengola, Payipra, and Mattancherry. As many as 22 police officers have also been infected. While 941 people have tested negative, 29,839 remain in quarantine. A total of 12,426 people are currently being treated for the disease in the district. A majority of COVID-19 positive patients in the district, about 8,980 people, are recovering at home. As many as 767 patients are admitted at private hospitals, 190 patients are being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, and 50 are at PVS Hospital. At first-line treatment centres, 1,026 people are being monitored, and 159 people are at second-line treatment centres. For testing, 4,301 samples were collected on Saturday. A total of 270 people were discharged from hospitals and first-line treatment centres on the day.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Water Metro yard to come up on Kinfra premises||Even as the first Water Metro ferry is set to begin service in January 2021 (on the Vyttila-Kakkanad route), work on terminals has gained pace at Vyttila, Kakkanad, High Court Junction, Vypeen, Cheranalloor, and Eloor. A boat yard having capacity to repair eight ferries at a time will be readied on the premises of KINFRA, says a press release. The tender process is over to build terminals on Bolghatty Island, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Kadamakudy, Paliam Thuruth, Cheranalloor, South Chittoor, Mulavukad North, and Ernakulam Ferry. The terminals will be world class. They will have floating pontoons so that commuters can safely board and alight from ferries, irrespective of tidal variations. There will be a total of 38 terminals, located on 16 routes. Care will be taken so that differently abled people too can access terminals. Each ferry will be able to carry three wheelchair-borne passengers.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Local CPI(M) leader alleges attack||The Palarivattom police have registered an attempt to murder case in an incident in which a local CPI(M) leader was attacked allegedly by three motorcycle-borne youngsters wearing masks on Saturday around 5.30 a.m. A.N. Santhosh, Vyttila area committee member of the party and president of Vennala Service Cooperative Society, lodged a petition that he came under attack during his morning walk along the Padivattom-Arkkakkadavu Road. He escaped unhurt.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||One arrested with ganja||The Harbour police on Saturday arrested a person with 2.35 kg of ganja. The arrested is Abdul Nasid, 19, of Kadamath island in Lakshadweep. The police suspect him to be part of a racket that smuggles in ganja to Lakshadweep. On Saturday, they received a tip-off and nabbed the accused with the drug from TD Road in the city. A team led by Harbour Inspector Slyvester made the arrest.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Supplyco expands online sales||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has expanded online sales and home delivery of essential commodities to 21 select outlets in city corporation areas in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Kozhikode districts. Success in Kochi The move follows the success of online sales launched in Kochi in the wake of the COVID-19 lockdown on March 27 with a food delivery company as partner. Supplyco sources said the Corporation had outsourced the entire online booking and delivery services to a total of 19 partners.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rescheduling of exams brings cheer to students||Students who missed their final semester exams conducted by Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) following COVID-19 restrictions on March 16 and 18 have something to cheer about. The varsity has announced that the exams will be held again for those who have registered for the exams and could not write them owing to the pandemic crisis. According to the university, around 600 students of the final semester undergraduate courses will get the benefits of the decision. The university had conducted exams scheduled for March 16 and 18, as there were no restrictions then. However, many students could not make it, as several places had started reporting spike in cases. Students who were at their home towns at this point could not make it owing to travel restrictions and fear of the pandemic spread. The university authorities said the number of students getting enrolled in its affiliated colleges from districts outside the varsity’s geographical jurisdiction had gone up owing to the centralised allotment process for admission to various undergraduate and postgraduate courses. The students were not able to travel all the way from their homes to attend the examinations held on March 16 and 18. The new schedule will be announced soon.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MoU for initiative for cost-effective ventilators||Jyothi Engineering College under the Thrissur Arch Diocese and IndVentr, a consortium of three start-ups, have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to collaborate in research and innovation for manufacturing cost-effective ventilators to fight the challenge posed by shortage of ventilators in the wake of COVID-19. iSave, an innovative and frugal ventilator sharing platform facilitates ventilation of two subjects simultaneously, the validation of which was recently published in Science Translational Medicine . Priced at Rs. 20,000, it can quickly scale up the ventilator infrastructure around the world, which is now under severe stress. They have also completed the functional prototypes of INADVENT-100, which is a time-tested BVM-based manual emergency resuscitator, which is being automated with added features and will be priced in the region of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 60,000.
23 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||656 cases in Kollam||The district reported 656 new cases of COVID-19, three deaths, and 718 recoveries on Saturday. While 651 patients contracted the infection through local contact, the others include three health workers, one from abroad, and one person with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 75-year-old Vellimon resident, 90-year-old Kottarakra resident, and a 64-year-old Palathara resident are owing to COVID-19. While Kollam Corporation has 251 news cases, Thrikkaruva, Kulasekharapuram, Mayyanad, Klappana, Alappad, and Chithara are the other places that reported the highest number of cases. The district currently has 19,053 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,84,772.
23 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Reservation wards in Kollam Corpn.||The draw of lots for selecting reservation wards in Kollam Corporation was held in Thiruvananthapuram on Friday. Maruthadi, Kureepuzha West, Kureepuza, Neeravil, Anchalumoodu, Kadavoor, Mathilil, Vadakkumbhagam, Asramam, Uliyakovil East, Kadappakada, Arunnootimangalam, Chathinamkulam, Karicode, College Division, Palkulangara, Vadakkevila, Punthalathazham, Manacaud, Kollurvila, Kayyalakkal, Aakkolil, Bharnikkavu, Thamarakkulam, Thirumullavram, Munlankadakam, Alattukavu and Kannimel have been reserved for women. Among these, Chathinamkulam and Bharanikkavu have been reserved for Scheduled Caste women. Meenathucheri and Kaikulangara are the wards reserved for the Scheduled Castes.
23 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||IIIT convocation conducted online||The second convocation ceremony at the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) in Kottayam, an institution of national importance, was held online on Saturday. A batch of 30 students who took admission at the institute in 2016 received their BTech/BTech Honours Degree certificate at the ceremony. Thomas Kailath, Hitachi America Professor of Engineering, Emeritus- Stanford University, delivered the convocation speech. Addressing the function, Mr. Kailath urged the students to stay as keen learners throughout their life and added that tasking questions and finding answers in the literature or through one’s work was indeed a better way of learning. IIIT chairperson Ashok Jhunjunwala, who spoke on the occasion, emphasised on the rapid growth of the institute. Rajeev Dharaskar, director, presented the report and M, Radhakrishnan, Registrar, welcomed the online gathering. Vishnu S. and Abhishek Kumar shared the gold medal for the best academic performances.
23 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||411 cases in Kottayam||As many as 411 people tested positive for SARS -CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 408 people including three health workers contracted the disease through local transmission. The cases also included 60 people above the age of 60 and 51 children. Kottayam continued to lead the tally with 56 cases, followed by Ettumanoor with 34 and Erattupetta with 24 cases.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Immade Kozhikode’ to ensure safe food habits||The Commissionerate of Food Safety on Friday launched ‘Immade Kozhikode’, a programme to ensure safe food habits among people in the city. The programme was launched by Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan on the occasion of World Food Day as part of the ‘Eat Right Challenge’ issued by the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI). The Minister also launched the ‘Immade Kozhikode’ logo, while District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao, who is chairman of the district food safety advisory committee, explained the programme. As part of ‘Immade Kozhikode’, inspections will be made more regular at food-based enterprises. Training will be provided to such units in the city. “We also plan to ensure that all food-based enterprises within Kozhikode Corporation limits are licensed,” said Assistant Commissioner of Food Safety M.T. Babychan. Awareness programmes based on the theme ‘Surakshithahaaram Arogyathinadharam’ (Safe food key for good health) and classes in schools and colleges have been planned as part of the programme. ‘RUCO’ (Repurposing Used Cooking Oil), a project through which used cooking oil from food-based enterprises is collected and sent to manufacturers of biodiesel, was launched in the city a few months ago. Mr. Babychan said more than 1,200 litres of used cooking oil had been collected under the project so far.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate remains over 11%||The test positivity rate continues to be well above 11% in Kozhikode district even as 926 more tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Saturday. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 8,034 samples were sent for lab tests on the day. A total of 896 of the fresh cases were through local transmission of the infection. Kozhikode Corporation (397), Olavanna (43), Feroke (42), and Maniyoor and Thiruvalloor (29) were some of the large clusters. The source of infection of 25 people was unknown. As many as 1,057 people recovered and the number of active cases is 11,183. The number of those in home isolation is 6,885. Meanwhile, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao has issued orders allowing gymnasiums and yoga training centres to function in line with the COVID-19 protocol. More than five persons should not be present there at a time. The equipment at these centres should be placed keeping in view physical distancing norms. The centres in containment zones, however, will not be allowed to function. Permission has been denied to swimming pools, spas, and steam baths too. The authorities have registered cases against 1,029 people for not wearing face masks in public places. Action was initiated against 69 institutions for failing to comply with norms. As many as 128 shop owners faced action for not keeping visitors’ registers and 19 others for not keeping hand sanitiser. Eighty-two people were found to be not following physical distancing norms in shops. In Wayanad As many as 121 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of them, 119 were infected through contact and two persons had returned from other States. The total number of active cases has reached 1,080.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Auto drivers launch vehicle disinfection service||A section of autorickshaw drivers in the city has launched a free vehicle disinfection service as part of their efforts to support health workers control the spread of COVID-19. About 300 vehicles, including autorickshaws and taxi cars, have been disinfected by the team that launched the service on Friday. “We are mainly offering our free service to autorickshaw drivers as they will not be able to set apart a huge sum from their humble revenue for the sanitising job. However, it is not just limited to them,” says A.K. Sajeev Kumar, secretary of a drivers’ union at Nadakkavu. A trained health worker part of the city’s rapid response team will oversee the disinfection work. Personal protective equipment has been given to the team members. The team is now using a sanitiser sprayer given by a citizens’ group. The team members say they have plans to offer regular service for vehicles that are used for pick-and-drop of patients. Considering the latest situation, more time will be spent near hospitals to cover such vehicles, they add. M. Madhunan, a team member, says they are also ready to disinfect the houses of COVID-19 patients in the absence of other service providers. “We offer the service free of cost. We use a quality disinfecting solution recommended by the Health Department,” he adds.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||24x7 service at Vadakara, Perambra veterinary clinics||The Department of Animal Husbandry has introduced 24x7 service at its two polyclinics in Kozhikode district. The Vadakara and Perambra-based clinics will have sufficient number of veterinary doctors and specialised surgeons in three shifts to promptly attend to the calls of farmers in the livestock sector. Efforts are also under way to redeploy some of the experienced doctors from other veterinary hospitals to support the polyclinics. According to officials, the two clinics will be able to cater to the rural entrepreneurs better and offer them doorstep support in case of emergency situations. Expansion of the existing labs and emergency care facilities will be considered in the next phase of development. The polyclinics will function under the supervision of senior veterinary surgeons. The night shift from 8 p.m. to 8 a.m. will be controlled by a veterinary surgeon appointed on contract basis. Complicated cases will be referred to the Vadakara centre, where more emergency care facilities and lab tests are available. Officials say there are no other government veterinary hospitals in Kozhikode district that offer round-the-clock service. More such polyclinics are likely to be opened to cover more areas. There is also a suggestion to buy a pet ambulance. Till the polyclinics get their own vehicles, the service seekers will have to arrange the transportation of doctors for doorstep service. Doctors now working with various veterinary hospitals in the district say the 24x7 service will be a relief for many farmers in the dairy sector. As most of the complicated cases related to calving take place during night hours, many have been struggling to get spot service of vets and related services, they point out. The opening of the polyclinics has also brought cheer to hundreds of pet handlers. Considering their demands and the high quality of pets being brought for medication, some of the veterinary doctors have undergone additional training to provide better service.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity seeks UGC nod for distance education courses||Calicut University has sought the approval of the University Grants Commission (UGC) to run undergraduate and postgraduate courses under the distance education mode this academic year, as the newly launched Sree Narayana Guru Open University is yet to get recognition to do so. The procedure for admission, however, is expected to begin only by next month. According to sources at the School of Distance Education at the university, this follows an unofficial direction from the State government. October 15 was the earlier deadline to file application with the UGC. In the meantime, the commission extended the date to October 31. Now, the university is expecting a clearance from the UGC, they said. There are 14 UG courses and 12 PG courses. Court intervention Though the government had gone ahead with its plans to stop all distance education programmes under the University of Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi University, Calicut University, and Kannur University and bring them all under the open university, the Kerala High Court intervened in the matter on a petition filed by parallel colleges and students. It was pointed out that the newly launched university was yet to get recognition from the UGC, and that the future of over a lakh students was at stake. Subsequently, the court asked the government to produce the approval under UGC regulations. Parallel college owners and students had also pointed out that the government had barred other universities from running distance education programmes because it was not sure about students joining the open university. It was pointed out that though the project report of the university had mentioned that the functioning of the university was subject to UGC approval, it had been ignored.
23 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||CM inaugurates new school building||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday inaugurated the new building of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Memorial Government Model Residential School at Maruthonkara through videoconferencing. The building was opened along with 19 other welfare projects for the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities in the State. Officials said the construction of the school building with an academic-cum-administrative block was completed at a cost of Rs. 19.75 crore. They said it had a hostel to accommodate 164 students apart from a new dining hall and 12 staff quarters. MP K. Muraleedharan, Nadapuram MLA E.K. Vijayan, district panchayat president Babu Parassery and District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao were present at the inaugural event chaired by Minister for Welfare of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes A.K. Balan. It also marked the culmination of the Social Solidarity Week observance in the district.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||JOTA, JOTI to conclude today||More than 500 scouts and guides from Kozhikode district are taking part in the 63rd Jamboree on the Air (JOTA) and the 24th Jamboree on the Internet (JOTI) that began on Friday. The event is concluding on Sunday. JOTA and JOTI are the annual official international events organised by the World Organisation of Scout Movement. Arrangements for the jamboree were made by the Kerala State Bharat Scouts and Guides with the help of Calicut Ham. The participants communicate with their counterparts from 170 countries through amateur radio, Internet, and WhatsApp.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Raghavan Master award for Sreekumaran Tampi||Lyricist and writer Sreekumaran Tampi has been selected for the first K. Ragahavan award instituted by the K. Raghavan Master Foundation. The award carries a cash prize of Rs. 50,000 besides a memento and citation. The judging panel consisted of musicians M. Jayachandran, K. Omanakkutti and Karvellur Murali. The award would be presented on the birth anniversary of K. Raghavan on December 2, foundation president V.T. Murali and secretary T.V. Balan said.
23 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||‘Include Meppadi-Munderi road in Bharat Mala project’||The Malappuram Chamber of Commerce (MCC) has demanded that the proposed State highway from Meppadi to Munderi be included in the Centre’s Bharat Mala project. The Chamber said the inclusion of the Meppadi-Munderi highway in the Bharat Mala scheme would not only ensure direct connectivity between Wayanad and Malappuram, but also reduce the Bangalore-Mysore-Kochi journey by 70 km. Chamber president K.V. Anvar said the proposed highway would also be a viable replacement for the dangerous ghat roads. The Chamber pointed out that the new road would bring about great leaps for agricultural, commercial and industrial sectors. It will also shorten travel for Sabarimala pilgrims from Karnataka and beyond. “This route can serve as a short-distance tourism corridor between Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram. We request the State to take initiative to get the road included in the Bharat Mala National Highway project, by seeking a realignment of it through Kalpetta, Meppadi, Munderi, Nilambur, Manjeri, and Malappuram,” said Mr. Anvar.
23 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||1,519 cases in Malappuram||The spike in COVID-19 cases continued in Malappuram district on Saturday when 1,519 people tested positive for the virus. As many as 1,445 of them contracted the disease through local contacts. District officials said there were 22 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Fifteen health workers were infected. The number of active cases in the district crossed 9,600. The officials said 513 people recovered from the disease on Saturday.
23 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||688 people test positive in Palakkad||COVID-19 cases began showing signs of a spurt again in Palakkad district on Saturday as 688 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. District Collector D. Balamurali said that 299 of them contracted the disease through local contact. However, the source of infection could not be identified in 383 cases. Health officials said that an increase in the number of cases with untraceable sources of infection was giving worries to them. Only five cases came from other States and abroad. Among the new infections, there was one health worker. The highest concentration of new infections was in Palakkad municipality (60). While Pattambi had 27 cases, Puthusseri had 42. There were 343 recoveries in the district on Saturday. The number of active cases currently under treatment in the district crossed 7,000. According to officials, 7,123 COVID-19 patients were under treatment across the district. Apart from them, 57 people from Palakkad were under treatment in Ernakulam, 46 in Malappuram, 17 in Kozhikode, 12 in Thrissur, three in Alappuzha, two in Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Kottayam and Kannur districts.  17,000 in quarantine Nearly 17,000 people were quarantined, most at home, across the district. Officials said that 1.53 lakh people were quarantined in Palakkad since March. More than 74,000 samples were collected from suspected cases since COVID-19 emerged in the district in March. The results of 71,636 tests were made available until Saturday. District officials said the results of 1,355 tests were awaited. According to official data, 20,708 people tested positive in the district so far. Out of them, 13,335 recovered.
23 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||203 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 203 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 178 contracted the virus through local contact while 25 cases came from outside. The contact source of 22 people was yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Thiruvalla and Aranmula reported 15 cases each, followed by Koyipram with 13 cases and Erahu with 12 cases. With 375 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,803 active cases. The number of cases reported so far stands at 12,328.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Perspective of the pellet victims, literally||Xuhaib Maqbool Hamza holds a broken camera in his hands and says: “I have two blurred lenses. This one in my hand and another in my body.” Four years ago, the photojournalist was in the middle of covering a protest in Kashmir, when a pellet fire from a member of the security personnel pierced his body and eyes, permanently altering the way he viewed the world, through his camera’s viewfinder as well as the naked eye. Malayali documentary filmmaker Gopal Menon’s latest work The Broken Camera tells the story of that dark day and how he managed to get back to photography. The film has now been selected to be screened at the Australia-based My Rode Reel International Short Film Festival that attracts entries from across the world. In the film, Mr. Hamza recounts the events of September 4, 2016, when he saw a policeman coming towards him with a pellet gun. He had raised his camera as well as his press card to signal that he is a photojournalist out to perform his duty. Yet, a minute later, he found himself reeling on the ground with a body ridden with pellets all the way from the knees to the head. He has had two major surgeries till date, but after the latest one his doctors told him that he could not expect further improvement in his eye. His retina was torn. ‘Ongoing project’ “For me, this is a part of an ongoing project. I have been documenting the issues in Kashmir since 1998. In 2000, I had made a film called Papa 2 , on the enforced disappearances of civilians. During that time, I had also made another documentary titled Wounded Valley . Since 2016, I have been working on another Kashmir-based project. Hamza’s story, which was part of that project, was turned into this short film,” says Mr. Menon Before he lost his eye, Mr. Hamza, in addition to being a news photographer, was also an acclaimed nature photographer, fashion photographer, and a radio jockey. The short film also chronicles his painful return to photography. His friends inspired him to buy a new camera, with which he began shooting commercial projects. Following the abrogation of Article 370 of the Indian Constitution in 2019, he came out on the streets to shoot photographs again, from the initial days of people’s protests against the move. “This project is all about how I see with the left eye. This is the perspective of the pellet victims. These images are horrifying,” he says.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||After a slide, case graph inches up||The daily COVID-19 caseload in Thiruvananthapuram district rose slightly on Saturday after the steady decrease noted over the past one week. The district reported 848 new cases on Saturday, while the number of recoveries stood at 860. The death toll has touched 341 with seven more recent deaths attributed to the virus. The deceased include a 47-year-old man from Karamana, a 70-year-old woman from Tholikkode, a 42-year-old man from Edapazhanji, a 26-year-old woman from Manjamoodu, a 63-year-old woman from Varkala, and a 39-year-old man from Moongode. Source unknown Local transmission accounted for 569 cases on Saturday, while the source of infection was not immediately known in 259 instances, Health officials said. Two of the persons who tested positive had arrived from abroad, while five others had travelled to the district from other States. The day’s caseload included 417 women and 431 men. Of this, 97 were children below the age of 15 while 154 persons were above the age of 60, indicative of the high number of persons belonging to the vulnerable age groups testing positive over the past few weeks. At present, 10,893 persons are under treatment for COVID-19 in the district. As many as 1,546 persons were newly quarantined on Saturday, taking the total number under surveillance to 30,399. Protocol violation Meanwhile, the City police initiated action against 285 people for violation of COVID protocols. Thirty-eight persons were booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Live webcast soon from Shantikavadom||In view of the restrictions to participation of relatives during cremation of those who died due to COVID-19, the city Corporation is set to launch live web streaming of the last rites at the Shanthikavadom electric crematorium in Thycaud. The live streaming will be made available on the Smart Trivandrum webpage (www.smarttvm. corporationoftrivandrum.in), on the Shanthikavadom YouTube channel and its Facebook page. According to the Corporation authorities, quite a few people had expressed their wish to take part in the last rites of their close relatives or friends. However, strict restrictions on the number of people allowed had prevented them from taking part. The live web streaming, which can be accessed from any part of the world, is being launched to address this issue. Round the clock An online software system will be implemented for reserving the furnaces. The booking will be through the Smart Trivandrum mobile application and web portal. Bookings can also be done through the Corporation’s call centre (contact - 9496434488) which will function round-the-clock or directly through Shanthikavadom (0471-2323574). The cremation certificates from Shanthikavadom will henceforth be available online too. The name and details of the persons being cremated in the furnaces will be displayed in real-time in a display board at the front. Officer appointed The city Corporation has appointed a charge officer for overseeing the functioning of the crematorium (contact - 9496434410). The Smrithi mandapam located adjacent to the Shanthikavadom will be renovated to be used for memorial events. Work on two more gas furnaces is progressing, in addition to the existing two electric furnaces and four wood furnaces. Aerobic bins and a material recovery facility are also being arranged for the waste management at the facility. Ever since the COVID-19 outbreak, 381 bodies were cremated here, out of which nine were from outside the State, while 181 were from panchayats located near the city.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||21 shops closed for violation of COVID-19 restrictions||Twenty-one shops and establishments in the district were temporarily closed on Saturday for violating COVID-19 restrictions. The shops were closed following inspections carried out by sector magistrates tasked with overseeing the enforcement of COVID-19 restrictions in the district. Action was taken against the shops following repeated violations, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. So far, sector magistrates have detected 1,475 incidents of violations in the district and taken action. On Saturday alone, 81 persons were fined while a case was registered against one person for violation of the prohibitory orders. Action was taken against 465 shops for failure to maintain visitors’ register and 311 persons for failing to wear face masks. Action was also initiated against 194 shops which failed to maintain proper physical distance among customers. The district administration has appointed 92 sector magistrates for ensuring proper enforcement of break-the-chain activities and the restrictions imposed under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the district. The daily caseload in the district has fallen below the 1,000-mark due to the stringent inspections carried out by the sector magistrates. The officers have been carrying out inspections since October 4, the Collector said.  92 sector magistrates appointed for proper enforcement of break-the-chain activities.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Next phase of Plus One admissions from Monday||The results of the first supplementary allotment for Plus One admission will be published at 10 a.m. on Monday. Of the 1,09,320 applications received for the 44,281 seats vacant for the first supplementary allotment, 1,07,915 were considered. Applications from 469 candidates who took admission under other quota after applying and 936 applications that were ineligible owing to lack of options or other reasons were not considered for allotment. How to access details Admission will be held from Monday to Friday according to COVID-19 safety norms. Details will be available on the websitewww.hscap.kerala.gov.inby entering the candidate login-SWS and clicking the ‘Supplementary Allot Results’ link. Students and parents should reach the school as per the date and time specified on the allotment letter on the link. The vacancies after allotment will be published on October 27 for district/inter-district school/combination transfer allotment, a pressnote said here . Students who have taken admission on merit or sports quota under the single window system can apply for transfer even if admission was received under first option.  Of the 1,09,320 applications received, 1,07,915 were considered
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Orders issued to dismiss 385 doctors||The government has issued orders removing from service 432 employees of the Health Service, including 385 doctors, for unauthorised absence from service. An official release issued by the office of Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Saturday said at a time when COVID-19 necessitated an increased requirement of human resource, the unauthorised absence of employees was preventing the Health Service from recruiting additional personnel. Earlier, 36 doctors in the Medical Education Service too had been dismissed from service for unauthorised absence. The 385 doctors being dismissed included probationers and permanent employees. The other 47 employees included health inspectors, pharmacists, filaria inspector, staff nurses, nursing assistants, dental hygienists, lab technicians, radiographers, optometrists, hospital attenders, record librarians, PHN tutor, and clerks. At a time when COVID-9 was ravaging through the State and thousands of health-care workers are tirelessly working on the front lines for disease containment and patient care, it cannot be justified that so many are staying away. Though these employees had been given several opportunities to rejoin service and the matter advertised widely through various media, very few had replied and fewer had joined back.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Settle port dispute: Chandy||Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has urged the State government to settle the ongoing agitation against the Vizhinjam seaport project amicably and at the earliest. The local residents are demanding assurances in writing as the earlier promises were not kept. An early solution is needed for the agitation which has dragged on for 18 days, Mr. Chandy said in a statement here on Saturday. Unless the fishers are adequately compensated for the loss of their livelihood and the safety of the fisheries harbour is ensured, the multi-crore project will be delayed endlessly, causing huge losses, he said. Steps by UDF govt. The construction of the port was launched during the tenure of the UDF government by ensuring a major rehabilitation package. The UDF government had also launched measures to address the problems faced by eligible beneficiaries who were not included in the package. The present crisis was caused by the LDF government’s failure to pursue discussions or grievance redressal in this regard, he alleged. According to him, neither the State government nor Vizhinjam International Seaport Ltd., the special purpose vehicle for the project, took any serious effort to ensure that the project progressed as per schedule. Although the State stands to benefit from the high-profile project, the government should not ignore the inconveniences faced by the residents, he said.  ‘If concerns of fishers are not addressed, project will drag on’
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assault on scribes: guard held||The police arrested a security guard, Kiran, of a private hospital at Karamana on charge of assaulting media personnel on Saturday. He allegedly assaulted media personnel who were covering the transfer of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, from the hospital. The district unit of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) has demanded stern action against the accused. They said he had attacked media personnel without any provocation. Three expensive cameras were damaged in the incident.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala gets 5 pairs of special trains||The Railway Board has approved the introduction of five pairs of long-distance fully reserved festival special trains in view of the festival season. The trains cleared are 02877 Howrah-Ernakulam Weekly Superfast Special, 02878 Ernakulam-Howrah Weekly Superfast Special, 02641 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Shalimar Biweekly Superfast Special, 02642 Shalimar-Thiruvananthapuram Central Biweekly Superfast Special, 07229 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Secunderabad Daily Special, 07230 Secunderabad-Thiruvananthapuram Central Daily Special, 02521 Barauni-Ernakulam Weekly Special, 02522 Ernakulam-Barauni Weekly Special, 02512 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Gorakhpur Biweekly Superfast, and 02511 Gorakhpur-Thiruvananthapuram Cental Biweekly Superfast. Train 02877 will leave Howrah at 5 p.m. on October 17, 24, 31, November 7, 14, 21, and 28 to reach Ernakulam at 6.30 a.m. on Mondays. In the return direction, train 02878 will leave Ernakulam at 12.20 a.m. on October 20, 27, November 3, 10, 17, 24, and December 1 to reach Howrah at 2.50 p.m. on Wednesdays. Train 02641 will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 4.55 p.m. on October 22, 24, 29, 31, November 5, 7,12,14, 19, 21, and 26 to reach Shalimar at 1.50 p.m. on Saturdays and Mondays. Train 02642 will leave Shalimar at 11.05 p.m. on October 27, November 1, 3, 8, 10, 15, 17, 22, 24, and 29 to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 9.15 p.m. on Thursdays and Tuesdays. From October 20 to November 28, train 07230 will leave Secunderabad daily at 12.20 noon to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 6.50 p.m. the next day. From October 22 to November 30, train 07229 will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 7 a.m. daily to reach Secunderabad at 12.20 the next day. Train 02521 will leave Barauni at 10.50 p.m. on October 21, 28, November 4, 11, 18, and 25 to reach Ernakulam Junction at 12.50 noon on Saturdays. Train 02522 will leave Ernakulam Junction on October 25, November 1, 8, 15, 22, and 29 at 10.15 a.m. to reach Barauni at 11.10 p.m. on Tuesdays. Train 02511 will leave Gorakhpur at 6.35 a.m. on October 23, 25, 30, November 1, 6, 8, 13,15, 20, 22, 27, and 29 to reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 5.20 p.m. on Sundays and Tuesdays. In the return journey, train 02512 will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 6.05 a.m. on October 27, 28, November 3 , 4, 10, 11, 17, 18, 24, 25, and December 1 and 2 to reach Gorakhpur at 3.20 p.m. on Thursdays and Fridays.  Long-distance fully reserved trains for the festival season
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical camps for aurally challenged kids||The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, is conducting medical camps for aurally challenged children and those with intellectual disability and locomotor disability across the State. The camps began in the last week of September. The camps are being held in the 168 block resource centres to assess the needs of nearly 35,000 children across the three categories and on its basis, provide them assistive devices. The difficulties faced by children with locomotor disability without assistive equipment made it imperative that the camps be held for them and for the other children despite the COVID-19 situation. The camps are being held in compliance with safety norms. Only 20 children will attend a camp on a day. Survey conducted The Samagra Shiksha had conducted a survey to identify children in need of the equipment and it was updated to include fresh admissions to class 1 and 11 this year. However, the camps being held at present prioritise students who urgently require equipment. As the number of children with visual impairment is large, camps will not be held for them during the pandemic. Instead, the aids will be provided to them on furnishing doctor’s prescription. Camps in Kasaragod district have been completed, but in districts such as Palakkad and Malappuram which have the maximum number of such children, the camps will take up to a month to conclude. In the other districts, the camps are under way. Tenders to be floated The data obtained at the end of the camps will be consolidated, and tenders floated to procure the equipment before they are delivered to the children, it has been informed. Camps will be held for children with specific learning disability too. The Samagra Shiksha will also intervene to address sickle cell anaemia that was detected in 28 children in Wayanad. The district officials have been directed to collect details of such children and ascertain their requirements.  The Samagra Shiksha will also intervene to address sickle cell anaemia
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fight righward drift, CPI(M) cadre told||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said he saw a mustering of right-wing forces to undermine the progressive LDF government. Speaking at a videoconference organised to observe the 100th anniversary of the formation of the Communist Party, he urged party cadres to escalate their fight against revanchist tendencies and the rightward drift in society. He said the Communist Party had ushered in a model of development rooted in socialist values. It laid stress on improving health care, land reforms, and free education to all. The communist movement had helped transform Kerala into a secular society. ‘Threat to Constitution’ Joining in by video link, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said Hindu majoritarian forces were chipping away at the secular foundation of the Constitution. They wanted to convert India into a Hindu nation and to relegate minorities, Dalits and marginalised sections to the status of second class citizens. He called for the mustering of left, liberal and secular forces to retard the movement of right-wing politics.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply to be disrupted for 3 days||Water supply to the following Corporation wards will be disrupted on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday due to maintenance works at the Kerala Water Authority treatment plant at the filter house — Chala, Kuriathi, Attukal, Kalippankulam, Kamaleswaram, Ambalathara, Sreevaraham, Fort, Perunthanni, Vallakadavu, Sreekanteswaram and Palkulangara.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Central team begins tour of State||The two-member team deputed by the Union Ministry of Health to support Kerala’s efforts towards strengthening COVID-19 containment, surveillance, testing and clinical management of positive cases has begun its tour of the State. The team, which includes Ruchi Jain, Public Health Specialist at the regional office of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in Thiruvananthapuram and N.K. Gupta, clinician, Department of Respiratory Medicine, Safdurjung Hospital, New Delhi, visited the District Collector and senior Health officials here on Saturday. The team will be visiting districts which have been reporting a high burden of COVID-19 cases, which include the capital district as well as Thrissur, Ernakulam, and Kozhikode in the next few days. Team’s mandate The team’s mandate is to help and guide the State in overcoming the challenges in case diagnosis, testing and follow-up. They will also interact with the State’s senior clinicians to take a fresh look at the treatment protocol being followed by hospitals. Separate teams have been despatched by the Centre to Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, and West Bengal too where the COVID-19 case graph is on a steady climb.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tests being scaled down: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday said the government had scaled down COVID-19 tests to conceal the actual spread of the pandemic. He said Kerala topped the country in test positivity rate. It belied the government’s claim that Kerala had successfully reined in the disease. An estimated 1,200 persons had died due to COVID-19, about 5% of them in hospitals. More than 1 lakh persons remain infected. Mr. Chennithala asked the government to scale up the tests to an optimal one lakh a day. He said the government had kept the actual number of COVID-19 deaths a secret.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rank list for MCA course||The rank list for admission to the MCA course for 2020-21 in All India Council for Technical Education-approved colleges has been published. The list can be viewed onlbscentre.kerala.gov.in. Applicants are to submit college options by October 20. For details, dial 0471 2560363/364.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IEEE Day observed||The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Kerala Section, celebrated IEEE Day with the participation of engineers from across the world, on the theme ‘Beyond the Pandemic: Volunteering with IEEE for Technological, Social and Humanitarian Causes.’ Toshio Fukuda, IEEE president and CEO, inaugurated the meet online. In his keynote address, Dr. Fukuda said that in the post-COVID scenario, IEEE would help create newer technologies that enable people to work, study, transact, and interact virtually.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waiting room at SAT renovated||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Saturday inaugurated the renovated waiting room at Sree Avittam Tirunal (SAT) Hospital. The centre is meant for caregivers of those admitted in the hospital. The renovation work, including the flooring, plastering, electrical work, installation of CCTV cameras and television, was completed as part of the Corporation’s National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM).
23 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Daily caseload in Thrissur jumps to 1,109||Marking a spurt in COVID-19 cases, Thrissur recorded 1,109 COVID-19 cases on Saturday while 1,227 people recovered from the disease. There are 9,320 active cases in the district and 163 patients from the district are undergoing treatment at hospitals at various other districts. As many as 27,151 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district so far and 17,564 people recovered from the infection. According to official statistics, all the cases reported on Saturday contracted COVID-19 through local contact. Among the active cases, there are 138 people above the age of 60 and 73 children below the age of 10. In all, 6,048 patients are under home observation. Antigen tests were conducted for 3,816 people on Saturday.  15-bed unit The first COVID-19 telemedicine ICU in the State was opened at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thrissur, on Saturday. A centralised swab-testing centre was also launched along with the ICU. The new telemedicine ICU has 15 beds. The telemedicine unit will enable the senior doctors to monitor the condition of the patients at the unit. The doctors can observe the patients and also direct treatment through the camera. The centralised testing centre was opened to make the COVID-9 tests faster. Principal M.A. Andrews, Government Medical College, Thrissur, inaugurated the centre.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All dolled up||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Getting poll ready||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Red-letter day||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditonal ritual||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Nine days of light and life||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Comparing notes||
23 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur gets Rs. 310 crore for widening of NH-42||Anantapur has been sanctioned Rs. 310 crore under the Urban Link Project for four-laning of the National Highway-42 in the city limits. This announcement was made by Union Transport and MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday while virtually inaugurating the Kanakadurga Flyover in Vijayawada. Initially, Rs. 90 crore of the total was sanctioned for the project in the current financial year, but the remaining Rs. 220 crore would also be released following representation from the State government, Mr. Gadkari said. The project will widen the entire stretch from Bellary bypass on NH 44 to Tower Clock, running through to Saptagiri Circle, taking a right turn at Mayor's Tailors in Suryanagar towards the Collectorate and up to Pangal Road at the beginning of Bengaluru approach Road, Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy said. The MLA submitted the proposal and thanked the Union Minister and the CM for taking up the project to de-congest the Raju Road. This project also includes widening of the existing Rail Over Bridge(ROB) at the railway station and making it four-lane bridge.
23 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entries invited for short films on Navaratnalu||The Government of Andhra Pradesh has invited applications from film-makers to make short films on Navaratnalu, the government schemes. The last date for submitting the short films/documentaries is December 14, officials said. Details are available on www.apsftvdc.in, according to a press release from the Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh State Film and Television Development Corporation.
23 October 2020||KAIKALUR (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourist spots under Forest department to reopen soon||Here is some good news for nature lovers: the tourist spots in Krishna, East and West Godavari districts that have remained closed for the last six months due to the COVID-induced lockdown will be opened soon. The tourist places being guarded by the Forest Department will be open to public after the Dasara festival. Meanwhile, some people who are visiting these sites on weekends unaware of the restrictions are returning disappointed. There were also instances of people getting into heated arguments with the forest personnel for not allowing them to visit lakes and beaches. “We have come from Khammam district to visit Hamsaladeevi but the forest officials did not allow us to go there. Our appeals for permission as we have come from a long distance fell on deaf ears,” lamented a visitor K. Krishna Reddy. A similar situation was seen at Atapaka on Krishna-West Godavari district borders, in Kolleru lake. “Thousands of people from A.P. and the neighbouring States visit the Atapaka Bird Sanctuary to enjoy the boating and watch the pelicans and other birds in the lake. Already, the winged visitors reached the sanctuary,” said a visitor B. Vaishali of Narsapuram in West Godavari district. However, the forest personnel said as the sea was rough and the lake was filled to the brim, visitors were not being allowed as a precautionary measure. Eluru Divisional Forest Officer (DFO-Wild Life Management) C. Selvam said plans were afoot to reopen tourist places in the division. “We will open the Atapaka Bird Sanctuary, Hamsaladeevi, Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary and other places in the Eluru division shortly,” he said.
23 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four held for false claim on temple wall collapse||Four persons were arrested on Saturday for reportedly circulating video clips with false claims that some miscreants had attempted to demolish a portion of a temple at Patamatipalem village under Malkipuram police limits. The accused have been identified as A. Rama Rao, A. Venkata Narasimham, Y. Srinivas and B. Tara Prabhu of Padamatipalem. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi told reporters here on Saturday that on the night of October 15, the four took a video of the collapsed portion of the temple wall, which actually fell after it was hit by a vehicle earlier, and circulated it on online platforms claiming that some miscreants had attempted to demolish the temple. It was a revenge act by the four against the local police for arresting their friend in a liquor case recently, the SP. S. Arjun, the driver of the vehicle which hit the temple wall, was also arrested. Cases have been registered against the four accused.
23 October 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three nabbed for hundi thefts||The Sirivella police on Saturday nabbed a three-member gang wanted in 23 cases of hundi thefts at roadside temples in Anantapur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Prakasam districts, carrying on them as many as 23 cases. The police seized gold and silver jewellery worth Rs. 12.3 lakh, two bikes and two mobiles from the gang. According to Superintendent of Police K. Fakkeerappa, the trio – Erukula Nallabothula Nagappa (42), his wife Prameela (33) of Pamidi in Anantapur district and Lavanya (30) of Mahanandi in Kurnool district – were habitual offenders targeting temples alongside highways. In order to avoid suspicion, they would move in the garb of a family. Acting on a tip-off, a special party nabbed them on Saturday morning under Sirivella police limits. The SP said that the police surveillance at the temples vulnerable to attacks by miscreants would be further mounted through CC camera network.
23 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migratory birds start arriving at Pulicat||Bird watchers will not be disappointed this year as the Pulicat lagoon and its surroundings in Nellore district brim with water to beckon the winged visitors in a big way. With the major reservoirs, which include Somasila and Kandaleru, getting bountiful inflows due to the floods in several spells in the Krishna, the arrival of the migratory birds, which include the flamingos, to the picturesque lagoon has begun. “The flora and fauna at the lake, the country’s largest brackish water ecosystem after Chilika Lake in Odisha, is conducive for the arrival of the winged visitors from far away land in large numbers to their winter home this year, coinciding with the northwest monsoon period,” Sullurpeta Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife) D. Ravindranth Reddy told The Hindu . Thousands of local birds thrive at the 759 sq-km Pulicat lagoon, thanks to good water flow in Arani, Kalangi and Swarnamukhi rivers. “The arrival of migratory birds can be expected to peak in the next two to three months,” he said. Pulicat Lake is the winter home for a variety of aquatic and terrestrial birds such as painted storks, large and little egrets, grey pelicans, grey herons and water birds such as northern pintails, black-winged stilts, seagulls, terns, sandpipers, and the common coots. Egrets, terns, ducks, and waders have also make a sojourn to the lake in good numbers. Invertebrates such as prawns, plankton, coelenterates, annelids molluscs and echinoderms thrive as also monitor lizards, calotes, cobra, Russell’s viper, and krait, and schools of fish such as sable fish, sargin fish, white, black and silver pomfret. Open-billed storks, little cormorants, spoon bills, Indian moorhens, coots, night herons, lessor whistling ducks have already come in good numbers to the Nelapattu bird sanctuary, about 10 km from Sullurpeta. About 189 bird species, including 50 migratory species, make it to the bird sanctuary, which is also home to Barringtonia acutangula tree species that can survive even in floods.
23 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Downward trend continues in south coastal Andhra||Incidence of coronavirus continued to show a downward trend in south coasal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours. Fresh cases and fatalities came down, while more patients won the battle against the viral disease. The toll in the region rose marginally to 1,030 as one patient each succumbed to the dreaded disease in Nellore and Prakasam districts in a span of 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday night. Prakasam district accounted for 554 deaths and Nellore for 476 deaths so far. Recoveries As many as 588 patients contracted the disease in the two districts, while 648 patients recovered from illness during the period. With 348 testing positive for the disease, the number of cumulative confirmed cases rose to 56,248 in Prakasam district while the tally stood at 59,495 in Nellore district as 240 persons got infected. The number of active cases came down to 3,181 in Prakasam district with 417 patients recovering from illness during the period and 231 persons were discharged from hospitals in Nellore district, bringing the number of active cases further down to 2,700. Nellore district Joint Collector M.N.Harindira Prasad attributed this to 24x7 monitoring of patients by health professionals. The district administration would adopt aggressive testing strategy to identify all the positive cases and treat them, he said after inaugurating a testing facility at the APSRTC bus station in Nellore on Saturday. All bus passengers would be subject to testing for the disease and those testing positive would be provided medical treatment, District Medical and Health officer S.Rajyalakshmi said.
23 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam police nab inter-State dacoity gang||Prakasam police resolved two cases with the arrest of 11 offenders, including two from neighbouring Tamil Nadu and one from Telangana, on Saturday and seized from them property worth Rs. 14.25 lakh. ‘Drug smugglers’ In the first case, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said that the CCTV footage of the car used by the offenders and their call data record analysis led to the arrest of 10 members of a dacoity gang. The gang was involved in smuggling of drugs, he said. Police seized Rs. 1 lakh worth cocaine, 9.5 kg of ganja, a car worth Rs. 8 lakh, a knife, a dummy pistol and Rs. 5,000 cash from them. The gangsters had waylaid three passing vehicles on the Chennai-Kolkata highway and robbed the drivers of their mobile phones and cash after threatening them with knife and a dummy pistol, the SP said. The arrested were identified as Dinesh and K. Swami, both from Tamil Nadu, Naveen (23), Ajith (25), Md. Jaffar (21), Ganesh (21), Sai Sandeep (27), Sd. Rahman Basha(24), all from Nellore district, and Chandrasekhar (24) and Mahesh (22) from Chittoor district. Police also arrested one Sai Babu, a native of Allapur village in Telangana, on the Chennai-kolkata highway near the Old bypass here, who had struck at an electronics shop. Mobile phones worth Rs. 4.8 lakh worth were recovered from him. The offender was involved in five other incidents of crime, Mr. Kaushal said.
23 October 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Havelock Bridge likely to be handed over to State soon||The South-Central Railway, Secunderabad, has decided in principle to hand over the 120-year-old decommissioned bridge across the Godavari and 1085.59 sq. yards of land adjacent to it in Rajamahendravaram to Andhra Pradesh in exchange of 2583.33 sq. yards of land offered by the State government. The Railway Board is likely to issue the sanction order during its meeting scheduled to be held this month, Rajamahendravaram MP M. Bharat has told The Hindu after a meeting with Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav. The 2.74-km length bridge, named after the then Governor of Madras, Sri Arthur Elibank Havelock, was commissioned on November 11, 1897 and thrown open for traffic on August 30, 1900. It was decommissioned in 1997 after its service for over a century in the history of Indian Railways. In January, 2017, the Railway Board accorded approval for handing over the bridge to the State government on ‘as is where is basis’ subject to the conditions that exchange of railway land in the vicinity of bridge with the land of equivalent value. In July, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy wrote to the Indian Railways stating that the district administration was ready to hand over 2,583.33 sq. yards of land (Survey No.317 in Rajamahendravaram city) to the railways and request it to expedite further action to take possession of the railway land (1085 sq. yards) adjacent to the bridge. On October 12, Chief General Engineer A. Achuta Rao (works branch, South Central Railway, Secunderabad) requested Executive Director (land and amenities), Railway Board, to communicate the handover proposal of the bridge and the respective land to the State government. Beautification plan Mr. Bharat said he explained to the Railway Board Chairman about the State government's plan to develop the bridge on the lines of London Bridge. “A Rs. 100-crore beautification plan is being prepared to develop it into one of the prime tourist destinations in the country,” said Mr. Bharat. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was briefed about the beautification plan and the project would help Rajamahendravaram get the heritage tag under the HRIDAY (Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojna), said the MP.
23 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord mounts Chinna Sesha Vahanam as Damodar Krishna||Lord Malayappa dressed in the celestial attire of Damodar Krishna and mounted atop the golden Chinna Sesha Vahanam with a glob of butter in one hand and his favourite flute in the other blessed the devout on the second day of the Navaratri Brahmotsavams at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Saturday. According to mythology, Chinna Sesha is believed to be the personification of Vasuki, the king of serpents. In view of pandemic, the religious celebrations were strictly confined to the Kalyanotsava Mandapam inside the main temple complex. Top echelons of TTD and member trustees alone were present. Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, CVSO Gopinath Jatti, and MP Vemireddy Prabhakar Reddy took part in the festivities that came to a close with Hamsa Vahanam in the night.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan seeks Rs. 1,000 crore from Centre as immediate flood relief||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah seeking an immediate flood relief assistance of Rs. 2,250 crore, or at least Rs. 1,000 crore. He said the State suffered heavy loss due to rains and floods triggered by the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal, and it required adequate financial support from the Centre. The Central government should send a team to do a detailed assessment of the loss incurred, which was initially pegged at Rs. 4,450 crore, he requested the Union Minister. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy informed Mr. Shah that many parts of the State were battered by rains from October 9 to 13. Highest rainfall I. Polavaram mandal in East Godavari district recorded the highest rainfall of 26 cm on October 13, he said. Several mandals in East and West Godavari districts received more than 20 cm rainfall in a single day, he added. The Krishna was in spate due to the massive inflows it received from its upper reaches in Maharashtra and Telangana. A large number of people were evacuated to safety as the rivers were swollen. The road network was badly damaged, canals had breaches and power supply has gone haywire at many places, the Chief Minister said. The latest rains caused extensive damage to paddy, cotton, maize and sugarcane crops. Various horticulture crops bore the brunt of rains. The death toll stood at 14 in spite of the best efforts by the NDRF and other personnel, he pointed out.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrangements in place for a hassle-free darshan: Malladi||Adequate arrangements, in adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines, have been made atop Indrakeeladri hill to facilitate a hassle-free darshan to devotees during the Dasara festivities, says Brahmin Corporation Chairman and Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu. The 10-day Dasara festival began at the Kanaka Durga temple on Saturday, and the Goddess was worshipped as ‘Swarna Kavachalankruta Durga Devi’ on the first day of the festival. Addressing the media, Mr. Vishnu expressed satisfaction over the arrangements made by the officials for a hassle-free darshan to the devotees who visit the temple during the festivities from far flung areas. He said without making any compromise on the COVID-19 guidelines, the devotees were being sent in for darshan. The previous year, the temple witnessed a crowd of 80,000 devotees on each of the 10 days of the festivities, he said. But this year, in view of the pandemic, a system had been put in place to allow darshan to only 10,000 devotees in a day. Traditional rituals such as offering of hair and a holy dip in the river had also been done away with, he informed. The MLA said to spare the devotees the problem of heavy traffic during the festival days, the Kanaka Durga flyover was opened to divert vehicular movement. He said, with the blessings of the Goddess, the State had witnessed copious rains, and he was hopeful that the farmers would progress and thrive with good crop yield and adequate returns on them.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports fewer than 4,000 new COVID-19 cases||The State has once again reported fewer than four thousand new infections with the lowest single-day positivity rate in months. With 3,676 new infections and 24 new deaths in 24 hours ending Saturday morning, the total case load increased to 7,79,146 while the death toll increased to 6,406. The number of active cases came down to 37,102 as 5,529 patients recovered in the past day. So far, 7,35,638 patients have recovered, registering a recovery rate of 94.42% against a death rate of 0.82%. At 5.19%, the positivity rate of the 70,881 samples tested in the past day was lowest in over three months. The overall positivity rate also slightly came down to 11.14% as 69.91 lakh samples were tested so far. East Godavari’s daily new cases came down compared to previous weeks, but still continues to report the highest tallies. Two districts reported fewer than 100 new infections. Chittoor reported the highest number of deaths in the past 24 hours. The district-wise positive cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (567 and 2), West Godavari (531 and 1), Chittoor (473 and 5), Prakasam (348 and 1), Krishna (308 and 4), Guntur (259 and 4), Kadapa (246 and 0), Nellore (240 and 1), Visakhapatnam (204 and 3), Anantapur (193 and 2), Srikakulam (125 and 1), Kurnool (91 and 0) and Vizianagaram (91 and 0). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,09,611), West Godavari (78,603), Chittoor (73,197), Anantapur (62,268), Guntur (61,852), Kurnool (58,727), Nellore (57,929), Prakasam (56,248), Visakhapatnam (53,588), Kadapa (49,597), Srikakulam (42,438), Vizianagaram (38,098) and Krishna (34,095).
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dasara festivities begin at Durga temple||Devotion marked the commencement of Dasara festivities at the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam, popular as Kanaka Durga temple, atop Indrakeeladri here on Saturday. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the authorities put a cap of 10,000 per day on the number of devotees for darshan of the Goddess, and they were allowed only through online darshan ticket. Last year, nearly 80,000 devotees visited the temple on each day of the festival. The presiding deity is worshipped in various forms (avatars) during the 10-day festival. In a symbolic representation of the 10 forms (alankaram) of triumph of good over evil, each form is chosen as per the astrological star of the day, in accordance with the lunar calendar. Alankarams On day one (Saturday), the Goddess was worshipped as Sri Swarna Kavachalankruta Durga Devi. This will be followed by ‘Sri Bala Tripura Sundari Devi’ alankaram on Sunday (October 18) and ‘Sri Gayathri Devi’ form on Monday (October 19). Similarly, the deity will be worshipped in the form of ‘Sri Annapurna Devi’ on October 20, ‘Sri Saraswathi Devi’ (Moola Nakshatram day) on October 21, ‘Sri Lalita Tripua Sundari Devi’ on October 22, ‘Sri Mahalakshmi’ on October 23, Sri Durga Devi (Durgashtami) or ‘Sri Mahishasura Mardhini Devi’ (Maharnavami) on October 24 and as ‘Sri Rajarajeswari Devi’ (Vijayadasami) on October 25. On Moola Nakshatram day, when the Goddess will be adorned as ‘Sri Saraswati Devi’, darshan will start at 3 a.m., and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will offer ‘pattu vastrams’ to the deity on behalf of the State government. On Saturday, 9,215 devotees visited the temple by 6 p.m., temple Chairman Pyla Somi Naidu and Executive Director Suresh Babu said. Of them, 5,345 had online tickets and the others were allowed since there was still time to close entry. Vijayawada Central MLA and Brahmin Corporation head Malladi Vishnu, and High Court Judges Praveen Kumar and Vijayalakshmi visited the temple on the first day.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Proud to be partner in flyover work’||Tata Steel has supplied 80% of the steel used for the Kanaka Durga flyover, the 2.6 km six-lane project, the longest in the State, that was inaugurated on Friday. The company had provided 2,000 tonnes of low relaxation pre-stressed concrete (LRPC) strands and 10,000 tonnes of TMT (thermo-mechanically-treated bars). Chief of Marketing and Sales, Industrial Products, Projects and Exports of Tata Steel V. Ravichandran said the company was proud to be a partner for supply of the bulk of the steel used in the construction of the flyover. Deputy General Manager (Procurement), Soma Construction and Development, the construction contractor of the project, Y.S. Rao said the technology used in the products and the consistency of service helped maintain speed and meet the timelines for the project. The ‘engineering wonder’ raised using state-of-the-art technology is the third of its kind in the country to be constructed with a six-lane passage, three each way on the 78-foot wide elevated corridor that includes six curves and two major turnings.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 35 lakh unaccounted cash seized, three held||Sleuths of the Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) conducted raids at Bhavanipuram in the city and seized Rs. 35 lakh unaccounted cash. They arrested three persons who were in possession of the amount. Police alerted the Enforcement Directorate and Income Tax personnel on the seizure of the cash, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Based on the information, that one Satyendra Singh Rajput of Rajasthan was collecting the amount from R. Venkata Narayana of Vijayawada, and was allegedly prepared to hand over the cash to T. Satyanarayana of Guntur, the team led by CTF Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao and ACP V.S.N. Varma, seized the cash and took the trio into custody. Police seized a bike and three mobile phones from the traders. They were handed over to Bhavanipuram police, the police said.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP alleges plan to divert TTD funds||The BJP has demanded that the properties and funds of the TTD be used only for temple development and protecting the Hindu Dharma, and not as a corpus for generating bank interest. The party stated that the TTD deposited up to Rs. 5,000 crore in various banks, and plans to divert the amount to the government came to the party’s notice. The party warned of agitations if the government decides to diver TTD funds.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SBI donates mini-bus to Durga temple||Officials of the State Bank of India (SBI)’s Amaravati Circle on Saturday donated a 27-seater mini bus worth Rs. 23 lakh to the management of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam atop Indrakeeladri hill. Transport needs SBI General Manager P. Sivakumar said the vehicle would be useful to cater to the transport needs of devotees who visit the temple for the darshan of the Goddess. The bus was handed over to temple chairman Pyla Somi Naidu and Executive Officer Suresh Babu who expressed gratitude to the bank officials. SBI Chief General Manager Sanjay Sahay remotely presented the vehicle to the temple authorities from Hyderabad. Later, SBI’s Gandhinagar branch Regional Manager P. Siva Kumar and others had the darshan of the Goddess in Swarna Kavachalankruta avatar on the first day of the Dasara festivities.
23 October 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl’s murder: parents seek death sentence||Parents of engineering student V. Divya Tejaswini (22), who was allegedly stabbed to death by a youth B. Nagendra Babu here recently, have urged Home Minister M. Sucharitha to award capital punishment to the accused. Ms. Sucharitha visited the girl’s house and consoled her family members on Saturday. The Minister garlanded the portrait of Tejaswini and paid tributes to her. She said the incident was very unfortunate and the government would extend all help to the bereaved family. “Please hang the person who killed our daughter. No family should suffer like this,” Tejaswini’s parents said in a representation submitted to the Home Minister. Ms. Sucharitha promised fair investigation into the case to render justice to the victim’s family. The Home Minister advised girls to download the Disha app and the A.P. Police Seva app, and call the police in an emergency.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Embankments of Varaha river will be strengthened: Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the embankments of Varaha river will be strengthened to check inundation problem. The Collector along with Payakaraopeta MLA Golla Babu Rao on Saturday visited Somudevapalli village at S Rayavaram and inspected the embankments of the river and the damages caused by the rains. Mr. Vinay Chand examined Varaha river basin and enquired why the embankments were washed off. The Collector directed the officials concerned to take all the necessary measures to temporarily resolve the issue at the earliest so that the residents in the nearby areas do not get affected. The Collector later held a review meeting with the officials and asked them to prepare design for strong embankments that would withstand further rains that may cause flood-like situation. Mr. Vinay Chand instructed the Superintending Engineer to submit a complete report on the issue and the changes in the breakwater design which led to the washing off of the embankments. The Collector has also informed that a loss to the tune of Rs. 70 crore was estimated as the crops were inundated due to heavy rains in the district.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension prevails as civic body officials demolish ‘illegal’ shops||Officials from the Town Planning wing of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) demolished 15 shops which were allegedly set up in land belonging to the Irrigation Department and by encroaching the footpaths, near Andhra University area, here on Saturday. Tension prevailed as huge police force was deployed when the locals tried to stop the demolition activity by the GVMC officials. Visakhapatnam (East) MLA V. Ramakrishna Babu reached the spot immediately after coming to know about the demolition activity. There were heated exchanges between the locals supported by the MLA and the officials. ‘No notices’ The residents claimed that they have been living in the locality for more than 25 years and the civic body demolished shops without serving notices. “It was around 4 a.m. when the officials came here and started demolishion. Neither they showed us any demolition orders, nor they gave us time to take out our belongings from the shop,” alleged Ch. Venkanna, who runs a photocopying shop and also resides there. M. Sathyavathi, who is a resident and runs a sugarcane juice point, said that they have been living here for the last 25 years and the land issue was pending with the court. “Along with our lawyer, we had asked the GVMC officials to stop demolition. They did not listen,” she said. “We were not served any notices before as claimed by the civic body officials. This is our only source of living. Now where shall we go and how do we live?” she questioned. M. Ramana, who runs a tea point and photocopying shop over there, said that more than 20 families and nearly 100 persons were affected and lost source of income. There are a number of women living here, he said. A few students who regularly visit the tea stalls, tiffin shop and the photocopying centre, expressed their solidarity with the shopkeepers. Mr. Ramakrishna Babu said that if the YSR Congress Party wants to target him, they should do it directly. But it is unfair to target innocent people in his constituency who support him, he said According to GVMC Chief City Planner R.J. Vidyullatha, they have received a representation from the Irrigation Department officials that some part of their land has been encroached near Andhra University. They also received complaints from students of Andhra University girls hostel that anti-social activities were taking place near the shops, as their hostel is located nearby, she said The CCP also said that the vendors had encroached the government land and the shops were also spilling on to the road side. Ms. Vidyullatha also said that if there are people below the poverty line, they can apply for a shop/kiosk following GVMC procedures and they can get an alternative place.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 204 new cases, three more deaths||The district reported 204 new COVID-19 cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the COVID-19 bulletin report released on Saturday evening. With the new cases the tally in the district has gone up to 54,100 and the death toll to 457. As many as 162 persons who were infected due to COVID-19 and treated at hospitals, COVID-19 care centres were discharged or recovered from the virus. With the new discharges and cases, the total number of recoveries in the district has gone up to 51,460. The number of active cases stands at 2,183. Out of the 316 clusters in the district, four are very active and 64 are active. As many as 627 clusters were de-notified by the district administration.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF launches ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative on AP Express||Following instructions from higher officials, Railway Protection Force (RPF), Visakhapatnam, started implementing ‘Meri Saheli’ initiative in train No.02805 AP Express (Visakhapatnam to New Delhi) from Saturday in order to provide proactive security to women passengers. According to Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Jitendra Srivastava, the main motto of ‘Meri Saheli’ is to provide safety and security to women passengers travelling in trains throughout their journey. He said that a team of women Sub Inspectors and women constables of RPF will enter all coaches including ladies coaches and identify women passengers, who are travelling alone before the departure of the train. These passengers will be briefed about all precautions to be taken during the journey and inform about help no. 182 apart from giving contact numbers of RPF to contact in case of any issue. He also said that RPF staff on platform duty at the stopping stations, RPF escort party available in the train will contact the passengers during the period of stoppage and enquire the problems if any. The process will be continued till the train reaches destination, he said. “If some distress call comes from a train covered under ‘Meri Saheli’ the disposal of the call may be monitored by senior officers of the respective division,” he said.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag girl designs sanitiser gloves that disinfect surfaces||It has been a nightmare to step out of one’s home during the last six months in view of the pandemic threat. Those going out on duty or on errands, are all the time worried whether they had touched any surface, where the ‘invisible virus’ was lurking. It was this thought that haunted Pasagada Hemanjani, who had completed her Intermediate, during the early days of the lockdown in March. She thought of developing ‘auto sanitiser gloves’ which could disinfect objects and surfaces effortlessly. She shared her thoughts with her father, P.M.D. Prasad, an employee in the Signal and Telecom Department of Railways, and he chipped in with his expertise. “The inner layer of the glove is made of plastic material and the outer one is made of micro nano absorbent and dispensing material,” says Ms. Hemanjani. How it works “All we have to do is to wear the gloves and pass the gloved hands on the surfaces, which need to be disinfected. The liquid sanitiser in the nano material spreads on the surfaces and kills the virus and remains there for 30 minutes to one hour, thereby offering some protection to subsequent users. The plastic inner layer protects our palms and hands from the sanitiser, which harms our hands if used for long,” she elaborates. “Prolonged use of sanitizer can damage the skin of the palm. The top layer of cells on the skin will die and over a period of time and it can even cause cancer. These gloves can prevent the danger while checking spread of the virus. “The gloves disinfect all surfaces like door knobs, handles, tables and chairs which we have to touch when we enter an office or any other place,” explains Mr. Prasad. “They are useful for travellers, particularly train and air passengers. We have applied to the Intellectual Property Facilitation Centre of the NRDC in Vizag for granting of a patent for our product and they have acknowledged receipt of the same on Sept. 14,” he adds.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Japan good haven for IT jobs’||With things not looking good for IT professionals in the U.S., Europe and Middle East, Japan could be a good option for them, said T. Muralidharan, chairman of TMI group, a HR services company. Japan was increasingly losing the patent race and needed youth with skill sets, especially in IT. “One estimate is that Japan needs approximately 2,00,000 engineers immediately. However, the government of India has not been looking towards this destination seriously,” he said. In India, every year about five million graduates from various courses pass out and barely a million get recruited. “If the demographic dividend is to be encashed, it is time that we looked towards Japan,” said Mr. Muralidharan. “For IT professionals looking towards the U.S. the basic requirement is that he or she should be good at English with some work experience. But in the case of Japan English is never a criterion. The basic requirement is some elementary knowledge in Japanese language. Most importantly Japan is now giving long-term visas to foreign students, as their main workforce is ageing,” he said. It is time the government introduced some kind of basic Japanese language course in colleges, he said. Apprentice scheme Japan also introduced an apprentice scheme, and the young minds could utilise this opportunity. As Japan was investing heavily in India, after working for a few years, they could return to work for Japanese companies here. “Japan requires professionals in data analytics, robotics and programming and that is where our strength lies,” he said.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delay in breast cancer treatment can lead to higher mortality: expert||The decision to delay the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer may have grave consequences for cancer mortality in the years to come, say oncologists. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a massive challenge for the treatment of breast cancer patients. “A substantial increase in inquiries was witnessed since the lockdown. We are urging women to keep examining their breasts and to contact their doctors. The success depends on early diagnosis and treatment and delays could lead to higher mortality rate in the coming decade,” says Dr. B. Ravi Shankar, oncologist of Omega Hospital, Visakhapatnam. Breast cancer, that is diagnosed early, is easier to treat and offers the best survival chances. Regular screening for breast cancer, including annual mammograms after the age of 40 and self-examination of breasts after the age of 30 is important for everyone. During this testing time of COVID-19, experts are offering phone and online video consultations, where they are going through the patient’s symptoms and deciding the future plan of action. If annual mammogram was delayed by the pandemic, one should call the doctor and reschedule it. Breast cancer has become the commonest cancer in urban women in India and second most common in rural women. According to World Health Organisation, the numbers are expected to rise dramatically by 2030, due to increased urbanisation and changing lifestyles. Sedentary lifestyle coupled with junk food and smoking are some of the causes of the rise. Besides, family history and genetics do play a role in determining a woman’s risk of developing breast cancer. Women are considered at high risk if they have a family history of breast cancer or are over the age of 50, says Dr. Ravi Shankar. Women should look for any changes in their breasts and discuss it with their doctor.  Breast cancer, that is diagnosed early, is easier to treat and offers the best survival chances. Regular screening , including annual mammograms and self-examination, is important
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APEPDCL uses drone to restore power in villages||The Eastern Power Distribution Company of A.P. Limited (APEPDCL) has employed a drone to restore power supply in villages of Tuni mandal in East Godavari district, which could not be reached easily as water in the Thandava was flowing dangerously due to recent heavy rains. Power supply to NS Venkatanagaram village was completely cut off and the water was flowing strongly between Kolimeru and NS Venkatanagaram, with even expert swimmers expressing their inability to cross the river. APEPDCL officials then utilised a drone to send the power supply cables across the river and completed the task in quick time. Villagers expressed their gratitude to officials and staff of APEPDCL for restoring the power supply in a short span of time. APEPDCL Chairman and Managing Director S. Nagalakshmi appreciated the efforts of S.E. Suryaprakash, D.E. David to restore power by utilising technology.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSF official goes missing||Officials from BSF, Malkangiri, Odisha, on Saturday lodged a complaint with the Airport police over missing of a 36-year-old BSF official who had not reported to duty for the last 17 days. According to Airport police, Sanjay Kumar (36) of Uttarakhand was posted in Malkangiri district for anti-Maoist operations. He had arrived from New Delhi to Visakhapatnam on October 1. After reaching Vizag, he had made a video call to his family. Later his whereabouts are not known and his cell is switched off, said the police. Investigation is on.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘COVID-19 has impacted life of senior citizens’||Countries are experiencing one of the greatest demographic disruptions in history. The rapid ageing of their populations and reduced birth rates will drive an unprecedented growth in the proportion of the population aged 60 years plus, observed UN affiliated International Institute on Ageing (INIA) Deputy Director Rosette Farrugia Bonello, here on Saturday. She was delivering the keynote address on ‘The Impact of Demographic Change and COVID-19 on Older Persons’ organised by GITAM Deemed to be University School of Gandhian Studies. She observed that as people age, their need for both health and social care is likely to become increasingly diverse. Governments around the world are beginning to experiment with new policies to address these challenges and hence become prepared and well-equipped to secure the needs of population shifts, she added. She mentioned that the population of senior citizens is increasing at a fast rate in India. She also shared instances about the way COVID-19 has impacted the life of senior citizens and their caregivers across the world.  This session was coordinated by Applied Psychology Department Assistant Professor Nidhi Mishra.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forum hails State’s decision||The Right To Education (RTE) Forum has hailed the decision of the State government directing the school heads not to mention caste and religion of students in the attendance registers. In a statement, RTE Forum Steering Committee member Narava Prakasa Rao said that the School Education Department had issued circular in this regard recently. Mentioning caste, creed or religion is a discriminatory practice, he said. Hailing the decision, he said it related to the dignity and honour of the children and their parents.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||INOX announces opening of cinemas||INOX has announced opening of its theatres, in accordance with the State notifications and Standard Operating Procedures, after being shut down for over six months, with effect from October 15. In a statement here on Friday, INOX said the SOPs include limiting the auditorium occupancy to 50%, leaving adjacent seats vacant, floor markers at booking and food counters, promoting use of digital modes of transactions, availability of PPE kits , thermal screening at entrance, staggering of show and exit timings, seat disinfection and sanitisation , designated bins for mask and gloves and encouraging the use of Aarogya Setu app among the audience.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand over guns, DSP appeals to tribals||Paderu Deputy Superintendent of Police B. Rajkamal said that possession of ammunition and guns and going for hunting are strictly prohibited as per law. In a video message on Saturday, he appealed to the tribals to hand over their countrymade guns if they have any. He made this request after the incident in which 24-year old youth from Dumbriguda mandal died after he was allegedly accidentally shot dead by one of his friends while hunting. The DSP also said that this is not for the first time such incidents were reported in the Agency. He warned that if people having guns do not deposit with the police, the police would take strict action.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Complete BRTS road at the earliest’||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao asked the officials from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) to make sure technical issues are not reported while implementing welfare schemes. The Minister conducted a review meet with the officials here on Saturday. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the government is acting strict against illegal or unauthorised constructions irrespective of political affiliations. He said that he has asked the officials to complete the BRTS road in the city at the earliest. He said that the corporation has taken up works worth about Rs. 150 crore in all the eight constituencies.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IGNOU extends last date for admissions||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date for submission of fresh admission applications for the July 2020 session, to October 25 without any late fee. Admissions are open for all the certificate, diploma, PG diploma, graduation and post-graduation courses in ODL mode. Admissions can be taken through a web link available in the IGNOU website:https://ignouadmission. samarth.edu.in For more details students can visit the IGNOU website www.ignou.ac.in or contact the Visakhapatnam Regional Centre through email onrcvisakhapatnam@ ignou.ac.in. The decision to extend the last date is said to have been taken in view of the COVID-19 pandemic that has gripped the country.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crimes against women on the rise: HC Judge||“In the present society, women are facing a lot of discrimination, crime against women are increasing day-by-day. Our long-term goal is to eliminate violence against women in every community. We will achieve this by arming police officers, prosecutors and victim advocates with the information needed to identify, investigate and prosecute difficult cases successfully,” said Justice T. Rajani, Judge, Andhra Pradesh High Court. She was speaking at a webinar on ‘Crimes against Women and Human Rights: Problems and Perspectives’ at Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (DSNLU).  S. Surya Prakash, Vice Chancellor, DSNLU, inaugurated the webinar. Raka Arya, Associate Professor, NLIU Bhopal, M.A.D.S.J.S. Niriella, Faculty of Law, University of Colombo, Sri Lanka, and others also spoke.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister congratulates award winner||Minister for Tourism M. Srinivasa Rao congratulated alumni of Andhra University Nikhitha Challapilli for getting Young Achiever Award in the annual Women Excellence Achievement Awards 2020. Ms. Nikhita received the award for her contributions in student-driven women empowerment activities and for disseminating novel concept of emotional education among rural women.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four injured in accident||Four persons, including driver of a lorry, received minor injuries when the vehicle overturned on ghat road at Pulusumamididi area, around 23 km from mandal headquarters of G Madugula, in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The incident reportedly occurred while the driver suddenly took a turn as a motorcycle came in front of the vehicle on the ghat road. Police said that all the four received treatment in a hospital and were discharged. A case has been registered.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourists’ paradise||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devout’s delight||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aerial route||
23 October 2020||CHANDAPUR,TELANGANA||Tenant farmers in debt trap||“The Government has no record of tenant farmers and no land owner has ever recognised a tenant farmer formally. In such a case, how can the government extend financial assistance of Rytu Bandhu to people who have no right on land?” asked Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao during his address to Assembly on June 23, 2018. He also opined that this may lead to irrational demands from different sections in future. This October, the State witnessed heavy downpour for two days, creating chaos not only in the State capital but also in the districts. Golla Ashok is a farmer from Chandapur village in Sadashivapet mandal. He took five acres of land on lease for Rs. 48,000 per year. He has already paid the amount of lease. In addition, he spent Rs. 30,000 for each acre of cotton and the total amount spent by him for five acres reached to Rs. 1.5 lakh and the total debt for this season alone was Rs. 2 lakh. In this village there are more than 100 farmers and all of them have leased lands, ranging from one acre to 10 acres and cultivated cotton. Now all of them have debts to clear. “Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao says that there are no tenant farmers at all in the State and there was no record at all. But who are cultivating these lands when landlords are staying in towns and Hyderabad? Who is filling our plate and offering food security in the absence of landlord not taking up cultivation?” asked Mr. G. Jayaraj, district secretary, All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), adding that till the formation Telangana, tenant farmers used to get loans and identity cards. Now, the tenant column was removed from revenue records, he said.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Fresh rain spell triggers panic in deluge-hit area||Fearful residents of Kabgir Nagar near Al Jubail Colony moved to higher grounds once again on Saturday evening following a 45-minute spell of heavy rainfall in the area. “Water and muck is still there on the streets. We are afraid that the water level will rise again. That’s why we moved older people and children to the nearby government school and to the homes of our relatives,” said Muhammad Iqbal, a resident of the area. Kabgir Nagar was one of the worst affected areas in the October 15 flooding when the water from the sewage channel overflowed and marooned the colony. “With my six-month-old granddaughter in arms, I ran to the neighbour’s house at 3 a.m. and climbed up a wooden ladder and stayed on their terrace till 7 a.m.,” says Gulam Yazdani, a state government employee. The residents narrated a terrifying tale about how the water made bubbling sounds under the doors as they slept, only to be woken up by the loud cries of ‘pani aaya, pani aaya’ that forced them to make a quick escape between 2 a.m. and 3 a.m. in pitch darkness. Most residents escaped with their clothes and cellphones. One of them, Ghousia Begum, managed to carry her four goats to the terrace and save them. The low-income colony where a majority of the residents are tenants pay Rs. 4,000-4,500 as rent shared horror stories about their escape from the muddy water that gushed into their homes, destroying everything in its wake. The maze of streets are lined with furniture, bags of rice spoilt by water, fans, TVs, refrigerators and the foul odour of clothes drying for four days and dark muck littered with assorted plastic waste. “We don’t have anything left. We have not changed clothes for the past four days. People are helping us with food and water. But we cannot live on charity forever,” says Muhammad Asif, a bus driver, pointing to shoulder high water mark inside the house. His elder son rushes inside and fetches a brownish wet pile. “These are my books. Now what am I going to study,” asks Muhammad Owais, an intermediate student of Falaknuma Junior College. The family survived by moving to the tin terrace of a neighbour’s house at 2 a.m. and staying put there till 7 a.m. when they moved to the railway track on higher ground with the help of other residents. The destruction is not limited to household goods and articles, livelihoods have also been wrecked as the water tossed and shattered autorickshaws and small cargo vehicles parked by their owners in the area. One car floated in the water and crashed into a wall creating a gaping hole. One of the residents, Muhammad Ayub, lost even the shuttering equipment that he used to keep at his home. “I was scared when the water rose quickly. I ran with my parents to the terrace of the neighbour’s house. It was completely dark and we walked with just the light of the cellphone torch,” said Salma, a class VI student of St Nizam High School who also lost all her books in the flooding. “The water was waist high by the time we walked out and moved to my mother’s house on this street (a distance of 100 metres), it had already reached shoulder height. I was scared for my eight-year-old daughter,” recalled Fatima Begum who survived the ordeal along with her family of four.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pump house flooding may hit irrigation, water needs||The flooding of the pump house (first lift) of Mahatma Gandhi Kalwakurthy Lift Irrigation Project (LIP) at Yellur village of Nagarkurnool district on Friday evening is likely to have a huge impact on farmers and people depending on its water for irrigation and drinking water needs. Water lifted from the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir with the help of three lifts serves an ayacut of 3.65 lakh acres spread across 24 mandals of Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy, Mahabubnagar and Rangareddy districts, besides meeting the drinking water needs of 336 villages in Kollapur, Nagarkurnool, Achampet, Wanaparthy, Kalwakurthy and Jadcherla constituencies. “The impact of flooding of the pump house could be huge and it is going to be very difficult to resume pumping water from the facility in the immediate months as de-watering, and pumping out of flood water, is expected to take at least 25 days,” a source in the Irrigation department told The Hindu on Saturday. According to the engineers, the pump house has five motors with capacity of 30 megawatt each to discharge 800 cusecs of water each after lifting to a height of 95 metres. Although several theories are making rounds on the immediate cause of flooding of the pump house at Kalwakurthy, the engineers concerned have refused to point out at anything until they examine the entire facility physically to come to any conclusion. Asked whether the underground blasting work being done for the pump house of Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Project nearby could be the cause, a senior engineer said, “There are so many possibilities including huge flood continuing for a long period this year and there could be some kind of mechanical failure too that could have failed to prevent flood water breaking the barriers of surge pool and inundating the pump house. Unless we see the ground zero physically we can’t pinpoint any of the reasons.” The source, however, admitted that the question of giving water to the ayacut for the remaining season is a distant possibility as de-watering of the pump house itself was expected to take a long time. “The water already pumped and stored in the four balancing reservoirs could, at best, be given to the ayacut to serve the needs of standing crops but it could hardly last for 7 to 10 days,” he explained.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three from Kolkata held for bank fraud||Three persons from Kolkata were arrested in connection with SIM swap fraud and one more from Delhi in a job fraud, Hyderabad Cyber Crime police said on Saturday. In the SIM swap case, the accused, Sagar Mahato, Kumar Gaurav Singh and Sanjay Agarwal were arrested from West Bengal and brought to Hyderabad on transit warrant. Similarly Sachin Yadav, who is involved in a job fraud, was arrested in Delhi and brought to the city on transit warrant. Modus operandi All the four accused were remanded for judicial custody on Saturday, Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said.  He said that in September last year, a person approached police stating that he had three overdraft accounts with DCB Bank for his business activities and all the accounts are registered with his yahoo mail ID and his mobile numbers. “He got OTPs on his mail ID and his mobile numbers as well for the three accounts. On September 4, after checking his bank details, he was surprised to know that a total amount of Rs. 35,89,899 was fraudulently transferred into some unknown accounts through IMPS, RTGS, NEFT from his three accounts, and his registered mobile number was disconnected a few months ago,” he said. When the victim accessed internet banking, he came to know that five beneficiary accounts were added into his three accounts without his knowledge and consent. Based on his complaint, a case was registered and the three accused were identified and arrested. Police seized 7 MM pistol with two magazines and six live rounds, seven mobile phones and three bank cards. Mr. Mohanty said that the accused were also involved in another case in Cyber Crime police station where the complainant lost Rs. 50 lakh. Sagar Mahato is also involved in a recent case of Mumbai Cyber Crimes where the amount of fraud was Rs. 2 crore. Businessman cheated In the other case, a city-based man was cheated to a tune of Rs. 96,563. The victim told police that when he was searching for a job, an unknown person contacted him on behalf of naukri.com and offered him a job. Further, he was lured to transfer the amount through his wallet. “After transferring the money, he found the mobile numbers were switched off and he was cheated,” the officer said. According to Mr. Mohanty, the accused Sachin Yadav and his associates have been cheating the job seekers by contacting them over mobile phones and emails. Appeal to people “The accused gets the information of unemployed persons and offers them a job and collects money through wallets. After collecting money, they would switch off their mobile phones and change them frequently,” he said. The investigators seized one laptop, eight mobile phones, two routers, two bank cards and six SIM cards. The officer urged the general public not to believe such type of job offers and do not proceed with the payment as genuine companies would never collect money to provide jobs.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State highways to have trauma centres||The Telangana government will soon set up trauma care centres and ambulances on the State highways, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K. T. Rama Rao said on Saturday. Mr. Rao, along with Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy, inaugurated a dedicated Trauma Care Centre for Nehru Outer Ring Road at Shamshabad. He lauded the HMDA for working hard in providing the first-of-its-kind trauma care facility in the country on ORR. Further, the Ministers inspected the centre and interacted with doctors via telemedicine connect, which has been set up for the paramedical staff to seek live expert medical opinion/advice from senior doctors while attending complicated cases at the centre. “Saving lives is very important and the government has set up these centres to stabilise patients who are injured in accidents on ORR,” Mr. Rao said. He said that giving critical care to the patients during the golden hours could save lives. The Ministers also flagged off 10 advanced life support ambulances These ambulances each would cover 32-km stretch, enabling immediate relief in road accidents on ORR. The ambulances were equipped with stretchers, monitors with defibrillators (for monitoring heart, blood pressure, & giving shock during cardiac arrest), a mobile suction machine, syringe pump, glucometer, fracture splints, bandages and cervical collar for neck injuries, he said.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR visits flood-affected areas for 4th day||For the fourth consecutive day, Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao visited flood-affected areas and presented Rs. 5 lakh ex gratia cheques to the kin of those who died in the heavy rains and floods. Stating that loss of life was unfortunate, he assured the people that the government was serious to take steps to avoid flooding. The Minister said that relief measures had picked up pace as the water level receded. Affected families were being given ration kits containing all essential commodities, medicine and bedsheets in rain-affected areas. Each kit costs about Rs. 2,800. He asked the officials and people’s representatives to distribute the Chief Minister Relief Kits at the doorstep of the residents. The Municipal Administration Minister also asked the GHMC officials to take up sanitation and fogging to prevent spread of any communicable or water-borne diseases. He also directed the Revenue department officials to ensure free flow of water clearing illegal structures in the FTL areas of all the lakes. Trauma care The Telangana government would soon set up trauma care centres and ambulances on the State highways, Mr K. T. Rama Rao said on Saturday. Mr. Rao, along with Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy, inaugurated a dedicated Trauma Care Centre for Nehru Outer Ring Road at Shamshabad. Further, the Ministers inspected the centre and interacted with doctors via telemedicine connect, which has been set up for the paramedical staff to seek live expert medical opinion/advice from senior doctors while attending complicated cases at the centre. The Ministers also flagged off 10 advanced life support ambulances. These ambulances each would cover 32-km stretch, enabling immediate relief in road accidents on ORR. The ambulances were equipped with stretchers, monitors with defibrillators (for monitoring heart, blood pressure, & giving shock during cardiac arrest), a mobile suction machine, syringe pump, glucometer, fracture splints, and cervical collar for neck injuries.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Choose college wisely: NIT Warangal director||In the midst of counselling for engineering courses and colleges, students and parents are in a dilemma on choosing from the myriad courses and nearly a lakh of seats in 15-odd popular disciplines. Senior professors caution students not to make hasty decisions in choosing the course and the college based on peer’s advise but going through a serious exercise including visiting the college, understanding the faculty quality, research facilities and reputation of the college management. Students will not be joining for just a degree but to acquire the life-long learning process in a changed world, feels N.V. Ramana Rao, Director, National Institute of Technology (NIT) Warangal. How best the colleges are equipped to instil the skills to learn and adapt to the changes is important than mere placements or buildings. Prof. Rao advises students and parents to check where the faculty have obtained their higher degrees from. The Ph.Ds obtained from national and international institutions are likely to instil a different experience among teachers and students can be assured of such experience passed onto them. A good teacher produces better graduates is his argument. It’s natural that good colleges hire good teachers as they are willing to pay them well. So a teacher is the important component of the engineering wheel. The research activities of teachers are an important element while judging the teachers. “What kind of projects they handle and for which companies they consult for reflect their calibre.” The second important aspect is the infrastructure. Laboratories, equipment, connectivity and their availability to students are important. Check what kind of e-journals do the libraries subscribe to and also what student events like seminars, workshops, festivals including sports activities. “They all contribute in making a good graduate.” NIRF rankings The best way to judge these facilities is to personally visit the colleges, speak to the senior students and interact with the faculty before finalising the college. However, the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings provide a positive overview of the quality of colleges. Prof. Rao reminds that the NIRF rankings approved by the Ministry of Education draw from the overall recommendations from the parameters covering “Teaching, Learning and Resources,” “Research and Professional Practices,” “Graduation Outcomes,” “Outreach and Inclusivity,” and “Perception”. So these rankings give a clear idea about the quality of the technical institution. Another question that haunts students is which branch to choose? Prof. Rao, who earlier worked as JNTU-H Registrar, says the answer is all branches have equal employment opportunities. “But before choosing a branch, one has to assess himself with questions like what are his intellectual and physical abilities to study that particiular branch, competencies and skill sets required.” In fact, all branches of Engineering have good potential for career prospects, employment and entrepreneurship. Passion for a particular area of study comes into play. Companies don’t look at the scores alone but lot of emerging skill sets apart from interpersonal and language skills.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR to launch Dharani portal on Oct. 25||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will launch the Dharani portal on October 25 that would be a trend-setter for the country for registration of non-agriculture properties, Chief Secretary to the State government Somesh Kumar stated here on Saturday. In a video conference held with District Collectors, Additional Collectors, Tahsildars and Naib (Deputy) Tahsildars, he made a detailed presentation about the functioning of the new portal. He stated, “Dharani is the most innovative, state-of-the-art, transparent, accountable, safe, secure hassle-free and discretion-less portal. It is revolutionary and will be a trend-setter for the entire country.” As per the vision of the Chief Minister, the system would ensure absolute transparency and remove discretion. Under the system, Tahsildars of all the 570 mandals would function as Joint Sub-Registrars, while the Sub-Registrar Officers would do registrations of non-agriculture properties from 142 locations, Mr. Somesh Kumar explained. The Chief Secretary asked the Collectors to ensure 100% preparedness in terms of staff and infrastructure for Dharani portal. He also stressed that all Tahsildars should undertake at least 10 transactions by Sunday. He instructed the Collectors to ensure that hardware facilities for Dharani were fully functional. Further, he suggested the District Collectors to hold regular coordination meetings with engineers of power distribution companies (Discoms), broadband service providers and Telangana State Technological Services (TSTS) representatives to ensure that there was no interruption to Dharani services. Inspector General of Stamps and Registrations Seshadri, Secretary Health and Family Welfare S.A.M. Rizvi, Secretary SC Development Rahul Bojja, Secretary Tribal Welfare Christina Z Chongthu, Commissioner Commercial Taxes Neetu Prasad, Special Secretary Finance Ronald Rose, Commissioner PR&RD M. Raghunandan Rao, Commssioner Excise Sarfraz Ahmed, MD TSTS Venkateswar Rao and others attended the meeting on Saturday.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth barred from visiting site||Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy along with AICC Secretary Sampath Kumar and former MP Mallu Ravi were arrested while they were on their way to visit the submerged pump house of Kalwakurthy LIP at Yellur village on Saturday. Tension prevailed as the Congress leaders were stopped near Telakapalli stating there was no permission even as the leaders argued under what rules they were being prevented. As Congress cadres swelled up protesting against the refusal to allow the visit, police tried to arrest the leaders. Mr. Revanth Reddy sustained injuries on the shin of both the legs as police tried to forcibly take him into custody. They were shifted to Talakapalli police station in Nagarkurnool district. Speaking at the police station, Mr. Reddy alleged that the submergence was reflection of the corruption and deliberate ignorance of safety practices and blamed CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao for it. He demanded that only an inquiry by sitting judge of the High Court can bring out the negligence of the State government, given the magnanimity of the loss and the favours extended to some contractors. “Any inquiry by government officials will be an eyewash,” he added. Uttam blames CM Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said at a press conference that an expert committee, constituted by the present government, had submitted a report on June 20, 2016, making several recommendations for the safety of the pump house. However, the State government ignored the recommendations and carried out underground works of Palamuru Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Project within 400-metre radius of KLIP pump house. He said those explosions led to the submergence of the pump house inundating 10 out of its 14 floors within 20 minutes. He claimed that the incident, resulting in loss of property worth thousands of crores, was a man-made mistake. He said the CM should accept the responsibility for the entire damage as he also holds the Irrigation portfolio. The TPCC chief alleged that the irrigation projects in Telangana were filling the pockets of TRS leaders with cash from the commission they were getting from the contractors. He alleged that sub-standard and inferior quality works were done in Kaleshwaram, Mid Maniar and Kondapochamma projects and they were getting affected. TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar demanded the intervention of the Central government to probe into the quality of works in the irrigation projects constructed by the TRS regime. BJP national vice-president D.K. Aruna too was arrested at Pebbair while she was on her way to the site.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After 4-hour struggle in water, man emerged with no clothes||After struggling to keep himself from drowning in the October 13 torrent, Mohammed Abdul Taher Qureshi emerged in Falaknuma, four hours later, exhausted and with no clothes on his back. “Somehow I caught hold of a wall and pulled myself out of the water. The clothes that I was wearing came off in the strong current. I saw a sack nearby and covered myself with it. I realised I was swept away from my house in Ali Nagar to somewhere in Falaknuma, three or four kilometres away. The realisation that I was struggling in the water for four hours dawned on me after I heard the fajr azaan around 5.15 a.m . During this time, I kept shouting for help. I later found out that Chandrayangutta Additional Inspector Prasad Varma tried to save me by pushing a pipe in my direction, but it slipped from my hands. I was stuck at one place and at another, somebody tried to rescue me,” Mr Qureshi, who belongs to the Arab tribe Al Gureshi, says. He lifts his loose, grey trousers, and winces in pain, to show his shins. Crimson scratch marks criss-cross over green and purple bruises. His fatigued knees and thighs show signs of intense struggle. “The decaying body of my brother, M.A. Quddus Qureshi, was found in L.B. Nagar, 13 km away. In fact, he tried to save me before being swept away. Around 1 a.m., we tried to move our family into his house which is across the road so that they would be safe. But the water took them away,” he says. Mr Qureshi’s son-in-law Mohammed Omar, a lawyer, interjects to explain that while the survivor’s house is single-storey, Quddus Qureshi’s house is a ground plus three structure. While Mr Qureshi has buried five of his family members, three others — M.A. Wajid Qureshi, M.A. Wasay Qureshi and M.A. Wahab Qureshi — are still missing. Among those who were killed was his daughter-in-law, Humera Farzana. His son M.A. Wasif Qureshi, who is now in a West Asian country. Tuesday, when tragedy struck, was their wedding anniversary. A retired Road Transport Corporation employee, Mr Qureshi explains that his son Wajid, who drowned, was working with a tech giant, even as he describes him as the ‘backbone’ of the family. He is now worried about his wife Nishat Fatima’s medical expenses. He has appealed to the authorities to help him retrieve bodies of those who are missing.  I saw a sack nearby and covered myself with it. I realised I was swept away from my house in Ali Nagar to somewhere in Falaknuma, some 3 or 4 km away.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kin buried in house built with decade’s savings||It is the ziyarat , third day of remembrance of those who lost their lives in the wall collapse in Ghouse Nagar, Bandlaguda. A few hours after Friday prayers, locals gather in a small, dark room. A hushed hum of ameen spoken into cupped hands resonates as the moulvi seeks forgiveness for the victims, and appeals to God that their souls reach the highest gardens of Paradise. Under a tent on the road, rice is being cooked for those who knew the family to partake of. “It is for their isaal-e-sawaab (passing reward to the deceased),” says Mohammed Jahangir (60) who survived the devastating wall collapse on October 13. “We had dinner around 7.30 p.m. and half hour later, we went into our rooms. Just after 8 p.m., there was loud thunder. Within seconds, we realised what had happened. The wall collapsed and you know the rest. The neighbours came and pulled me out of the house and tried to save the others,” Mr Jahangir recalls. His son, Samad Rabbani (35), died. He was the sole breadwinner, and the family was proud of his education — he was a graduate of the Jafaria Technical Institute, a private industrial training institute. Samad left for Saudi Arabia in search of a livelihood five years ago. Unsuccessful, he returned a year later. Samad and his wife Saba Hashmi (26) died as large granite blocks from the wall crashed into their room, through the tin sheet roof. Saba was four months pregnant. “After his return, he drove my autorickshaw. He used to provide for the family. I am 24 and despite studying at Quli Qutub Shah Polytechnic, I could not find a job. On Tuesday night, water had started coming into the house, before the wall collapsed. It was dark. We did not know what had hit us. All of it happened in seconds,” said Mohammed Nawaz, Samad’s brother. Samad’s sister, Fouzia Naaz, along with her four-year-old son Zain, and 19-day-old toddler, too were killed The family had dreamed of owning a house for more than a decade. In 2016, that dream became a reality, and they moved to Ghouse Nagar. “We lived in Golconda earlier, in a rented house. After saving money for around 10 years, we bought this house,” Mr Nawaz says, before he returns to oversee the ziyarat rituals. The family is now staying with Mr Jahangir’s cousin, who lives a few houses from his. Another family, which lost three members — Zakira Begum (50), Syeda Anwari (4) and 16-month-old-Syed Sadiq — in the wall collapse, were moved to a relative’s house in Vatapally.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NEET results: Telugu students bag good ranks||Students of two Telugu states bagged several top ranks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for entry into MBBS and BDS courses with the topper being Tummala Snikitha from Telangana, who secured 3rd rank at the all-India level. She obtained 715 out of 720 marks and she also stood second among the girls in the country. Guthi Sindhu from Andhra Pradesh secured the 6th rank. She was the 4th among the girls. Other rankers from Telugu states include B. Sai Trisha Reddy (14th) from Telangana and Bhavanam Manasa (16th) from AP. Anantha Parakrama B Nookala bagged the 11th place with 710 marks followed by Kona Venkat (13th rank). In the top 50 ranks nearly 15 students from Telugu states figured. The Narayana institutions students bagged five ranks in the top 10 in NEET-2020. A statement from Narayana group directors Sindhu Narayana and Sharani said thtat 24 students figured in the top 100, 38 students in top 200 and 49 students in top 300, including all categories. The directors said that the teachers were specialised in converting even average students to all India top rankers. Dr. Sindhura said that the CBSE based curriculum and innovative NEET model mock tests helped all the medical aspirants to secure top ranks as well as has many possible seat getting ranks. “The success lies in the unique educational programme and innovative teaching methodologies designed by Narayana especially for medical aspirants,” the statement said.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Proposal for five new lifts on SRSP-FFC submitted||A proposal (report) on the five lift schemes being planned on Sriramsagar Flood Flow Canal (FFC) was submitted to the State government on Saturday after discussing it in detail at a meeting held here. Vice-chairman of Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar, Vemulawada legislator Chennamaneni Ramesh, Engineer-in-Chief (Projects-Karimnagar) G. Anil Kumar and others participated in the meeting. The report was submitted to ENC (Irrigation) C. Muralidhar later in the day. Explaining the proposal with the help of a PPP, Mr. Anil Kumar said it would have five lift schemes in Vemulawada, Korutla, Jagitial and Choppadandi constituencies along with pump houses by drawing water from the SRSP-FFC. Water would be first lifted from FFC to Suramma (Rudrangi) minor irrigation tank. From Suramma tank, it is proposed to irrigate about 70,000 acres ayacut in several villages under the right and left canals from it. Besides, pump houses are planned at several locations, including at Lakkakula Cheruvu and Kotha Cheruvu. Water in Suramma tank could also be used for stabilising the 60,000 acres of existing ayacut and could be given to Chandurthi and Mothkuraopet tanks to assure irrigation under them, the ENC explained. Mr. Vinod said the new proposals would also seek to provide irrigation and drinking water facility to drought-prone Kathlapur and Medipally mandals from where people migrate to Gulf countries in search of better livelihoods. He complimented the engineers of the irrigation department for conducting field surveys for the last two months to enable preparation of the report.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,451 new COVID-19 cases in Telangana||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 2,20,675 as 1,451 more people tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. Nine more COVID-19 patients died. On October 16, as many as 42,497 people were examined for the virus. While 3,9861 people underwent the tests at government facilities, 2,636 opted for private labs. Results of 1,174 were awaited. The new 1,451 cases includes 235 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 104 from Rangareddy, 101 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 92 from Bhadradri Kothagudem, 84 from Nalgonda and 71 from Khammam. The lowest of seven cases were recorded in Kumaram Bheem Asifabad, eight in Adilabad. From March 2 to October 16, a total of 37,89,460 samples were tested. Of the total, 2,20,675 cases detected during the period, 22,774 were active, 1,96,636 were discharged, and 1,265 died. The recovery rate in the State is 89.1%. In 62 State government hospitals, 4,684 oxygen beds and 1,098 ICU beds were vacant. In 227 private hospitals, 2,775 oxygen beds and 2,190 ICU beds were available.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four held for cricket betting||With the arrest three persons, including an engineering graduate, the sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (north zone) on Friday busted a organised cricket betting racket at Boudha Nagar of Chilkalguda. The accused Pedduri Sai Prasad (25), organiser, Mohd Jiyauddin (29) and Mohd Ismail (26) his associates were betting through main bookie Kjak of Madhya Pradesh and accepting bet amount from the known and unknown punters directly and indirectly, over cell phones for ongoing IPL cricket matches, Inspector K Nageswar Rao said. He said that Rs. 34,000 cash and five mobiles phones were recovered from their possession. The apprehended accused persons along with seized material were handed over to Chilkalguda police for further investigation. In a similar case, Task Force personnel of west zone apprehended a cricket betting organiser when he was accepting the bets by watching cricket in “Cricket Line Guru” mobile App at Yellareddyguda. They seized two mobile phones and Rs. 20,000 cash from the accused D. Ramana (42), who runs a hotel in Yellareddyguda, Inspector B Gattu Mallu said.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Consume boiled water, hot food’||Out of around 2000 people at rain rehabilitation centres in Telangana who showed symptoms of COVID-19, as many as 19 tested positive for coronavirus. They were taken to the State government hospitals for treatment. Taking precautions to avoid COVID-19 has become difficult for people who are stuck in inundated localities. Besides, it carries heavy risk of water-borne diseases. Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Saturday held a review on public health measures taken during the recent flood and its aftermath. Director of Public Health G Srinivasa Rao and other officials informed him that 165 health camps were organised at localities affected by rain. Some camps were held throughout the day. A doctors, two staff nurses and a supporting staff were posted in each camp. People who were rescued from submerged localities and brought to rehabilitation centres were checked for fever, coronavirus, and other health conditions which could arise out of the prevailing situation. Masks and sanitisers were given to those at the rehabilitation centres. The Health department also organised 46 mobile health camps. If any one was detected with fever or other condition, medicines were provided to them. Mr Rajender said people should be made aware of the diseases caused by contaminated water. He urged people to consume boiled and filtered water and hot food.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held, seven autos recovered||Adilabad police on Saturday arrested two persons of an inter-State automobile theft gang and seized seven auto rickshaws and a bike from their possession. The accused Zubair Khan, 22, a lorry helper from Kinwat in Maharashtra, and Shaik Nadeem, 20, a daily-wager from KRK Colony in the town, were stealing parked auto rickshaws from the surrounding areas during nights and used to sell them in neighbouring Maharashtra, district Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier said. “They used to re-paint the vehicles, drive all the way to Maharashtra through pocket routes and sell them at a cheaper price to make a quick buck,” he said. He said that the accused were arrested by Mavala Rural police.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State Page - Brief with pic Nayani continues to be critical||Former Home Minister Nayani Narsimha Reddy continues to be in a critical condition at Apollo Hospitals, Jubilee Hills. According to sources, the 86-year-old politician, who was the first Home Minister of Telangana State, was admitted to hospital four days ago. “He has been put on ventilator support and is on dialysis. Doctors are doing their best to stabilise him,” a source said.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Boy drowned||A 14-year-old student drowned in a pond at Miyapur here on Saturday. Police said that around 2 p.m., Sai Tarun along with his friends went to the pond for a swim. He was a resident of New Colony, Miyapur. The boy, who didn’t know how to swim, entered the water body and drowned. The body was retrieved and sent to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Durgam Cheruvu||In view of prevailing traffic situation due to heavy rain, the Durgam Cheruvu Bridge will be open to vehicular traffic on Sunday. "Commuters can use the bridge to travel between Jubilee Hills and Hitech City and vice versa," Cyberabad Traffic DCP SM Vijay Kumar said. Road closed Due to the rain, the old Kurnool road towards Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, Shamshabad, from PVNR Expressway was closed to commuter traffic, said Shamshabad DCP N Prakash Reddy said.
23 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) chairman Justice G. Chandraiah called on the family of retired IAS officer Cholleti Prabhakar to express condolences on Saturday. Mr. Prabhakar’s son Sravan Kumar had drowned in Nagarjunasagar canal. Madgulapally police retrieved his body on Wednesday.
23 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Three ‘single’ oustees get R&R package cheques||It was a moment of celebration in the life 65-year-old Marikindi Ramaiah of Erravalli in Kondapaka mandal who is set to lose his land under Mallannnasagar project. Revenue officials visited his house on Saturday and handed over to him a cheque for Rs. 7.5 lakh at his doorstep. Even Karunala Sattemma and Deshabattini Lakshmi of the same village, which comes under Gajwel constituency represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, received their cheques from the officials on Saturday. The officials were pushing to get the village vacated for the work on the reservoir which is a part of the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project. “Karunala Sathamma and 17 others have approached the High Court seeking Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package with a plea that they be treated as a family under Section 3(m) of Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013. The Court has directed the district administration to address the issue within two weeks and not get the village vacated till then. The Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) of Gajwel has inquired into the issue and found out that Ramulu, husband of Sattemma had passed away three years ago and she had no children or other relatives to depend upon. She was not yet given compensation for her house. Based on the report we have handed over cheque number 017028 on October 16, 2020,” read the letter issued by Additional Collector and Rehabilitation and Resettlement Officer S. Padmakar. “Initially, the officials had refused to extend R&R package to us despite repeated appeals. Finally, we were forced to approach the High Court. Now based on the Court directions they have handed over the cheque to me. There is no one to look after me. My wife and daughter passed away long ago,” Mr. Marikindi Ramaiah told The Hindu .
23 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||34 remain in fray in Dubbak by-election||As many as 12 nominations were rejected during scrutiny for Dubbak by-election. With this 34 candidates remained in the fray. The process of nominations began on October 9 and last day for filing nominations was October 16. Last day for withdrawal is October 19. Election will be held on November 3 and counting will be taken up on November 10. For the first time in the country, the administration made efforts to offer postal ballot for those aged more than 80 years, differently-abled apart from those who are suffering with COVID-19. Officials are making efforts in this direction and collecting the data to take necessary steps. Top leaders of all political parties are already busy campaigning in the constituency. With the process of scrutiny getting completed, the tempo of campaigning is expected to rise. Finance Minister T. Harish Rao is already busy campaigning for over a month and had visited almost all the villages.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Cost of development||
23 October 2020||Ahmedabad,||Man arrested in fake job ad scam in Gujarat||The Gujarat Police on Saturday arrested a man for allegedly placing fake advertisements of jobs in local newspapers and collecting money from people as application fees. Cyber crime officials nabbed Sandeep Pandya in connection with placing advertisements resembling those issued by the State government for openings in various departments. On Friday, the State government had warned job aspirants not to fall prey to fake advertisements that appeared in local newspapers on October 15. A case was registered under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 419 and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code, and relevant provisions of the Information Technology Act.
23 October 2020||Ballia (U.P.),||U.P. police to invoke NSA in Ballia firing case||Uttar Pradesh police on Saturday said it would invoke the stringent National Security Act and Gangster Act against the accused in the killing of a 46-year-old man at a meeting attended by senior administration and police officials here two days ago, even as a local BJP leader, who allegedly shot the victim, continued to evade the cops. Reward announced A total of five people have been arrested and another five detained in connection with the Thursday incident. Also, 12 teams have been formed to nab the other accused, including local BJP leader Dhirendra Pratap Singh, according to the police, which has announced a cash reward of Rs. 50,000 on their arrest. The FIR had named eight accused and mentioned “20-25” unidentified people in the incident during which Dhirendra Pratap Singh allegedly shot dead Jai Prakash as a fracas broke out at the meeting at Durjanpur village over the allotment of ration shops. The incident has snowballed into a major political controversy after BJP MLA from Bariya Assembly seat Surendra Singh came out in support of the main accused. On Saturday, Surendra Singh visited Reoti police station with the family members of the accused, claiming that they had also suffered injuries in the incident and an FIR should be registered. Delegations of the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party met the family of the deceased and attacked the Yogi Adityanath government. “A cash reward of Rs. 50,000 has been announced on each of the absconding accused. Action will also be initiated under the National Security Act and the Gangster Act against the accused,” DIG (Azamgarh Range) Subhash Chandra Dubey.
23 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha villagers create river mouth||Hundreds of fishermen have come together to excavate a new river mouth to prevent their villages from being inundated by the Rushikulya river in Odisha’s Ganjam district. As the natural river mouth got choked, the sea-side villages faced deluge due to overtopping of water. They had appealed to the district administration to help discharge of river water into the Bay of Bengal. “Our repeated appeals fell on deaf ears. Subsequently, we took it upon ourselves to find a solution. Over 1,000 people from four villages joined hands and decided to dig an artificial mouth,” said Magata Behera of Purunabandh village. The fishermen were also facing problems of docking their fishing boats along the beach which was witnessing steady erosion. They wanted a secured area for boat anchorage. “For three days, people came with their own implements to dig a channel from the river to Bay of Bengal. They also pooled money to hire an earth-mover so that sand dunes could be moved at a faster pace,” said Rabindra Kumar Sahu, a volunteer. After three days of collective efforts, the villagers managed to create a channel. Mr. Sahu said the channel was important for the fisher-folks as they were walking a long distance to access their boats. The new mouth would help them take boats directly to sea, he said. Residents of Purunabandha, Nolia Nuagaom, Sana Noliagaon, Gokharakuda, Padampeta and Kantigada would benefit by the artificial river mouth.
23 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Malik praises Sir Syed’s vision of a nation||Sir Syed’s vision of a nation was one of the earliest expressions of an idea of India which includes all its inhabitants without distinctions on the basis of religion, caste or race, said Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik while delivering the Sir Syed Day commemoration address as the chief guest on Saturday. Addressing AMU students in a virtual mode, he said, “You are the true realisation of Sir Syed’s dream as you are serving the nation with the true spirit of the ideals of Sir Syed.” ‘Example in healthcare’ Speaking in Hindustani, he stressed, “We are living in a challenging times due to the pandemic, but it is heartening to see that AMU rose to the occasion with full potential for serving humanity as its Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital has set an example for the nation by leaving no stone unturned in the healthcare of the patients.” Describing AMU as a “historical and heritage institution”, Mr. Malik said it was a “common desire” of the nation that the university continues to “lead the country in providing quality education”. He said it was “our collective responsibility to provide full support for the welfare of this institution of prominence.” Reminiscing the days when he represented Aligarh constituency as a Member of Parliament from 1989 to 1991 (on a Janata Dal ticket) and AMU Court simultaneously, he said that AMU became very dear to him. He recalled that AMU faculty members, including eminent poet and lyricist late Prof. Shahryar, and the students had campaigned for him when he contested the Lok Sabha election. He claimed Prof. Irfan Habib and Prof. Shahryar distributed his voter identity slips. The seasoned politician, who is seen as a rare socialist in the ruling dispensation, said one of the reasons he was appointed the Governor of Jammu & Kashmir was his stint as the MP of Aligarh. Mr. Malik, who was the Governor of J &K when Article 370 was revoked in August 2019, also spoke about the cooperation and help he received from AMU Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor in convincing the Kashmiri students to stay at AMU and not to return home during the tense period.  International category Receiving the Sir Syed Excellence Award in the international category, eminent historian Dr. Gail Minault, Professor Emerita, Department of History, The University of Texas at Austin, US, discussed her research on the Khilafat Movement and how important it was for her not to rely just on British sources and find out what the Ali Brothers, and Abdul Bari Firangi Mahali, and Maulana Azad were writing, thinking, and saying. Dr. Minault spoke about the help she received in her research from the families and descendants of the founders of schools, and the editors and publishers of Urdu journals, especially the family of Shaikh Abdullah of Aligarh, founder of Aligarh Girls’ School, which later became Aligarh Women’s College. She made a special mention of Mumtaz Jahan Haidar, who was for many years the Principal of the Women’s College. Anjuman-I-Islam, a Mumbai based educational conglomerate, was awarded Sir Syed Excellence Award in the national category. In the welcome address, Prof. Mansoor said that Sir Syed brought about the great revolution that transformed the Indian society in all walks of life. Later in the day, AMU Chancellor Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin inaugurated the Centenary Gate at the northern side of the AMU campus in virtual mode. The V-C, on behalf of the Executive Council, has named it ‘Centenary Gate’ and the name in Urdu has been inscribed on it.
23 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Temple fair starts under shadow of virus||Despite the threat of COVID-19 looming large, a usual pre-pandemic buzz marked the opening of the annual week-long — Navratra Mela — at Mata Sheetla Devi shrine here on Saturday. Devotees, including children of all ages, from Haryana, Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan, and other States started to throng to the temple early in the morning. The visitors could be seen jostling in queues outside the premises with little regard for social distancing norms. The shrine board, however, distributed free masks to the devotees and sanitised their hands. 6 lakh devotees expected Around six lakh devotees are expected to visit the shrine over the next week but the “mela” is expected to draw maximum crowd on Saptami (October 23) and Ashtami (October 24). The shrine was already open to the devotees with the Standard Operating Procedures, but the administration issued fresh directions on Friday regarding safety measures. Around noon, an auto-driver from Delhi, Ranbir, accompanied by his family, including an infant, said he had come to visit the shrine since his wish for a male child was granted by “Maa”. The 37-year-old said the infant couldn’t be left at home as his hair needed to be donated at the temple. “How long can we stay indoors?,” asked Ranbir while taking out a bottle of sanitiser. While he claimed that the family took all the precautions, none of the women or children were wearing masks. Rohit, a mobile shop owner, too had travelled for around six hours from Punjab’s Bhatinda to reach the temple with his wife and their newborn. “We have come to express our gratitude to the deity for blessing us with a male child,” he said. Temple officer Yogdutt Sharma told The Hindu that the deity was associated with the welfare of the children and, therefore, most of the devotees are visiting the shrine with their children. He said the temple staff could not prevent anyone from entering the premises. Preventive measures He emphasised that the shrine board had taken a host of measures to ensure the safety of the visitors and the temple staff. “The 106 staff members, including the policemen inside the temple, were tested for COVID-19 and four of them tested positive. Unlike the previous years, the visitors are told to leave the prasad at a designated place soon after they enter the premises,” said Mr. Dutt. Gurugram Civil Surgeon Virender Yadav said the temple staff would be again tested for the virus during the mela. Former Gurugram Bar Council president Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, visiting the temple, said the devotees were left disappointed as they were not being allowed to offer prasad inside the main temple. “People travel long distances to reach the temple and are left disappointed when told not to carry prasad , chunnis and other offerings inside the main temple. The priests should be made to wear gloves and accept their offerings. It is a matter of faith,” said Mr. Bhardwaj, a former BJP district president. Krishan Chugh, director and HOD, Paediatrics, Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurugram, cautioned that people, especially children, to avoid large gatherings such as melas . “Parents should avoid taking children to melas and crowded places since they cannot wear masks, maintain social distancing and sanitise their hands all the time —the three basic tenets of protecting oneself and others from COVID-19. These children going back home will pass on the infection to their family members and others. Some of these children will develop multi-systemic inflammatory syndrome of childhood (MIS-C), which is a life-threatening form of COVID,” said Dr. Chugh. A senior health department official also questioned the rationale behind allowing the mela expressing apprehensions that such gatherings could lead to a spike in COVID-19 cases.
23 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Civil Hospital augmented for COVID-19, but other patients left in the lurch||Panchu and his wife Lilawati are sitting under a tree inside the Sector 10 Civil Hospital premises on a hot Wednesday afternoon. The elderly couple is in distress and anxiously awaiting the woman’s blood test report. An abdomen ache has been troubling 56-year-old Lilawati for nearly a week now. But, she will have to wait for one more week before she can get an ultrasound scan, which is scheduled for October 25. Panchu is a housekeeping employee in a private firm and earns Rs. 300-Rs. 400 per day. He cannot afford the scan in a private hospital. “We have no choice, but to wait,” says Panchu. Sitting nearby is Bablu, who is suffering from tuberculosis-like symptoms. “I came here on Tuesday, but there was a long queue at the blood sample collection counter and I got turned away. The samples are collected only till 11 a.m. and many people have to return every day,” says Bablu, who works at a moulding unit in Udyog Vihar Phase IV. Once he gets the blood sample report, he will have to get a CT scan done at the old hospital building near the bus stand. “The CT scan is done in a building nearly 10 km from here. I will take leave tomorrow [Sunday] again and go there. It takes 3-4 days for a simple treatment. Poor people cannot afford to take so many leaves from work,” he says. ‘Five days for dengue report’ Nanak Yadav, a plumber, has been here since 6 a.m. — almost two hours before his appointment time. He wanted to ensure that he gets all the examinations done in a single visit. “I have come to the hospital many times over the years. You never get all the prescribed medicines inside the hospital,” complains Mr. Yadav. Another visitor, Darshan, says nothing has changed in civil hospitals: “I got my son Manoj’s dengue report only after five days.” Dilwar Ali, who has come to the hospital for the third time for his wife’s treatment, says they live in Sector 65 and the private auto charges Rs. 150 one way. Though the health crisis in the wake of COVID-19 has forced the government to augment health infrastructure in the district, many of the measures have been arranged on a temporary basis to deal with the situation at hand such as hiring of ambulances and lab technicians. But little seems to have changed for the poor patients thronging civil hospitals. Principal Medical Officer at Civil Hospital Deepa Sindhu says nothing much has changed for the 100-bed hospital catering to a population of 15 lakh, as per the 2011 census. “In terms of new infrastructure, three RT-PCR labs have been set up. Besides COVID-19 tests, these can be used for H1N1 tests,” says Dr. Sindhu. Despite the space crunch, hospital authorities were forced to cram in 45 more beds to deal with the rush. Soon, 25 more beds will be added for a separate Dengue ward. Forced to share bed The hospital records an average 500-700 deliveries per month, catering mostly to migrants. The expectant mothers and their attendants complain that 2-3 women are forced to share a bed inside the labour room. Dr. Sindhu denies the allegations. “The shortage of employees has led to long waiting time for ultrasound scans with the priority being pregnant women. We hope to conduct the scans in two shifts soon to handle the rush. Also, we have created space for the CT scan machine to be shifted to this hospital. It will also be done,” she adds. Administrative approval for a six-bed ICU building has been received and an up-gradation plan to add 100 more beds is in the pipeline. The government also plans to set up a 500-bed hospital at the site of the old Civil Hospital. All such projects may get delayed due to a financial crunch due to the lockdown and COVID-19 being a priority. Civil Surgeon (Gurugram) Virender Yadav maintains that the health infrastructure had got an impetus with the appointments of doctors, lab technicians, data entry operators, and setting up of labs and addition of ICU beds. “Many of these things will stay even after the pandemic is over. Though lab technicians are hired temporarily, the doctors are appointed regularly. The 44 doctors hired have been deployed in PHCs in Sohna and Pataudi. Similarly, 21 ICU beds and ten ventilators have been added to government hospitals,” says Mr. Yadav. Though five ambulances have also been added to the fleet, the Nodal officer of the referral transport system, N.P. Singh, says that two of them have been brought from Nuh and another two were donated by the district administration. “We had hired a few private ambulances temporarily when home isolation was not allowed,” says Dr. Singh.
23 October 2020||JAIPUR,||‘Over 50 lakh benefit from Indira Rasoi Yojana’||Over 50 lakh people have benefited from a new kitchen scheme, named after former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, launched in Rajasthan for providing nutritious food to the poor and needy twice a day at concessional rates. The State government plans to spend Rs. 95 crore during its first year. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who inaugurated the ambitious Indira Rasoi Yojana on August 20, said here on Saturday it would fulfil the State government’s promise of “no one sleeps hungry”. “Our aim is not just to feed the hungry and eradicate malnutrition... We wish to realise the World Food Day’s theme this year to grow, nourish and sustain together,” Mr. Gehlot said. While the Chief Minister said the scheme had ensured supply of healthy and nutritious food during the pandemic, the Local Self-Government department released the distribution figures on Saturday. Since August 20, food has been distributed to 1.33 lakh persons per day benefiting 50.30 lakh persons across the State. Though each plate is priced at Rs. 20, the State government provides a subsidy of Rs. 12 per meal. Each plate serves 100 grams of pulses and vegetables each, 250 grams of chapati and pickles.
23 October 2020||JAIPUR,||New oxygen plants for hospitals in Rajasthan||New oxygen production plants are being set up at sub-district hospitals in Rajasthan to provide timely treatment to serious COVID-19 patients. The plants are expected to strengthen oxygen supply system in the health facilities where the patients are admitted. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma has said that while the State government was taking steps to streamline the system of oxygen supply, there was a “continuing decline” in its demand, indicating that the virus infection was getting under control. Mr. Sharma said the hospitals across the State had added the beds equipped with high flow oxygen as well as the normal beds equipped with ventilators.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Rape case filed against Mahaakshay||The Mumbai Police have registered a case against veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty’s son Mahaakshay and the former’s wife Yogita Bali on a complaint of rape and cheating filed by a woman, an official said on Saturday. The case was registered at Oshiwara police station on Thursday night based on the complaint lodged by the 38-year- old woman, he said. “The complainant said she was in a relationship with Mahaakshay Chakraborty from 2015 to 2018 and during that period he had promised to marry her,” the official said. The woman said that during their relationship, she had gone to see Mahaakshay’s flat at Adarsh Nagar in Andheri (West), which he had purchased in 2015. She said when she went there, the accused offered her a spiked soft drink and forced her to have physical relations with him. The official added that the woman alleged that when she became pregnant, Mahaakshay asked her to abort the baby and gave her pills. “The woman said she used to ask Mahaakshay about their marriage. But in January 2018, he told her that he cannot marry her, which led to an altercation between them. She said when she called him, his mother Yogita Bali threatened her,” the official said. The complainant later went to Delhi with her brother to stay with their family friend. There, she lodged a complaint against Mahaakshay and his mother at Begumpur police station in June 2018, he added. The police registered an offence under Sections 376 (rape), 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and the probe was transferred to the Crime Branch there. A Delhi court later granted anticipatory bail to Mahaakshay and his mother in the case. In March 2020, the Delhi High Court asked the woman to file her complaint where the offence had taken place. She then filed a complaint at Oshiwara police station in July, the official said. An offence under Sections 376 (rape), 376 (2) (n) (repeated rape), 328 (causing hurt by means of poison), 417 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC has been registered.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||3 suspects detained in Jalgaon murder case||The police have detained three suspects in connection with the killing of four minor siblings in north Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district, an official said on Saturday. The suspects were known to the victims’ family, he said. “Besides these three suspects, we are questioning a few more people,” said the senior police officer who is part of the investigating team. Another official said the suspects were friends of the elder brother of the victims, and before leaving for Madhya Pradesh with his parents, he had asked them to look after them. The incident at Borkheda Shivar village in Raver tehsil came to light on Friday morning. The children’s parents, who worked on a farm, had gone to Madhya Pradesh with their elder son to attend a ritual for a dead relative. When the farm owner visited the house, he saw the four siblings, Sangita (13), Rahul (11), Anil (eight) and Nani (six), lying in a pool of blood. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who visited the family on Saturday, said the case would be tried in a fast track court. He said the killings were “a blot on humanity”. Mr. Deshmukh said noted lawyer Ujjwal Nikam would be appointed as the special public prosecutor in the case, and the government will provide adequate financial assistance to the family.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Fadnavis to tour rain-hit districts from Monday||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday announced that he would be touring the rain and flood-affected districts of Maharashtra from October 19. Heavy rains and floods have claimed at least 48 lives in Pune, Aurangabad and Konkan divisions in the last three days, while crops on lakhs of hectares have been damaged. In an official statement, Mr. Fadnavis said he would start his tour from Baramati, the hometown of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, and would visit nine districts, including Pune, Solapur and Osmanabad. The purpose of the visit is to offer support to farmers who have suffered crop damage due to rains, the release stated.
23 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||‘Mumbai cannot depend on Tata Power, AEML alone’||Days after a power outage plunged Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region into darkness on October 12, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed Tata Power to immediately hand over land to Adani Electricity Mumbai Limited (AEML) to set up a 400 kV substation in Vikhroli, a project that has been pending for over a decade now. Dinesh Waghmare, chairman and managing director of Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Co. Ltd. (MSETCL), speaks to The Hindu on what went wrong on October 12. What led to the power failure? The problem arose on October 10 when the conductor wire of the Talegaon-Kalwa transmission line snapped at Lonavala and Karjat. As employees were working to repair the line, circuit number one of the Padghe-Kalwa line tripped at 6.54 a.m. on October 12. The maintenance team required stopping power supply to the line to fix the issue. The power load was transferred to circuit number two of the same line, which too tripped due to overload by 9.58 a.m. So the situation was that both the Talegaon-Kalwa line and circuit number two of the Padghe-Kalwa line had snapped, while circuit number one was undergoing maintenance. Meanwhile, at Kharghar substation, high voltage on the Kharghar-Kalwa created a spark. Fearing a fire, the substation incharge manually shut down the lines from Talegaon to Kharghar, and from Kharghar to Kalwa at 10.23 a.m. This led to no power supply to Mumbai as Tata Power and AEML lines tripped simultaneously. Restoration work first started at 10.41 a.m. on circuit number one of the Padhage-Kalwa line followed by Talegaon-Kharghar line, the AEML line, circuit number two of the Padaghe-Kalwa line and Tata Power line. The final restoration of power was completed by 1 a.m. on October 13. Power was restored on priority basis to banks, hospitals, rail services, and government offices. What was the biggest challenge faced while restoring power? At Lonavala, the tower is situated on a mountain and at Karjat, it is in a deep valley. Around 100 employees, including engineers, braved the tough terrain, rough weather, wild animals, and worked to finally restore power by Thursday night. Most of them hailed from Jharkhand and had the knowledge of negotiating such terrain. Since ‘generation’ didn’t get restored at the expected time, ‘islanding’ of Mumbai did not happen. Hydropower stations can start generating power in 10 minutes of such a failure, but Tata Power took over five hours. Thermal power stations came on board only past midnight, further delaying the restoration of power to residential areas. Tata Power has a capacity of 1,377 MW, which includes three hydro power units, two coal units and two gas units. Meanwhile, AEML has two units of 250 MW each. Was it a technical error or is foul play suspected? MSETCL investigated the incident and prima facie, it is suspected to be a technical error. A report has been submitted and a State-level inquiry might follow. Meanwhile, a Central team visited Mumbai on October 13 and completed their investigation by October 14. The Central team consisted of the chief engineer of the Central Electricity Authority of India along with representatives from the Power Grid Corporation of India, the Western Regional Load Dispatch Centre, Tata Power, AEML and MSETCL. How can a similar episode be prevented? Mumbai needs additional sources of electricity. Power should also be brought from outside. The city cannot depend on Tata Power and AEML alone. The Vikhroli substation project had been stalled for a long time, but now the Chief Minister has resolved the land issue. The project was with Tata Power, which they did not implement. Later, through a bidding process, the project was allotted to AEML. Tata Power was supposed to hand over the land to AEML, but Godrej has taken the land on lease and was embroiled in a dispute with the State government. On Friday, the Chief Minister asked Tata Power to hand over the land to AEML at the earliest. Once commissioned, the Vikhroli substation will generate 1,500 MW of power. Another proposed substation between Dahanu and Bhoisar is also stuck due to a land dispute. Once commissioned, this project will also generate 1,500 MW of power. Two more circuits are planned for the Padaghe-Kalwa corridor, but are stalled as many slum and residential areas dot the route. Every industrial and commercial establishment should have provision for battery storage to tackle such emergencies. How much power does Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region need per day? During the monsoon season, at the peak hours, the average requirement is 2,700 to 2,900 MW in Mumbai and 3,800 to 4,011 MW in the MMR. Around 50% of power required by Mumbai is provided by MSETCL, while the remaining (around 1,877 MW) is provided by Tata Power and AEML.  During the monsoon season, at the peak hours, the average requirement is 2,700 to 2,900 MW in Mumbai and 3,800 to 4,011 MW in the MMR
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 death toll nears 6,000 mark||The city on Saturday recorded 3,259 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the government. This is the fifth consecutive day that the Capital has recorded over 3,000 new cases. The death toll has reached 5,981 with 35 more fatalities reported in a single day, said the bulletin. Of the total 3,27,718 cases, 2,98,853, people have recovered and there are now 22,884 active cases. RT-PCR tests increase A total of 55,715 COVID-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours, out of which 15,537 were RT-PCR tests. This is the second day in a row where more than 15,000 RT-PCR tests have been conducted. Friday had seen the highest number of such tests till now with 15,660 RT-PCR tests. The High Court had directed the Delhi government to increase the number of RT PCR tests, which is considered as the gold standard when it comes to COVID-19 testing. Meanwhile, the number of active cases increased for the fifth consecutive day, and the people under home isolation for the fourth straight day. But the number of people in hospitals slightly decreased on Saturday. Out of the total 15,706 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 67.9% were vacant, as per government data. But 54.6% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 55.6% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 5.8%. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.3%. The number of containment zones in the city on Saturday was 2,751.  Out of total 15,706 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 67.9% are vacant... 54.6% of ICU beds with venti-lators are occupied Delhi government
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Form water grid to overcome flood crisis: Gadkari||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has requested the Maharashtra government to take the initiative for preparation of a detailed project report for the formation of a State water grid to overcome the recurring flood crisis in the State, an official statement said on Saturday. This would help the government ensure the availability of the water in drought prone areas and save the resources to manage the flood crisis, it said. In a letter dated October 14 to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, his Cabinet colleagues and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and MP Sharad Pawar, the Road Transport and Highways Minster sought an early decision by the State government on this issue, followed by actions. “Mr. Gadkari has drawn the attention of the Chief Minister in this letter towards the serious issue of heavy loss of lives and property that occurs in Maharashtra every year due to floods,” the statement from the Minister’s office said. It added, “He has added that the floods create and trigger serious problems in different parts of the State and there is an urgent need to chalk out a plan to manage this natural disaster that becomes grave because of other man made factors.” The Union Minister suggested to the Maharashtra government to take up the ambitious project of formation of the State water grid on the lines of the National Power Grid and National Highway Grid. The idea is to divert the flood water from one river basin to another river basin in the drought prone area. The areas with shortage of water, scanty rainfall can get relief due to the grid, the statement said adding this would help increase the area under irrigation, while bringing significant reduction in the number of suicides by farmers. The letter goes on to say that various studies have shown that the incidents of the farmers’ suicide have come down in the areas where the irrigation cover is more that 55%. The Minister said this would also help increase agriculture produce and strengthen the rural and national economy. The diverted flood waters would relieve the stress on the local resources. Transportation of goods and passengers through rivers (Water Transport) can be commenced in near future.  Employment generation Fishing and other businesses can flourish alongside and major employment can be generated if such project is taken up as an essential infrastructure, it said. Mr. Gadkari informed that his Ministry is doing water conservation by using the soil/murum from water bodies, drains and rivers for construction of highways. This synchronisation of NH construction and water conservation results not only in increasing water storage capacity but saving environment, the statement said adding, initially this activity was done on a large scale in Buldhana district as a pilot project and hence named as ‘Buldhana pattern’. “With this activity in Maharashtra, around 225 lakh cubic meter of material from water bodies, drains and rivers has been used in highway works with a result of increase of 22,500 tcm (thousand cubic meter) of water storage capacity at ‘No cost to State Government’. This has charged ground water table,” the statement said. Due to deepening and training of river, drains, etc., the floods have reduced, which otherwise spread in nearby field due to reduced discharge capacity of rivers and drains, it said. This convergence has been appreciated and accepted by the NITI Aayog, which is in the process of forming a policy based on this work done. The Minister further informed that the Tamaswada pattern adopted in Wardha and Nagpur districts is another effort towards rain water harvesting, conservation and ground water recharge. These works are done on the basis of scientific and complete development of mini-micro watersheds based on study of hydrogeology, topography and civil engineering. Work is done essentially in the direction from Ridge to Valley, the statement said. Tamaswada pattern is most helpful to create augmented surface rain and ground water storages, it said.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Journalist ‘attacked by police’ named in FIR||Delhi Police on Saturday charged a journalist and nine others of criminal conspiracy for allegedly protesting outside Model Town police station on Friday. Six of the 10 accused are students.  The protest was staged by students, activists and locals of Gurmandi demanding lodging of an FIR into the alleged rape and murder of a teenage Dalit girl — a domestic helper who was found dead at her employer’s house in Model Town. The police have registered an FIR under Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act.  The police alleged that over 15-20 men and women had gathered outside the police station and were not wearing masks or maintaining social distance. They also allegedly refused to leave even after being told to disperse. The police had detained 10 persons, including The Caravan magazine’s journalist Ahan Penkar. In a statement, The Caravan said that Mr. Penkar was reporting when Assistant Commissioner of Police Ajay Kumar “kicked and slapped” him at the police station. “Mr. Penkar had repeatedly told the police that he was a journalist and prominently displayed his press card,” the statement read. The magazine also said the police forcibly took Mr. Penkar’s phone and deleted all videos and photos that he had recorded while reporting. “Mr. Penkar was detained for nearly four hours. In the assault, he suffered injuries on his nose, shoulder, back and ankle,” they added. Responding to the allegations, the police said that Mr. Penkar was protesting and was detained along with the others, and later released. “He later claimed he was a reporter and alleged misbehaviour by the police. The allegation made by Mr. Penkar is false and is only made with the intention of escalating the situation. The police action is bona fide,” they said. The police said that the girl was reported dead on October 4 and her post-mortem was conducted on October 8, which revealed that the girl took her own life. “No foul play has come in the investigation so far,” the police said, adding that the protest was staged “to put undue pressure on local police and tried to give the incident a different narrative”. In August, three scribes from The Caravan were allegedly beaten, assaulted and sexually harassed in Gonda while reporting a story around the Delhi riots. “The frequency with which The Caravan reporters are being targeted makes one wonder if there’s a calculated design behind such attacks,” said Vinod K. Jose, the executive editor of the publication.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man cheats ex-colleague of over Rs. 1 lakh, arrested||A 28-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly cheating his former colleague of over Rs. 1 lakh on the pretext of getting him a job in the Ministry of Finance, the police said on Saturday. Additional DCP (South-East) Kumar Gyanesh said the accused, Gaurav Dutt, is from Brahampuri in Shahdara. The police said they received a complaint on Thursday from one Mukul Aggarwal, who told them that he first met the accused in 2015while working at a call centre. Mr. Aggarwal then lost touch after he left the job but reunited with Dutt in 2019. The accused told Mr. Aggarwal that he was working with the Ministry of Finance and can get him a job there too as an assistant. For this, the accused asked Mr. Aggarwal to pay Rs. 40,000. Mr. Aggarwal gave his documents to Dutt along with an advance of Rs. 10,000. Later, the accused started demanding more money and Mr. Aggarwal ended up paying Rs. 1,54,000 to Mr. Dutt, the police said. “On Thursday, Dutt came to Mr. Aggarwal’s shop in Raghunath Market and demanded Rs. 3,000. He also told the victim that a few documents were pending. The victim and his father then realised that they were being cheated. They nabbed him and approached the police,” said. Dutt told the police that he had applied for a loan of Rs. 1,50,000 but could not pay it and hence committed the crime.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||7th week of anti-dengue campaign||The seventh week of the anti-dengue campaign10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minutewill seek to encourage shopkeepers in the Capital to inspect their shops and surroundings for stagnant water every Sunday and drain it to prevent the breeding of dengue mosquitoes. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will encourage all the shopkeepers for the same, the government said. Mr. Kejriwal had also said with the collective efforts of all the Delhiites, “we have to stop the breeding of dengue mosquitoes and protect our family”. The exercise will keep the shopkeepers as well as their customers safe from dengue, the government added. Last week, Mr. Kejriwal had tweeted: “Today is the sixth Sunday of the campaign against dengue, my family also joined the campaign this time. We checked the house and replaced the accumulated clean water. You must also involve your family in this campaign. We have to defeat dengue together. #10Hafte10Baje10-Minute Har Ravivaar, Dengue Par Vaar [sic].”
23 October 2020||Noida,||Gautam Buddh Nagar records 107 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking tally to 15,803; recovery rate 90.83 pc||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 107 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the district’s infection tally to 15,803, official data showed. The number of active cases came down further to 1,384 from 1,477 on Friday and 1,523 on Thursday, stated data released by the U.P. govt. for a 24-hour period. On the brighter side, 201 more patients got discharged during the period and the overall number of recoveries in the district reached 14,355, seventh highest in the State, it showed.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Onus is on Yogi to address allegations of Thakur appeasement’||Rashtriya Lok Dal vice-president Jayant Chaudhary speaks on the upcoming Assembly bypoll in Uttar Pradesh and days after he was lathi-charged by the police while going to Hathras to meet the family of the rape victim.  Your party has fielded a candidate in bypoll in Bulandshahr and is supporting the SP in the other six seats. Is this your direction for the 2022 election as well? Yes. We have been consistent on this. We tied up with them in the previous Lok Sabha and in the long term that is the kind of direction we want to give to U.P. Today people are realising that with a brute majority how the BJP is actually suppressing a lot of issues that should have been a priority on the development front. All it is talking about is Mughals, love jihad and divisive issues. With Akhilesh’s leadership and track record, and our grassroot connect, I think we can actually give an alternative to the voters. Did you expect the police to lathicharge you in Hathras? No. When incidents like these (Hathras rape) happen, people want to reach out to the family and express solidarity. The key thing here is that I was escorted past the barricade. It was the police’s failure that they could not enforce the barricade. There were five-six people on the other side... What was the need for lathicharge? We were not posing any threat. If you look at the police manual in U.P. and the Supreme Court decisions, there are actually procedures in place. You have to give a warning. You need the presence of an administrative official. The SDM was there but he did not give any verbal warning. It was a violation of our rights as citizens. In the political space we are an Opposition, but I never really thought that something like that we will have to encounter. Has there been a change in attitude of the U.P. police under the Yogi Adityanath government? Top down, there is an impunity. Structures are put in place to reward violent behaviour and action by police, whether it is encounters, shooting someone or a lathicharge... this notion of strict policing. Yes, we need strict policing in U.P. but we also need sensitive policing. And in the Hathras incident, they should have been more sensitive. Their handling of the family, the complaint and the Opposition leaders who wanted to reach out, I think in all the three aspects, it showed a very insensitive side of the police. And Yogiji is the Home Minister. Who else will we hold responsible? A section of the media is arguing that because of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s ventures in U.P., the Congress is emerging as a leading Opposition in the State threatening to dislodge the SP and its allies. Is it too far fetched? The Congress has always been there. Every party is doing its own efforts. But it’s easier for the Congress because they are a mainstream national party and what they do perhaps gets more coverage. But they have no extraordinary impact on the grassroots right now. Do you feel the BJP has a weak link in Yogi Adityanath’s personal image? The BJP’s political strategy is to talk in many voices. From being a ‘right’ party, they have also gone a little bit extreme to the right and Yogi is also in the same framework. I think U.P. deserves a modern approach and a leader with a big and liberal heart. I think that space will exist for us to attack Yogi and the BJP. This hard-nosed might is right sort of politics, can’t survive in the long run. There is an allegation that the State government is appeasing Thakurs, the caste Yogi was born into. The people who belong to the CM’s caste, either in arrogance or affinity, they feel it is ‘hamari sarkar’ (our government). You actually need a CM who can be a moral guiding force and then can tame his or her own supporters. On the other hand, what Yogiji is doing is he is not restraining anybody. It won’t be proper for me say if they are doing Thakurvad or not, but definitely there are visible signs and discussion is on, the onus is on Yogiji. Only he can address this issue. You have held mahapanchayats with SP in Muzaffarnagar, Mathura and now Bulandshahr. You are opposed to the new farms laws. What are you you telling the voters? U.P. has relaxed some laws and a lot of crops were taken out of the APMC. The market infrastructure was already getting dismantled. Now these laws have come about and have raised a real concern on what will happen because eventually over 5-10 years if the market shifts to trade outside mandis into private hands, will they crowd out the state? Will the government stop purchasing from farmers? What will be the viability of MSP? These are the concerns that should have been addressed. But a government that is so eloquent in communicating its political messages in election time, it has been its typical failure in communication [on farm laws]. Farmer leaders of Haryana and Punjab stormed out of the Krishi Bhawan completely disgruntled and tore the copies of the laws. You have a crisis in Punjab. But somehow the national mainstream reporting is not showing the alarm that should be there. And nor is the government responding. What do you feel about the government’s repeated allegations that the Opposition leaders were trying to trigger a caste riot over the Hathras incident? It’s so easy when an upper caste Chief Minister talks about crime not being caste-specific. When, in fact, we do know that the weaker sections get targeted. There is a reason why the Home Ministry and the NCRB collect data on Dalit atrocities. And Dalit women are often targets of such crimes. As per the latest report in 2019, 10 Dalit women are raped daily. When I visited the family, we saw and heard of panchayats [by caste groups] happening... It’s really shocking that you have public mobilisation to garner support for a rape accused. It’s never happened in our country before. We have had agitations to support the victim. This is a dehumanising experiment that the BJP has indulged in.  We need strict policing in U.P. but we also need sensitive policing
23 October 2020||Macon,||Trump appeals to GOP base as polls slide||President Donald Trump fought on Friday to recover from sinking election polls by campaigning with a hardline pitch to America’s right wing, claiming at rallies in Florida and Georgia that his Democratic opponent Joe Biden would deliver communism and a “flood” of criminal immigrants. While Mr. Trump put on a brave face, the fact that he was fighting for the two southern States he won four years ago illustrated how much ground he has to make up against Mr. Biden in the 18 days left until the election. With his polls sliding and U.S. COVID-19 infections spiking, Mr. Trump is focusing entirely on his core Republican base, in hopes that highly energised supporters will turn out in huge numbers. In Ocala, Florida, the coronavirus was an afterthought. Instead, Mr. Trump tossed the large, loudly cheering crowd red meat on immigration, race, and his conspiracy theory that Mr. Biden is steeped in corruption. Spicing his stump speech with lurid exaggerations, Mr. Trump claimed that the “Biden family is a criminal enterprise.” He said Democrats “have nothing but disdain for your values” and “want to turn America into a communist country” — a reprise of his successful 2016 message tapping into white, working-class resentment. “It’s time we sent a message to these wealthy liberal hypocrites,” he told the cheering crowd in Macon, Georgia on Friday night. Mr. Trump also dived into racially charged comments on Latin American migrants, saying Democrats will “flood your communities with illegal aliens, drugs, crime.” And he lashed out at one of his most outspoken critics, the Somali-American Democratic congresswoman Ilhan Omar, saying “she hates our country” and “comes from a place that doesn’t even have a government.” Mr. Trump had still more venom for journalists, whom he called “the enemy of the people.” And he seemed to acknowledge things might not go his way in the end. “Running against the worst candidate in the history of presidential politics puts pressure on me. Could you imagine if I lose?,” Mr. Trump mused. “What am I gonna do?,” he continued. “I’m not gonna feel so good. Maybe I’ll have to leave the country. I don’t know.” Biden stays focused Mr. Biden, meanwhile, was campaigning in Michigan, where he ripped into Mr. Trump’s handling of the coronavirus — the strongest issue of his campaign. “He keeps telling us that this virus is going to disappear like a miracle,” Mr. Biden said in Southfield. “My lord! It’s not disappearing, in fact it’s on the rise again, it’s getting worse, as predicted,” Mr. Biden said. He also homed in on another area where Mr. Trump has run into regular controversy — his often lacklustre responses when asked to condemn White supremacists. He said Mr. Trump’s comments were a “dog whistle” to such groups. “We choose hope over fear, unity over division, science over fiction and yes, truth over lies.”
23 October 2020||Auckland,||Jacinda Ardern promises to govern for all New Zealanders||In a victory speech in front of hundreds of cheering supporters in Auckland, New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said her Labour Party had gotten more support from New Zealanders than at any time in at least 50 years. “This has not been an ordinary election, and it’s not an ordinary time,” she said. “It’s been full of uncertainty and anxiety, and we set out to be an antidote to that.” Ms. Ardern promised not to take her new supporters for granted and to govern for all New Zealanders. A record number of voters cast early ballots in the two weeks leading up to the election. On the campaign trail, Ms. Ardern was greeted like a rock star by people who crammed into malls and spilled onto streets to cheer her on and get selfies with her. Ms. Ardern, 40, won the top job after the 2017 election when Labour formed an alliance with two other parties. The following year, she became only the second world leader to give birth while in office. Role model She became a role model for working mothers around the world, many of whom saw her as a counterpoint to President Donald Trump. And she was praised for her handling of last year’s attack on two Christchurch mosques, when a white supremacist gunned down 51 Muslim worshippers. She moved quickly to pass new laws banning the deadliest types of semi-automatic weapons. In late March this year, when only about 100 people had tested positive for COVID-19, Ms. Ardern and her health officials put New Zealand into a strict lockdown with a motto of “Go hard and go early”. She shut the borders and outlined an ambitious goal of eliminating the virus entirely rather than just trying to control its spread. Battle against COVID-19 With New Zealand having the advantage of being an isolated island nation, the strategy worked. The country eliminated community transmission for 102 days before a new cluster was discovered in August in Auckland. Ms. Ardern swiftly imposed a second lockdown in Auckland and the new outbreak faded away. The only new cases found recently have been among returning travelers, who are in quarantine. The Auckland outbreak also prompted Ms. Ardern to postpone the election by a month and helped increase the early voter turnout. The National Party’s leader, Judith Collins, is a former lawyer. She served as a Minister when National was in power and prides herself on a blunt, no-nonsense approach, a contrast to Ms. Ardern’s empathetic style. Ms. Collins, 61, was promising sweeping tax cuts in response to the economic downturn caused by the virus. In a speech to her supporters in Auckland, Ms. Collins said she’d called Ms. Ardern to congratulate her. The election also saw Deputy Prime Minister Winston Peters and his small New Zealand First party voted out. The libertarian ACT Party increased its support to 8% and the Green Party won 7.5% of the votes. Labour Minister David Parker said it was a landslide win for his party. “It’s a tremendous accolade first and foremost to the prime minister, but also to the wider Labour team and the Labour movement,” he said. In the election, voters also had a say on two contentious social issues — whether to legalize marijuana and euthanasia. Polls taken before the election indicated the euthanasia referendum was likely to pass while the outcome of the marijuana vote remained uncertain. The results of both referendums will be announced October 30.
23 October 2020||London,||U.K., EU set to discuss ‘structure’ of Brexit talks||European and British negotiators will be in touch Monday to discuss the “structure” of post-Brexit trade talks, despite London’s threat on Friday to walk away unless there was a major shift in Brussels’ approach. An EU spokesman tweeted that chief negotiator Michel Barnier held video talks with his British counterpart David Frost on Friday after the results of European summit provoked an angry response in London. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said there was no point in holding any more talks without a dramatic softening of the EU’s position, bringing a step closer the possibility that the planned divorce at the end of the year will end acrimoniously. “As far as we’re concerned the trade talks are over,” Mr. Johnson’s official spokesman told reporters after an EU Summit on Thursday proposed a fresh round of talks next week in London, while demanding Britain give ground on key stumbling blocks. Mr. Johnson, accusing the bloc of failing “to negotiate seriously”, said the summit outcome had ruled out a comprehensive, Canada-style free trade agreement between the EU and Britain. “They want the continued ability to control our legislative freedom, our fisheries, in a way that is obviously unacceptable to an independent country,” he said. “And so with high hearts and complete confidence, we will prepare to embrace the alternative,” Mr. Johnson said, adding Britain should “get ready” to operate on stripped-down World Trade Organization rules from January. But EU spokesman Daniel Ferrie later said that both negotiators “agreed to talk again on Monday to discuss the structure” of future talks.
23 October 2020||Washington,||Obama to campaign for Biden||Former U.S. President Barack Obama will make his first appearance on the campaign trail for his former Vice-President Joe Biden next week, the Biden campaign announced on Friday. Mr. Obama will travel to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on Wednesday to campaign on behalf of Mr. Biden and Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee Kamala Harris, the campaign said in a statement. The 59-year-old Obama remained on the sidelines during the Democratic presidential primaries but endorsed his former deputy after he won the party nomination.
23 October 2020||Ganja,||Azerbaijan will retaliate, says President||Azerbaijan’s President Ilham Aliyev vowed on Saturday to take revenge on Armenia after a missile strike killed 12 sleeping people in the city of Ganja, a dramatic escalation in the conflict over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region. The early hours attack, which also saw a strike on the nearby strategic city of Mingecevir, came hours after Azerbaijani forces shelled Stepanakert, the capital of the ethnic Armenian separatist region. The explosions in Ganja levelled a row of houses and left at least 40 people injured. In televised remarks, Mr. Aliyev said his Army would “take revenge on the battlefield”..
23 October 2020||Hong Kong,||China outlaws insulting national flag||The Standing Committee of China’s Congress on Saturday passed amendments to a law that will criminalise the intentional insulting of the national flag and emblem, after anti-government protesters in Hong Kong last year desecrated the Chinese flag. According to the amended National Flag and National Emblem Law, which will take effect on January 1, those who intentionally burn, mutilate, paint, deface or trample the flag and emblem in public will be investigated for criminal responsibility. The law also states that that national flag must not be discarded, displayed upside down or used in any manner that impairs the dignity of the flag. The law will also apply to Hong Kong and Macao.
23 October 2020||Tokyo,||Tokyo, Oct 17, 2020 (AFP) -||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga sent a ritual offering on Saturday to the controversial Yasukuni war shrine, which is seen by neighbouring countries as a symbol of the nation's past militarism, especially during Second World War.AFP
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||HDFC Bank Q2 profit rises 18.4% to Rs. 7,513 crore||HDFC Bank Ltd. reported second-quarter net profit jumped 18.4% to Rs. 7,513.1 crore, from Rs. 6,354 crore a year earlier, helped by healthy growth in loans and a narrowing of NPAs. The private lender’s net revenue (net interest income plus other income) grew to Rs. 21,868.8 crore in the three months ended September 30, from Rs. 19,103.8 crore. Net interest income expanded by 16.7% to Rs. 15,776.4 crore, driven by asset growth of 21.5% and a core net interest margin of 4.1%. Wholesale loans jump Total advances increased 15.8% to Rs. 10,38,335 crore as of September 30. Domestic advances grew by 15.4% with retail loans rising 5.3% and domestic wholesale loans climbing by 26.5%. Gross and net non-performing assets (NPAs) were at 1.08% of gross advances and 0.17% of net advances, respectively. Since the Supreme Court in an interim order dated September 3 had directed that accounts which were not declared NPA till August 31, 2020, should not be declared as such until further orders, the accounts that would have otherwise been classified as NPA had not been and would not be classified as NPA till such time that the court rules finally on the matter, the bank said. Proforma gross NPA “However, if the bank had classified borrower accounts as NPA after August 31, 2020, and also adopted an early recognition of NPA using its analytical models (proforma approach), the proforma gross NPA ratio would have been 1.37% as on September 30, as against 1.36% as on June 30 and 1.38% as on September 30, 2019,” the bank said in a regulatory filing. The lender said proforma net NPA ratio would have been 0.35%. “Pending disposal of the case, the bank, as a matter of prudence, has made a contingent provision in respect of these accounts.” HDFC Bank said its continued focus on deposits helped in the maintenance of a healthy liquidity coverage ratio at 153%, well above the regulatory requirement. It said while the previous quarter largely bore the brunt of the COVID-19 pandemic, some of the softness continued into the current quarter leading to lower retail loan origination, use of debit and credit cards by customers, efficiency in collection efforts and waivers of certain fees. Card momentum better “As a result, fees/other income were lower by approximately Rs. 800 crore. However, the loan and card momentum has improved over the previous quarter, thereby reducing the gap to less than half,” HDFC Bank said. Provisions and contingencies for the quarter were Rs. 3,703.5 crore (consisting of specific loan loss provisions of Rs. 1,240.6 crore and general and other provisions of Rs. 2,462.9 crore). “Total provisions for the current quarter includes contingent provisions of approximately Rs. 2,300 crore for proforma NPA as described in the asset quality section below as well as additional contingent provisions to make the balance sheet more resilient,” it said. The total balance sheet size as of September 30 was Rs. 16,09,428 crore, an increase of 21.5% from Rs. 13,25,072 crore a year earlier. Total deposits as of September 30 were Rs. 12,29,310 crore, an increase of 20.3%. The lender also said it continued to hold provisions as on September 30 against the potential impact of COVID-19 and that the same was in excess of the RBI’s norms.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Competitive to make in India: Schwing Stetter MD||Schwing Stetter, a leading manufacturer and supplier of construction equipment, is planning to move some of its European operations to India. The Indian subsidiary of the German firm is investing Rs. 350 crore in phases in its new unit and will start exporting products back to European countries, managing director V.G. Sakthikumar said in an interview. Edited excerpts:  What are your plans in India? We are constructing a new factory at Sipcot, Cheyyar. It is in the final stages of completion. Civil works will be through by October; installation of machines will take two more months and it will be ready for operations by January 2021. What products are to be made there? We are moving out certain product range (fabrications from Austria) and assembly (new product range) from Germany to India. Some of the key products are concrete boom pumps, separate placing booms, shotcrete pumps, self loading mixers and other concrete trailer pumps. Apart from these products, the group company will also manufacture three models of hydraulic excavators. It is 25% more competitive to make these products in India and we have the workforce to make these products and an efficient Chennai Port for transportation. Initially, the new unit will add 10-15% of export turnover. As we move forward, one-third of the turnover will come from this factory. We also got a major breakthrough by moving certain products to eastern Europe. Our traditional markets are from New Zealand to Africa. We also got some orders from Germany and U.S. The new unit will cater to the needs of domestic and export markets. What is the investment At the moment, we have incurred Rs. 200 crore. We plan to spend another Rs. 100 crore. Some of the machinery have started coming. Starting January, the products to be shifted will move from batch production to assembly line. What is your turnover and backlog? In the year 2018 (January to December), we made Rs. 2,050 crore. This came down to Rs. 1,730 crore in 2019. We are expecting Rs. 1,450 crore-Rs. 1,500 crore for 2020, of which exports will be Rs. 150 crore (Rs. 100 crore). Our orders dried up during COVID-19 to Rs. 100 crore and it now stands at Rs. 250 crore. Have you reached pre-COVID-19 levels? If you compare our performance in August 2020 vs 2019, we have done better. During August, our turnover was more than that of 2019 and we did 80%-85% of pre-COVID-19 levels. But in September 2020, we crossed last September’s volumes and also pre-COVID-19 levels. Going forward, October also looks good with strong order book position. How do you compare the year 2020 with 2019? The first two months of 2020 were better than the previous year due to more projects. 2018 was a better year and 2019 was one of slowdown. The industry witnessed a decline of 30% in 2019, whereas we reported a 15% drop. The current year has only three more months left. The industry will achieve 75% of 2019’s production, while we will be ahead of the industry at 80%. Right now, we are slowing down and expanding our capacity in tune with market conditions. During 2021, we will be adding machinery and de-bottlenecking our facility. What is the forecast for the following two years? The next two years will be the best period for infrastructure sector with lots of projects in the pipeline. Orders are expected from roads, railways, real estate, windmill and solar. We expect the industry to grow by 10-15% for next two years. What is your product localisation level? Whatever we are doing has 90% local content. For the new unit, the import content will be high and it will be slowly brought down.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Indicators point to economic recovery, but revival may be fragile: Brickwork||After six months of severe stress triggered by the toughest lockdown so far, some high-frequency indicators point towards economic recovery but there are signs that this revival is fragile, Brickwork Ratings said. It estimated that the economy is likely to contract by 13.5% in the second quarter (July-September), and the contraction in FY21 is likely to be about 9.5% unless the government takes immediate initiative to revive the economy. “After six months of severe stress triggered by the severest lockdown so far, there finally is some good news on the economy,” it said in a report. The manufacturing PMI has shown a sharp increase from 52 in August to 56.8 in September, the highest in eight years. GST collections at Rs. 95,480 crore in September have recovered to increase by 3.8% from last year and were higher than August collections by 10%. Passenger vehicle sales had increased by 31%, while railway freight traffic showed a 15% rise. Exports growth After a gap of six months, merchandise exports registered 5.3% growth, driven by outbound shipments of engineering goods, petroleum products, pharmaceuticals and ready-made garments. There was an increase in power demand and generation as well. “However, there are indications that this recovery is fragile. Capital expenditure on new projects declined by 81% in the second quarter... showing a continuous declining trend in investments,” the agency said. Also, the core sector contracted 8.5% in August. “The immediate task the government has to address is the removal of supply chain disruptions and augment aggregate demand to lift the economy out of the morass,” Brickwork Ratings said. “This requires the government to initiate measures to increase public spending,” it said. “It should be less dogmatic on fiscal targets.”
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Apparel exports on path to a V-shaped recovery’||Apparel exports logged double-digit growth in September, which indicates the segment is on course to a V-shaped recovery, apparel exporters’ body AEPC said on Saturday. Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) chairman A. Sakthivel said apparel exports rose for the first time this fiscal in September and the steep recovery from 90% fall in April to 10% rise last month “corroborates our belief that the apparel sector is already on the path of V-shaped recovery.” He added that steps taken by the government are helping the sector to deal with the problems related to the pandemic. Exports saw a growth of 10.2% in September 2020 to $1.2 billion as compared with $1.079 billion in the same month a year earlier. “We believe this turnaround with a positive growth of more than 10% will only increase as we go forward in the second half of the fiscal,” he added.
23 October 2020||Chennai,||Lightning Logistics to grow EV fleet||Shreyas Shibulal, son of Infosys co-founder S.D. Shibulal, has drawn up plans to expand the fleet capacity of Lightning Logistics, a pure play electric vehicle last-mile delivery firm, over the next two years. “Lightning Logistics was started in 2018 under the EV-focussed venture Micelio,” said Mr. Shibulal, founder, Micelio Mobility. “It is in a pilot stage with a fleet of about 1,000 EVs. “We are planning to add 1,000 EVs next year and another 2,000 the following year. We are developing our own two-wheeler for last-mile logistics. Details will be revealed at a later stage,” he said. Lightning Logistics provides businesses with a bike and rider for doorstep deliveries.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Paytm top up via credit card attracts 2% fee||Paytm users will have to pay a 2% fee on the amount added to their e-wallet using a credit card. Until now, users had to pay 2% fee if they loaded more than Rs. 10,000 in their e-wallets via credit card in a month. “Nominal charge of 2% is applicable on adding money using credit card. Nominal fee is applicable since we pay high charges to your bank/payment network when you add money using a credit card. Please use UPI or debit card to add money for free,” says a message that pops up when customers try to add money to their Paytm wallet via credit card.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘Jewellery, gem exports may slump 20-25%‘||Export of gems and jewellery is expected to decline by 20-25% this fiscal year compared to 2019-20 due to the disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, GJEPC said on Saturday. During 2019-20, the exports stood at Rs. 2,52,249.46 crore, according to data provided by the Gem and Jewellery Export Promotion Council of India (GJEPC). “With demand improving gradually, we should be at our 2019-20 levels next year. Growth will come back only maybe by 2021-22, GJEPC chairman Colin Shah said at a virtual press conference.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Franklin MF’s 6 shut schemes fetch Rs. 8,302 cr.||Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund has said its six shut schemes have received Rs. 8,302 crore from maturities, prepayments and coupon payments since closing down in April. “The six schemes have received total cash flows of Rs. 8,302 crore as of October 15, 2020, from maturities, prepayments and coupon payments since April 24, 2020,” Franklin Templeton MF said in a statement. Part of this amount has been utilised to repay borrowings and post repayment, Rs. 5,116 crore is available for distribution to unitholders in four cash positive schemes , subject to fund running expenses.
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Krunal — playing his role to perfection||Kieron Pollard hasn’t been bowling much of late. Hardik Pandya is yet to bowl during the ongoing edition of the Indian Premier League due to his back injury management. Pandya Sr., Krunal, was thus expected to carry the mantle of being the lead all-rounder for Mumbai Indians. With an on-song batting line-up, Krunal has been largely playing as a containing spinner. And he has played his role to near-perfection as Mumbai Indians has begun defending its crown with aplomb. Numbers neither reflect his contribution to MI’s winning run nor to his chances of regaining his place in India’s T20 squad. But Krunal isn’t really worried about it. “I also want to come back into the Indian team. If you see the games I have played for India, I have done well in terms of the bowling I did. I got Man of the Match awards. Overall I was happy with the journey with the Indian team. I am looking forward to making a comeback,” Krunal said on Saturday, ahead of Mumbai Indians’ weekend clash versus Kings XI Punjab. In his 26 overs of left-arm spin in eight matches, Krunal has picked up five wickets at a respectable economy rate of 7.80. As for batting, he has been able to face just 34 balls, scoring 48 runs, with the four-ball 20 not out against Sunrisers being the highlight. Team first “At the end of the day, I have never thought about it as an individual. I have always believed in keeping the team first, be it for India, Mumbai Indians or Baroda. “Sometimes, if the required run-rate is 15 and you bowl a 6-run over, that is as good as a four-wicket haul. That 4-ball 20 against SRH created an impact and brought the momentum back for us. I never think about those big runs or picking wickets. It is about what is important for the team.”
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Dhawan-powered DC edges CSK||Shikhar Dhawan made Chennai Super Kings pay a heavy price for some shoddy fielding as he slammed an unbeaten 101 (58b, 14x4, 1x6) to carry Delhi Capitals to a five-wicket win at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Saturday. CSK’s butterfingers dropped the opener four times as the side succumbed to its sixth defeat in the last eight matches even as DC went top of the table. Despite Dhawan’s knock, DC still needed 17 off the last over, but Axar Patel punished Ravindra Jadeja, slamming him for three sixes to seal the match with a ball to spare. Death-overs specialist Dwayne Bravo had one over left, but the West Indian had left the field for some treatment and Dhoni had to choose between Jadeja and Karn Sharma. Chasing 180, DC lost Prithvi Shaw and Ajinkya Rahane cheaply to Deepak Chahar, but Dhawan sent the CSK bowlers on a leather hunt, starting with Sam Curran, hitting him for two fours. Cashing in on the two reprieves he received when on 25 and 27, the Delhi batsman wasted no time in attacking Karn next, hitting him for two boundaries in the leggie’s first over. He brought up his fifty off 29 balls. Dhoni spilled Dhawan while diving to his left off Bravo when on 50. The southpaw was dropped for the fourth time on 80 by Ambati Rayudu. In between these chances, the left-hander was at his fluent best, charging bowlers at will and unleashing his brute power, to record his maiden IPL century. Earlier, Faf du Plessis’s half-century (58, 47b, 6x4, 2x6) followed by cameos from Rayudu (45 n.o., 25b, 1x4, 4x6) and Jadeja (33 n.o., 13b, 4x6) helped CSK post 179 for four. du Plessis and Shane Watson (36) put on 87 for the second wicket, before Rayudu and Jadeja finished the innings strongly, slamming 67 in the final five overs. In the 20th over, Jadeja hit consecutive sixes off Nortje and picked up 16 runs to give CSK a fighting chance. But all of it was undone by a disastrous fielding effort.   Capitals 76 for two  Capitals were 76 for two in 10 overs, with Dhawan (51) and Shreyas (15) batting. Shaw (0) and Rahane (8) were dismissed
23 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||KKR and SRH seek solutions||A new captain in the saddle, Kolkata Knight Riders would look to sort out its batting woes and strive for consistency when it faces Sunrisers Hyderabad here on Sunday. After a string of below par performances, Dinesh Karthik handed over the reins to Eoin Morgan hours before KKR’s match against Mumbai Indians on Friday. But his campaign as leader was off to a disappointing start with MI thrashing KKR. KKR’s batsmen will have to step up if it wants to seal a play-off spot. The KKR bowlers did well to fashion narrow victories against Kings XI Punjab and CSK, but leaked runs against RCB and MI. Sunrisers is struggling too. The Orange Army is unsure whether to strengthen the batting or bowling unit. Jonny Bairstow, David Warner, Manish Pandey and Kane Williamson present a formidable batting line-up, but a cause of concern is Rashid Khan’s form. Warner will desperately hope that his star spinner finds his mojo back.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||De Villiers’ genius drags RCB across the line||For the second time in six days, A.B. de Villiers swung a game Royal Challengers Bangalore's way with a blinder of a knock. Rajasthan Royals, which made 177 for six at the Dubai International Stadium after winning the toss, was beaten by seven wickets with two balls to spare. If his 33-ball 73 had set up RCB's victory, batting first against Kolkata Knight Riders at Sharjah earlier in the week, de Villiers put on a masterclass in chasing down an imposing target on Saturday. His 55 not out came off just 22 balls (1x4, 6x6). Its sixth win in nine matches helped RCB stay in the vicinity of the two standout teams of the competition, Mumbai Indians and Delhi Capitals, with 12 points. RR remains near the bottom, on six points. Sensing an opportunity When RCB’s two set batsmen had returned to the dugout off successive balls, RR may have sensed an opportunity. Opener Devdutt Padikkal (35, 37b, 2x4) and Virat Kohli (43, 32b, 1x4, 2x6) had put on 79 for the second wicket. When the captain succumbed to a brilliant piece of fielding by Rahul Tewatia at deep mid-wicket — he caught the ball on the run, released it before he went over the rope and came back in to complete the catch — 76 was needed off 41 balls. It was 35 off 12 when Steve Smith handed the ball to Jaydev Unadkat. The left-arm seamer's first three balls were dispatched over the on-side boundary by de Villiers in imperious style. Twenty-five runs came off the penultimate over. de Villiers then finished the job by sending RR’s best bowler Jofra Archer over the deep mid-wicket boundary. Earlier, a rejigged batting line-up helped RR post a competitive total. The decision to send in Robin Uthappa as opener paid dividends. He made a sparkling 41 (22b, 7x4, 1x6) and put on 50 for the first wicket with Ben Stokes, who became one of Chris Morris’ four victims. Smith finally returned to form, too, scoring 57 (36b, 6x4, 1x6). But later on in the afternoon, de Villiers made it a match to forget for RR.   The AB sizzler  de Villiers’ unbeaten 55 came off just 22 deliveries The South African hammered six sixes and a four With 35 needed off two overs, 25 were scored off the penultimate over bowled by Unadkat
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||AFI to hold elections on October 31||Athletics Federation of India (AFI) will elect its office bearers during the “in person” Annual General Body Meeting on October 31. The elections were due to be held in April but were postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The AFI had in May deferred its elections and extended the term of its office bearers during a Special General Meeting, held online. At that time, the federation had said that elections can only be held “in person” and not online. The elections for the term of 2020-24 will be held on the first day of the AGM which will conclude on November 1. “The Annual GBM of Athletics Federation of India will be held on 31st October and 1st November 2020. As per AFI Constitution, each permanent affiliated State/UT will be represented by two representatives and other affiliated members will be represented by one representative,” the AFI said in a circular. Filing of nominations can be done from October 18 till October 21 and the final list of the contesting candidates will be announced on October 23. Incumbent president Adille Sumariwalla is expected to run for his third consecutive term while the federation is set to elect a new secretary this time. Current secretary C.K. Valson has taken up a post in the Asian Athletics Association.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Of Steve Waugh & his depiction of the alluring appeal of cricket in India||He played for Australia but captured the cricket of India, in all its kaleidoscopic forms. While delving deep into the world of cricket in India, Steve Waugh saw the game which is more a way of life here, being played by monks at the foothills of the Himalayas. He saw the sport being played on the beaches, the deserts, the mountains. The much-admired Australian great was swept off his feet by the sight of a disabled player, being supported by a bamboo on one side, “flying through the air like ninja warriors” while hurling the ball. He was equally enamoured by dreamy-eyed youngsters playing on the dusty grounds of the famous Azad Maidan in Mumbai. “This place reeked of cricket and I loved it,” Waugh said of the Azad Maidan, according to abc.net.au. Quite amazing “They’re quite amazing, these guys, flying through the air like ninja warriors and landing on these bamboo poles,” he said. The book The Spirit of Cricket — India by Waugh contains over 200 photographs captured by the former Australia captain during his many trips to the cricket-mad country. A collection of over 70 photographs clicked by Waugh will be on display during an exhibition in Sydney at the end of this month. “India gave me lifelong memories, but life-changing moments,” Waugh said. “The concept of this book was to try and find out why cricket is a religion in India.” Over 18 days and with a camera in hand, Waugh toured across the country, from the streets of Mumbai and Jodhpur, the alleys of Kolkata to the desert in Rajasthan and the Himalayan foothills. A documentary of his trip, titled Capturing Cricket, will be aired on the ABC on November 17. Speaking of cricket in the country, he was quoted as saying, “It’s hard to overstate the importance of cricket to a country like India. “There’s 800 million people living below the poverty line, but cricket gives them something to connect with. “It’s a sport that doesn’t take a lot of money. I mean, I often say about cricket, all you need is a bat and ball.” In a country that loves the game so much, it was difficult for one of Australia’s most well-known cricketers to go unrecognised, as he went from one place to another. “I don’t think I’ve met a person in India that doesn’t know [I] play cricket,” Waugh said.
23 October 2020||KOLKATA,||East Bengal signs up Anthony Pilkington||East Bengal announced the signing of Republic of Ireland midfielder Anthony Pilkington and Welsh striker Aaron Joshua Amadi-Holloway in the squad for the upcoming Indian Super League season. Defender Scott Neville was the first foreign signing previously announced by East Bengal. Pilkington joins the ISL debutant having played in England all along with more than 400 games under his belt. Aaron Amadi-Holloway joins the side from A-League side Brisbane Roar. The 27-year-old striker featured in 23 matches last season.  PTI reports  Boumos for Mumbai City Meanwhile, Mumbai City FC on Saturday announced the signing of French-Moroccan midfielder Hugo Boumous from FC Goa. The attacking mid-fielder joins on a contract that will keep him at the club until 2022.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Bala Devi hopes to live up to expectations||India captain Bala Devi feels the professional training she has received at Rangers FC has made her a better player and she is hopeful of living up to the expectations in the Scottish Women’s Premier League beginning on Sunday. Bala, who signed a landmark 18-month contract with Rangers in January, said after six weeks of intensive pre-season training, she is raring to go in the league which will be played behind close doors. Rangers open its campaign at home against Hearts Women on the first day. “We have had six weeks of training and it is intensive stuff, quite different from what we had in India, obviously much more professional stuff,” she told PTI in an interview from Glasgow.  “I like the training style, our head coach is very clear while giving instructions and I have learnt a lot in these few months here. “I am fully fit physically and in best frame of mind. So, I am raring to go,” said the 30-year-old forward, who is the first Indian to join a top flight club in Europe. Bala made her India debut in 2005 and since 2010, has played 58 matches for the country, scoring 52 goals. Fast-paced The trailblazing Indian said her experience of playing international football for so long has helped her adjust to the condition and playing style in Rangers, which is fast-paced and high tempo. “It is very intensive while training as well as during actual match. It is fast-paced and always running on and off the ball. “So, you have to be extremely fit. I think I have adapted to the system. “I am not facing any problem. My experience of playing for India for 15 years has helped me doing all these. Things are going on well here for me. And I hope to do my best here so that many a talented players in India follow me in the coming years.” Instil confidence “I want to make India proud, hopefully perform well here to instil confidence to those talented girls back home that they can play outside the country. They should not stop dreaming about playing abroad.” The Manipuri player from Irengbam, a small village in Bishnupur district, said it is a matter of time before more Indian women start playing abroad. “There are many talented players in the country and I feel in the next two-three years, they will start coming out of India to play football. That will change the women’s game in the country.” “We are 55th in the world (in FIFA ranking) and that is not bad. We can improve further in the next few years.”
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||NRAI nominates Mane, Elavenil||The National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) has nominated Shahu Tushar Mane and Elavenil Valarivan to compete in the Sheikh Russell International air rifle championship, to be organised by the Bangladesh Shooting Federation on Sunday. Available to compete Elavenil, who won a World Cup gold and the World Cup Final gold last year, was selected as she was available to compete. She had opted out of the national camp owing to college examinations. The world No. 1 was the best woman shooter available as the other leading names are in quarantine, getting ready for the National camp here. NRAI said Mane was selected on the basis of the ranking and his availability. Seven countries Seven countries, including host Bangladesh, are scheduled to compete in the online competition, and each country will have an ISSF jury member to monitor the event. Japan, Korea, Indonesia, Pakistan and Bhutan will be the other countries apart from host and India. The mixed pairs competition has promised attractive prize for the medallists to the tune of $2,200 in all.
23 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Step up, Morgan tells his lads||New Kolkata Knight Riders captain Eoin Morgan said it was high time his team raised its game after its eight-wicket loss to Mumbai Indians at Abu Dhabi on Friday. At the post-match media conference, asked about his take on the KKR top-order “which did not apply itself”, Morgan said, “I think that’s putting it very politely. With the bat early on we made a few mistakes. MI bowled really well… It's another area of improvement that we need to make strides on. “We've just passed the halfway stage and there's no better time to turn things around. Given the strength and depth in our batting line-up and the different skill levels and skill-sets, we have to be as adaptable as possible going forward.” Morgan hoped for a smooth transition in leadership from Dinesh Karthik. “It took a lot of courage and selflessness from DK… within our group we have a number of leaders that we will need throughout this competition.” Morgan said Pat Cummins’ focus on golf had improved his batting. “…he is hitting the golf ball really well,” said Morgan.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||MI crushes KKR to reclaim top spot||In a lopsided contest, Kolkata Knight Riders succumbed to Mumbai Indians at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Friday. MI thrashed KKR by eight wickets inside 17 overs to move to the top of the table, even on points with Delhi Capitals but ahead on net run rate after eight games. Signature shot Chasing a target of 149, Quinton de Kock (78 not out, 44b, 9x4, 3x6) snatched the game away in a flash. The South African executed classical cricketing shots, including his signature hook, to keep the scoreboard ticking. He found solid support in Rohit (35, 36b, 5x4, 1x6). By the time Shivam Mavi dismissed Rohit, Mumbai only needed 55 off 57 balls. Hardik Pandya, promoted to No. 4, hastened the end with an 11-ball 21 not out (3x4, 1x6). MI had earlier restricted KKR to 148 for five.
23 October 2020||Liverpool,||Man City shades Arsenal via Sterling’s strike||Raheem Sterling scored the only goal as Pep Guardiola got the better of Mikel Arteta in Manchester City's 1-0 win over Arsenal to move three points off the top of the Premier League table. Aguero drove forward and fed Phil Foden on the left, with the England midfielder cutting in to shoot. Bernd Leno could only parry his effort, which fell kindly for Sterling to sidefoot home. Earlier, champion Liverpool was foiled by VAR as it was held to a 2-2 derby draw with Everton at Goodison Park on Saturday after a late effort from Jordan Henderson was ruled out. To add to Liverpool’s disappointment, it suffered an injury to key defender Virgil van Dijk, which forced the Dutchman out of the game in the 11th minute, after a reckless challenge from Everton keeper Jordan Pickford. Everton’s Brazilian forward Richarlison was sent off in the 90th minute after a wild challenge on Thiago Alcantara. Then came the VAR drama that left Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp bemused. “I’ve seen the disallowed goal at the end and in the picture I saw it wasn’t offside. Can someone explain that to me?” the German said. Chelsea was two goals to the good after early strikes by Timo Werner but still allowed Southampton to claw back to a 3-3 draw. It was up 3-1 after Kai Havertz also scored but Danny Ings, Che Adams and Jannik Vestergaard had other plans.  The results: Premier League: Everton 2 (Keane 19, Calvert-Lewin 81) drew with Liverpool 2 (Mane 3, Salah 72); Chelsea 3 (Werner 15, 28, Havertz 59) drew with Southampton 3 (Ings 43, Adams 57, Vestergaard 90+2); Manchester City 1 (Sterling 23) bt Arsenal 0.   LaLiga: Granada 1 (Herrera 82) bt Sevilla 0; Celta Vigo 0 lost to Atletico Madrid (Suarez 6, Carrasco 90+5); Real Madrid 0 lost to Cadiz 1 (Lozano 16).   Serie A: Napoli 4 (Lozano 23, 27, Politano 30, Osimhen 43) bt Atalanta 1 (Lammers 59); Sampdoria 3 (Quagliarella 32, Augello 41, Damsgaard 74) bt Lazio 0; Inter Milan 1 (Lukaku 29) lost to AC Milan 2 (Ibrahimovic 13, 16).   Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 0 lost to Borussia Dortmund 1 (Reus 76); Freiburg 1 (Lienhart 15) drew with Werder Bremen 1 (Fuellkrug 25-pen); Hertha Berlin 0 lost to Stuttgart 2 (Kempf 9, Castro 68); Mainz 0 lost to Bayer Leverkusen 1 (Alario 30); Augsburg 0 lost to RB Leipzig 2 (Angelino 45, Poulsen 66); Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Doan 58) lost to Bayern Munich 4 (Muller 8, 51, Lewandowski 26, 45+1).
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Jai Wadhwa posts win||Jai Wadhwa beat Krishnan 43-18, 54-25, 18-41, 20-32, 52-4 in the Delhi State 6-Red snooker championship.  The results: Vicky Rajput bt K. Parasher 49-18, 37-29, 28-25.   Sunil Kumar bt Gopesh 48-0, 30-21, 50-0.   Arpit Seth bt Digant Tiwari 47-15, 39-5, 27-32, 49-17.   Parmod Kumar bt Ishmeet Singh 31-8, 38-37, 2-31, 28-20.   Jai Wadhwa bt Krishnan 43-18, 54-25, 18-41, 20-32, 52-4.   Sandeep Solanki bt Rajan Singh 16-34, 27-16, 32-27, 49-8.
23 October 2020||LONDON,||Joshua and Pulev reschedule title fight for December 12||Anthony Joshua will defend his World heavyweight boxing titles for the first time this year when it was confirmed he will face Kubrat Pulev here on December 12. Joshua was first scheduled to meet Pulev in October 2017 in Cardiff but the Bulgarian withdrew with an injured shoulder. Pulev won six straight fights to become a mandatory challenger, but their June 20 bout was postponed because of COVID-19. Joshua’s WBA, IBF, and WBO titles will be on the line in his first home fight in more than two years, his promotion company Matchroom announced on Friday. Spectators? No spectators have been allowed at boxing in England during the pandemic, but Matchroom said it will try to make a case for a limited live crowd at the O2 Arena. “Without the fans something huge is missing,” Joshua said. “I am really hoping that, safety permitting, we might be able to bring some boxing fans in. Dec. 12 is the date and once again the heavyweight belts go up in the air and it is my sole focus to make sure that come Dec. 13 they are in their rightful place in the U.K. “I respect every opponent and I respect Pulev. I wish him well during his preparation.” Joshua and Pulev have only one professional loss each — Joshua to Andy Ruiz last year and Pulev to Wladimir Klitschko in 2014. Great accomplishment “For a small country like Bulgaria to stand up for the heavyweight titles is a great accomplishment,” Pulev said. “This fight is for my late father and all Bulgarians around the world.” Joshua will be aiming to put away Pulev and set up a title unification bout against WBC champion Tyson Fury in an all-British blockbuster next year.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Fine-tuning our game will make us better: Nilakanta Sharma||Fine-tuning a few aspects of the Indian men hockey team’s game will make a big difference at the Olympics, reckons midfielder Nilakanta Sharma. The Indian team has done well against top teams in the FIH Hockey Pro League, but Nilakanta feels that there is still room for improvement. Lot of confidence “Playing well against the Netherlands, Belgium and Australia at the FIH Hockey Pro League has certainly given us a lot of confidence in our abilities,” said Nilakanta, who has played over 50 matches for the national side. “However, we have identified a few areas that we need to fine-tune in the upcoming months. Sometimes small changes make a big difference to the way a team performs and we are looking to make those small changes to our game. “If we fine-tune our game properly, we will certainly be a much better unit at the Olympics,” he added. Tricky period Asked how he felt about his game, Nilakanta said, “This is a tricky period for us. We have to be very careful. We shouldn’t push too hard and neither should we take it too easy as well. “Personally, I am happy with the way I am moving forward with my game everyday. We are taking small steps at the moment. There’s still a lot of time to go for the Olympics,” he added. The 25-year-old said that since the team has spent so much time together at the SAI campus in Bengaluru in the last few months, the coordination between the players on the pitch could improve. Great understanding “In sport, it’s not only about having a great understanding on the pitch but off the pitch relations between players also have a huge impact on performances,” Nilakanta said. “We have become a much closer unit in the last few months since we have spent a lot of time together at SAI campus. This could have a major impact on our coordination on the pitch,” he added.  We have become a much closer unit in the last few months since we have spent a lot of time together at SAI campus. This could have a major impact on our coordination on the pitch
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Domestic season from Jan. 1: Ganguly||The much-awaited domestic cricket season will start from January 1 with the Ranji Trophy, BCCI president Sourav Ganguly said on Saturday. The BCCI Apex Council met on Sunday evening and a good amount of time was spent on discussing the domestic calendar which had been thrown in disarray by the surging cases of COVID-19 in India. Extensive discussions “We have had extensive discussions on domestic cricket and we have tentatively decided to start the competitions from January 1, 2021,” Ganguly said from Dubai. When asked if it would be a curtailed season or not, the former Indian captain said the board won’t be able to accommodate all domestic tournaments for practical purposes. “We will certainly have the full-fledged Ranji Trophy redball tournament. It will probably not be possible to hold all tournaments,” Ganguly said, hinting that BCCI is eyeing the January-March window for Ranji Trophy. To minimise travel, matches are likely to be organised in four different centres dividing the four groups (A, B, C and Plate). For example, Puducherry can host all teams in Plate Group. “Puducherry has six grounds and has offered to host. It can host the Plate Group games while the other Groups can play in three different centres. The main motive is to minimise travel for players. Bangalore also has a lot of grounds so it can be one option and another option can be Dharamsala which has Bilaspur and Nadaun in its proximity,” a BCCI official said. Meanwhile, Ganguly also assured that the junior cricket and women’s tournaments will be held between March and April. “We also have elaborate plans for our age group and women’s cricket. We will start with Ranji Trophy and then we will also have the other tournaments between March and April,” he said.
23 October 2020||Dubai,||Rampaging MI up against Gayle-boosted KXIP||Mumbai Indians has been in rampaging form with five straight wins, but can ill afford to be complacent against a Chris Gayle-inspired Kings XI Punjab on Sunday. A win will virtually seal a spot in the play-offs for Mumbai, while a loss could send KXIP out of contention.  Captain Rohit Sharma (251 runs), his opening partner Quinton de Kock (269), Suryakumar Yadav (243) and Ishan Kishan (186) provide the muscle in batting. On the bowling front, pacers Jasprit Bumrah and Trent Boult have 12 wickets apiece from eight matches. On the other hand, KXIP is languishing at the bottom despite having the top-two run-getters of the tournament in skipper K.L. Rahul (387) and his opening partner Mayank Agarwal (337). However, KXIP has been boosted by Gayle’s return. The ‘Universe Boss’ made his first appearance this IPL with a bang, hitting a 45-ball 53, laced with five sixes and a four in KXIP’s win over Royal Challengers Bangalore.
23 October 2020||St. John’s (Antigua),||Bravo and Hetmyer back in Test squad||Darren Bravo and Shimron Hetmyer and Keemo Paul are back in the West Indies Test squad for a two-match series in New Zealand, but Shai Hope has been dropped.  The squads:   Tests: Jason Holder (Capt.), Jermaine Blackwood, Kraigg Brathwaite, Darren Bravo, Shamarh Brooks, John Campbell, Roston Chase, Rahkeem Cornwall, Shane Dowrich, Shannon Gabriel, Shimron Hetmyer, Chemar Holder, Alzarri Joseph, Keemo Paul, Kemar Roach. Reserves: Nkrumah Bonner, Joshua DaSilva, Preston McSween, Shayne Moseley, Raymon Reifer and Jayden Seales.   T20s: Kieron Pollard (Capt.), Fabian Allen, Dwayne Bravo, Sheldon Cottrell, Andre Fletcher, Shimron Hetmyer, Brandon King, Kyle Mayers, Rovman Powell, Keemo Paul, Nicholas Pooran, Oshane Thomas, Hayden Walsh Jr and Kesrick Williams.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Satyendran no more||Former Kerala Ranji captain and coach A. Satyendran passed away here. He was 78 and survived by wife and a daughter. Satyendran, who settled in Hyderabad by virtue of his job with the State Bank Group, was unwell for some time. He represented Kerala in 32 First Class games between 1970-80, scoring 1291 runs.He was an Executive Committee member of HCA and Veterans Cricket Association of Hyderabad (VCAH).
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 07:48 IST,||Sudoku - October 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtually unstoppable||This year has not been kind to sportspeople. With COVID-19 and the ensuing lockdown, teams had to bid sports facilities and group training an abrupt adieu. Differently-abled athletes have got the short end of the stick, as physiotherapy sessions, water therapy and a host of other facilities were unavailable to them until Unlock 5. But, P. Madhavi Latha, founder-president of the Wheelchair Basketball Federation of India (WBFI), is made of sterner stuff. Through the lockdown, she has organised a host of online activities and training sessions to lift both the spirits of the members, and their game.Madhavi says, “We conducted webinars on game rules by both Indian and foreign coaches, and a series on success stories by Paralympic gold medal winners, from across the globe. We arranged online sessions with physiotherapists, fitness and conditioning experts with simple tips on how to exercise with items found at home like bottles of water. Those recordings are available on our social media platforms and players can watch them any time.” Madhavi is also a national paralympic swimmer, and has been longing to get some laps in. “In the absence of regular swimming, I started spending at least two hours practising yoga, including laughter yoga, pranayama , some other exercises, and meditation. But still it’s not equivalent to the effect of swimming.” Seeing the plight of wheelchair basketball players across the country, WBFI has helped soften the blow by reaching out to 300 of its members, with groceries and medical aid. “More than the equipment and essentials, we need financial support to engage the services of coaches and physiotherapists who are currently supporting the players on an honorary basis. We are also looking for support to arrange skill development sessions as many players are facing fiscal challenges due to loss of income during the pandemic,” Madhavi says. To bring some sense of normalcy to an otherwise event-free year, WBFI has decided to conduct a competition as it does every year. This time it will be online, at the national and zonal level. ‘Virtually Unstoppable’ comprises four categories: quiz, art, skills and fitness challenges. Each State can send 20 participants. So far, there have been entries on Facebook, with movement, music, jewellery making, art. Likes and comments on social media will impact overall judgment in the category, to invite more public participation. Fitness and skill challenges have more stringent criteria. International basketball referee Anupam Sharma explains, “For the skills challenges, three or four judges will scrutinise the one-minute videos of the athletes dribbling, shooting, or displaying defence using the wheelchair. There is flexibility in whether the athletes use a sports wheelchair, a regular one or even a chair.” The fitness challenge entails doing wheelchair push-ups, upper body workouts using TheraBands, two kg dumbbells or filled water bottles, and pranayama or surya namaskar in a wheelchair. Hima Kalyani, who is currently working from her hometown in West Godavari, and practising her dribbling skills, says, “During the lockdown it was tough for us, as there was no court, but we have been in touch with each other via conference calls and that really lifts our morale and makes us feel like a team.”
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||No time like now||“Every time someone compliments me on my health, I break into a big smile. Not because I crave validation but because these are the results of putting my past behind me. It was a past defined by alcoholism and the time I had spent regretting, but not acting on it,” says Robin*, a 27-year-old corporate employee.  Support and courage  Two years ago, Robin moved to Bengaluru from Dharwad for a new job. “Initially it was great but in a few months the work environment started turning toxic and I was stressed all the time. This led to a fallout with my long-term partner. Rather than handling it in a healthy way and working on my mental health, I turned to alcohol just to numb the pain. In a few months’ time I had gone from an occasional drinker to an alcoholic,” he says. This continued for over one and a half years. Then the lockdown was announced. “I was at my parents’ place when the restrictions were imposed. Both of them are teetotallers so there was no alcohol at home. With my previous experiences, I couldn’t go more than a week without drinking. I did manage to sneak in a whisky bottle which I downed in two days but after that there was no way to procure alcohol. I struggled to get a grip over myself as the withdrawal symptoms started showing,” he adds. Robin recalls those weeks of nausea, fever and heavy sweating. “My parents, initially, did not understand what was happening to me, but they helped me deal with it and that was my wake-up call. I knew I had to give up drinking so I started reading a lot about it online and learnt about withdrawal symptoms and how to deal with them,” Robin says. He has been sober for over three months now. Locking up temptations Several people used the lockdown to tackle their dependence on alcohol or drugs. “Having friends and family who are supportive is extremely important when one tries to get over addictions. After the lockdown, I have noticed a positive trend where parents are willing to come forward and help their kids rather than judging and humiliating them,” says Leonora R. Mohan, consultant psychologist, who runs Sparsh Counselling Centre in Visakhapatnam. Leonora says that her clinic saw a 25% increase in the number of people who sought help for de-addiction. Most are young adults and teenagers for weed addiction. “Lockdown gave people the time and space to rethink their decisions. It also crippled easy access to the addictive substance,” she says, adding that being away from a group or situation that may have earlier supported the addiction, also helped. The lockdown was a busy time for the staff of Green Valley Foundation, a deaddiction centre in Visakhapatnam. Earlier, they would get one or two calls for help in a week. “During the lockdown, we had six to 10 calls every day from families. Our team turned to online counselling,” says Uma Raj, caretaker at Green Valley Foundation. The staff guided families through the deaddiction process and counselled members about talking to loved ones. They also chalked out diets and exercises to help the person regain health. Uma believes that the true test for people who curtailed their dependency on drugs and alcohol during lockdown would be now, when we have easy access to everything. “I would advise people to seek professional help, as counsellors are trained to identify behavioural patterns, and avoid the chances of a relapse,” she says. Amrita*, 29, who quit smoking during the lockdown agrees that a relapse can happen any time. “I went 61 days without a cigarette and then after a tough day at work, I decided to light just one. Over the next few days, I smoked an entire pack. The relapse hurt a lot. I felt terrible, like a failure.” But she has now gone without one for 85 days. What worked for Amrita was setting smaller goals and support from her partner and her friends. “I announced it on social media. Once you put something out on social media and get some validation, it’s helpful,” she says.  (*Names changed to protect identity)   App help  Here are a few apps that you can turn to if you are planning to quit your addictions   Smoke Free —Based on the data you enter, it provides you the health and financial benefits you’ll enjoy if you resist a cigarette.On Android and iOS Sobriety counter —With a colourful interface, this app has a health tracker that gives details about your cell regeneration, withdrawal symptoms, blood alcohol levels, when you’re in the process of quitting alcohol. It also has a game to distract until the urge to drink passes, and a tab that shows your savings by giving up drinking. There are badges for every time you say no.On Android I Am Sober —The app helps you choose from options that include alcohol, marijuana, smoking, and drugs. It keeps a track of the number of days, minutes, and seconds spent sober and the money saved. It also connects you to a wide network of people in the recovery stage and those who have recovered.On Android and iOS
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Everesting||Everesting is a sporting challenge that requires a sportsperson to run or cycle up and down a hill (or on a trainer set at an incline) until they reach the total vertical elevation equivalent to the height of Mt. Everest. The rules on Everesting.cc say that the person must go up and come down the same way multiple times, taking U-turns at the bottom (downhill cannot be a different route) until you climb 8,848 metres. Colleagues Chitti Babu and Gokul Krishna from Hyderabad completed the challenge on October 2, cycling in 26 hours and 27 hours respectively, without a break to sleep, as the rules say. Gokul continued until he reached an elevation of more than 10,000 metres, while Chitti Babu did 9,000 metres. Till date, 12,236 have participated from 97 countries, and their names feature in the Hall of Fame (on Everesting.cc) alongside the best climbers in the world. “We started training in August. It was necessary to see the route was safe for us, as we would have to do a day and night climb,” says Gokul. They decided to raise awareness and funds for the Dr. Maxwell Trevor Cycling Academy, whose main focus is to train the underprivileged. Guwahati-based Dr. Sanjeev Handique feels Everesting is “a test of endurance.” The support team is equally crucial.” The duo chose to start at night to escape the heat, supported by friends and cyclists who rode with them in turns. Gokul says, “Climbing is all about watts per kg. So the key aspects were to increase my FTP (functional threshold power, the maximum amount of power one can hold for an hour), and lose about 10 kg. By giving up sweets and following a vegan diet I lost about seven kg, but was happy given the time available.” He adds, “I rode a few times a week on my trainer and used Sufferfest (an app for cyclists). I made sure we had at least one day per week of four-eight hours of riding with about 2,000-3,000 metres of elevation gain. The target was a weekly elevation of about 5,000 metres.... I was very disciplined and used the spare time to catch up on much-needed sleep.”
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Why the bicycle business is booming||Many businesses are under pressure these days. Restaurateurs are crying into their coffee; demand for embroidered lehenga-cholis is low, and the sales of SUVs remain half-hearted. But the bicycle business seems to be booming. Just go to Decathlon, or visit any cycle shop, and you will see. Sales are brisk, and joy is unconfined. The salesmen are grinning from ear to ear. What has led to this boom, you may ask? A variety of factors have contributed. For one thing, the government makes more money out of petroleum products than any other entity on the planet except Saudi Aramco, the only difference being that Saudi Aramco at least has to dig out the stuff and build refineries, whereas our government just issues circulars. This makes motorised transportation in India far more expensive than it used to be. We could go back to the days of horseback riding, converting our garages into stables, with one horse each for Mummy, Daddy and Bunty, and a smaller one forDaadi, but due to failures in family planning and poor horse management, the human population now far outstrips the horse population. Under the circumstances, the cheapest way to get from point A to point B, without walking, is a bicycle. In Delhi at least, walking is completely out of the question, which is why there is so much competition to park right in front of the McDonald’s, instead of three feet from the entrance, which is too far away. Of course, it’s not all about high petroleum prices and lack of horses. Cycling is green. In fact, some government officers have even explained that the high price of petrol and diesel is all part of a master plan, designed to lessen our dependency on fossil fuels. They are doing it because they care. Some of the upper classes feel the same way and are rolling out bikes to save the planet. It is also an opportunity to buy cool helmets and hot pink cycling shorts. Fitness levels are improving. COVID-19 is being avoided, unless you perch a loved one on the handlebar, but no one really does that anymore. Most of us are plumper, and the handlebars are slim. Unfortunately, I myself am not part of this phenomenon. I never learnt how to cycle when I was young. I was raised as a sort of science experiment, without friends who could have been a bad influence, and avoiding all sudden movements, which might have caused injury. But don’t mind me. Go right ahead. I’ll be on the balcony, waving you on as you pass by.  No horses were harmed during the production of Shovon Chowdhury’s most recent novel, Murder With Bengali Characteristics .
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||School for underprivileged children takes a big leap to tackle the digital divide||Parents need not budget for their children’s education. No school fees. No uniform fees. No textbook fees. No stationery bills. No lunch packs. The school picks up the tab for all of these essentials of formal learning. That is putting in a nutshell how Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar empowers underprivileged families through the free gift of education made possible by donors. The school is being run as part of the Theosophical Society’s charity work. The pandemic led the school to offer the gift again in an all-new package, this time tied with a digital gift-bow. With the crisis scoring out in-school attendance, Olcott school was up against the same challenge as other free schools being run for the underprivileged: Filling up the virtual classrooms. “When we started online classes, only around 30 percent of the students would attend them, as a majority had no access to a smartphone and Internet. If there were 25 students in a class, only eight of them would turn up for the classes. Once parents started going to work and took what was usually the only smartphone at home, the attendance got thinner still. So, we started having these classes after 6 p.m.,” notes Sashikala Sriram, honorary academic director at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School. Difficulty accessing devices and Internet data is now an all-too familiar script. Efforts to revise the script have usually involved drives to source used smartphones, tablets and computers. Olcott school’s reworked script is a tad more imaginative and innovative than most others’. To get to the chase, in September, the school placed 120 brand-new Samsung tablets in the hands of its students from Classes X to XII, and connectivity via a Jio SIM card in every device. Its donors loosening their purse strings, the school managed to collect the Rs. 16 lakh necessary for the project. At the time of this article going to press, the school had extended the project’s scope and placed an order for another 40 tablets with Samsung, and the beneficiaries of this effort would be the Class IX students. For this phase of the project, an additional Rs. 5 lakh was raised, according to Sashikala. She estimates that by factoring in both the purchase of the tablets and the recurring expenditure of recharing the students’ SIM cards for a year, the cost per student comes to around Rs. 13,000. It was a long process that led to these results. It includes introducing features that would prempt the possibility of students misusing the tab, and extending monitoring powers to teachers just to ascertain that children use the digital resource responsibly. Two IT professionals volunteering with Olcott school for over a decade, Rahul Shankar and Sandeep Rajarajan are among the main scriptwriters of this digital-learning story. When they got in touch with Shashikala in the midst of the pandemic to find out how the school was managing its online learning programme, they had a digital classroom model in mind. At that point, even to them, the implementation part of the concept was still largely amorphous. However, with the school willing to try it out, they quickly knuckled down to finding out what shape it could take. Now, while the duo attended to the technological aspects of the project, the school raised funds to buy the devices and allied services. “Rahul and Sandeep created a fund-raising flyer which we sent out to all our contacts,” recalls Sashikala. Rahul points out that from the beginning, they did not countenance the idea of placing used devices in students’ hands, reasoning it out that doing so would be a short-sighted move that would possibly have to be repeated every year as the used devices are likely to pack up sooner than later. Instead, the plan was to buy new devices that could be passed on to subsequent batches with some refurbishment, thereby ensuring effortless continuity of the digital learning programme. “When you have a uniform system like this, you are directly in touch with the manufacturers, so you know who you can count on when you are having technological issues. They are also aware that it is being done for a good cause and so a good partnership is struck,” says Rahul, adding that even after schools reopen, the digital learning through this model can continue, and keep students primed for taking competitive exams. “Initially, we were looking at paid features with which you can control enterprise devices. However, learning that Google gives its G Suite application (basic) free for non-profits and not-for-profit educational institutions, we applied to them and got it. We also got a school domain (olcottschool.org) and created accounts for students in it (We are in the process of developing the website). It reflects a model followed in institutions abroad where every student has an ID based on the school domain. With these accounts we got the students’ tablets started,” explains Rahul. One of the striking features of the model is restricting access to unwanted apps through an android device management system, available in G Suite. “Only essential apps are installed. Students can’t install PUBG, Candy Crush or things like that. Even if they go to PlayStore, it will show them only those apps that we have configured for the school. At present, we have given admin powers to two teachers. Through the Chrome browser, these teachers can also restrict access to certain websites,” explains Rahul. The tab comes with a SIM card, and the two architects of the initiative and the school management understand having a call feature is a double-edged sword. “We gave them a tablet with a SIM card facility because we can’t expect them to have WiFi at home,” explains Rahul. “We wanted to be doubly sure students would not be hampered by network issues, and when we expressed our concern to Jio they went to the places where students largely come from and showed the network capabilities by sending us screenshots from there,” says Sandeep. Considering teachers are denied in-person interactions with students, a call facility is a good alternative, and a much-needed one as children are also battling the pandemic, each probably in their unique manner, and would do with some kind words. “We found out that in most of the students’ households, there was only one device. As these students can make phone calls with this tablet, teachers can now call them up and find out how they are doing. Earlier, they had to depend on their parents’ mobiles,” says Rahul. Alive to the possibility that children may make unwanted calls that would land them in trouble, some checks are being introduced into the system, though it is far from being entirely fool-proof yet. Rahul points out that by virtue of the Jio Enterprise services, teachers are enabled to keep tabs on children by tracking their usage patterns with the Jio SIM card. “Jio has extended admin features to some teachers, so they can check if misuse has happened, though the SIM can’t be blocked. If someone sends an SMS, then the admin gets a notification immediately. The teacher can ask who they are sending an SMS to. From the portal, it is possible to see who it has been sent to. It will take some more time to get things more streamlined and formalised, like a big enterprise,” says Rahul. Sashikala underlines the effectiveness of a feature that would prevent students from misusing the SIM by removing it from the tablet and using it in a mobile. “The students can’t put the SIM back in the tablet without bringing it to the school. They have to provide the pin, which only the teachers concerned know,” she elaborates. Parents’ role Sashikala discloses that on a Sunday before it was time to hand over the tablets to the students, an online session was conducted with those parents who could be a part of it, to brief them about the initiative. It was essentially an exercise that sought to co-opt parents into the initiative by getting them to take responsibility for the safety of the tablets and to help it take the desire course. Not leaving anything to chance, when the tablets were handed over to parents and their children together, a written undertaking from the former was undertaken. “These children are first generation learners, and many are hampered by the lack of a conducive learning environment at home. So, we impressed upon the parents that they should keep from watching television when the kids are studying. Invariably, a child would be living in a one-room house, where the quiet required to attend online classes may be lacking. Some children come from dysfunctional families where the father would be frittering away the earnings on alcohol. There are children who help augment the family’s income by doing odd jobs such as delivering milk packets or cleaning cars before coming to school. The document that we got the parents to sign underlines their responsibility for the safekeeping of the tablet and that they have to ensure its safe return to the school after the child’s schooling has been completed,” says Sashikala. Rahul says that parents who value this development in their children’s learning journey would be happy with this digital learning model with all its built-in checks, as they know that when their child opens the tab, it can’t be for anything other than education. He adds, “You cannot do anything else with the tab. People like me have a work laptop and a personal laptop. Similarly, for these students, it is a school device.” Teachers’ role To make the initiative sustainable, Rahul and Sandeep focussed on training the teachers to monitor it and take action if any of its strands straggle out of place. ”We worked on two Saturdays training the teachers. We have given the entire G Suite dashboard to the school so that teachers on board can monitor what happens at school, from their mobile phones. Through the admin panel in the G Suite, they will get to know if someone has finished their entire data pack for one day, and can find out from the student what depleted the pack too soon,” says Sandeep. “On Teachers’ Day, we took them through the process — how to set it up, how to restrict and monitor the gate — and also on a step-by-step tour of the G Suite. Following the primer, we set up the 120 devices along with them. Once you set it up in the G Suite management, all you have to do is open the tablet and enter the kid’s ID and it automatically synchronises and downloads all the apps that are required for the device. Once the teachers learnt it they did not need our help anymore,” says Rahul. Sashikala points out that the Rotary Club of Chennai Mitra has supported the initiative by donating five new laptops to the teachers. The possibilities Says Rahul, “This is a work in progress. We are learning about the different ways in which the tablet can be put to misuse so that in the next round we can put more restrictions. For the time being, the restrictions we have placed involve apps, games and websites that can’t be used.” “We have accepted the fact that children are not going to use the tablet for studies all the time,” says Sandeep, adding that how the information ecosystem is designed and through continual engagement, students can be nudged to use the tablet to gain information that would contribute to their overall development as individuals. Rahul believes that this digital programme can have an impact beyond the classroom. “It is enabling the students to be more digitally-literate. So, there is something we are contemplating. What if we install the e-governance apps? Of course, we have not done it yet, as this is left to the discretion of the school. Through these apps, the children can help their families.” Following the success of this initiative — which they have named ‘Vidamuyarchi’ (vidamuyarchi.org) after a larger vision by the same name they have conceptualised — Rahul and Sandeep are now exploring how they could extend the digital classroom model to other schools that face similar challenges. Rahul points out that the state government’s Kalvi TV programme is commendable with its YouTube channel covering the whole gamut of subjects in every class, in both English and Tamil. “However, the benefits of such programmes will be lost to students unless they have a device to access them.”  We wanted to make sure that students will not face network issues Sandeep Rajarajan   Even if they go to PlayStore, it will show them only those apps configured for the school Rahul Shankar    Many are hampered by the lack of a conducive learning environment at home Sashikala Sriram
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A new timetable for tiny tots||It is 10 a.m. on a weekday, and Indumathy R. is bracing herself for the next challenge of the day, by far the stiffest — assisting her four-and-a-half-year-old daughter Kural Venba with 45 minutes of online classes. “Sometimes I have to coax her into sitting upright before the laptop as her attention span is limited,” says Indumathy who has started attending the online classes with her daughter since a month ago. This is how most days begin for Indumathy. “We have to make some adjustments or our child is going to miss out on so many things,” says Indumathy, who also has to attend to the demands of a three-month-old child. To handle the little crises at home, sometimes she gets the support of her husband, who works from home, or her mother. With play schools switching to online classes, parents have to work with them now. Most play schools want one of the parents to sit through the class; some have reworked their timetable, offering the classes in the evenings and weekends, keeping the challenges faced by working parents in mind. Of the 15 children enrolled with Mahima Cultural Centre in Mylapore, seven are regular to the online classes. “Increasingly, we have parents of tiny tots seeking one-on-one classes as they don’t think group online classes help the children,” says Manju B, headmistress of the centre that runs a play school and an activity centre. Of the seven students, three have opted for the morning hours and the rest prefer evenings and weekends. “One parent has opted for a 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. slot as he would be free from all meetings at this hour,” says Manju. Classes do not exceed 30 minutes but for this arrangement to be fruitful we need greater participation of parents, she says. “Even if it is just 30 minutes, children get distracted easily so we insist on a parent sitting next to the child to give the necessary encouragement,” says Manju. Velammal VKids at Mogappair has a 30-minute lesson through video call for parents and children during weekends. “We have 300 students from pre-KG to UKG enrolled with us and nearly 20% of them are signed up for the weekend classes as their parents find this timing convenient. Here, we either offer classes in batches of two or three or have one-on-one session,” says Mary Manimala, headmistress of the school, adding that a parent must be around when a child is taking an online class. Opinion is divided on the the effectiveness of one-on-one classes. Charanya Prabhakar, founder, Oyster Montessori in Alwarpet, says they don’t encourage one-on-one classes for toddlers. While learning, a child has to see other children and feel like they are part of a classroom environment. So, they have a mix of students — not exceeding 12 — across age groups in the virtual class. Based on a two-month research including feedback from children and parents, the centre has tweaked the timetable for pre-schoolers, moving it to the evenings – between 4 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. “This is a huge shift for us as in pre-COVID days we always had classes in the mornings,” says Charanya.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Tardy pace of electricity work tests Perungudi residents’ patience||“Due to this work dragging on, pedestrians have resigned themselves to the fact that they would have to walk bang in the middle of the road, their safety at risk. Besides, swirls of dust have become a feature of life in the neighbourhood.” That is R. Chandrasekharan, a resident of Church Road in Perungudi, expressing his angst over a Tangedco work that seems to have trouble winding up. For close to two months, the Tamil Nadu Generation & Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) has kept Church Road in Perungudi dug-up for laying its underground cables. With the work on the nearly two-kilometre-long road progressing at a tardy pace, as Chandrasekharan points out, residents are battling a variety of problems. Residents point out that due to this work, vehicles are parked well into the carriageway, which creates traffic bottlenecks, especially during rush hour. Residents want Tangedco to complete the work at the earliest so that Greater Chennai Corporation can relay the road. “If this problem persists and is not set right before the north-east monsoon sets in, the situation is going to be really bad,” says Chandrasekharan. According to an official of Zone 14, Greater Chennai Corporation, road-laying work would be taken up on Church Road only after Tangedco completes all the work on all the roads in the vicinity.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic brings social initiative into play at pre-school||A pre-school-cum-day care centre at Gandhi Nagar in Adyar is filling the lull caused by the pandemic with a social initiative. With the free time at their disposal, its non-teaching support staff make paper bags and distribute them for free to 15 commercial establishments around Gandhi Nagar. This exercise may be a timely reminder that the Tamil Nadu government has banned single-use plastic in January 2019: For single-use plastic is said to be in circulation due to fewer checks on account of the pandemic. Play-Coop, a 37-year-old pre-school, has 12 support staff and six teachers, the latter now taking online classes for students. “For the last three to four months, we have been asking our support staff to come twice a week to clean the centre but we wanted to bring more meaning to this routine and that’s how we got them to make paper bags,” says Princess Naik, founder, Play-Coop. In the early months, those dependent on public transport were exempt from this weekly assignment. Princess underlines that many support staff are long-serving employees, some of them employed with the school for around two decades. “We been paying them 60 per cent of their salary every month since the lockdown began,” she says. The ayammas make paper bags — an average of 10 each — every Wednesday and Saturday to be given to provision stores and pharmaceutical outlets in Gandhi Nagar. A note stuck to each paper bag denotes that it is an eco-friendly community project, and carries the centre’s address. The distribution is handled by a school staff, Ravi Kumar, who hands the bags to the beneficiaries — at present, 10 stores of different stripes and five pharmacies every Monday. “The response has been so encouraging — an orthopaedic clinic asked us if we could customise the bags for them. The doctor wanted two to three sheets of paper stuck and shaped like a bed,” says Princess. The newspaper required for this customised offering is sourced from teachers’ and friends’ homes. Princess points out that paper bag-making is not a new initiative at the centre and explains: “It’s one of the first activities we teach children to make them environment conscious.” Play-Coop plans to continue with this initiative till support staff can get started on their routine work again.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A smart move||A few minutes into our conversation, Ananth Raghunandan’s right hand moves to take the form of a mudra . From his eye movement, it is clear that this comes spontaneously for this young dancer whose parents have come from Miami, United States, to fulfil his desire to have his Bharatanatyam arangetram in Chennai. Ananth and his family are now living in Kasturibai Nagar, Adyar. What’s inspiring about this journey to Bharat through Natya, as the family calls it, is how Ananth beat the odds through dance. Twenty-two-year-old Ananth is on the autism spectrum, and his experience makes it clear that there is therapeutic value in movement. It is eight years since Ananth started learning dance. “I am a regular at the Music Season, not so much for the dance as for the fact that it helps Ananth. We did not chose Bharatanatyam for him; he chose it for himself,” says K. Raghunandan, Ananth’s father. Guru Harija Sivakumar in Miami was his first guru. Later, professor K. Mohanan from Kalakshetra Foundation started offering him lessons. “He had many sensory-motor challenges and was introduced to karate, hip-hop and tap in Miami, but nothing made as much difference as Bharatanatyam,” says Rama, Ananth’s mother. On Ananth’s Bharatanatyam arangetram, she says, “The practice sessions were continuous and intense and we are glad Ananth completed this milestone.” She points out that Ananth’s foot movement and rhythm are his strengths. She says due to regular dance practice his posture has improved tremendously. “I can see so many subtle changes in him — his eyesight is sharper and his hand-eye coordination has improved,” she says. As Bharatanatyam is partly rhythmic chanting, it has helped in his speech too. Ananth’s passion for Bharatanatyam led the family to explore more opportunities for him in India. Since the last two years, he has been pursuing a diploma programme in Hospital Record and Documentation Management at Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospital (KMH) thanks to encouragement from Dr. T.G. Govindarajan, chairman and managing director of the hospital. Besides dance, Ananth is well-versed with the piano and actively codes for HashHackCode, an organisation that provides inclusive tech education and mentorship. Interestingly, Ananth’s website (ananthdance.com) was developed by Prem, a HashHackCode student with autism, in time for his arangetram.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Residents of Gandhi Nagar, Shastri Nagar point out flaws in road work||Members of Spark, a city-based civic forum, have complained that some roads in the Gandhi Nagar and Shastri Nagar have been relaid without adherence to standard milling procedures. Greater Chennai Corporation undertook road-relaying work in these localities in August. “Gandhi Nagar Third Main Road and Fourth Main Road have to be in fact milled up to 80mm to make up for the lack of milling in the past,” says T. D. Babu, founder-member of Spark. Another norm that has been thrown to the wind is milling of road surfaces characterised by intersections. To illustrate, they draw attention to a manhole at the intersection of First Cross Street and Second Cross Street in Shastri Nagar which is now at a higher level. As a result, sewage from septic tanks in houses on Second Cross Street would not flow into the sewage drain. Besides, the mouth of a chamber of a stormwater drain has been covered by the road surface. Even the manholes have almost “sunk”, note residents. It’s also said that potholes have been ignored on some patches. The mud and other kinds of trash have not been removed before the road work was carried out, allege residents. Besides, the mandatory gap between the road and the pavements has not been maintained, and this would prevent rainwater percolation into the ground and result in water-logging, residents add. Residents of Adyar insist that the practice of informing residents before road-relaying work should be followed. Doing so would enable them to monitor the work and inform the Greater Chennai Corporation of any flaws. They have also sought that work sites sport a board with the name of the contractor and the name and phone number of the GCC engineer in charge of the work.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Residents seek restoration of RWH well on road in Guindy||Residents of Race View Colony Main Road Extension in Guindy have requested the Zone 13 of Greater Chennai Corporation to scrap, mill and relay a section of the road. According to residents, that section of the road had been relaid by a resident who moved into the locality in November 2019. He relaid the road in front of his house and therefore the height of the road has increased. They have also drawn attention to another issue: A rainwater harvesting structure constructed by GCC getting covered with a layer of concrete, leading to water stagnation on this section whenever it rains. Further, the water does not flow into the stormwater drains located beneath the railway tracks at the Guindy railway station. Southern Railway has drilled a hole on the wall abutting the track to make sure rainwater flows into the stormwater drains. Residents also complain of mosquitoes breeding in the stagnant water. Race View Colony witnesses heavy traffic by virtue of its proximiy to Guindy railway station and Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus stops. According to residents, complaints have been submitted to GCC but they are of no avail. In this respect, a Zone 13 official says, “We will look into the issue and take remedial measures.”
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Where parakeets have a fine dining experience||Twenty-five wooden planks make a permanent fixture on A.M.V. Sudarson Sah’s terrace. He has nailed the planks to two parapet walls, arranging them in a neat row. There is a small passage between every two planks enabling people to walk around the terrace. During the rainy season, Sudarson Sah keeps the planks protected with a tarpaulin cover. Now and then, he adds a few extra planks — whenever he expects more visitors to his terrace. A long-time resident of Ayya Mudali Street in Chintadripet, Sudarson, has been serving parakeets soaked rice, every morning and evening. It is a ritual he is said to have been following for a decade. “Their squawks of parakeets wake us in the morning. They are punctual. But, we never keep them waiting for their food,” says 48-year-old Sudarson Sah, a small-time businessman. An hour before the sunrise around 5 a.m, Sudarson Sah, his wife A.S. Vithya Bhai and their college-going daughter start the preparations for feeding the birds. They rinse 20 kilograms of rice before it is soaked in a 20 litre-plastic bucket for an hour. The family divides their work with Sudarson Sah and his wife taking care of the task of washing the wooden planks and parapet walls, sweeping the terrace, soaking the rice before they are fit to be kept on the planks and walls for the birds. Their daughter fills more than half a dozen water bowls primarily meant for pigeons and crows on the terrace. Parakeets flock to the nearby trees before landing on the wooden planks. The family withdraws and keeps a distance to ensure the parakeets are not disturbed during their daily meal. The parakeets feed between 6 a.m and 6. 45 a.m every day. The routine is repeated in the evening. “Before having my lunch, I soak the same quantity of rice to feed the birds in the evening. Our family has never missed the routine,” says Sudarson Sah. During the lockdown, Sudarson Sah and his family managed to source adequate quantities of rice for these birds. On an average, 35 to 40 kilograms of rice are used to feed these birds every day. In fact, a small room in his house has been converted into a storeroom to keep a stock of rice in gunny bags. Besides buying it on their own, the family was also helped by their neighbours in sourcing raw rice for the birds. A Marathi by origin, Sudarson Sah’s grandparents moved to the neighbourhood in the early 20th century for textile business after purchasing the existing Chettinad-style house. Charity has been the tradition for the family as they served free food for the poor regularly and gave donations to the temple festivals in the neighbourhood and elsewhere in the city every year. However, Sudarson Sah developed the habit of feeding the parakeets only a decade ago when he saw a small group of birds flocking to his terrace regularly taking advantage of a peepal tree nearby. Then it was just a pastime for him. Later, it became a full-time activity for him and his family.  An hour before the sunrise around 5 a.m, Sudarsonsah, his wife A.S. Vithya Bhai and their college-going daughter start the preparations for feeding the birds
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Class 12 student on a mission||In September, when online classes began for Sangeetha. R, a first-year commerce student at D.G. Vaishnav College, she relied on her elder sister’s smartphone to attend them. It was an inconvenient arrangement, particularly for the elder sister — who is married and lives near Sangeetha’s home — to give her kid sister the smartphone in the morning and collect it in the evening. On days when Sangeetha had homework to do, she would wait for hours before returning home with her smartphone. This arrangement came to an end when their mother, a sweeper at an office, learnt about Help E-Learning Programme (HELP) started by Gunisha Aggarwal, a Class 12 student of Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan School — Nungambakkam. HELP provides smartphones to underprivileged school and college students to help them attend their online classes. One of the beneficiaries of this two-month-old programme, Sangeetha says, “I never expected to own a smartphone. My father is an auto-rickshaw driver and we can’t afford even a basic smartphone.” Gunisha gave serious thought to taking up this work when her mother Vaneeta Aggarwal gave a spare laptop to their housemaid’s daughter so that she could attend online classes. The fact that she would be helping bridge the digital divide in her own small way was the deciding factor. “To further the objectives of HELP, a website, www.helpchennai.org, has been developed. Through this site, people can express their interest in donating their spare laptops, tablets or smartphones. Besides, students can place a request seeking a device. We seek details like the names of the student, school or college, parents’ occupation and family income. People can also volunteer with HELP, which includes checking and servicing the gadgets that we collect. So far, HELP has reached out to 10 students and received 250 requests in the past few days. The response for donation of devices is also good. So far, we have received 50 gadgets,” says Gunisha, daughter of Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Commissioner, Greater Chennai City Police. Reports of how youngsters are struggling to get smartphones to attend online classes are said to be driving people to support the HELP initiative. There are two incidents that are particularly gripping. L. Samuel, a 16-year-old from Kodungaiyur who had completed Class 10, was found cleaning a stormwater drain near Koyambedu market so that he could earn some money towards buying smartphone to attend online classes. The Pulianthope and Anna Nagar police provided him with a tablet. In another incident, a 13-year-old schoolboy was lured by a criminal gang into phone-snatching. While trying to snatch a mobile phone from a truck driver, he was caught and handed over to the police. When questioned by the Thiruvottiyur police, the juvenile cited the need for a mobile to attend online classes as what drove him to the criminal act. Later, the Thiruvottiyur police gifted him a smartphone. The Rotary Club of Chennai Towers has supported HELP by providing it with 100 new tablets. The initiative has also reached out to 82 students at Seva Chakkra, an orphanage in Choolai. “My elder sister, Arshita Aggarwal, a law graduate, also supports this cause by identifying needy students and connecting us with non-governmental organisations. We are also planning to approach teachers of schools run by the Greater Chennai Corporation,” says Gunisha. HELP can be reached at 99403 48747; or write to support@ helpchennai.org
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Encouragement for those students who almost made it||Encouragement drives sustained performance, as an education-based experiment in the United States by psychologist Robert Rosenthal and educationist Leonore F. Jacobson has shown. It is natural to shine the spotlight on the victor, but it takes intent to recognise those who came up short by a few unfortunate inches. Every year, Rahul Shankar and Sandeep Rajarajan, IT professionals and friends from college, recognise the five or six students at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School who have missed getting the annual scholarship by a whisker. “For a decade now, Rosalyn Yake, a Canadian, has been extending what is called Starfish Scholarships to a student from Olcott school. Students who have gone through the Duke of Edinburgh Award, a self-development programme for children and adolescents, are considered for it. Rosalyn has a selection process through which she would pick one scholar every year and support them till they finish their higher education. Earlier, Olcott school had only Classes up to Standard X, and so, the student would be supported through Standard XI and XII in another private school and then through three years of an undergraduate college programme or four years of engineering by the scholarship offered by Rosalyn. It has been 10 years now, and 10 children have been supported by Starfish Scholarships,” explains Rahul. “In the selection process, six or seven students would make the short-list, but only one would get through. Sandeep and I decided to provide scholarships to the five or six students who almost made it by pledging a sum of money that at the end of the year amounts to our salaries for one month. The amount we contribute is not as big as Rosalyn’s, but it can still boost these students’ morale.” Rahul is associated with Starship Scholarships since 2009 when it was founded. Duke of Edinburgh Award, instituted in the United Kingdom in 1956, has spread to the nooks and crannies of the world, as it has been adopted in many nations. Everywhere it has gone, it has assumed a new flavour; and in some cases, a new name. In India, the Award is known as the International Award for Young Persons. “I had gone through the The Duke of Edinburgh Award programme when I was studying at PSSB — Nungambakkam. Similarly, Sandeep undertook the Award programme at PSSB — T. Nagar,” says Rahul. “Olcott school is a special project where the Duke of Edinburgh Award — London itself would pay for the expenses incurred for its various activities, including travel, through its India head-office in Delhi. For the special project, they had picked institutions that were empowering children from marginalised sections, and the Olcott school has a very rich history of that.” Only those who have completed the Duke of Edinburgh Award can guide those pursuing it. “My first volunteering work with the Olcott school was as a guide to children of the school undergoing the programme,” says Rahul. “While we were conducting this programme for these students, we met Rosalyn.” Rahul and Sandeep count the initiative to encourage the five or six students who almost made it as part of their larger socio-educational initiative called “Vidamuyarchi”.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A support group for parents of children with autism||D. Rama, an academician, came to India primarily to help her autistic son find therapy through Bharatanatyam. Seeking help for her child has helped her reach out to other parents facing similar challenges. She now talks about the importance of movement for children with autism. “We have been blessed; we have the skills, time and resources to pull our child out of a difficult place. When we came to India for our son’s arangetram, Dr. Rajeshwari, Head of Paediatrics at Kamakshi Memorial Hospital, motivated me to share my experience so that it could help other parents. She made me a part of KMH Child Development Centre's efforts,” says Rama, who has worked with MNRI (Masgutova Neurosensorimotor Reflex Integration ) in the United States. At the Centre, parents and children meet to learn and share various experiences. In February, Ananth was invited to perform at a workshop held at the hospital. Rama has also started a support group for parents called ‘LIFESMART Families’, a WhatsApp group that keeps buzzing with conversations about the subject. “The group runs on four pillars, which is life, interest, family and engagement. Ananth’s is an example I would like more parents to learn from. When you have a child with so many sensory motor problems, the last thing you think of is dance. I want to share what we gained by giving a serious thought to it. He took interest in dance and it has helped him overcome his challenges,” says Rama, adding that she intends to stay engaged with the group wherever she is. She says the group is parent-lead and participants are encouraged to share their stories. “When people see success stories, they are encouraged. They see light at the end of the tunnel even if the tunnel is very long and dark.” To join the group, write to rama.dasaratha@gmail.com
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Masks and sanitiser as return gifts||I am among the few families at our 50-flat apartment complex in Vadapalani that is displaying the kolu this year. I did not want to miss out on this tradition but at the same time I wanted to ensure sarve janah sukhino bhavanthu (a Vedic mantra that translates into “May all be happy and free from all illness”) so I have taken all safety precautions before inviting people home to witness my kolu alangarams. Unlike in the previous years where guests were welcome all through the nine days, this time I invite only five families a day. Masks are compulsory for those entering the house. To minimise any physical interaction whatsoever while distributing return gifts, I have placed them in a table near the entrance of my house. The traditional thambulam is packed with a hand sanitiser and masks as part of the return gift. This is the first time I am celebrating Navaratri without distributing prasadams , but I am thankful that I am able to celebrate it in these testing times. Rani Sairam  Vadapalani
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Kolu with frontline workers||Navaratri celebrations at Sakambari Women’s Group is not complete without offering some assistance to the underprivileged. Last year, 25 women, mostly domestic workers, flower and vegetable vendors and cleaners participated in the celebration. This year, it will be a low-key event that we will be hosting on October 25 at our centre in RA Puram (we also have one at Indira Nagar), for women, including women conservancy workers who keep our roads clean. The number of participants will be limited and the celebration will adhere to social distancing norms. With a mini kolu, the function will be marked by chanting of songs and music. At the spacious premises of our centre on Third Main Road, R.A. Puram, around 50 persons can be accommodated, but this year we have invited less than 20 people. Ten to twelve chairs will be arranged leaving more than three feet between chairs. If a guest turns up without a mask, we will provide them with one. We have decided not to serve any food; instead, take-away packs will be given away. The gift kit will contain provisions and Rs. 100 each — the cost of this kit is covered by contributions from members. Raji Rao  president, Sakambari Women’s Group
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||New convenience store in Thiruvanmiyur||Thiruvanmiyur Super Market, a convenience store, has opened in Thiruvanmiyur. According to a press release, it serves as a one-stop for various goods, including fruits, vegetables and beverages. Besides, kitchenware and household cleaning items are available. Further, in view of the Navarathri festival, a shelf is dedicated to the display of puja items on sale. The store has a parking facility. It also provides delivery service. As an inaugural offer, the shop is providing 5 per cent discount on a bill worth Rs. 500. There are also other offers for bills above Rs. 500 and Rs. 1,000, adds the press release. For details, call 044 - 47201777 / 97899 66637.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature writing contest by MNS under way||M. Krishnan Memorial Award For Nature Writing 2021, organised by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS), invites participants to write on the theme “The Summer of 2020”. The last date for submission of articles is November 30. By way of illustration, MNS has in its communication suggested a few topics that fit in with this theme. The list of suggestions reads: “A portrait of a particular species in its habitat, focusing on its natural history. Two, an account of an entire habitat, such as a deciduous forest or a protected campus in a city, describing its fauna and flora. Three, an anecdotal narration about a wild creature that is grounded in what is known about it scientifically. Four, an essay on the threats faced by a habitat or ecosystem.” The communication further notes that “participants are expected to draw on their personal experiences, to hold the interest of the reader and to share knowledge”. For further details, go to www.blackbuck.org.in. MNS can be reached at 98400 90875 or madrasnaturalistssociety@gmail.com.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We met a need and scripted our own survival story’||Mohammed Mansur Basha, owner of Basha’s Darbar Biriyani, places the willingness to align oneself with customers’ needs triggered by the pandemic, as the number one quality that has helped small and medium-sized businesses cope with the tough times. He runs two restaurants in the city — at Adyar and Pallikarnai. He points out that once certain restrictions were relaxed during the lockdown phase, he reinvented his business to make it better aligned with customer’s needs. Delivering food during lockdown was a challenge, but not undertaking it would have been catastrophic. So, this enterprise took it up. “Often customers say they end up paying more while booking through food aggregators. We launched a WhatsApp service where customers could place their orders and we would deliver the food through our delivery partner, and this worked out to be economical for both the customer and for us,” says Basha, who was working with an MNC before taking the reins of his father’s food business following his demise in 2015. He says he has since reinvented the brand. He says now close to 80 per cent of the deliveries they get are through the WhatsApp number. Chicken and mutton biriyani are two hot-selling items on the menu, which are cooked in firewood. The biriyani joint is also planning to expand in Chennai, and is looking for franchises. For orders call 90164 48448/ WhatsApp 9840850511 (The Resilience Quotient is a column about what has been helping small and medium businesses thrive in this current crisis)
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sweet stall undertakes customised orders||Sri G.K Sweets offers a wide range of sweets and savouries. According to a press release, the managing director of Cotton House - Thiruvanmiyur, Venugopal, had inaugurated the outlet on July 15. The stall offers 40 varieties of sweets and 25 varieties of garlic-free savouries. Besides, vadagams are available. Customised orders are undertaken for festivals and other functions. The outlet provides home delivery service. For details, call 8248104643
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Children sell thambulam packs for a cause||Navarathri is always a grand affair at RMT, MRC Nagar, with the entire community getting together every day for a community golu, themed games, Lalitha Sahasranamam chanting and bhajan sessions at the club house. This year, we have refused to let the pandemic defeat our community spirit and we have come up with themes that would still enable us to celebrate together while ensuring everyone’s safety. The key events being conducted include daily Zoom sessions for Sahasranaman chanting, Navarathri-themed storytelling and quiz sessions for the children, bhajans performed by children, a fashion show and daily interactive learning sessions conducted by the resident-volunteers on simple skills like garland-weaving, rangoli-making, festive decorations and prasad making. We have also planned a Dandia and Garbha flash mob on Saraswathi Pooja as the finale, this too from the safety of our homes via Zoom. RMT’s cultural team has also provided basic guidelines on the safety precautions to be kept in mind keep in mind when visiting homes/inviting people for thambulam . These include avoiding congregation of large numbers at a home and limiting the number of guests to three or four at any time, keeping separate days for visitors from outside the community and ensuring basic precautions within homes like availability of sanitisers on arrival, wearing masks and maintaining distance. One of the highlights this year is the initiative by the children who are making and selling thambulam packages to the residents and nearby communities, the proceeds from the sales of which will be used to bring cheer to the residents of an old age home that has been hit hard due to the pandemic.  RMT Cultural Team
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Distribution at temple||We usually keep nine steps for the golu, but due to the pandemic I plan to reduce the number of steps and also limit the number of visitors invited to view our arrangement at home. Alternatively, I plan to visit the nearby Ponniamman temple, two days, and give thambulam to women. This way, I would also be limiting the number of guests coming home. Girija Sridharan B Sector Women’s group, Anna Nagar West Extension
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Free NEET classes for underprivileged students||Dr. V. Baala Classes, an institute offering coaching for NEET and other competitive examinations, in association with Lions Club of Madras Anna Nagar West, is offering scholarship for under privileged students to pursue their dreams in medical education. The centre is calling for applications from students who have a good academic record but do not have the means to go for coaching. “We will select 10 students and offer them free coaching till the next NEET scheduled for 2021,” said V. Baala, who runs the centre. The programme will have a mix of online and in-person classes, depending on the COVID-19 situation in the city, and students from other districts can also apply, he said. For details, visithttp://www.drbala.in/or call 984050 3838
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A new timetable for tiny tots||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A big leap to tackle the digital divide||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Class 12 student on a mission||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The wa l l is on the way||A new wall is coming up along the rail line on South End Road, Thiruvengada Nagar in Ambattur, thanks to the suspension of suburban trains due to lockdown. Southern Railway has made use of the period to construct the side-wall that residents have been demanding for a long time to check accidents on the track, especially involving cattle. Recently, workers with the Southern Railway were seen raising the steel beams for the construction of concrete pillars. As per estimates, the side wall will be constructed along the entire 800-metre-long South End Road and it would be around six feet high, and raised concrete platform that would be two-feet from the ground. The work is expected to be completed in a month. “For many years, we have been asking that the passage along the track be closed because it will prevent trespassing which has caused many accidents,” says S. Suresh, secretary, Thiruvengada Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Ambattur. The open passage along the track on the South End Road has been a sore point with residents, as it makes it easy for anti-socials and stray animals to cross over, via the tracks. Cattle rearing is common in some of these areas, and many bovines are allowed to grazing along the track and open areas in Ambattur. The open passage has been a getaway space for miscreants and petty criminals, as they use it as an exit route after committing a crime. A similar wall Prior to the complete lockdown in March, Southern Railway constructed a similar side wall on the narrow rail over bridge (ROB) in Ambattur Old Town (OT) on Chennai – Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road, maintained by the State Highways Department, to prevent motorists from slipping on the sandy pathway along the carriageway and falling on the railway track below the flyover. Built in the early 1970s, the bridge is around 100 metres long and 30 feet wide and can allow two buses to travel simultaneously. Despite vehicular traffic being on the rise, the bridge has remained an significant part of a route for thousands of motorists from western and north western parts on their way to the central parts of the city.  An active citizens’ group Divided into 138 plots, Thiruvengada Nagar is a small locality consisting of 10 streets and two main roads. Most of the residents are employed in government sectors and industrial units at Pattaravakkam, Athipet and Ambattur. The neighbourhood is located between Ambattur and Korattur lakes on an elevated landscape. In the early 1980s, residents would patrol the streets at night when the locality had been newly created from the Villivakkam block in Tiruvallur district. With a small team of four residents, mostly young men, they would patrol the locality between 10 p.m and 6 a.m then. During emergencies and natural disasters, especially the 2015 floods, many residents from the neighbourhood have volunteered for relief work elsewhere in Chennai.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||School for underprivileged children takes a big leap to tackle the digital divide||Parents need not budget for their children’s education. No school fees. No uniform fees. No textbook fees. No stationery bills. No lunch packs. The school picks up the tab for all of these essentials of formal learning. That is putting in a nutshell how Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar empowers underprivileged families through the free gift of education made possible by donors. The school is being run as part of the Theosophical Society’s charity work. The pandemic led the school to offer the gift again in an all-new package, this time tied with a digital gift-bow. With the crisis scoring out in-school attendance, Olcott school was up against the same challenge as other free schools being run for the underprivileged: Filling up the virtual classrooms. “When we started online classes, only around 30 percent of the students would attend them, as a majority had no access to a smartphone and Internet. If there were 25 students in a class, only eight of them would turn up for the classes. Once parents started going to work and took what was usually the only smartphone at home, the attendance got thinner still. So, we started having these classes after 6 p.m.,” notes Sashikala Sriram, honorary academic director at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School. Difficulty accessing devices and Internet data is now an all-too familiar script. Efforts to revise the script have usually involved drives to source used smartphones, tablets and computers. Olcott school’s reworked script is a tad more imaginative and innovative than most others’. To get to the chase, in September, the school placed 120 brand-new Samsung tablets in the hands of its students from Classes X to XII, and connectivity via a Jio SIM card in every device. Its donors loosening their purse strings, the school managed to collect the Rs. 16 lakh necessary for the project. At the time of this article going to press, the school had extended the project’s scope and placed an order for another 40 tablets with Samsung, and the beneficiaries of this effort would be the Class IX students. For this phase of the project, an additional Rs. 5 lakh was raised, according to Sashikala. She estimates that by factoring in both the purchase of the tablets and the recurring expenditure of recharing the students’ SIM cards for a year, the cost per student comes to around Rs. 13,000. It was a long process that led to these results. It includes introducing features that would prempt the possibility of students misusing the tab, and extending monitoring powers to teachers just to ascertain that children use the digital resource responsibly. Two IT professionals volunteering with Olcott school for over a decade, Rahul Shankar and Sandeep Rajarajan are among the main scriptwriters of this digital-learning story. When they got in touch with Shashikala in the midst of the pandemic to find out how the school was managing its online learning programme, they had a digital classroom model in mind. At that point, even to them, the implementation part of the concept was still largely amorphous. However, with the school willing to try it out, they quickly knuckled down to finding out what shape it could take. Now, while the duo attended to the technological aspects of the project, the school raised funds to buy the devices and allied services. “Rahul and Sandeep created a fund-raising flyer which we sent out to all our contacts,” recalls Sashikala. Rahul points out that from the beginning, they did not countenance the idea of placing used devices in students’ hands, reasoning it out that doing so would be a short-sighted move that would possibly have to be repeated every year as the used devices are likely to pack up sooner than later. Instead, the plan was to buy new devices that could be passed on to subsequent batches with some refurbishment, thereby ensuring effortless continuity of the digital learning programme. “When you have a uniform system like this, you are directly in touch with the manufacturers, so you know who you can count on when you are having technological issues. They are also aware that it is being done for a good cause and so a good partnership is struck,” says Rahul, adding that even after schools reopen, the digital learning through this model can continue, and keep students primed for taking competitive exams. “Initially, we were looking at paid features with which you can control enterprise devices. However, learning that Google gives its G Suite application (basic) free for non-profits and not-for-profit educational institutions, we applied to them and got it. We also got a school domain (olcottschool.org) and created accounts for students in it (We are in the process of developing the website). It reflects a model followed in institutions abroad where every student has an ID based on the school domain. With these accounts we got the students’ tablets started,” explains Rahul. One of the striking features of the model is restricting access to unwanted apps through an android device management system, available in G Suite. “Only essential apps are installed. Students can’t install PUBG, Candy Crush or things like that. Even if they go to PlayStore, it will show them only those apps that we have configured for the school. At present, we have given admin powers to two teachers. Through the Chrome browser, these teachers can also restrict access to certain websites,” explains Rahul. The tab comes with a SIM card, and the two architects of the initiative and the school management understand having a call feature is a double-edged sword. “We gave them a tablet with a SIM card facility because we can’t expect them to have WiFi at home,” explains Rahul. “We wanted to be doubly sure students would not be hampered by network issues, and when we expressed our concern to Jio they went to the places where students largely come from and showed the network capabilities by sending us screenshots from there,” says Sandeep. Considering teachers are denied in-person interactions with students, a call facility is a good alternative, and a much-needed one as children are also battling the pandemic, each probably in their unique manner, and would do with some kind words. “We found out that in most of the students’ households, there was only one device. As these students can make phone calls with this tablet, teachers can now call them up and find out how they are doing. Earlier, they had to depend on their parents’ mobiles,” says Rahul. Alive to the possibility that children may make unwanted calls that would land them in trouble, some checks are being introduced into the system, though it is far from being entirely fool-proof yet. Rahul points out that by virtue of the Jio Enterprise services, teachers are enabled to keep tabs on children by tracking their usage patterns with the Jio SIM card. “Jio has extended admin features to some teachers, so they can check if misuse has happened, though the SIM can’t be blocked. If someone sends an SMS, then the admin gets a notification immediately. The teacher can ask who they are sending an SMS to. From the portal, it is possible to see who it has been sent to. It will take some more time to get things more streamlined and formalised, like a big enterprise,” says Rahul. Sashikala underlines the effectiveness of a feature that would prevent students from misusing the SIM by removing it from the tablet and using it in a mobile. “The students can’t put the SIM back in the tablet without bringing it to the school. They have to provide the pin, which only the teachers concerned know,” she elaborates. Parents’ role Sashikala discloses that on a Sunday before it was time to hand over the tablets to the students, an online session was conducted with those parents who could be a part of it, to brief them about the initiative. It was essentially an exercise that sought to co-opt parents into the initiative by getting them to take responsibility for the safety of the tablets and to help it take the desire course. Not leaving anything to chance, when the tablets were handed over to parents and their children together, a written undertaking from the former was undertaken. “These children are first generation learners, and many are hampered by the lack of a conducive learning environment at home. So, we impressed upon the parents that they should keep from watching television when the kids are studying. Invariably, a child would be living in a one-room house, where the quiet required to attend online classes may be lacking. Some children come from dysfunctional families where the father would be frittering away the earnings on alcohol. There are children who help augment the family’s income by doing odd jobs such as delivering milk packets or cleaning cars before coming to school. The document that we got the parents to sign underlines their responsibility for the safekeeping of the tablet and that they have to ensure its safe return to the school after the child’s schooling has been completed,” says Sashikala. Rahul says that parents who value this development in their children’s learning journey would be happy with this digital learning model with all its built-in checks, as they know that when their child opens the tab, it can’t be for anything other than education. He adds, “You cannot do anything else with the tab. People like me have a work laptop and a personal laptop. Similarly, for these students, it is a school device.” Teachers’ role To make the initiative sustainable, Rahul and Sandeep focussed on training the teachers to monitor it and take action if any of its strands straggle out of place. ”We worked on two Saturdays training the teachers. We have given the entire G Suite dashboard to the school so that teachers on board can monitor what happens at school, from their mobile phones. Through the admin panel in the G Suite, they will get to know if someone has finished their entire data pack for one day, and can find out from the student what depleted the pack too soon,” says Sandeep. “On Teachers’ Day, we took them through the process — how to set it up, how to restrict and monitor the gate — and also on a step-by-step tour of the G Suite. Following the primer, we set up the 120 devices along with them. Once you set it up in the G Suite management, all you have to do is open the tablet and enter the kid’s ID and it automatically synchronises and downloads all the apps that are required for the device. Once the teachers learnt it they did not need our help anymore,” says Rahul. Sashikala points out that the Rotary Club of Chennai Mitra has supported the initiative by donating five new laptops to the teachers. The possibilities Says Rahul, “This is a work in progress. We are learning about the different ways in which the tablet can be put to misuse so that in the next round we can put more restrictions. For the time being, the restrictions we have placed involve apps, games and websites that can’t be used.” “We have accepted the fact that children are not going to use the tablet for studies all the time,” says Sandeep, adding that how the information ecosystem is designed and through continual engagement, students can be nudged to use the tablet to gain information that would contribute to their overall development as individuals. Rahul believes that this digital programme can have an impact beyond the classroom. “It is enabling the students to be more digitally-literate. So, there is something we are contemplating. What if we install the e-governance apps? Of course, we have not done it yet, as this is left to the discretion of the school. Through these apps, the children can help their families.” Following the success of this initiative — which they have named ‘Vidamuyarchi’ (vidamuyarchi.org) after a larger vision by the same name they have conceptualised — Rahul and Sandeep are now exploring how they could extend the digital classroom model to other schools that face similar challenges. Rahul points out that the state government’s Kalvi TV programme is commendable with its YouTube channel covering the whole gamut of subjects in every class, in both English and Tamil. “However, the benefits of such programmes will be lost to students unless they have a device to access them.”  We wanted to make sure that students will not face network issues Sandeep Rajarajan   Even if they go to PlayStore, it will show them only those apps configured for the school Rahul Shankar    Many are hampered by the lack of a conducive learning environment at home Sashikala Sriram
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sub-registrar office gets a new address||For over a decade, the Konnur sub-registrar office has been something of a challenge to those making a visit. It either had to do with locating it or spending one’s time there or both. Prior to the lockdown, it was considerably better than before, as the office was located on the first floor of a commercial complex on CTH Road in Villivakkam. Still, for those unfamiliar with the area, it would have been something of a struggle as there were no signboards directing them to the complex. Besides, the office space inside was cramped with most visitors having to cool their heels in the car park before they were called in to attend to their queries. Its earlier address was not visitor-friendly: It was found on Fourth Main Road, SIDCO Nagar, off CTH Road in Villivakkam. The office consisted of a single room and a small veranda with concrete slabs on both sides of the veranda for visitors. It functioned from these space for a decade, before being shifted to the commercial complex on CTH Road two years ago. The plight of applicants visiting the Konnur sub-registrar office has finally come to an end as the office has got its own building — it is now located on the spacious premises behind the Primary Health Care centre (PHC) near the police station on CTH Road in Ambattur. The Public Works Department (PWD) expedited the construction of Konnur and Ambattur sub registrar offices, both located on the same premises, in the early months of the lockdown. Due to easy movement of raw materials to the work site, the work was completed at least three months ahead of the schedule. “It’s a great relief for applicants, especially senior citizens as the new office is easily accessible and bus stops also located nearby,” says S. Paramasivan, an applicant from Pattaravakkam near Ambattur. Every day, on an average, around 40 applicants seeking documents related to land and marriage registration, among others, visit the Konnur SRO after they register their applications online with the Department of Registration. Through an online facility, applicants can get documents like encumbrance certificates (EC), marriage certificates, stamps, circulars, society registrations and chit documents. Further, applicants can also download public utility forms such as sale deeds and power of attorney documents. Located off Chennai-Tiruvallur High (CTH) Road, Konnur SRO was opened in November 1994 after the bifurcation of the Ambattur registration office. The SRO covers areas like Mannurpet, Villivakkam, Nolambur, Mogappair, Kakapallam, Malligaicherry, Konnur and Pattaravakkam. The existing online facility was introduced in the Konnur SRO in 2013 to bring about hassle-free registration of land. At present, the Chennai Region of the Registration Department is divided into three districts — Chennai North, Chennai Central and Chennai South — with each district having on an average 20 sub-registrar offices within its limits. The new building of Konnur and Ambattur SRO has a large visitors hall, separate cabins for sub-registrar, office and Internet works. Basic facilities like water taps, toilets and adequate seating arrangements with social distancing norms have also been created on the new premises. However, applicants express worry that the vast open space within the new premises may get flooded during rains as the sandy floor of the premises is a few feet below the level of CTH Road.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A key road pockmarked with potholes||Due to continual movement of heavy vehicles, Maraimalai Road in Mogappair is now pockmarked with potholes. With northeast monsoon at the door, residents and motorists want the civic officials of Zone – 7 of Greater Chennai Corporation to relay the stretch immediately. Maraimalai Road is a lifeline for residents as it connects Mogappair with important areas like Anna Nagar, Tirumangalam, Ambattur, Nolambur, Padi and Korattur. The road also links East Mogappair with West Mogappair. Maraimalai Road was a bitumen-topped stretch until the work for the new wide concrete stormwater drain began last year. The work has added to the potholes, and unused sand is seen dumped on the footpath. The tiled footpath has been damaged in many spots making it difficult for pedestrians to walk safely. The work on the SWD project is important as it aimed at preventing flooding in the neighbourhood. During the 2015 floods, much of the discharge went into the Otteri Nullah. Although the widening of the drain work was completed in the second half of 2019, the stretch has not been relaid.“With more motorists hitting the stretch, following the easing of many lockdown restrictions, frequent accidents are reported from there for the past few weeks,” says V. Ramani, a long-time resident of Mogappair, adding that they have been requesting the civic officials to relay the stretch at the earliest. Interestingly, estimates for relaying the stretch was drawn up by Zone - 7 offcials (Ambattur) many months ago but due to procedural delays, the work has not been sanctioned so far. “Steps will be taken to relay the stretch soon,” says a Corporation official.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A new timetable for tiny tots||It is 10 a.m. on a weekday, and Indumathy R. is bracing herself for the next challenge of the day, by far the stiffest — assisting her four-and-a-half-year-old daughter Kural Venba with 45 minutes of online classes. “Sometimes I have to coax her into sitting upright before the laptop as her attention span is limited,” says Indumathy who has started attending the online classes with her daughter since a month ago. This is how most days begin for Indumathy. “We have to make some adjustments or our child is going to miss out on so many things,” says Indumathy, who also has to attend to the demands of a three-month-old child. To handle the little crises at home, sometimes she gets the support of her husband, who works from home, or her mother. With play schools switching to online classes, parents have to work with them now. Most play schools want one of the parents to sit through the class; some have reworked their timetable, offering the classes in the evenings and weekends, keeping the challenges faced by working parents in mind. Of the 15 children enrolled with Mahima Cultural Centre in Mylapore, seven are regular to the online classes. “Increasingly, we have parents of tiny tots seeking one-on-one classes as they don’t think group online classes help the children,” says Manju B, headmistress of the centre that runs a play school and an activity centre. Of the seven students, three have opted for the morning hours and the rest prefer evenings and weekends. “One parent has opted for a 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. slot as he would be free from all meetings at this hour,” says Manju. Classes do not exceed 30 minutes but for this arrangement to be fruitful we need greater participation of parents, she says. “Even if it is just 30 minutes, children get distracted easily so we insist on a parent sitting next to the child to give the necessary encouragement,” says Manju. Velammal VKids at Mogappair has a 30-minute lesson through video call for parents and children during weekends. “We have 300 students from pre-KG to UKG enrolled with us and nearly 20% of them are signed up for the weekend classes as their parents find this timing convenient. Here, we either offer classes in batches of two or three or have one-on-one session,” says Mary Manimala, headmistress of the school, adding that a parent must be around when a child is taking an online class. Opinion is divided on the the effectiveness of one-on-one classes. Charanya Prabhakar, founder, Oyster Montessori in Alwarpet, says they don’t encourage one-on-one classes for toddlers. While learning, a child has to see other children and feel like they are part of a classroom environment. So, they have a mix of students — not exceeding 12 — across age groups in the virtual class. Based on a two-month research including feedback from children and parents, the centre has tweaked the timetable for pre-schoolers, moving it to the evenings – between 4 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. “This is a huge shift for us as in pre-COVID days we always had classes in the mornings,” says Charanya.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Where parakeets have a fine dining experience||Twenty-five wooden planks make a permanent fixture on A.M.V. Sudarson Sah’s terrace. He has nailed the planks to two parapet walls, arranging them in a neat row. There is a small passage between every two planks enabling people to walk around the terrace. During the rainy season, Sudarson Sah keeps the planks protected with a tarpaulin cover. Now and then, he adds a few extra planks — whenever he expects more visitors to his terrace. A long-time resident of Ayya Mudali Street in Chintadripet, Sudarsonah, has been serving parakeets soaked rice, every morning and evening. It is a ritual he is said to have been following for a decade. “Their squawks of parakeets wake us in the morning. They are punctual. But, we never keep them waiting for their food,” says 48-year-old Sudarson Sah, a small-time businessman. An hour before the sunrise around 5 a.m, Sudarsonsah, his wife A.S. Vithya Bhai and their college-going daughter start the preparations for feeding the birds. They rinse 20 kilograms of rice before it is soaked in a 20 litre-plastic bucket for an hour. The family divides their work with Sudarson Sah and his wife taking care of the task of washing the wooden planks and parapet walls, sweeping the terrace, soaking the rice before they are fit to be kept on the planks and walls for the birds. Their daughter fills more than half a dozen water bowls primarily meant for pigeons and crows on the terrace. Parakeets flock to the nearby trees before landing on the wooden planks. The family withdraws and keeps a distance to ensure the parakeets are not disturbed during their daily meal. The parakeets feed between 6 a.m and 6. 45 a.m every day. The routine is repeated in the evening. “Before having my lunch, I soak the same quantity of rice to feed the birds in the evening. Our family has never missed the routine,” says Sudarson Sah. During the lockdown, Sudarson Sah and his family managed to source adequate quantities of rice for these birds. On an average, 35 to 40 kilograms of rice are used to feed these birds every day. In fact, a small room in his house has been converted into a storeroom to keep a stock of rice in gunny bags. Besides buying it on their own, the family was also helped by their neighbours in sourcing raw rice for the birds. A Marathi by origin, Sudarson Sah’s grandparents moved to the neighbourhood in the early 20th century for textile business after purchasing the existing Chettinad-style house. Charity has been the tradition for the family as they served free food for the poor regularly and gave donations to the temple festivals in the neighbourhood and elsewhere in the city every year. However, Sudarson Sah developed the habit of feeding the parakeets only a decade ago when he saw a small group of birds flocking to his terrace regularly taking advantage of a peepal tree nearby. Then it was just a pastime for him. Later, it became a full-time activity for him and his family.  An hour before the sunrise around 5 a.m, Sudarsonsah, his wife A.S. Vithya Bhai and their college-going daughter start the preparations for feeding the birds
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic brings social initiative into play at pre-school||A pre-school-cum-day care centre at Gandhi Nagar in Adyar is filling the lull caused by the pandemic with a social initiative. With the free time at their disposal, its non-teaching support staff make paper bags and distribute them free to 15 commercial establishments around Gandhi Nagar. This exercise may be a timely reminder that the Tamil Nadu government has banned single-use plastic in January 2019: For single-use plastic is said to be in circulation due to fewer checks on account of the pandemic. Play-Coop, a 37-year-old pre-school, has 12 support staff and six teachers, the latter now taking online classes for students. “For the last three to four months, we have been asking our support staff to come twice a week to clean the centre but we wanted to bring more meaning to this routine and that’s how we got them to make paper bags,” says Princess Naik, founder, Play-Coop. In the early months, those dependent on public transport were exempt from this weekly assignment. Princess underlines that many support staff are long-serving employees, some of them employed with the school for around two decades. “We been paying them 60 per cent of their salary every month since the lockdown began,” she says. The ayammas make paper bags — an average of 10 each — every Wednesday and Saturday to be given to provision stores and pharmaceutical outlets in Gandhi Nagar. A note stuck to each paper bag denotes that it is an eco-friendly community project, and carries the centre’s address. The distribution is handled by a school staff, Ravi Kumar, who hands the bags to the beneficiaries — at present, 10 stores of different stripes and five pharmacies every Monday. “The response has been so encouraging — an orthopaedic clinic asked us if we could customise the bags for them. The doctor wanted two to three sheets of paper stuck and shaped like a bed,” says Princess. The newspaper required for this customised offering is sourced from teachers’ and friends’ homes. Princess points out that paper bag-making is not a new initiative at the centre and explains: “It’s one of the first activities we teach children to make them environment conscious.” Play-Coop plans to continue with this initiative till support staff can get started on their routine work again.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A smart move||A few minutes into our conversation, Ananth Raghunandan’s right hand moves to take the form of a mudra . From his eye movement, it is clear that this comes spontaneously for this young dancer whose parents have come from Miami, United States, to fulfil his desire to have his Bharatanatyam arangetram in Chennai. Ananth and his family are now living in Kasturibai Nagar, Adyar. What’s inspiring about this journey to Bharat through Natya, as the family calls it, is how Ananth beat the odds through dance. Twenty-two-year-old Ananth is on the autism spectrum, and his experience makes it clear that there is therapeutic value in movement. It is eight years since Ananth started learning dance. “I am a regular at the Music Season, not so much for the dance as for the fact that it helps Ananth. We did not chose Bharatanatyam for him; he chose it for himself,” says K. Raghunandan, Ananth’s father. Guru Harija Sivakumar in Miami was his first guru. Later, professor K. Mohanan from Kalakshetra Foundation started offering him lessons. “He had many sensory-motor challenges and was introduced to karate, hip-hop and tap in Miami, but nothing made as much difference as Bharatanatyam,” says Rama, Ananth’s mother. On Ananth’s Bharatanatyam arangetram, she says, “The practice sessions were continuous and intense and we are glad Ananth completed this milestone.” She points out that Ananth’s foot movement and rhythm are his strengths. She says due to regular dance practice his posture has improved tremendously. “I can see so many subtle changes in him — his eyesight is sharper and his hand-eye coordination has improved,” she says. As Bharatanatyam is partly rhythmic chanting, it has helped in his speech too. Ananth’s passion for Bharatanatyam led the family to explore more opportunities for him in India. Since the last two years, he has been pursuing a diploma programme in Hospital Record and Documentation Management at Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospital (KMH) thanks to encouragement from Dr. T.G. Govindarajan, chairman and managing director of the hospital. Besides dance, Ananth is well-versed with the piano and actively codes for HashHackCode, an organisation that provides inclusive tech education and mentorship. Interestingly, Ananth’s website (ananthdance.com) was developed by Prem, a HashHackCode student with autism, in time for his arangetram.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Class 12 student on a mission||In September, when online classes began for Sangeetha. R, a first-year commerce student at D.G. Vaishnav College, she relied on her elder sister’s smartphone to attend them. It was an inconvenient arrangement, particularly for the elder sister — who is married and lives near Sangeetha’s home — to give her kid sister the smartphone in the morning and collect it in the evening. On days when Sangeetha had homework to do, she would wait for hours before returning home with her smartphone. This arrangement came to an end when their mother, a sweeper at an office, learnt about Help E-Learning Programme (HELP) started by Gunisha Aggarwal, a Class 12 student of Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan School — Nungambakkam. HELP provides smartphones to underprivileged school and college students to help them attend their online classes. One of the beneficiaries of this two-month-old programme, Sangeetha says, “I never expected to own a smartphone. My father is an auto-rickshaw driver and we can’t afford even a basic smartphone.” Gunisha gave serious thought to taking up this work when her mother Vaneeta Aggarwal gave a spare laptop to their housemaid’s daughter so that she could attend online classes. The fact that she would be helping bridge the digital divide in her own small way was the deciding factor. “To further the objectives of HELP, a website, www.helpchennai.org, has been developed. Through this site, people can express their interest in donating their spare laptops, tablets or smartphones. Besides, students can place a request seeking a device. We seek details like the names of the student, school or college, parents’ occupation and family income. People can also volunteer with HELP, which includes checking and servicing the gadgets that we collect. So far, HELP has reached out to 10 students and received 250 requests in the past few days. The response for donation of devices is also good. So far, we have received 50 gadgets,” says Gunisha, daughter of Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Commissioner, Greater Chennai City Police. Reports of how youngsters are struggling to get smartphones to attend online classes are said to be driving people to support the HELP initiative. There are two incidents that are particularly gripping. L. Samuel, a 16-year-old from Kodungaiyur who had completed Class 10, was found cleaning a stormwater drain near Koyambedu market so that he could earn some money towards buying smartphone to attend online classes. The Pulianthope and Anna Nagar police provided him with a tablet. In another incident, a 13-year-old schoolboy was lured by a criminal gang into phone-snatching. While trying to snatch a mobile phone from a truck driver, he was caught and handed over to the police. When questioned by the Thiruvottiyur police, the juvenile cited the need for a mobile to attend online classes as what drove him to the criminal act. Later, the Thiruvottiyur police gifted him a smartphone. The Rotary Club of Chennai Towers has supported HELP by providing it with 100 new tablets. The initiative has also reached out to 82 students at Seva Chakkra, an orphanage in Choolai. “My elder sister, Arshita Aggarwal, a law graduate, also supports this cause by identifying needy students and connecting us with non-governmental organisations. We are also planning to approach teachers of schools run by the Greater Chennai Corporation,” says Gunisha. HELP can be reached at 99403 48747; or write to support@ helpchennai.org
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Encouragement for those students who almost made it||Encouragement drives sustained performance, as an education-based experiment in the United States by psychologist Robert Rosenthal and educationist Leonore F. Jacobson has shown. It is natural to shine the spotlight on the victor, but it takes intent to recognise those who came up short by a few unfortunate inches. Every year, Rahul Shankar and Sandeep Rajarajan, IT professionals and friends from college, recognise the five or six students at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School who have missed getting the annual scholarship by a whisker. “For a decade now, Rosalyn Yake, a Canadian, has been extending what is called Starfish Scholarships to a student from Olcott school. Students who have gone through the Duke of Edinburgh Award, a self-development programme for children and adolescents, are considered for it. Rosalyn has a selection process through which she would pick one scholar every year and support them till they finish their higher education. Earlier, Olcott school had only Classes up to Standard X, and so, the student would be supported through Standard XI and XII in another private school and then through three years of an undergraduate college programme or four years of engineering by the scholarship offered by Rosalyn. It has been 10 years now, and 10 children have been supported by Starfish Scholarships,” explains Rahul. “In the selection process, six or seven students would make the short-list, but only one would get through. Sandeep and I decided to provide scholarships to the five or six students who almost made it by pledging a sum of money that at the end of the year amounts to our salaries for one month. The amount we contribute is not as big as Rosalyn’s, but it can still boost these students’ morale.” Rahul is associated with Starship Scholarships since 2009 when it was founded. Duke of Edinburgh Award, instituted in the United Kingdom in 1956, has spread to the nooks and crannies of the world, as it has been adopted in many nations. Everywhere it has gone, it has assumed a new flavour; and in some cases, a new name. In India, the Award is known as the International Award for Young Persons. “I had gone through the The Duke of Edinburgh Award programme when I was studying at PSSB — Nungambakkam. Similarly, Sandeep undertook the Award programme at PSSB — T. Nagar,” says Rahul. “Olcott school is a special project where the Duke of Edinburgh Award — London itself would pay for the expenses incurred for its various activities, including travel, through its India head-office in Delhi. For the special project, they had picked institutions that were empowering children from marginalised sections, and the Olcott school has a very rich history of that.” Only those who have completed the Duke of Edinburgh Award can guide those pursuing it. “My first volunteering work with the Olcott school was as a guide to children of the school undergoing the programme,” says Rahul. “While we were conducting this programme for these students, we met Rosalyn.” Rahul and Sandeep count the initiative to encourage the five or six students who almost made it as part of their larger socio-educational initiative called “Vidamuyarchi”.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A support group for parents of children with autism||D. Rama, an academician, came to India primarily to help her autistic son find therapy through Bharatanatyam. Seeking help for her child has helped her reach out to other parents facing similar challenges. She now talks about the importance of movement for children with autism. “We have been blessed; we have the skills, time and resources to pull our child out of a difficult place. When we came to India for our son’s arangetram, Dr. Rajeshwari, Head of Paediatrics at Kamakshi Memorial Hospital, motivated me to share my experience so that it could help other parents. She made me a part of KMH Child Development Centre's efforts,” says Rama, who has worked with MNRI (Masgutova Neurosensorimotor Reflex Integration ) in the United States. At the Centre, parents and children meet to learn and share various experiences. In February, Ananth was invited to perform at a workshop held at the hospital. Rama has also started a support group for parents called ‘LIFESMART Families’, a WhatsApp group that keeps buzzing with conversations about the subject. “The group runs on four pillars, which is life, interest, family and engagement. Ananth’s is an example I would like more parents to learn from. When you have a child with so many sensory motor problems, the last thing you think of is dance. I want to share what we gained by giving a serious thought to it. He took interest in dance and it has helped him overcome his challenges,” says Rama, adding that she intends to stay engaged with the group wherever she is. She says the group is parent-lead and participants are encouraged to share their stories. “When people see success stories, they are encouraged. They see light at the end of the tunnel even if the tunnel is very long and dark.” To join the group, write to rama.dasaratha@gmail.com
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature writing contest by MNS under way||M. Krishnan Memorial Award For Nature Writing 2021, organised by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS), invites participants to write on the theme “The Summer of 2020”. The last date for submission of articles is November 30. By way of illustration, MNS has in its communication suggested a few topics that fit in with this theme. The list of suggestions reads: “A portrait of a particular species in its habitat, focusing on its natural history. Two, an account of an entire habitat, such as a deciduous forest or a protected campus in a city, describing its fauna and flora. Three, an anecdotal narration about a wild creature that is grounded in what is known about it scientifically. Four, an essay on the threats faced by a habitat or ecosystem.” The communication further notes that “participants are expected to draw on their personal experiences, to hold the interest of the reader and to share knowledge”.  For further details, go to www.blackbuck.org.in. MNS can be reached at 98400 90875 or madrasnaturalistssociety@gmail.com.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writers by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||New team of Anna Nagar Extension B-Sector Association||Anna Nagar Western Extension B-Sector Association recently elected a new team through a meeting held via video conferencing. P. Jayanathan was elected president, P. Radhakrishnan and Joel manoj Kumar vice-presidents, A. Chockalingam secretary and M. Krishnamoorthy, S. Gurunathan, T.K Sankaravadivel and R. Akash joint secretaries
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn how to make eco-friendly products||TANSTIA-FNF Service Centre is conducting a workshop on making environment-friendly products such as paper plates, areca leaves, and paper cups on October 19. Time: From 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. A workshop on laundry and dry cleaning will be conducted on October 20. Time: From 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Sessions on “GST: It’s benefits and practical issues;” “Income Tax planning and TDS;” “export procedures and documentation”and “loans, government schemes and support” will be held from October 21 to 24. A workshop on baking and confectionery will be conducted from October 27 to 31. Time: From 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. Another workshop on terrace gardening will be conducted on October 28 and 29. Time: From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. A programme on “working capital management” will be held on October 30. Time: From 10 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. Venue: B-22, Industrial Estate, Guindy For registration and further details, call 97890 60133
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A new timetable for tiny tots||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Class 12 student on a mission||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A big leap to tackle the digital divide||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Resuming the journey||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||School for underprivileged children takes a big leap to tackle the digital divide||Parents need not budget for their children’s education. No school fees. No uniform fees. No textbook fees. No stationery bills. No lunch packs. The school picks up the tab for all of these essentials of formal learning. That is putting in a nutshell how Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School in Besant Nagar empowers underprivileged families through the free gift of education made possible by donors. The school is being run as part of the Theosophical Society’s charity work. The pandemic led the school to offer the gift again in an all-new package, this time tied with a digital gift-bow. With the crisis scoring out in-school attendance, Olcott school was up against the same challenge as other free schools being run for the underprivileged: Filling up the virtual classrooms. “When we started online classes, only around 30 percent of the students would attend them, as a majority had no access to a smartphone and Internet. If there were 25 students in a class, only eight of them would turn up for the classes. Once parents started going to work and took what was usually the only smartphone at home, the attendance got thinner still. So, we started having these classes after 6 p.m.,” notes Sashikala Sriram, honorary academic director at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School. Difficulty accessing devices and Internet data is now an all-too familiar script. Efforts to revise the script have usually involved drives to source used smartphones, tablets and computers. Olcott school’s reworked script is a tad more imaginative and innovative than most others’. To get to the chase, in September, the school placed 120 brand-new Samsung tablets in the hands of its students from Classes X to XII, and connectivity via a Jio SIM card in every device. Its donors loosening their purse strings, the school managed to collect the Rs. 16 lakh necessary for the project. At the time of this article going to press, the school had extended the project’s scope and placed an order for another 40 tablets with Samsung, and the beneficiaries of this effort would be the Class IX students. For this phase of the project, an additional Rs. 5 lakh was raised, according to Sashikala. She estimates that by factoring in both the purchase of the tablets and the recurring expenditure of recharing the students’ SIM cards for a year, the cost per student comes to around Rs. 13,000. It was a long process that led to these results. It includes introducing features that would prempt the possibility of students misusing the tab, and extending monitoring powers to teachers just to ascertain that children use the digital resource responsibly. Two IT professionals volunteering with Olcott school for over a decade, Rahul Shankar and Sandeep Rajarajan are among the main scriptwriters of this digital-learning story. When they got in touch with Shashikala in the midst of the pandemic to find out how the school was managing its online learning programme, they had a digital classroom model in mind. At that point, even to them, the implementation part of the concept was still largely amorphous. However, with the school willing to try it out, they quickly knuckled down to finding out what shape it could take. Now, while the duo attended to the technological aspects of the project, the school raised funds to buy the devices and allied services. “Rahul and Sandeep created a fund-raising flyer which we sent out to all our contacts,” recalls Sashikala. Rahul points out that from the beginning, they did not countenance the idea of placing used devices in students’ hands, reasoning it out that doing so would be a short-sighted move that would possibly have to be repeated every year as the used devices are likely to pack up sooner than later. Instead, the plan was to buy new devices that could be passed on to subsequent batches with some refurbishment, thereby ensuring effortless continuity of the digital learning programme. “When you have a uniform system like this, you are directly in touch with the manufacturers, so you know who you can count on when you are having technological issues. They are also aware that it is being done for a good cause and so a good partnership is struck,” says Rahul, adding that even after schools reopen, the digital learning through this model can continue, and keep students primed for taking competitive exams. “Initially, we were looking at paid features with which you can control enterprise devices. However, learning that Google gives its G Suite application (basic) free for non-profits and not-for-profit educational institutions, we applied to them and got it. We also got a school domain (olcottschool.org) and created accounts for students in it (We are in the process of developing the website). It reflects a model followed in institutions abroad where every student has an ID based on the school domain. With these accounts we got the students’ tablets started,” explains Rahul. One of the striking features of the model is restricting access to unwanted apps through an android device management system, available in G Suite. “Only essential apps are installed. Students can’t install PUBG, Candy Crush or things like that. Even if they go to PlayStore, it will show them only those apps that we have configured for the school. At present, we have given admin powers to two teachers. Through the Chrome browser, these teachers can also restrict access to certain websites,” explains Rahul. The tab comes with a SIM card, and the two architects of the initiative and the school management understand having a call feature is a double-edged sword. “We gave them a tablet with a SIM card facility because we can’t expect them to have WiFi at home,” explains Rahul. “We wanted to be doubly sure students would not be hampered by network issues, and when we expressed our concern to Jio they went to the places where students largely come from and showed the network capabilities by sending us screenshots from there,” says Sandeep. Considering teachers are denied in-person interactions with students, a call facility is a good alternative, and a much-needed one as children are also battling the pandemic, each probably in their unique manner, and would do with some kind words. “We found out that in most of the students’ households, there was only one device. As these students can make phone calls with this tablet, teachers can now call them up and find out how they are doing. Earlier, they had to depend on their parents’ mobiles,” says Rahul. Alive to the possibility that children may make unwanted calls that would land them in trouble, some checks are being introduced into the system, though it is far from being entirely fool-proof yet. Rahul points out that by virtue of the Jio Enterprise services, teachers are enabled to keep tabs on children by tracking their usage patterns with the Jio SIM card. “Jio has extended admin features to some teachers, so they can check if misuse has happened, though the SIM can’t be blocked. If someone sends an SMS, then the admin gets a notification immediately. The teacher can ask who they are sending an SMS to. From the portal, it is possible to see who it has been sent to. It will take some more time to get things more streamlined and formalised, like a big enterprise,” says Rahul. Sashikala underlines the effectiveness of a feature that would prevent students from misusing the SIM by removing it from the tablet and using it in a mobile. “The students can’t put the SIM back in the tablet without bringing it to the school. They have to provide the pin, which only the teachers concerned know,” she elaborates. Parents’ role Sashikala discloses that on a Sunday before it was time to hand over the tablets to the students, an online session was conducted with those parents who could be a part of it, to brief them about the initiative. It was essentially an exercise that sought to co-opt parents into the initiative by getting them to take responsibility for the safety of the tablets and to help it take the desire course. Not leaving anything to chance, when the tablets were handed over to parents and their children together, a written undertaking from the former was undertaken. “These children are first generation learners, and many are hampered by the lack of a conducive learning environment at home. So, we impressed upon the parents that they should keep from watching television when the kids are studying. Invariably, a child would be living in a one-room house, where the quiet required to attend online classes may be lacking. Some children come from dysfunctional families where the father would be frittering away the earnings on alcohol. There are children who help augment the family’s income by doing odd jobs such as delivering milk packets or cleaning cars before coming to school. The document that we got the parents to sign underlines their responsibility for the safekeeping of the tablet and that they have to ensure its safe return to the school after the child’s schooling has been completed,” says Sashikala. Rahul says that parents who value this development in their children’s learning journey would be happy with this digital learning model with all its built-in checks, as they know that when their child opens the tab, it can’t be for anything other than education. He adds, “You cannot do anything else with the tab. People like me have a work laptop and a personal laptop. Similarly, for these students, it is a school device.” Teachers’ role To make the initiative sustainable, Rahul and Sandeep focussed on training the teachers to monitor it and take action if any of its strands straggle out of place. ”We worked on two Saturdays training the teachers. We have given the entire G Suite dashboard to the school so that teachers on board can monitor what happens at school, from their mobile phones. Through the admin panel in the G Suite, they will get to know if someone has finished their entire data pack for one day, and can find out from the student what depleted the pack too soon,” says Sandeep. “On Teachers’ Day, we took them through the process — how to set it up, how to restrict and monitor the gate — and also on a step-by-step tour of the G Suite. Following the primer, we set up the 120 devices along with them. Once you set it up in the G Suite management, all you have to do is open the tablet and enter the kid’s ID and it automatically synchronises and downloads all the apps that are required for the device. Once the teachers learnt it they did not need our help anymore,” says Rahul. Sashikala points out that the Rotary Club of Chennai Mitra has supported the initiative by donating five new laptops to the teachers. The possibilities Says Rahul, “This is a work in progress. We are learning about the different ways in which the tablet can be put to misuse so that in the next round we can put more restrictions. For the time being, the restrictions we have placed involve apps, games and websites that can’t be used.” “We have accepted the fact that children are not going to use the tablet for studies all the time,” says Sandeep, adding that how the information ecosystem is designed and through continual engagement, students can be nudged to use the tablet to gain information that would contribute to their overall development as individuals. Rahul believes that this digital programme can have an impact beyond the classroom. “It is enabling the students to be more digitally-literate. So, there is something we are contemplating. What if we install the e-governance apps? Of course, we have not done it yet, as this is left to the discretion of the school. Through these apps, the children can help their families.” Following the success of this initiative — which they have named ‘Vidamuyarchi’ (vidamuyarchi.org) after a larger vision by the same name they have conceptualised — Rahul and Sandeep are now exploring how they could extend the digital classroom model to other schools that face similar challenges. Rahul points out that the state government’s Kalvi TV programme is commendable with its YouTube channel covering the whole gamut of subjects in every class, in both English and Tamil. “However, the benefits of such programmes will be lost to students unless they have a device to access them.”  We wanted to make sure that students will not face network issues Sandeep Rajarajan   Even if they go to PlayStore, it will show them only those apps configured for the school Rahul Shankar    Many are hampered by the lack of a conducive learning environment at home Sashikala Sriram
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A lone presence on a key road||Chaotic traffic on section of Anna Main Road in K.K. Nagar — stretching from MGR Nagar intersection to the MTC terminus — underscores the need for deploying additional traffic police personnel there. At present, traffic on this section is regulated by a lone traffic police personnel. At present, the Chennai Metrowater Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) is carrying out a pipe-laying work and constructing water collection pits on this section. A new traffic arrangement came into effect in August to facilitate CMWSSB work. As per the arrangement, motorists and pedestrians from Virugambakkam have to use the opposite lane where vehicles from Ashok Pillar junction proceed towards Virugambakkam. With considerable easing of lockdown restrictions in September, the section witnesses more vehicular movement. Yet, only one traffic police personnel has been deployed to regulate the traffic. Due to the congestion, ambulances can find it difficult to access houses along the section where CMWSSB is carrying out its work. Further, this stretch witnesses frequent movement of Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses bound for Kundrathur, Iyyappanthangal and Poonamallee. Therefore, during rush hour, significant number of commuters can be found waiting at the bus stop near MGR Nagar junction. Besides, construction workers from the region including Nesapakkam, Ashok Nagar, MGR Nagar, K.K. Nagar and Virugambakkam wait at the MGR Nagar intersection to board vehicles, arranged by construction companies, to reach them to their work sites. All of these factors add to the traffic congestion on the stretch. Residents point out that these vehicles wait on the carriageway, thereby hindering vehicular movement. Residents therefore feel that greater police presence is required on this section. “Safety rules are violated. We can find many motorists driving on the wrong side of the road,” says S. Vamsi, a resident of Virugambakkam. Motorists coming from Virugambakkam, Porur, Valasaravakkam, Kundrathur, Mangadu and Poonamallee use Anna Main Road to reach T. Nagar, Teynampet, Nandanam, Nungambakkam, Egmore and Mylapore. Besides, many prefer to take Anna Main Road as it is part of a shorter and less congested route, when compared to nearby routes such as MOunt – Poonamallee High Road via Guindy and Arcot Road via Vadapalani. A police official says, “Efforts will be taken soon to ensure smooth traffic movement on this stretch.”
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A new timetable for tiny tots||It is 10 a.m. on a weekday, and Indumathy R. is bracing herself for the next challenge of the day, by far the stiffest — assisting her four-and-a-half-year-old daughter Kural Venba with 45 minutes of online classes. “Sometimes I have to coax her into sitting upright before the laptop as her attention span is limited,” says Indumathy who has started attending the online classes with her daughter since a month ago. This is how most days begin for Indumathy. “We have to make some adjustments or our child is going to miss out on so many things,” says Indumathy, who also has to attend to the demands of a three-month-old child. To handle the little crises at home, sometimes she gets the support of her husband, who works from home, or her mother. With play schools switching to online classes, parents have to work with them now. Most play schools want one of the parents to sit through the class; some have reworked their timetable, offering the classes in the evenings and weekends, keeping the challenges faced by working parents in mind. Of the 15 children enrolled with Mahima Cultural Centre in Mylapore, seven are regular to the online classes. “Increasingly, we have parents of tiny tots seeking one-on-one classes as they don’t think group online classes help the children,” says Manju B, headmistress of the centre that runs a play school and an activity centre. Of the seven students, three have opted for the morning hours and the rest prefer evenings and weekends. “One parent has opted for a 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. slot as he would be free from all meetings at this hour,” says Manju. Classes do not exceed 30 minutes but for this arrangement to be fruitful we need greater participation of parents, she says. “Even if it is just 30 minutes, children get distracted easily so we insist on a parent sitting next to the child to give the necessary encouragement,” says Manju. Velammal VKids at Mogappair has a 30-minute lesson through video call for parents and children during weekends. “We have 300 students from pre-KG to UKG enrolled with us and nearly 20% of them are signed up for the weekend classes as their parents find this timing convenient. Here, we either offer classes in batches of two or three or have one-on-one session,” says Mary Manimala, headmistress of the school, adding that a parent must be around when a child is taking an online class. Opinion is divided on the the effectiveness of one-on-one classes. Charanya Prabhakar, founder, Oyster Montessori in Alwarpet, says they don’t encourage one-on-one classes for toddlers. While learning, a child has to see other children and feel like they are part of a classroom environment. So, they have a mix of students — not exceeding 12 — across age groups in the virtual class. Based on a two-month research including feedback from children and parents, the centre has tweaked the timetable for pre-schoolers, moving it to the evenings – between 4 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. “This is a huge shift for us as in pre-COVID days we always had classes in the mornings,” says Charanya.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||PIL against GCC for constructing footpaths on narrow streets||From time to time, residents of Jai Balaji Nagar in Nesapakkam have banded together for the common good. In the late nineties, it was night patrol by residents to check the movement of anti-socials. And then, collectively, they have levelled uneven stretches with construction debris; installed nameboards on streets; and greened the neighbourhood through tree-planting exercises. Now, they are collectively battling what they believe to be ill-advised footpaths in the neighbourhood. The argument they have placed on the table for Greater Chennai Corporation to consider: Why construct a four-feet-wide footpath on both sides of a 20-feet-wide street and reduce the carraiageway to just 12 feet? Residents point out that a majority of the streets in Jai Balaji Nagar are just 20-feet wide. Reportedly, led by a long-time resident and a civil engineer R. Venketaraman, residents tried persuading GCC officials to give up the construction of footpaths on narrow streets, even running a signature campaign. Residents are said to be have had regular consultations and even a WhatsApp group among themselves to discuss the issue. Now, Venketaraman has taken this ‘battle’ to a new level by filing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) at the Madras High Court, opposing footpath work on arrow stretches. The case came up for hearing a few days ago. “Jai Balaji Nagar is our neighbourhood. Greater Chennai Corporation should have held a consultation with residents before starting such a work,” says 65-year-old Venketaraman. Continued on page 3  “GCC should have convened a consultation meet with us before commencing the footpath work.”
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic brings social initiative into play at pre-school||A pre-school-cum-day care centre at Gandhi Nagar in Adyar is filling the lull caused by the pandemic with a social initiative. With the free time at their disposal, its non-teaching support staff make paper bags and distribute them for free to 15 commercial establishments around Gandhi Nagar. This exercise may be a timely reminder that the Tamil Nadu government has banned single-use plastic in January 2019: For single-use plastic is said to be in circulation due to fewer checks on account of the pandemic. Play-Coop, a 37-year-old pre-school, has 12 support staff and six teachers, the latter now taking online classes for students. “For the last three to four months, we have been asking our support staff to come twice a week to clean the centre but we wanted to bring more meaning to this routine and that’s how we got them to make paper bags,” says Princess Naik, founder, Play-Coop. In the early months, those dependent on public transport were exempt from this weekly assignment. Princess underlines that many support staff are long-serving employees, some of them employed with the school for around two decades. “We been paying them 60 per cent of their salary every month since the lockdown began,” she says. The ayammas make paper bags — an average of 10 each — every Wednesday and Saturday to be given to provision stores and pharmaceutical outlets in Gandhi Nagar. A note stuck to each paper bag denotes that it is an eco-friendly community project, and carries the centre’s address. The distribution is handled by a school staff, Ravi Kumar, who hands the bags to the beneficiaries — at present, 10 stores of different stripes and five pharmacies every Monday. “The response has been so encouraging — an orthopaedic clinic asked us if we could customise the bags for them. The doctor wanted two to three sheets of paper stuck and shaped like a bed,” says Princess. The newspaper required for this customised offering is sourced from teachers’ and friends’ homes. Princess points out that paper bag-making is not a new initiative at the centre and explains: “It’s one of the first activities we teach children to make them environment conscious.” Play-Coop plans to continue with this initiative till support staff can get started on their routine work again.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Residents oppose footpath project||Continued from page 1 There is another factor that has led residents to disapprove of this pavement work: With concrete slabs, the footpaths don’t allow for rainwater percolation. When the complete lockdown was in place, GCC had put many of its civic works on hold. When lockdown restrictions were relaxed in August, the civic body resumed many of its civic works, which include the footpath work at Jai Balaji Nagar. With the Madras High Court asking the GCC to dispose of the representation made by the residents within a reasonable time, residents are hopeful that their grievances against such a footpath work would be addressed by the civic body.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||SWD work keeps buses out of MTC terminus in Kovur||Stormwater drains along Porur-Kundrathur Main Road were widened recently, and the work involving the drain in front of the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) terminus in Kovur, has caused a new problem. The exercise does not seem to have factored in how MTC buses could enter the terminus if the drain is two feet higher than the floor of the terminus. A narrow portion has been left untouched to let buses roll in and out of the terminus. However, this section being narrow, drivers can’t negotiate it with ease. As a result, buses are lined up outside the terminus. With bus drivers fighting shy of using it, the narrow passage has been blocked with wooden logs to prevent motorists from parking their vehicles, including cabs and autorickshaws, inside the terminus. As buses now halt on the road, commuters are put to great inconvenience. “When it rains, we take shelter inside the terminus and when the bus arrives, we have to run to board the bus which halts on the road,” says K. Saroja, a resident of Kovur. Commuters say that the work exposes the lack of coordination between the government departments including the State Highways Department and the Kancheepuram Collectorate. In this regard, an official from the Kancheepuram Collectorate says, “The height of the floor in the terminus will be increased so that movement of the buses will not be affected.” The drain which is now three feet wide and six feet deep is meant to discharge excess rainwater from the surrounding locality to the Porur lake nearby and thereby prevent inundation on Porur-Kundrathur Main Road. The drains were widened following the construction of more than half-a-dozen culverts along the road. The localities along the road — Kundrathur, Kovur, Gerugambakkam and Porur — were severely hit by the 2015 floods. Hence, the stormwater drains were widened Renovated at a cost of Rs. 7 lakh allocated under MLA Local Area Development funds of Alandur Assembly constituency in 2014, the terminus caters to residents of Kollachery, Arambedu, Erumaiyur, Kavanoor, Kolambakkam, Poonthandalam and Vaipoor. Every day, on an average, more than 120 services are operated from this terminus. Many commuters prefer to travel to the Kundrathur bus terminus, around 2 km from Kovur, or to th Four Cross Junction, which is around one km away, to board buses as they are frequented by people round-the-clock. Besides, the police booth at the Kovur terminus is closed most of the time, especially at night, point out commuters.  A portion has been left untouched to let buses roll in and out of the terminus. However, this section being narrow, drivers can’t negotiate it with ease
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A smart move||A few minutes into our conversation, Ananth Raghunandan’s right hand moves to take the form of a mudra . From his eye movement, it is clear that this comes spontaneously for this young dancer whose parents have come from Miami, United States, to fulfil his desire to have his Bharatanatyam arangetram in Chennai. Ananth and his family are now living in Kasturibai Nagar, Adyar. What’s inspiring about this journey to Bharat through Natya, as the family calls it, is how Ananth beat the odds through dance. Twenty-two-year-old Ananth is on the autism spectrum, and his experience makes it clear that there is therapeutic value in movement. It is eight years since Ananth started learning dance. “I am a regular at the Music Season, not so much for the dance as for the fact that it helps Ananth. We did not chose Bharatanatyam for him; he chose it for himself,” says K. Raghunandan, Ananth’s father. Guru Harija Sivakumar in Miami was his first guru. Later, professor K. Mohanan from Kalakshetra Foundation started offering him lessons. “He had many sensory-motor challenges and was introduced to karate, hip-hop and tap in Miami, but nothing made as much difference as Bharatanatyam,” says Rama, Ananth’s mother. On Ananth’s Bharatanatyam arangetram, she says, “The practice sessions were continuous and intense and we are glad Ananth completed this milestone.” She points out that Ananth’s foot movement and rhythm are his strengths. She says due to regular dance practice his posture has improved tremendously. “I can see so many subtle changes in him — his eyesight is sharper and his hand-eye coordination has improved,” she says. As Bharatanatyam is partly rhythmic chanting, it has helped in his speech too. Ananth’s passion for Bharatanatyam led the family to explore more opportunities for him in India. Since the last two years, he has been pursuing a diploma programme in Hospital Record and Documentation Management at Dr. Kamakshi Memorial Hospital (KMH) thanks to encouragement from Dr. T.G. Govindarajan, chairman and managing director of the hospital. Besides dance, Ananth is well-versed with the piano and actively codes for HashHackCode, an organisation that provides inclusive tech education and mentorship. Interestingly, Ananth’s website (ananthdance.com) was developed by Prem, a HashHackCode student with autism, in time for his arangetram.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Class 12 student on a mission||In September, when online classes began for Sangeetha. R, a first-year commerce student at D.G. Vaishnav College, she relied on her elder sister’s smartphone to attend them. It was an inconvenient arrangement, particularly for the elder sister — who is married and lives near Sangeetha’s home — to give her kid sister the smartphone in the morning and collect it in the evening. On days when Sangeetha had homework to do, she would wait for hours before returning home with her smartphone. This arrangement came to an end when their mother, a sweeper at an office, learnt about Help E-Learning Programme (HELP) started by Gunisha Aggarwal, a Class 12 student of Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan School — Nungambakkam. HELP provides smartphones to underprivileged school and college students to help them attend their online classes. One of the beneficiaries of this two-month-old programme, Sangeetha says, “I never expected to own a smartphone. My father is an auto-rickshaw driver and we can’t afford even a basic smartphone.” Gunisha gave serious thought to taking up this work when her mother Vaneeta Aggarwal gave a spare laptop to their housemaid’s daughter so that she could attend online classes. The fact that she would be helping bridge the digital divide in her own small way was the deciding factor. “To further the objectives of HELP, a website, www.helpchennai.org, has been developed. Through this site, people can express their interest in donating their spare laptops, tablets or smartphones. Besides, students can place a request seeking a device. We seek details like the names of the student, school or college, parents’ occupation and family income. People can also volunteer with HELP, which includes checking and servicing the gadgets that we collect. So far, HELP has reached out to 10 students and received 250 requests in the past few days. The response for donation of devices is also good. So far, we have received 50 gadgets,” says Gunisha, daughter of Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, Commissioner, Greater Chennai City Police. Reports of how youngsters are struggling to get smartphones to attend online classes are said to be driving people to support the HELP initiative. There are two incidents that are particularly gripping. L. Samuel, a 16-year-old from Kodungaiyur who had completed Class 10, was found cleaning a stormwater drain near Koyambedu market so that he could earn some money towards buying smartphone to attend online classes. The Pulianthope and Anna Nagar police provided him with a tablet. In another incident, a 13-year-old schoolboy was lured by a criminal gang into phone-snatching. While trying to snatch a mobile phone from a truck driver, he was caught and handed over to the police. When questioned by the Thiruvottiyur police, the juvenile cited the need for a mobile to attend online classes as what drove him to the criminal act. Later, the Thiruvottiyur police gifted him a smartphone. The Rotary Club of Chennai Towers has supported HELP by providing it with 100 new tablets. The initiative has also reached out to 82 students at Seva Chakkra, an orphanage in Choolai. “My elder sister, Arshita Aggarwal, a law graduate, also supports this cause by identifying needy students and connecting us with non-governmental organisations. We are also planning to approach teachers of schools run by the Greater Chennai Corporation,” says Gunisha. HELP can be reached at 99403 48747; or write to support@ helpchennai.org
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Encouragement for those students who almost made it||Encouragement drives sustained performance, as an education-based experiment in the United States by psychologist Robert Rosenthal and educationist Leonore F. Jacobson has shown. It is natural to shine the spotlight on the victor, but it takes intent to recognise those who came up short by a few unfortunate inches. Every year, Rahul Shankar and Sandeep Rajarajan, IT professionals and friends from college, recognise the five or six students at Olcott Memorial Higher Secondary School who have missed getting the annual scholarship by a whisker. “For a decade now, Rosalyn Yake, a Canadian, has been extending what is called Starfish Scholarships to a student from Olcott school. Students who have gone through the Duke of Edinburgh Award, a self-development programme for children and adolescents, are considered for it. Rosalyn has a selection process through which she would pick one scholar every year and support them till they finish their higher education. Earlier, Olcott school had only Classes up to Standard X, and so, the student would be supported through Standard XI and XII in another private school and then through three years of an undergraduate college programme or four years of engineering by the scholarship offered by Rosalyn. It has been 10 years now, and 10 children have been supported by Starfish Scholarships,” explains Rahul. “In the selection process, six or seven students would make the short-list, but only one would get through. Sandeep and I decided to provide scholarships to the five or six students who almost made it by pledging a sum of money that at the end of the year amounts to our salaries for one month. The amount we contribute is not as big as Rosalyn’s, but it can still boost these students’ morale.” Rahul is associated with Starship Scholarships since 2009 when it was founded. Duke of Edinburgh Award, instituted in the United Kingdom in 1956, has spread to the nooks and crannies of the world, as it has been adopted in many nations. Everywhere it has gone, it has assumed a new flavour; and in some cases, a new name. In India, the Award is known as the International Award for Young Persons. “I had gone through the The Duke of Edinburgh Award programme when I was studying at PSSB — Nungambakkam. Similarly, Sandeep undertook the Award programme at PSSB — T. Nagar,” says Rahul. “Olcott school is a special project where the Duke of Edinburgh Award — London itself would pay for the expenses incurred for its various activities, including travel, through its India head-office in Delhi. For the special project, they had picked institutions that were empowering children from marginalised sections, and the Olcott school has a very rich history of that.” Only those who have completed the Duke of Edinburgh Award can guide those pursuing it. “My first volunteering work with the Olcott school was as a guide to children of the school undergoing the programme,” says Rahul. “While we were conducting this programme for these students, we met Rosalyn.” Rahul and Sandeep count the initiative to encourage the five or six students who almost made it as part of their larger socio-educational initiative called “Vidamuyarchi”.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A support group for parents of children with autism||D. Rama, an academician, came to India primarily to help her autistic son find therapy through Bharatanatyam. Seeking help for her child has helped her reach out to other parents facing similar challenges. She now talks about the importance of movement for children with autism. “We have been blessed; we have the skills, time and resources to pull our child out of a difficult place. When we came to India for our son’s arangetram, Dr. Rajeshwari, Head of Paediatrics at Kamakshi Memorial Hospital, motivated me to share my experience so that it could help other parents. She made me a part of KMH Child Development Centre's efforts,” says Rama, who has worked with MNRI (Masgutova Neurosensorimotor Reflex Integration ) in the United States. At the Centre, parents and children meet to learn and share various experiences. In February, Ananth was invited to perform at a workshop held at the hospital. Rama has also started a support group for parents called ‘LIFESMART Families’, a WhatsApp group that keeps buzzing with conversations about the subject. “The group runs on four pillars, which is life, interest, family and engagement. Ananth’s is an example I would like more parents to learn from. When you have a child with so many sensory motor problems, the last thing you think of is dance. I want to share what we gained by giving a serious thought to it. He took interest in dance and it has helped him overcome his challenges,” says Rama, adding that she intends to stay engaged with the group wherever she is. She says the group is parent-lead and participants are encouraged to share their stories. “When people see success stories, they are encouraged. They see light at the end of the tunnel even if the tunnel is very long and dark.” To join the group, write to rama.dasaratha@gmail.com
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Masks and sanitiser as return gifts||I am among the few families at our 50-flat apartment complex in Vadapalani that is displaying the kolu this year. I did not want to miss out on this tradition but at the same time I wanted to ensure sarve janah sukhino bhavanthu (a Vedic mantra that translates into “May all be happy and free from all illness”) so I have taken all safety precautions before inviting people home to witness my kolu alangarams. Unlike in the previous years where guests were welcome all through the nine days, this time I invite only five families a day. Masks are compulsory for those entering the house. To minimise any physical interaction whatsoever while distributing return gifts, I have placed them in a table near the entrance of my house. The traditional thambulam is packed with a hand sanitiser and masks as part of the return gift. This is the first time I am celebrating Navaratri without distributing prasadams , but I am thankful that I am able to celebrate it in these testing times. Rani Sairam  Vadapalani
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Computer education for underprivileged children||Around 25 children from Rainbow Foundation India took part in a 12-week hands-on workshop on website development. They participants were in the 14 to 18 age group. According to a press release, the online session was conducted by 0Gravity in partnership with Saggezza, a global consulting firm, says a press release. The children joined the workshop via Zoom every Saturday afternoon for a couple of hours and learnt HTML, CSS and website designing through laptops and dongles for Internet connection provided by Saggezza. 0Gravity offers free computer science education to underprivileged children, adds the press release. It has its presence in various cities in India, and also in the United States and the United Kingdom. It was started by Krish Samtani in 2016, who was 14 years old then. Krish, who is 18 now, is a first-year undergraduate student at University of California — Berkeley and continues to offer this education programme for underprivileged children 0Gravity has tied up with the CSR (corporate social responsibility) programme of Saggezza to hold workshops in local communities.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Kolu with frontline workers||Navaratri celebrations at Sakambari Women’s Group is not complete without offering some assistance to the underprivileged. Last year, 25 women, mostly domestic workers, flower and vegetable vendors and cleaners participated in the celebration. This year, it will be a low-key event that we will be hosting on October 25 at our centre in RA Puram (we also have one at Indira Nagar), for frontline workers. The number of participants will be limited and the celebration will adhere to social distancing norms. With a mini kolu, the function will be marked by chanting of songs and music. At the spacious premises of our centre on Third Main Road, R.A. Puram, around 50 persons can be accommodated, but this year we have invited less than 20 people. Ten to twelve chairs will be arranged leaving more than three feet between chairs. If a guest turns up without a mask, we will provide them with one. We have decided not to serve any food; instead, take-away packs will be given away. The gift kit will contain provisions and Rs. 100 each — the cost of this kit is covered by contributions from members. Raji Rao  president, Sakambari Women’s Group
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writers by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph. For clarifications, call us at 044-28576716 or 28576631
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Children sell thambulam packs for a cause||Navarathri is always a grand affair at RMT, MRC Nagar, with the entire community getting together every day for a community golu, themed games, Lalitha Sahasranamam chanting and bhajan sessions at the club house. This year, we have refused to let the pandemic defeat our community spirit and we have come up with themes that would still enable us to celebrate together while ensuring everyone’s safety. The key events being conducted include daily Zoom sessions for Sahasranaman chanting, Navarathri-themed storytelling and quiz sessions for the children, bhajans performed by children, a fashion show and daily interactive learning sessions conducted by the resident-volunteers on simple skills like garland-weaving, rangoli-making, festive decorations and prasad making. We have also planned a Dandia and Garbha flash mob on Saraswathi Pooja as the finale, this too from the safety of our homes via Zoom. RMT’s cultural team has also provided basic guidelines on the safety precautions to be kept in mind keep in mind when visiting homes/inviting people for thambulam . These include avoiding congregation of large numbers at a home and limiting the number of guests to three or four at any time, keeping separate days for visitors from outside the community and ensuring basic precautions within homes like availability of sanitisers on arrival, wearing masks and maintaining distance. One of the highlights this year is the initiative by the children who are making and selling thambulam packages to the residents and nearby communities, the proceeds from the sales of which will be used to bring cheer to the residents of an old age home that has been hit hard due to the pandemic.  RMT Cultural Team
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Trash trouble at Guild Street||I request the Greater Chennai Corporation to take measures to check the disposal of garbage along the footpath on Guild Street in T. Nagar. Although conservancy workers remove the garbage every day, it keeps piling up on walkway, and that makes it difficult for pedestrians to walk past this stretch. To add to our woes, people relieve themselves in the open along the street. Hence, I once again request the Corporation to do the needful. A. Subramanian is a resident of T. Nagar
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Distribution at temple||We usually keep nine steps for the golu, but due to the pandemic I plan to reduce the number of steps and also limit the number of visitors invited to view our arrangement at home. Alternatively, I plan to visit the nearby Ponniamman temple, two days, and give thambulam to women. This way, I would also be limiting the number of guests coming home. Girija Sridharan B Sector Women’s group, Anna Nagar West Extension
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature writing contest by MNS under way||M. Krishnan Memorial Award For Nature Writing 2021, organised by Madras Naturalists’ Society (MNS), invites participants to write on the theme “The Summer of 2020”. The last date for submission of articles is November 30. By way of illustration, MNS has in its communication suggested a few topics that fit in with this theme. The list of suggestions reads: “A portrait of a particular species in its habitat, focusing on its natural history. Two, an account of an entire habitat, such as a deciduous forest or a protected campus in a city, describing its fauna and flora. Three, an anecdotal narration about a wild creature that is grounded in what is known about it scientifically. Four, an essay on the threats faced by a habitat or ecosystem.” The communication further notes that “participants are expected to draw on their personal experiences, to hold the interest of the reader and to share knowledge”. For further details, go to www.blackbuck.org.in. MNS can be reached at 98400 90875 or madrasnaturalistssociety@gmail.com.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||NEET classes for underprivileged students||Dr. V. Baala Classes, an institute offering coaching for NEET and other competitive examinations, in association with Lions Club of Madras Anna Nagar West, is offering scholarship for under privileged students to pursue their dreams in medical education. The centre is calling for applications from students who have good academic record but do not have the means to go for coaching. “We will select 10 students and offer them free coaching till the next NEET scheduled for 2021,” said V. Baala, who runs the centre. The programme will be a mix of online and in-person classes, depending on the COVID situation in the city, and students from other districts can also apply, he said. For details, visithttp://www.drbala.in/or call 984050 3838
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A new timetable for tiny tots||
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Class 12 student on a mission||
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Barefoot journeys||Inked into a confined space, the inmates are restless. One seems to be on the verge of trying to pace about; another, sharp-featured and masked, sits cross-legged and glares at the artist. Others loom in the background — are those shadows on the wall or men crumbling into bones, with cracked skulls and skull-textured masks? And yet, all these are distinct figures still, human beings full of individuality and nervous energy. This is no longer the case when we pass on to the second half of Umesh Singh’s remarkable diptych, Escapade — a Journey with the Migrants. By this time they’ve dissolved into an undifferentiated mass of huddled humanity. The walls have narrowed, and shadows lean against them with an air of desperation. Singh, who endured an arduous two months of isolation in Varanasi during the lockdown, and was then stuffed into a series of crowded buses to return to Bihar, decided to document the experiences of his fellow travellers, a group of migrant labourers and poor students, through his art. “The bus had only 30 seats, but there were 50 people. There would be two-three people under one blanket,” he recalls. The claustrophobia and eventual dehumanisation — dehumanisation in the eyes of, and by, an indifferent state — in stark black ink evoke thoughts of the infamous Black Hole incident of Calcutta or Chittaprosad’s depictions of the Bengal Famine. Interrelated contours ‘Spontaneous solidarities’, as epitomised in Singh’s works, was one of the thematic clusters of the exhibition ‘Broken Foot — Unfolding Inequalities,’ which ran online for three months before concluding on October 10. Driven by a need to respond to the unfolding migrant labour crisis, when an estimated one crore people tried to reach home on foot between March and June, curators Prabhakar Kamble and Rumi Samadhan reached out to 60 artists and built a thematic framework with labour at its heart. The works went up for sale on the Mojarto platform with proceeds going to artists in need. The curatorial vision was developed along a number of interrelated contours, including the Constitution, with its idea of ‘we, the people’ and the various promises of equality; the contributions of B.R. Ambedkar to the labour movement; labour and urbanisation; migration; forms of labour; the plight of farmers; the relation between land, people and ecological issues, which ties in with tribal people and their traditions; and the notion of education as emancipation. Don’t see The eponymous work, Broken Foot , a sculpture in wood by curator Kamble, can be compared with Balaji Ponna’s painting, Walking Under the Empty Sky , in which a cracked slipper bestrides the outline of India as innumerable souls with glowing eyes stare accusingly. Both point to the rupture caused by the great migration, a tear in the social fabric born of blindness and betrayal. One of the exhibition’s major themes was the relationship between labour and the nation, and as we too often forget, a nation is nothing but an abstraction of a people. It is the nation that has been ruptured. Photojournalist T. Narayan captured these lockdown journeys in his own way. One striking image, taken from behind, shows a child almost fused to his father’s neck and shoulders, as if they are one entity. Venkat Shyam’s painting, The Journey, similarly depicts a mother, looking almost like an Egyptian goddess with a pot for a crown, taking her son by the hand and walking barefoot, even as a train and an aeroplane cruise past. It’s hard not to think of the very different treatments the government meted out to returning NRIs and home-bound labourers. An Ambedkarite gaze on society is prominent in many of the works, and perhaps its baldest expression is in Vikrant Bhise’s painting, Ambedkar and a Labourer . A worker cleaning a statue of Ambedkar covers the latter’s eyes — perhaps urging him not to gaze, shielding him from egregious reality. Arun Vijai Mathavan’s photographs of Dalit sanitation workers and mortuary technicians during the lockdown, and the extreme conditions and prejudice they face — heightened at a time of enforced social isolation — are also striking. Uncanny timing Gopal Gangawane’s painting Thinker is indeed Rodin’s Thinker, but sitting on a glass-cube pedestal, he towers above three emaciated children gazing longingly at a roti hanging inside the cube. Does his philosophical, perhaps sympathetic, gaze help them in any way? Will they ever be able to think abstractly if all they can afford to think about is their next meal? Another familiar image — the pietà, Mary cradling the body of Christ — is repurposed in the ink painting, Mothers Arms are More Comfortable, by Khandakar Ohida. A male body with red flesh, blood and burns, held in a woman’s arms reminds us of the quotidian violence faced by the subaltern. Intersectionality was at play everywhere, as the exhibition looked at inequalities in different dimensions. Siddhi Jadhav’s photographs offered a peek into the life of a hijra, while Tejaswini Sonawane’s etching, Arriving Home, depicted, grotesquely, the contradictions between modernity and tradition as a grimacing woman-owl, striving to take flight, remains grounded under the gaze of society’s beady eyes. Such thematic expansiveness meant that Broken Foot wasn’t purely focused on the plight of migrant labourers, but created an unifying architecture that took the Constitution as its keystone. Its invocation of fundamental rights and the now-totemic preamble took one back to the anti-CAA protests while the work of artists like Randeep Maddoke and Kuldip Karegaonkar depicting the lives and deaths of farmers was uncannily timely. The documentary value of recording through art the tragedy of migrant workers during the lockdown, one of the greatest yet most muted crises in our recent history, is this project’s most important achievement.  One of the exhibition’s major themes was the relationship between labour and the nation, and as we too often forget, a nation is nothing but an abstraction of a people
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Ganga aarti on my screen||On a reflective day, as I sit pondering the vagaries of the pandemic and the upending of all travel plans for the near future, an email from a walking tour company that I walked with previously piques my curiosity. I am invited to join them on a virtual tour of Varanasi. An integral part of any walking tour is the sensory experience and nuanced understanding gained while traversing the unique geography it inhabits. Could such an offering be successfully ported on to the virtual realm? Or would the nuances be lost in translation? Curious, I log into the Zoom session from my living room with a cup of tea handy as a substitute for the kulhad chai I had taken on the physical walk. A big reason the city has stayed in my mind is Aayush Rathi, co-founder/ storyteller of Roobaroo Walks, and the way he presented Varanasi through his storytelling. Now, Rathi reintroduces me to the city through 360° visuals, maps, videos and evocative soundscapes. Many of my fellow Zoom travellers are first-time visitors. As with the physical tour, we start at Assi Ghat, where the dancing flames of the multi-layered aartis light up the early morning sky in adoration of the Ganga. Rathi talks about the sacred river, the city’s origins, and its deep spiritual significance for a confluence of faiths. The forts, temples and havelis that dot the landscape are all brought to vivid life through the visuals and meticulously researched vignettes. In a reverential touch, we “collect” the waters of the Ganga to offer at the centuries-old home of poet-saint Tulsidas, where we stop next. While we are Zooming together, there is constant interaction among the group. There are quizzes to answer and tangential questions to explore, just as on the physical walk, and I discover new facets of the city. The mood is lively, the chatter congenial, and I log off, having re-immersed myself in the essence of Varanasi. Rathi and his wife Anchal co-founded Roobaroo in 2015, and as travel ground to a halt this year, they decided to roll with the punches and reimagine their enterprise. Their pivot from operating in the fully physical realm to the virtual in just a few months tells a tale of quickly harnessed panic, and the consequent upskilling and reinventing to stay in the game. Staying relevant The transformation under way in this sector is reaffirmed by Arjun Bhat, founder/ storyteller at Explore Hampi. “We were running tours right till mid-March and were completely unprepared for what was to follow,” he says. But the passion and toil with which he founded his enterprise in 2014 made him determined to “stay relevant, stay alive and keep the dream going”. A sneak-peek of an upcoming virtual tour centred around Krishadevaraya, the mighty king of Vijayanagara, shows a meticulously researched, in-depth structure that combines music, videos and 360° images with live narration as travellers “walk” through Hampi. Detailing the upskilling tasks of the past few months, Bhat says, “Learning the use of different tools, platforms, media types, software and technology has been challenging. A lot of work has gone into doing primary research and creating new content. Marketing and customer acquisition for this format are completely new to us and we are trying to figure it out as we go along.” The virtual world has unexpected advantages too. For one, structuring a tour is easier, according to Bhat. Various media elements can be used to emphasise a point and physical limitations on narrative flow are no longer a concern. Participant time constraints can also be managed better. Although virtual tours are priced lower, they still include quality access to the storyteller, which can increase trust and enthuse participants to try their physical walks later, as Rathi says. Future is here As in the physical world, the virtual tours too focus on the storyteller’s unique geographical areas of expertise. Roobaroo has an upcoming tour on the Ramlila, while Explore Hampi will have one on Kishkinda tales. Immersive Trails, a walking tour enterprise in Kolkata, offers a virtual Durga Puja trail tour. One can also choose a cooking class in Rome or a walking tour of Madrid from the global experiences on offer.  The contours of how we travel are being reshaped by this pandemic, but these storytellers are ensuring the essence stays the same and the nuances are not lost in translation. Rathi says that virtual tours will stay on as part of their offerings even when physical travel resumes, to attract more participants. Bhat expects footfalls to return to pre-pandemic levels only after 18-24 months. He believes that “revenge travel,” a pandemic coinage to indicate the rush of tourists anticipated once restrictions ease, is unlikely, given the recessionary economy. In this altered reality, as he says, the ones left standing will be those who “innovate, pivot, reinvent themselves and survive.” Until we can ride a coracle on the Tungabhadra again, we must learn to love the virtual river.  The writer is a mindful traveller who appreciates the educative nature of her journeys.  The forts, temples and havelis that dot the landscape are all brought to vivid life through the visuals and meticulously researched vignettes. In a reverential touch, we “collect” the waters of the Ganga to offer at the centuries-old home of poet-saint Tulsidas
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||But where are the people?||Parvathy Nagaraj, from Nallur village in Tamil Nadu, would watch her grandmother make medicines from plants she collected from the forest and treat the villagers for many common ailments. Today, Parvathy can identify 100 plants in the forests she grew up in. “I am the sixth generation of healers in my family; and I want to use my knowledge to treat people and also conserve the plants in the forest,” she says. Some 2,000 km away, in Rajasthan, Harji Ram, from the Raika camel herding community, says his community can identify 36 different trees and shrubs that the camels feed on. These plants also happen to have tremendous value in medicine. Before the Biological Diversity Act (BDA) was passed in 2002, there was no formal recognition of the knowledge that men and women like Harji and Parvathy possessed. The ‘discovery’ of flora and fauna was either the prerogative of the colonial explorer or the modern scientist with a university degree. The traditional knowledge of millions of forest dwellers, fisherfolk, pastoralists and hunting communities about the biodiversity in their backyards was never considered to be on a par with formal research. And if a private company wanted to exploit these natural resources, they were not required to pay the communities that had known about and nurtured them for centuries.  Sharing benefits The pathbreaking Act not only supports the conservation and the sustainable use of biological resources, it also promotes an equitable sharing of benefits that come from their use. This one law has the potential to revolutionalise the rights of communities over the natural resources they live with. The BDA has made it mandatory for every local self-governing institution in rural and urban areas to constitute a Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) within their area of jurisdiction. Once constituted, the BMC must prepare a Peoples’ Biodiversity Register (PBR) in consultation with local people. A PBR comprehensively documents traditional knowledge of local biological resources. The BMC is the custodian of these resources, and any industry that extracts biological resources from these areas has to share part of its revenue with the local community. But the wheels of change have been slow to turn. Years later, by 2016, only 9,700 BMCs had been set up for the 2,70,573 local bodies across the country; compliance was thus a mere 3.58%. And just 1,388 PBRs were completed that year. Then, in 2016, an order was passed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which shook the entire administration out of its lethargy. A petition filed by Chandra Bhal Singh before the NGT asked for the effective implementation of the BDA. The NGT directed 100% compliance in the constitution of BMCs and in the creation of PBRs by January 31, 2020. The NGT said States would be fined Rs. 10 lakh per month from February 1, 2020 if they failed to comply with its order. People matter That was the game changer. States began work at a frenetic pace. Today, eight months after the NGT deadline, some 1,90,950 PBRs have been completed or are in various stages of preparation, representing 70% of the country’s PBR coverage. These figures come from V.B. Mathur, Chairperson, National Biodiversity Authority, tasked with ensuring the monitoring of PBRs and BMCs. “While the NGT order was quantitative, we wanted to make sure it doesn’t affect the quality of the process, as people’s participation is necessary,” he says. But in the hurry to meet the deadline, have the people been left out? In Uttarakhand, for instance, the onus seems to be on the forest department to implement the law. Dhananjay Prasad, Deputy Director of the State Biodiversity Board, admits that with the lack of funds and the large number of local bodies, the task of setting up BMCs and creating PBRs is an unwieldy exercise. “There are around 8,000 local bodies in Uttarakhand, and the budget allotted could barely cover the compilation of PBRs for all these bodies,” says Prasad. So the BMCs were initially formed using the manpower of the State Forest Department. Forest guards were roped in and trained. Then, to record biodiversity, technical experts who specialised in agriculture, botany, animal husbandry and urban biodiversity were brought in. In Himachal Pradesh, the ‘contract’ for making PBRs was awarded to several universities, with each one getting a contract for 30-40 villages. But it meant that public participation was low. Jhabe Ram, chairman of the BMC, Jana Gram Panchayat in Naggar, Himachal, says that the State Biodiversity Board sent him to Bengaluru for training, but other experts were called in to prepare the PBR. Says Ram, “I possess a lot of knowledge about the plants in the forest but I don’t know their botanical names. So they got experts from Shimla to prepare the PBR. It was created two to three years ago, and I have yet to see it.” Various environmental groups have also come forward to prepare the registers. For instance, The Energy and Resources Institute prepared the PBR for the village Ghukhuyi, in Zünheboto, Nagaland. Likewise the People’s Biodiversity Register of Tourenga Gram Panchayat in Chhattisgarh was published with technical guidance from the Wildlife Trust of India. In Jharkhand, a local NGO, Pragati Educational Academy, applied for the process of setting up BMCs and PBRs in response to an advert put out by the State Biodiversity Board seeking consultants. Babita Kashyap, who coordinated the NGO’s efforts, says they try to ensure people’s participation by visiting every Panchayat for demographic information. For biodiversity information, however, they bring in experts. “We use botanists and zoologists. People from the village describe plants in their local languages, which we may not understand.” Similar stories emerge from other parts of the country such as Maharashtra and Telangana. With PBRs being outsourced to NGOs or universities, the role of local people has been restricted to that of helping researchers in data collection. And this is not in sync with NBA’s guidelines on PBRs. A PBR, says environment lawyer Ritwick Dutta, is more than just a compilation of species. “The preparation of PBRs by consultants defeats the whole purpose of having this register. Local people are central to the process; the task cannot be outsourced to a third party.” Created over centuries Besides this, there are also some communities glaringly missing from the process altogether. Nomadic pastoralists, for instance, and the livestock breeds they have created over centuries. Ilse Köhler-Rollefson has spent a lifetime with the camel herding community, the Raikas of Rajasthan. She says, “Moving around in the spaces between villages, they are major producers of food without cultivation, while at the same time they conserve and add value to biodiversity.” Being nomadic, they are crucial for biodiversity conservation, yet they fall outside the scope of the village BMCs, even of State biodiversity boards. Hanwant Singh Rathore, from the Raika community, who set up the Lokhit Pashu-Palak Sansthan, rues that not even one BMC has been prepared in conversation with his community. “Even though we possess so much knowledge, our views have never been considered, nor has any BMC been formed.” The Raika herders have even prepared their own ‘Biocultural Community Protocol of the Camel Breeders of Rajasthan’ as an example of what a PBR for their community could look like. The document has been submitted to the forest department “but no one has responded,” says Rathore. Likewise, Kaustubh Pandharipande, who has worked extensively with denotified tribes in Central India, argues that non-pastoral nomads may not keep animals but have a deep relationship with biodiversity. “This has never been recognised; many of them sell medicinal plants and depend on the forest.” Long before PBRs were recognised as a legal category, Pandharipande had started work with the Phasepardhis (a hunting community socially ostracised since colonial times). The process he initiated included field surveys of birds, their populations and habitats, documenting local knowledge and practices, and monitoring and protecting the birds. “People like the pardhis have been completely ignored, there should be some legal space for them,” says Pandharipande, who heads the Foundation for Economic and Ecological Development. Perhaps no one knows more about the process of the PBRs than ecologist and scholar Madhav Gadgil. Gadgil, who was the first to call for recognising the rights of communities over their resources, says the PBRs have become nothing more than an exercise in listing species. He laments the lack of community participation and the fact that the PBR is still not being used as a people’s tool. Right rewards Indeed, the only way communities can use these PBRs to control their natural resources; prevent (or get a fair price from) industries coming in to exploit these resources; and contribute overall to conservation is to increase their participation in the process. Look at the instances where handing over control of natural resources to the people has reaped big rewards. The Uttarakhand State Biodiversity Board issued notices to nearly 600 industries — including Dabur and its rival Baba Ramdev’s Patanjali — for using natural resources in the hill State without adequately compensating the communities. In Kerala, the Eraviperoor Biodiversity Management Committee rejuvenated a tributary of the River Pampa, successfully recovering 13.5 acres of riverbank. It has also done exemplary work in plastic waste management. The BMC in Raipassa village in Tripura has signed an agreement with companies for harvesting broom grass and making sure that the funds are transferred back to the community. Meanwhile, NBA’s Mathur says he wants to incentivise conservation “keeping in mind adequate protection and restoration of biological resources while promoting livelihoods for local communities through generous benefit-sharing protocols.” A critical question comes up: Will the NGOs and consultants who helped prepare the biodiversity registers and committees join hands with the communities when it comes to fighting the bigger battles, such as those against mining companies coming in to acquire land, or a new dam that submerges their forests? This is where the true litmus test of the power of the PBRs lies. It has the scope to become the ultimate tool for a people-centric environment impact assessment process that allows communities living next to the resource to remain the real commanders. If implemented with the right degree of people’s participation, the PBRs could indeed become a trailblazer on the road to environmental democracy. The writer is an Associate Professor at Shiv Nadar University and an environment journalist.             The traditional knowledge of millions of forest dwellers, fisherfolk, pastoralists and hunting communities about the biodiversity in their backyards was never considered to be on a par with formal research
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Writing on the wall||Tolkien is once supposed to have said, “I wisely started with a map, and made the story fit” . Gautam Bhatia’s debut novel, The Wall, begins with a map of a circular city called Sumer enclosed by an impassable, miles-high wall — the ultimate gated community. Looking at it, I was reminded of the first models of the cosmos by the Babylonians or the Jains, mathematical in their simplicity. Bhatia’s novel is as much an exploration of space as it is of narrative, with the map shaping the plot. As writer Peter Turchi once argued, “The map is more than metaphor: it is an organizing principle of narrative.” Bhatia’s city-state has an artificial river running across its diameter, which then forms a series of channels that divide it into further circles or mandalas. Each circle has an economic function and a colour to mark it out (blue is the highest). Your station in life is determined by the circle you are born in, resulting in caste-like surnames such as Prana-11 or Rama-1. Battle of ideas At the centre is the Forum, which, rather like Corbusier’s design of Chandigarh, forms the city’s heart. There is the Council — a kind of parliament — and around it is the tower of Shoortans, a religious order, then the Select who are the Scientists, and the Academy or university. While Sumer is pre-industrial, the Forum as well as the Wall were built by a mysterious race of beings called the Builders who possessed advanced technology. The official gospel is that due to a primal transgression, the Builders pulled a sort of inverted garden of Eden on the humans. Once this collective penance is over, the wall will crumble. The choicest real estate is at the centre (presumably as it receives the most sunlight, while the edges are in the immense shadows cast by the wall). While the buildings of the rich, closest to the centre, are made of stone and have wide boulevards, as one ranges outwards, the quality of life drops, finally ending with slums huddled around the circumference. The wall cannot be breached, even approaching it is taboo; but for over 2,000 years the denizens have made peace with their confinement as they till farms, mine iron, and live their lives. There are a few discontented souls who dream of a world beyond the wall, who reject the notion that their confinement is for their own good. The novel follows one of them, Mithila, and her cohort of conspirators who dream of breaching the wall. When the story begins, all is not well with Sumer — there are crop failures, religious schisms, elite discontent and mysterious portents in the sky. While these play out as the story unfolds, the fuel for the plot is provided by a battle of ideas, competing theories on both how this world came to be and its future arrangement. All questions and conflicts flow out of Sumer’s contested past: Who built the wall and arranged this world? What is its purpose? Speculative fiction is a laboratory where one can isolate and miniaturise a society, with its future designed, stress-tested and implemented . Bhatia’s work falls under a subgenre of science fiction called ‘Wall around the world,’ named after a 1953 short story by Theodore Cogswell .  This speculation in turn produces an X-ray of the environment in which the book is written: Sumer is riven by caste conflicts, furious battles over history, institutional decay, and an unravelling of the mechanisms of checks and balances. While it is easy to use the wall as a metaphor, Bhatia has rigorously thought it through. For example, same-sex relations are fine while marriage between men and women needs licences — vital in a closed system to prevent uncontrolled population growth. Nothing is written down, as it will “cage history”. Legal structures Humanity’s shared legends and histories are refracted and replayed — there is Plato’s cave, the legend of Icarus, Prometheus, Paradise Lost , the assassination of Caesar, even the writings of Lenin, like a tape on loop. History follows the shape of the narrative — one is reminded of Mircea Eliade’s notion of a contest between the Eastern traditions of circular or sacred time and the Abrahamic concept of linear time, where, as my political scientist friend once told me, god enters history. SF fans expecting ray-gun duels or zooming spaceships will be disappointed. There are council meetings, moot courts, fiery public speeches, and much excitement when bills are tabled. The big finale unfolds as a courtroom drama — not a surprise, given that the writer is one of the top constitutional lawyers in the country. In an interview, Bhatia points out that legal structures “form the hidden plumbing of the world”. This law-centric approach is something new, representing an exciting new direction for Indian sci-fi. The genteel tone reminded me of Asimov’s Foundation novels, where violence takes place off-screen and characters engage in erudite debates. In our hyper-polarised world today, the notion that a sincere and rational argument can touch you, change your mind, seems like pure science fiction. The writer is a freelance journalist and graphic novelist.  The Wall  Gautam Bhatia  HarperCollins  Rs. 399    The wall cannot be breached, even approaching it is taboo; but for over 2,000 years the denizens have made peace with their confinement as they till farms, mine iron, and live their lives
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Preparing for a multipolar world||The global order is undergoing changes. If it was largely bipolar during the Cold War and then briefly unipolar after the disintegration of the Soviet Union, there are signs of emerging multipolarity. China is already the world’s second largest economy and a major military power. Russia has come out of its self-imposed strategic retreat. From Germany to Japan and India to Brazil, middle powers are also expected to play key roles in the new order. What should be the direction of India’s foreign policy in such changing times? S. Jaishankar, India’s External Affairs Minister, seeks to address this question in his book, The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World . When a sitting foreign minister writes a book on the country’s foreign policy, the reader would naturally expect some insights into New Delhi’s policy thinking. In that sense, Jaishankar lays out the broad framework of India’s policymaking. He emphasises a realistic approach free of dogmas, willing to take risks and ready to engage different powers at the same time. In the book, culled from the speeches he gave over the past two years, Jaishankar offers an overview of the evolution of India’s foreign policy through the pitfalls and the opportunities ahead. “This is a time to engage America, manage China, cultivate Europe, reassure Russia, bring Japan into play,” writes Jaishankar, who was India’s Ambassador in both Washington and Beijing before becoming the Foreign Secretary and then the External Affairs Minister in the BJP-led government.   Call for action From what he writes, it’s evident that he doesn’t favour India joining any alliance system. But he doesn’t support the old school non-alignment either. He gives the example of Balarama and Rukmi of Vidarbha from the Mahabharata to make his point. Both stayed out of the war but they had to face the consequences anyway. “Where we have remained uninvolved, we are nevertheless left to face consequences. On some questions, we run the danger of displeasing all parties. Where we have aligned on larger contradictions, our reluctance in doing so fully has not been without costs,” writes Jaishankar. It’s a call for action. And the action, according to him, is defined by “Krishna's choice”— “follow the dharma of the state”, that is asserting national interest and securing strategic goals through various means. In other words, his bet is on “multiple engagements” for a multipolar world. “It appears more energetic and participative as compared to an earlier posture of abstention or non-involvement.” In India’s engagement with the West, Jaishankar emphasises the shared values as well as the changes underway. The West, he argues, should accept that India’s growth “is a strategic development in the larger western interest”. With regard to Pakistan, he talks about the Uri and Balakot models, arguing that India established a new normal that terrorist actions won’t go unpunished. When it comes to China, his mantra is realism. He commends the “strategic maturity” that’s at work between the two countries. “That realisation led to the Wuhan and Chennai summits... both occasions were exercises in pure realism.” Future role It’s well argued, and few will disagree that India has to multi-engage with a changing world, without compromising on its strategic autonomy. The problem, however, is that beyond this framework, Jaishankar, perhaps constrained by his role in the government, doesn’t offer finer details. India Way reads more like a diplomat’s handbook — which is important in understanding the functioning of diplomacy — rather than a strategic analyst’s assessment of history and prescriptions for the future. It’s not free of contradictions either. Jaishankar stresses on India’s pluralism, values of multi-faith society and its democratic framework. Yet the government he’s part of has been under attack, both domestically and internationally, for endangering India’s plural values. When he writes the West should accept that “an elite created in western mould has now outlived its relevance” in India, he sounds more like a politician than a seasoned diplomat. What drives diplomacy? Jaishankar clearly states the “economy drives diplomacy, not the other way around.” Unfortunately, he has to drive India’s diplomacy at a time when the country is facing a severe economic contraction — one of the worst among major economies — which would, according to his own arguments, limit India’s options. He lauds India’s realism in reaching out to China in Wuhan and Chennai (the book was written before the Galwan clashes). Now, there could be new questions about the whole China policy of the Narendra Modi government. Was its China policy driven by realism or hubris? While he rightly blames legacy issues for the China problem, one can’t ignore the revolt in India’s neighbourhood against New Delhi under his government, whether they are short-term irritants or evolving strategic challenges. So, while the foreign policy framework India Way offers is an authoritative account of New Delhi’s worldview, its efficacy will be known only when tested on the altar of history.  The India Way: Strategies for an Uncertain World  S. Jaishankar  HarperCollins  Rs. 699
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||To Kumbakonam we go||It was a beautiful Delhi morning like any other. The sun was rising, birds were singing, uncles were laughing in the park like Ravana. I was sitting on the terrace with my coffee and newspapers, and, like every morning, getting rapidly depressed by the headlines. I was about to jump off the balcony when my phone rang. I thought if I jumped, I would have to die without ever knowing who the loser was calling me at six in the morning. So, I decided to take the call first. “Hello! Myself Mr. Thirugnanasambandham,” said a voice I’ve never heard before. “My father used to be deputy assistant branch manager of the Kumbakonam branch of Bank of India.” “Oh no, no, no. You have the wrong number,” I said. “I am not Mathrubootham.” “Sir, I know who you are,” he said. “Are you not the son of Kattabomman’s grandfather?” “Am I the son of…?” It took me a minute to work that out. “Oh yes, I am the same.” “In that case, talk to him,” he said. “Tell him not to travel. It’s a needless risk.” “What?” “I’m getting married next week.” “Congratulations,” I said. “But what’s it got to do with my father?” “You see, my father met your father 30 years ago at the Mandaveli branch of Bank of India when he was posted there. So, out of courtesy, he sent your father an e-invitation for my wedding. But to our shock, your father has replied saying he’s coming from Chennai to Kumbakonam to attend, and bringing missus also.” “I see.” “Not a good idea,” he said. “Given that they are elderly people.” “Mr. Thirugnanasambandham,” I sighed. “Thank you for this call. But why in Guruvayoorappa’s name did you have to send them an invitation? And why are you getting married in the middle of a raging pandemic?” “It wasn’t my idea,” he began, and gave a long-winded explanation that went on for 15 minutes. The gist of it was that it was now up to me to coax two headstrong senior citizens into doing the right thing — that is, stay put at home. Calling father I got father and mother on a conference call. As I had feared, they had already made travel arrangements and even booked a hotel in Kumbakonam. “Have you guys caught madness?” I screamed. “Both of you are in your 70s. You belong to the age bracket that’s widely acknowledged as the favourite cuisine of the Coronavirus. Taken together, the two of you have enough co-morbidities to keep every specialist fully occupied in a multispecialty hospital!” My father is generally open to reason, but on this issue, he turned out to be the moderate face of unreason, while my mother was the radical fringe. “We will be careful- da ,” Appa said. “Don’t make mountain out of molagapodi .” “But why is it so important to attend this wedding?” I wailed. “You hardly even know the man. I’ve never heard you mention this Kumbakonam fellow before!” “You’ve forgotten?” Appa was indignant. “He is the one who helped you redeem your PPF after you lost the pass book.” “Wonderful. Just because a bank clerk helped you with a transaction in the previous century, you want to put yourself, your wife, your children and grandchildren at risk?” I’ll go when I am ready “ Ennada risku ?” my mother burst out. “Do you know the risk of mental illness when someone’s stuck at home for seven bloody months? You think it’s better I die of depression than of corona?” “Don’t do melodrama bringing up irrelevant topics like death.” I said. “I’m only talking of COVID precautions.” “ Aaamaan , periya precaution,” Amma said. “I’ll go when I have to go. Nobody can stop it when the time comes.” “ Kaadu is saying come, come, residence is saying go, go,” Appa said. “This dialogue is way past its expiry date,” I said. “Firstly, there are no more forests left in India. Secondly, it’s not kaadu but corona that’s saying come-come, come to Kumbakonam.” Then father played his trump card. “Even if I agree not to go, your mother won’t budge.” “No point in going anymore,” I said. “I’ve already told the groom you guys are not coming. Your names have been struck off the guest list.” “Who cares?” Amma said. “I want to see Kumbakonam. I’ve never been there.” I had anticipated this. Mother was always the more adamant one, and also the bigger medical risk. Last December, her sugar level had breached Kapil Dev’s Test wickets tally. After the doctor gave her a dressing down, she became slightly more disciplined with her medication. But her fasting sugar, which should ideally have been Venkatesh Prasad, still hovers between the Test tallies of Ishant Sharma and Chaminda Vaas. “Amma, this is Kumbakonam we are talking about, not Kathmandu,” I said. “There is nothing to see there.” “My decision is final,” she said. “We are going. If nothing, we’ll visit the Kumbakonam branch of Bank of India and come back.”  ‘Do you know the risk of mental illness when someone’s stuck at home for seven months? You think it’s better I die of depression than of corona?’ Amma said
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Bookless in the desert||When I was two years old, my mother read aloud to me from a brightly coloured book, Danny the Donkey . From that moment on, I was hooked to books. It was the start of a lifelong love. It was no surprise that my favourite poem in childhood was John Wilson’s Oh for a book and a shady nook…  My relationship with books and reading grew into a deep commitment that was to thrive through sickness and health and for better or worse, until death do us part. Or so I thought. My worst nightmare of living in a world with nothing to read came true when I moved to Saudi Arabia with two toddlers to join my husband who was working there. It was a small town, where one could dash out and buy a washing machine, a dishwasher, a music system and a car all on the same day, but not a book. Bookstores and libraries were non-existent, and the daily newspaper was not home-delivered. I was busier than I had ever been but could find time to read when the children had their nap. But there was nothing to read. I was miserable and dejected, homesick and bookless. Striking gold One afternoon, when the toddlers were asleep, I climbed on a stool to dust the top of the giant refrigerator provided by our landlord. As I swiped wildly with my duster, I struck gold! My duster brought down clouds of grey dust and also an old copy of a magazine. Dusting abandoned, I descended from the stool and picked it up reverently. It did not have its cover, the pages had yellowed and it was five years old. I skimmed through it, and my heart filled with joy. It was a treasure trove of articles, stories and anecdotes. It fell from the top of the fridge, but to me, it was a blessing straight from heaven. Until we could explore the town and find a bookstore which eventually we did, I saved up this precious gift by reading a small portion of an article each day or just a tiny little anecdote at the bottom of the page. Sometimes, I read aloud to the toddlers too. That old magazine was my beloved companion through those difficult times. I had come to live in a desert and found an oasis. Now 36 years later, when I recall those days, I say a silent thank you to that magazine for giving me so much joy. leelakrishnamohan@hotmail.com
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Doubtful daughter||You’re telling me I should have made an appointment to see you?” I winced at this line in Revathi Suresh’s second novel, In Now and Then . It’s exactly what I used to say to my busy parents when I wanted to push buttons. Speaking of which, Suresh’s protagonist Kavya, whom we first met in Jobless Clueless Reckless , could give anyone lessons in pushing buttons. If her life seemed to be spinning out of control in the first book, here she stumbles from one crisis to another. At first glance, Kavya is not a very likeable character. She’s moody, prickly and often downright annoying, but Suresh keeps one interested in her. Why is she the way she is? What makes her tick? The narration is in the first person, but it’s almost as if Kavya is showing the reader only what she wants and hiding a lot more. You want to get into Kavya’s head and understand what’s going on in there. Broken families and relationships, sex and sexual identities (written in a matter-of-fact and non-judgemental manner), modes of education, sorrow... everything here is not just complicated but also gets acrimonious and chaotic at times. From home-schooling to formal schooling, moving from India to the Netherlands, from living with an eccentric mother to being with a strict father, Kavya’s life has been turned upside down. The passage where Kavya taunts her father had me muttering, ‘Don’t, you idiot! Do you want a whack?’ When the book opens, Kavya has moved to India to be with her mother but is consumed by doubts. Does her mother want her around? She’s also trying to figure out where she stands with the two boys in her life: Kiran and Vinay. And then there’s Lara. Why is Lara suddenly so keen on her? They weren’t all that pally before. This is not to suggest that the book is all gloom and doom. There is a lot of humour, both subtle and laugh-out-loud. Suresh excels at capturing the confusion and helplessness of youngsters. But even if you are a much older person, you relate to what’s going on.  In Now & Then Revathi Suresh 1inchmargin  Rs. 199 (Kindle price)
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Words have wings||As a nerdish 15-year old, I had once won a huge round of applause in a quiz contest when I replied correctly to a question about the connection between Vikram Seth and Alexander Pushkin. It’s old hat now that Seth’s The Golden Gate was inspired by Pushkin’s Eugene Onegin (a translation actually, since Seth did not read Russian). Both works are novels in verse written in 14-line stanzas. Pushkin’s work, set in the early 1800s, helped Seth find his voice and form for the 1980s’ Californian story he wished to tell. Such cross-pollination of ideas is not rare in literature. The sonnet’s journey Five centuries ago, the sonnet travelled from medieval Italian to English. Reportedly invented by Giacomo da Lentini, senior poet of the Sicilian school and a notary in the court of the Holy Roman emperor, Frederick II, the sonnet travelled from Sicily to Tuscany, where Dante and Petrarch perfected it. Petrarch’s English translator, Thomas Wyatt (1503-42), who wanted to give English the literary refinement of other European languages, experimented with the form. His fellow-traveller in this endeavour was the brash Henry Howard, Earl of Surrey (1516/17-47), who fell foul of King Henry VIII and was executed. While Wyatt introduced the sonnet form to English, it was Surrey who gave it the rhyming scheme of three quatrains and a final couplet that is its recognisable characteristic. In later years, Shakespeare, Spenser and the Romantic poets made the form their own. The form has survived, with poets of all persuasions using it freely. A more recent journey has been that of the haiku. Originally a short poem in Japanese consisting of 17 on (loosely corresponding to ‘syllables’) in three lines of 5,7 and 5, the haiku was first called hokku , its current name becoming popular at the turn of the 20th century. Among its foremost Japanese practitioners are Matsuo Basho (1644-94) and Kobayashi Issa (1763-1828). The haiku captured the imagination of the English-speaking world when books on Japanese literature detailing its forms and authors began to appear in the late 1890s. The Imagists, particularly Ezra Pound and Amy Lowell, tried their hand at the form. In later years, R.H. Blyth (1898-1964), who popularised Japanese culture in the West, published many haiku in translation, which inspired writers of the Beat generation like Gary Snyder and Jack Kerouac. Since then, the haiku has become an established form in English. Indian poet Rochelle Potkar’s collection, Paper Asylum , published in 2018, is a bunch of haibun, also a Japanese form that combines prose passages with haiku. Not so novel It is widely believed that Banabhatta’s Kadambari , a Sanskrit work of the 7th century, is India’s (perhaps even the world’s) first novel. But historians think of the novel as a Western creation that became popular with the introduction of printing technology, which made it possible for books to be mass produced, thus enabling middle-class readers to own (or borrow) their own copy.  Kadambari apart, it is only in the 19th century that the novel made its proper appearance in Indian languages: many early Indian novels were, by the authors’ admission, inspired by English ones.  Rajasekhara Charitramu by Kandukuri Veeresalingam Pantulu, often considered the first Telugu novel, was modelled after Oliver Goldsmith’s The Vicar of Wakefield . It was published in 1878. Similarly, the early Malayalam novel, Indulekha (1889), by O. Chandu Menon, was modelled after Benjamin Disraeli’s Henrietta Temple . Menon had wanted to translate it but did not do so thinking that Malayalee readers may not be able to relate to it; his novel written in Malayalam was a smash hit. A high note To come back to poetry, another cross-cultural literary journey has begun in recent years. The late Indian-American poet Agha Shahid Ali (1949-2001) had attempted to render ghazals in English, and not just through translation, though he had attempted that too. Ali’s final collection, Call Me Ishmael Tonight , published posthumously in 2003, is subtitled ‘A Book of Ghazals’. In its original Urdu form, the ghazal consists of rhymed couplets with a phrase at the end of the second line that occurs subsequently in all the couplets that follow. The English form, at least in Ali’s renderings, loses none of the original form’s characteristic melancholy and longing. Adrienne Rich and W.S. Merwin have also published English ghazals. To end on a high note, Harivansh Rai Bachchan’s Madhushala (1935), which uses alcohol as a metaphor for freedom, was inspired by Omar Khayyam’s Rubaiyat , which Bachchan had earlier translated into Hindi. The Bengaluru-based writer works in publishing.  It is widely believed that Banabhatta’sKadambari, a Sanskrit work of the 7th century, is India’s (perhaps even the world’s) first novel. But historians think of the novel as a Western creation that became popular with the introduction of printing
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The star with a scar||A prophecy. A child with a scar. A villain slated to be killed by this child. The YA fantasy fiction Haunted by the Sky shares these plot points with Rowling’s Harry Potter series. There are other similarities too, but then the template of good versus evil, or of a child being born to bring down a tyrant, is universal. It is how the writer uses the trope to create a singular and exciting world is what makes all the difference. Indian fantasy fiction writers blend mythology, history and fantasy quite effectively: it is quite a burgeoning genre here, enriched by books like Samit Basu’s The Simoqin Prophecies or the more recent An Ember in the Ashes by Sabaa Tahir. Tanaz Bhathena’s book is a welcome addition to the genre. The story unfolds in simple prose. The fantasy world is intricately and entertainingly detailed, whether it’s the city of Ambarvadi, the magical Ambar Fort, the squalid tenements, or the mythical Tavan guarded by golden bars reaching up to the sky. The story moves swiftly, packing in both action and adventure. Gul, the spirited heroine, has to fulfil the prophecy of destroying the evil King Lohar. Along the way, she enters into a budding romance with a young man, Cavas. There are engaging characters — like a sisterhood of three brave women, a king who is half-human, half-animal, ghosts who materialise to communicate important matters. The chief villain, Scorpion, is infused with adequate lashings of the requisite menace to make her a formidable opponent. This is the first book in a series and the climax neatly sets the stage for the next. If there is one drawback to the book, it is that parts of it feel derivative. Whether it’s the child with the scar, the division of people into those who can do magic (called magi) and those who can’t, or the battle between a prisoner and an unknown opponent in front of a crowd that so resembles scenes from Gladiator . On the whole, though, it’s a breezy read. The reviewer is a manuscript editor and novelist based in Bengaluru.  Hunted by the Sky Tanaz Bhathena Penguin  Rs. 399
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Strangers in the land: The life and death of Korsa Joga||Maoists in Chhattisgarh traditionally have a bigger market, which they are possibly unaware of, in the publishing industry or South Asia studies departments globally than in Chhattisgarh, where they have not been expanding for some time. Many Ph.D.s are penned or manuscripts submitted each year and very few are readable. Ashutosh Bhardwaj’s The Death Script is refreshingly different. A journalist who worked in Chhattisgarh, he provides detailed anecdotes of his encounters with the police, paramilitary forces, informers and left-wing rebels. He has followed certain characters and describes particular phases in their lives that intertwined with his in Chhattisgarh. Multiple journeys But the book is not just about Chhattisgarh or Maoists, it is also about the author’s multiple other journeys. For this reviewer, who worked as a journalist around the same time in Chhattisgarh, it was difficult to understand why events which are not connected to the conflict are featured, perhaps because of a training to look for facts. For example, following a graphic description of how a dozen villagers were killed in a place called Sarkeguda in south Chhattisgarh, the author moves to Benares to talk about his chance meeting with a woman, which is a sad story but not connected to the incident in Sarkeguda. But then as the reader moves on, perhaps the connection becomes apparent. The author looks at the river and thinks of the colossal waste of life in Chhattisgarh. “As I stare at the ravenous apparitions of burning pyres floating over the Ganga, my sins come back to haunt me,” he writes. It is unusual as books on Chhattisgarh are usually about a lot of violence and conspiracies. While The Death Script has its share of blood and gore, it often takes a detour to talk about a stray frog or a chance meeting in Benares. Stories from Benares Possibly there is a reason or two for these digressions. Conflict reporting is often about body counts and it could be a pointless exercise unless the reader, who may be far away, is connected. Stories from another world, Benares in this case, which is relatively free of violence, is required to keep the readers connected. On occasions, he digs deep to explain the severe hurdles a tribal woman or man faces when she or he tries to leave the arduous life of a rebel to settle in the cities as a civilian. Korsa Joga, a Naxal commander, after making many attempts to move away from conflict finally returned to the forest to take up arms, albeit for the forces. The story of the commander, narrated over six pages, indicates why rebels often decide to stay in the forest despite looking for avenues to escape. What however one may miss — especially from Bhardwaj, who investigated many important stories in Chhattisgarh (particularly ones about paid journalism or Maoist surrenders) — is an investigation of the source of Maoist funding or the government’s policy on surrendered militants. However, writing a book on the issues and problems of Naxals in south Chhattisgarh is a difficult task now more than before. Bhardwaj deals with the situation deftly, narrating the land’s woes in several short stories rather than a long one, making it an eminently readable account. The reviewer is an independent journalist.  The Death Script  Ashutosh Bhardwaj  Fourth Estate/HarperCollins  Rs. 599    Conflict reporting is often about body counts and it could be a pointless exercise unless the reader, who may be far away, is connected
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On October 18, 1962, three gentlemen, James, Francis and Maurice, won the Nobel Prize for Medicine. Two things played an important role in the events that led to the prize. One was a chat they had over a drink at the Eagle Pub in Cambridge and the other was some amazing work by Rosalind Franklin, an X-ray crystallographer, who was unfortunately not given credit for her work. What revolutionary discovery was this that spiralled science into a dizzy? 2GATTACA is a 1997 American science fiction film starring Ethan Hawke, Uma Thurman and Jude Law. The film presents a biopunk vision of a future society driven by eugenics where potential children are conceived through genetic manipulation to ensure they possess the best hereditary traits of their parents. What does the title ‘GATTACA’ refer to? 3In zebrafish this genetic mutation results in very small ears; in fruit flies the same mutation causes the wings to develop in a swirly pattern. The name of the mutation is a reference to a famous painter who had a troubled life. In the zebrafish gene it subtly references an important event in the person’s life, while the fruit fly gene creates a wing pattern reminiscent of one of his most famous works. What is the name of the mutation? 4Every cell in your body has DNA. The lone exception is a set of cells which destroy their nucleus after maturation as it is no longer needed as part of the maturation process. This lack of nucleus (hence DNA) gives it more space to carry out its main function, which is to carry oxygen. What cells are these that get their scientific and common name because of their colour? 5There are various types of DNA. The most common one is B-DNA and the rest are A-DNA, C-DNA, D-DNA, and the rare Z-DNA. Of these, Z-DNA is unique in its structure as it shares a recessive trait which only 10% of all humans have, but 23% of Wimbledon winners, 30% Test cricket batsmen, and a remarkable 47% of the last 15 U.S. presidents have it. What is special about Z-DNA? 6Phenylthiocarbamide is a chemical present in plants from the Brassica genus that is either tasteless or very bitter depending on a person’s genes. Any mutation in the TAS2R38 taste receptor gene can cause you to either like or dislike any part of these plants. Two of these are some of the most debated vegetables at most homes. What are these vegetables that you might get in a salad and pasta? 7These animals are known for their uncanny ability to solve complex problems, giving them almost human like intelligence. Scientists discovered that this could be due to the animal’s ability to edit the contents of its own DNA at any time it wants and programme it to make certain enzymes for a particular situation. What animal is this that has such a cool trick added to its already impressive abilities, such as disappearing in an ink cloud? 8All humans have 99.9% similar DNA and the remaining 0.01% is enough to identify different DNA sequences and tell each human apart based on it. Of the similar part you share 98.7% with the only two animals in the genus ‘Pan’. Unfortunately, this huge similarity is not enough to earn them protection from humans and currently both are highly endangered. What are these two animals who are more closely related to you than anything else on the planet? 9Under very rare circumstance a person can have two completely different DNA profiles. A person can undergo a bone marrow transplant where the donor’s bone marrow continues making blood cells that have the donor’s DNA. Sometimes during a normal pregnancy the mother might retain some of her baby’s DNA. The term for these people comes from Greek mythology where it is the name of a fire-breathing monster resembling a lion in the front, a goat in the middle, and a dragon behind. What term is this? 10The Bengaluru Tech Summit is one of India’s largest, most comprehensive tech events. On November 20, they will stage India’s biggest bio quiz centred on DNA (hosted by yours truly). Bangtan Boys are the world’s most popular boy band currently. One of their biggest hits is ‘DNA’ which has the lines ‘The DNA in my veins tells me you’re the one I’ve been searching for’. By what acronym are both these excellent entities known? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Stories from the ground||Hello, doston,...main aap sab ke liye ek kavita layee hoon, jo maine khud likha.... ” Halima begins Babli Ka Show . “ Kaash tum hote, to ek doosre ka dard bante/tum kehte, lockdown mein ghar pe rehrehkar pak gaya hoon/ main kehti meri achche achche pics dekhkar time pass karo/aur tum mere baatein sun sun kar khush ho jaate .” Halima is one of several trainees who are part of Free/Dem, a digital media literacy programme run by the Delhi-based Ideosync Media Combine, and Babli Ka Show is one of six shows produced as part of the Free/Dem Community Podcasts. Venu Arora, Ideosync’s Director of Projects, describes the podcasts as an offshoot of their WhatsApp Radio, run by members of Tajpur Pahadi and other urban slums in the National Capital Region. The shows are run primarily by young people ages of 16 and 23, and deal with issues related to gender equity, freedom of expression, human rights and justice, seasoned with a healthy dose of romance and humour drawn from the everyday lives of the community members. In an episode of Zyada Bolne Wali Aurtein (Women who talk too much), 16-year-old Divya asks a group of women, “ Aapka pati ka naam kya hai? ” and interrogates the patriarchal norms that prevent them from calling their husbands by name, as well as the deeper belief that a woman’s identity is tied to his. In another episode of this podcast, Sarita, a 40-year-old homemaker articulates a long-felt discomfort, about why housework has come to be seen as woman’s work. Young roles But there are other concerns that are close to the hearts — and minds — of the young in the community too, such as 16-year-old Hemlata’s exploration of educational options in Zaroori Jaankaari , where she talks through the difference between arts, science and commerce streams. Or in 18-year-old Sulaiman’s retelling of a family love story that led to his aunt and uncle being ostracized by the community, in the show Love is Part of Life.  One other show — the Corona Special — focuses on the community’s experiences during the pandemic, with conversations ranging from loss of livelihoods among women to access to health and relief, to the problems faced by young people trying to access online lessons. Everyday negotiations There’s a charming spontaneity to the shows that opens a window into the hopes, anxieties and everyday negotiations of the community, and even as it is particular, manages to speak across cultural and class divides. Arora speaks about the need for such hyperlocal media that can get people talking about their own micro-level concerns — “because contexts shift so quickly”. Such a platform is particularly relevant to a community like Tajpur Pahadi, made up mostly of migrants, who are “so to speak, part of the city, but they have none of the resources that the city has to offer, including the resources for having a voice.” In large measure, the Free/Dem podcast series — and the WhatsApp radio venture — is a digital workaround in the face of a restrictive Community Radio policy that has made it virtually impossible for non-academic community organizations in urban centres to obtain a radio license. Arora notes that while they are aware of the tensions around the digital — whether it is to do with access or ownership or data capture — it has allowed them to develop capacity in the community to tell and share their own stories. As the host says in the introduction to the show Azaad Lab, the Free/Dem channel, is “ek aisa channel jo aapki baat sunta hai aur sunaata bhi hai” . The shows are available on the Ideosync Free/Dem page of Podbean and through the organisation’s website. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Fighting the fuzz||To shave or not to shave is strictly a matter of personal choice. However, back in the 1960s, when I worked for a British-owned tea major in Munnar, it wasn’t. My prim and proper British bosses were sticklers for a daily shave and expected their assistants to follow suit. Coming to work unshaven was unthinkable to them. Indeed, the Brits’ faces reflected their regular tryst with the razor. One boss’s daily shave vividly showed up the purple-hued network of veins in his cheeks in all their filigree-like detail. Another’s face, though always satin-smooth, was marred by a prominent scar under his chin, probably a reminder left by a carelessly wielded razor. Yet another had a ruddy countenance that was as hairless as his cranium — he eccentrically shaved his eyebrows too! The company’s top executive, an irascible Scotsman, was particularly allergic to an unshaven face — it did raise his hackles. When one wished him in the morning, he would critically eye one’s face for any signs of telltale stubble. And if there were, his disapproving grimace eloquently said it all. I once heard him snap at a stubbly faced junior executive, “Your face is the index of your mind — keep it presentable always!”  Not a priority For us youngsters, a daily shave then wasn’t a priority. In fact, many of us lacked sufficient facial hair growth to warrant a daily shave. But not wanting to displease our British bosses — and ruin our chances of rising in the hierarchy — we fell in line, perfunctorily scraping the fuzz off our mugs every day. And late-risers would rush to a salon en route to the office for a quick shave rather than risk annoying the boss early in the morning. Once a British boss had a “close shave”, figuratively speaking. He gashed his face badly while shaving and turned up with a plastered cheek. I asked him what had happened. While shaving, some lather had slipped into his sniffer and he had sneezed violently, forgetting to move his razor out of harm’s way! It was a pointer for me too, prone as I was to sneezing while shaving. As for the boss, unable to shave, he grew hairier and more miserable each day! Another British boss was a finicky daily shaver whose domestics, incidentally, never dared to appear before him unshaven — even if it meant being late for work. Once he was hospitalised for varicose vein surgery and I went to visit him, confident of catching him, for once, dishevelled and hirsute. But I was pleasantly surprised. I found him propped up in bed, well groomed — his cheeks as smooth as velvet. I learnt he had insisted on shaving himself every day. And since he couldn’t move about, he did so in bed — with an attendant holding a mirror and handing him the shaving kit! For some, a daily shave may be an avoidable nuisance. But for many others, appearances do matter, making it an indispensable ritual come what may. gnettomunnar@rediffmail.com
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||A guiding force of cricket||Cricket is split into binaries — runs and wickets or triumphs and defeats. But the game, harking back to shepherds hitting a ball with a log in ancient Britain, has infinite layers. Among its charms is the former cricketer, who turns mentor blending zest and grandfatherly warmth. Vasoo Paranjape of the old Bombay cricketing school is one such gentleman. Paranjape has been associated with the sport, both as a First-Class player and then as a coach besides being the guiding force behind Dadar Union, a club that had luminaries such as Sunil Gavaskar and Dilip Vengsarkar. However, selfless men like Paranjape never get attention and it is that flaw which gets rectified through Cricket Drona , a book penned by his son and former India cricketer Jatin Paranjape along with cricket writer Anand Vasu. The tome works at two levels, as a tribute to a father and as a reflection of a seasoned journalist’s doggedness in getting many stars to describe their association with Paranjape Senior. Tributes from greats The book features many cricketers and a few veteran journalists speaking about Paranjape and he returns the favour with most of them, dwelling upon what he saw, be it a Gavaskar or a Rohit Sharma. And the greats of Indian cricket ranging from Sachin Tendulkar to Anil Kumble are present across these 194 pages. “Everything, even poetry, reminds me of cricket,” Jatin writes and the all-encompassing nature of this particular sport is weaved into the subsequent pages with Anand being the eager chronicler, meeting players, transcribing tapes and adding his light touch. Early in his foreword, Gavaskar observes: “He (Paranjape) had the wonderful ability to spot some error and communicate it to you in a direct but humorous way.” This gentle demeanour finds reiteration as other cricketers too vouch for Paranjape’s ability to hold a mirror and make them understand themselves. Tendulkar discloses how Paranjape put in a word with the late Raj Singh Dungarpur ahead of India’s tour of Pakistan in 1989 and the rest is history. Paranjape was his own man and Sanjay Manjrekar underlines this attribute: “While Vasoo was a lover of cricket and of cricketers, he was never touched by sycophancy.” There are some remarkable lines of introspection about cricket and Rahul Dravid says: “If you are a coach you have to think about how to keep people in the game — if not as players, then as spectators, as consumers of the game.” There are nuggets too like Rohit asking Jatin about any observations from Paranjape Senior, Kumble speaking about a letter he wrote to his coach and off-spinner Ramesh Powar crying while mentioning that he owes everything to his mentor. This book is an exercise in gratitude and the quibbles are restricted to a printer’s devil (sLord’s) and an inaccuracy — there is a line about Gavaskar’s last tour of Australia in 1980-81. The legendary opener did visit Australia again in the mid-1980s. This is a fine book about a man, who at 81, still believes in passing on knowledge while shunning the limelight.  Cricket Drona  Jatin Paranjape, Anand Vasu  Penguin/Ebury Press  Rs. 499
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Several points||Thanks for today’s deal goes to Larry Cohen. Have a look at his excellent website: www.larryco.com. Cohen was South, and he tells this story on himself. Cohen believes that a pre-empt should be wide-ranging when partner is a passed hand, so he chose to bid two hearts with the South hand rather than one heart. That ended the auction, although West might well have competed to three diamonds. West shifted accurately to a trump when his diamond lead held the trick. East made the excellent play of inserting his jack of hearts, losing to Cohen’s king. Note that the defense would have had no chance had East played his ace of hearts instead. Cohen had choices. He could play on spades right away, hoping the suit split 3-3 or that the player with only two spades had the singleton ace of hearts remaining. He could lead a high heart, hoping that the defenders wouldn’t cash out correctly or that the ace of clubs was with East for his opening bid. He chose to lead the jack of diamonds instead, hoping that the defense would make a mistake or that he could guess clubs correctly if the defenders put him to that test. West won with his queen and led a heart to East’s ace. East shifted to a low club. Crunch time! Cohen decided, reasonably, to rise with his king of clubs, West won with the ace, returned a club to the jack and queen, and East accurately cashed the ace of diamonds for down one. It was really annoying to find that the spades were 3-3 all along. Oh well!
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Phone photo memory||Respected Madam/ Sir,  For three years, I am having same mobile phone. Same phone. It is Samsung phone. What is the memory? I don’t know. What is the processor? I don’t care. What is the operating theatre? Mannangkatti . In office of your esteemed newspaper, maybe you people are thinking, oh my god we thought Mr. Mathrubootham is retired person but with lot of youth type outlooks. But whether actually he is Jambuvan period type who is still saying video tape and eight annas and watching Doordarshan? Don’t speak like muttaals . I don’t care for any phone details because what is phone? Phone means what? You put phone call, you put WhatsApp, put some videos, maybe call taxi. Finished. For that and all why I need biodata and horoscope and Aadhaar card of phone? Total time waste. But some people will talk about phone as if marriage proposal. Marriage proposal even they will not do so much research. Memory is good but height is low. Boy’s height good but he has taken 11 years to do graduation. Very good family and very good house and very good neighbourhood but where is the megapixel? Two months ago, Mrs. M bought one new mobile phone. And she did research for one day? Wrong. Two days? Wrong. One week? Wrong wrong. One month? Nonstop wrong. Madam/ Sir, she did research for full two months. I said, Kamalam, you are buying phone or once more doing M.Sc. in Zoology? She said, you please go and sit and play out-of-fashion games on your phone, my new phone is waterproof. I said, oh amazing, now you can watch Madhavan videos during bath also. She quietly looked at me and said: Correct. Any problem? Why I am putting phone speech? This morning my son who is working from home came to me and said, Appa, please install one new app on phone. My company is developing. I said, ok, no problem. What app? He said, it is amazing new app for ordering food from nearby restaurants. I said, congratulations kanna, you have come up with brand new idea first time in India, please check if it is new idea in whole world. He said, hahaha Appa, so funny. Alistair Maclean will write same move 35 times and you will read nonstop. But my app is problem-aa? In India no one will give money for new app. Originality and all for U.S. only. Please quietly give your phone. Ten minutes later he said Appa, memory is finished. Please delete some items. I said, oh my god, please give me the funny intolerable headache. Madam/ Sir, that is when unbearable sentiments are coming into the heart. I opened Google Photos and app is saying look at this photo from last year, from five years back, whether you have seen this photo, this one, what about this? Like that, like that. And who is in these photos? Madam/ Sir, some old friends who are no more. Rajan from college. Thomas J.J. who was colleague in Ujjain branch. Some photos from get-together in Yercaud, 2012. Suddenly I am seeing photos and memories are coming like anything. For one hour I sat and looked at photos and photos. Then I called Mrs. M. I said Kamalam, I want to buy new phone. This one memory is finished. I want more memory. She said why, you’re thinking of Suhasini videos? I said no, no, Kamalam, I want to keep photos safely forever. She said, no problem, old man. I will find one new phone. Give me two months. Now I am waiting and taking care of old phone carefully.  Yours in reminiscences,   J. Mathrubootham
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Bollywood strikes back||A group of 38 cinema associations and production houses moved the Delhi High Court againstRepublic TVandTimes Now, and their senior editors. Reacting to the recent glut of attacks, they sought an injunction to prevent the channels from airing “irresponsible, derogatory and defamatory remarks” against the Hindi film industry and its members. The plaintiffs include Karan Johar’s Dharma Productions,and the houses owned by Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan and Salman Khan.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Economics Nobel||American game theory specialists Paul R. Milgrom and Robert B. Wilson were awarded the Nobel prize for economics. “They have improved auction theory [a branch of game theory] and invented new auction formats, benefiting sellers, buyers and taxpayers,” said the Nobel Prize’s official website. Milgrom and Wilson are both professors at Stanford University.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Predicted plunge||According to a new IMF forecast, the Indian economy will contract by 10.3% this year, compared to a 4.4% global contraction. It’s expected to bounce back with 8.8% positive growth in 2021 to become the fastest-growing emerging economy. Meanwhile, Bangladesh is set to overtake India in per capita GDP, with an expected growth to $1,888 while India’s plunges to $1,877.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Mufti released||After over 14 months in detention, Peoples Democratic Party president and former J&K chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was released. She was among several top leaders of Jammu and Kashmir — including National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah — who were detained when the Centre abrogated the State’s special status last year. Mufti was initially lodged in sub-jails, and was later shifted to her official residence.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Hyderabad deluge||As this goes to press, torrential rainfall in Hyderabad claimed 16 lives, swept away houses, and submerged arterial roads. The National Disaster Response Force, the Army and State police were called in for rescue operations. Between Tuesday and Wednesday, Hyderabad received 17 cm of rainfall, reportedly the highest 24-hour rainfall recorded in October in over 100 years. Crops were destroyed in several parts of Telangana.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Human rites||In the Hathras gang rape case, the Allahabad High Court heard the testimony of the victim’s family as part of itssuo motucognisance. The bench came down hard on police and officials, saying the forced cremation of the body was “an infringement on the human rights of the victim and her family”. Criticising police denials of rape, it emphasised that the absence of semen in forensic evidence is not legally conclusive.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sex crime advisory||The Home Ministry issued an advisory to all States, directing them to ensure “mandatory” and “time-bound” police action in crimes against women, with compulsory registration of FIRs. It asked States to ensure that standard operating procedures were followed in sexual assault cases. It emphasised that dying declarations are considered legally relevant.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Suppressing voices||After Stan Swamy, an 83-year-old Ranchi-based activist and Jesuit priest, was arrested by the NIA in the Elgar Parishad case, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren hit out at the Centre. Describing Swamy’s work for the poor and Adivasis, he asked, “What kind ofzid(stubbornness) is this to suppress every protesting voice raised against you?”
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Rating scam||The Mumbai Police continued its investigation into three TV channels —Republic TV,Box CinemaandFakt Marathi— for a scam to rig Television Rating Point (TRP) figures. Five people were arrested, including the owners of the Marathi channels .Republic TV’s CEO, top editors, and other executives were questioned. The Supreme Court declined to hear a plea byRepublic TV, while BARC suspended ratings for three months.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Srilaaji||Shobhaa Dé  Simon & Schuster India Rs. 399 Srilaa refuses to live her life according to the standards set for women. She is both admired and abandoned, but she never gives up. She starts her own food business and becomes a successful businesswoman, liberating herself from the financial shackles of patriarchy.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Xianqui||Raghu Srinivasan  Hachette Rs. 499 China is threatening military action against Japan and U.S. Intelligence reveals that China possesses the ultimate weapon, a vaccine based on ancient knowledge. Now the fate of the world hangs on an eclectic team that goes on a quest to find the vaccine and foil China’s plans.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||One Man Two Executions||Arjun Rajendran  Context  Rs. 499 In his latest poetry collection, Arjun Rajendran resurrects voices and stories from 18th century Pondicherry: a French ship, blind men, and a guy on death row. Then jumping across centuries, the other two sections in this book explore intimacy, travel, hauntings and generational angst.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The Nine Lives of Pakistan||Declan Walsh  Bloomsbury  Rs. 799 A journalist traces Pakistan’s stormy trajectory over a decade of tumultuous change. Walsh travelled all over the country from Karachi to Waziristan. He meets a lawyer risking her life to fight for the marginalised and others who offer an arresting account of Pakistan.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Preparing for Death||Arun Shourie  Penguin Random House  Rs. 799 How must an individual prepare for the inevitability of death? Arun Shourie presents clues by going through the lives and last days of the Buddha, Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, Ramana Maharshi, Gandhi, religious texts and the teachings of meditation masters.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The Fury of COVID-19||Vinay Lal  Pan Macmillan  Rs. 599 As COVID-19 ravaged the world, most countries imposed a ‘lockdown’ and shut down borders. In Italy and Spain, old people were left to die; in India, millions of migrants took to the road. This book examines the precedents of the pandemic and its impact on life.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Capturing Institutional Change: The Case of the Right to Information Act in India||Himanshu Jha  Oxford University Press  Rs. 1,695 The first book in the Institutions and Development in South Asia series studies the historical evolution of the information regime in India. Jha explains how 2005 is considered the tipping point for the RTI Act.
18 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3121||Across  1 Where ineptly hung art may be found avant-garde (3-3-4) 6 Jetty’s ripe for renovation (4) 9 What you might see in bathroom: bum before trousers put on (6,4) 10 Poet’s 40% of Providence (4) 12 Endlessly taking our Aga’s dough out? Capital! (11) 15 Tells senior churchmen to cede power (7) 16 Earthly stench, ugly air’s regularly expelled (7) 17 Bach met liberal King (7) 19 Train station with aspiration to become space station (7) 20 Following release of PR, pliable Cypriot taking journey to Paris (4,2,5) 23 Cricket captain, heartless automaton (4) 24 How Christopher Robin might describe himself? Hang on ... (4,4,2) 25 Lucid? Regularly wiped out. Slàinte! (4) 26 Where some penguins are unlikely to marry (2,3,5)  Down  1 Get rid of creative Frenchman! Get rid of Pierre Renoir for starters! (4) 2 Some of logpile is deal (4) 3 Luxuriously happy state, Ontario, on the face of it; however, everyone’s hammered on grass (4,2,3,3) 4 Setting up wireless Mac? Beware concealed peripherals (7) 5 Record improvisations with bottlenecks (3,4) 7 Oversee Everyman cooking veal with gin and it (10) 8 Part of summer pudding studied, they say, declared ‘in season’ (10) 11 Benelux unhappy with ‘cretinous’ representation (3,9) 13 President, comical figure finally sans advantages (5,5) 14 Bush’s grimly humorous letter from long ago (10) 18 Warhol being, to some extent, portraitist (7) 19 Artist displayed headless earth-hog (7) 21 Primarily, word hollered exhibiting exuberance? (4) 22 Novelist’s ego (4)
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||IISER Pune uses smell to identify asymptomatic cases||Now loss of smell, which is one of the symptoms that people infected with novel coronavirus show, can be quickly and accurately measured using a novel method developed by researchers at IISER Pune. Using a custom-built olfactory action meter, which determines how well one can smell, the team led by Nixon Abraham from the Department of Biology at IISER Pune was able to identify people infected with the virus but have no typical symptoms such as fever, fatigue etc. Olfactory deficits To access the olfactory functions of asymptomatic people, the researchers tested 34 patients admitted in isolation wards at B.J. Government Medical College and Sassoon General Hospitals, Pune. The researchers were able to detect olfactory deficits in 82% of people with asymptomatic infection. That only 15% of those with asymptomatic infection were aware of their inability to smell before participating in the test highlights the ability of the new method to detect asymptomatic cases that might otherwise not be detected. The results were published in the journal EClinical Medicine.   Optimised parameters The team optimised the experimental parameters by first testing normal healthy participants. The test was performed on 37 healthy participants to assess their ability to detect 10 different odours at varying concentrations — 9.1%, 16.6%, 23.1% and 50% v/v. The odours were presented from lower to higher concentrations and the detection thresholds were based on the ability to detect an odour at two consecutive concentrations. The ability to detect odours was also checked at 50% (v/v) concentration. The lower of these two concentrations was considered the detection threshold for a participant. All odours were sequentially delivered at a particular concentration level and then the concentration was increased to the next level. The sequence of odours changed with each concentration level. The odours were delivered for four seconds each with a gap of over 17 seconds between two odours. Both healthy and asymptomatic persons participated in the tests wearing a face mask. The researchers found that a majority of healthy participants were able to detect eight out of the 10 odorants at 16.6% v/v concentration, which is the second lowest concentration; the two remaining odorants were detected at 23.1% v/v concentration. These experiments identified the parameters for olfactory testing of COVID-19 patients. People with asymptomatic infection were classified as having either an olfactory deficit or deficiency based on their ability to detect odours at different concentrations. People are said to have an olfactory deficit if they are unable to smell at all four concentrations, and olfactory deficiency if they are unable to detect the odour at two or more out of the four concentrations. Cognitive functions “We also tested if the cognitive function to detect odour is impaired through olfactory matching accuracy,” Dr. Abraham says. Here, the person is first exposed to one odour and later to another odour and the ability to detect and differentiate and recall the odour are looked at. “Impairment of cognitive function is studied by looking at detection of odours, discrimination between two odours and working memory to recall the odours,” he says. “Only those who can smell odours at more than two concentrations were tested for cognitive function impairment.” The study found significantly reduced matching performances by those with asymptomatic infection compared with healthy people. They found that 82% of the patient population (27 out of 33) and 13% of healthy participants (5 out of 37) had olfactory deficits. “Olfactory deficits can be seen even in healthy people and this can happen due to different reasons other than coronavirus infection,” Dr. Abraham clarifies. Despite a few healthy participants exhibiting olfactory deficits, Dr. Abraham is confident that the new method can be used for mass screening as the sensitivity is 82%, specificity is 87% and accuracy is 85%. “Our work has laid the groundwork to use olfactory fitness as one of the prime criteria to identify people with asymptomatic infection. The methods and parameters established by our study can potentially be translated into a sensitive, fast and economical olfaction-based screening assay that can be self-administered by large populations,” he says.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||The enigma that is COVID-19||In July, a large seroprevalence study in Mumbai reported that 57% slum residents and 16% building residents had antibodies to SARS-CoV-2. The presence of antibodies implied that these individuals had been infected, and had now developed protective antibodies. Similar results were found in other cities, leading to optimism that “herd immunity,” the protection that a community enjoys from a germ by virtue of a significant proportion of individuals being immune, was not a distant dream. Optimism on hold Two recent changes have put such optimism on hold: Reinfections being reported across the world and declining seroprevalence of antibodies in repeat sampling surveys done in both Mumbai and Delhi. The latter suggests a possible “decay” of antibodies with time. A true reinfection is one in which the viral genome in the second infection differs from that of the first. Proving this necessitates the whole genome sequencing of both viral strains, a research tool that is not accessible routinely to healthcare providers. Clues to a possible reinfection include more severe disease (both clinically and on laboratory investigations) and a lower cycling threshold value (which may reflect an increased quantum of virus) on the RT-PCR test done during the second episode. A negative swab between the two episodes helps further distinguish re-positives from reinfections. Instead of RT-PCR for viral RNA, which detects live and dead virus, subgenomic messenger RNA, a product of actively replicating virus, can be used to detect viable virus. Forms of immunity Two forms of immunity defend the body from reinfection: antibody-mediated (through immunoglobulins, which recognise parts of the virus and neutralise it), and cell-mediated (through cells such as T-cells which can induce death of virus-infected cells). Antibodies could either be binding antibodies (which bind to the virus and sensitise the immune system) or neutralising antibodies (which directly bind to the virus and interfere with its function). Unlike antibodies induced by SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV (the causative viruses of the 2003 and 2012 outbreaks, respectively) that lasted a minimum of 1-2 years, studies have demonstrated the rapid waning of antibodies after infection from SARS-CoV-2. Does this mean that such individuals are susceptible to reinfection? Not necessarily. Most commercial antibody tests detect binding antibodies, while immunological memory is more accurately reflected by the presence of neutralising antibodies. Secondly, the role of cell-mediated immunity has not been elucidated yet. A study from France by Gallais et al. demonstrated the evidence of cell-mediated immunity among family contacts of individuals with COVID-19, despite such individuals having undetectable antibodies. However, the presence of cell-mediated immunity is not routinely measurable, and unfortunately, it isn’t guaranteed to ensure immunity either. It must be pointed out that reinfections still seem exceedingly rare. However, an individual who has recovered from an episode of COVID-19 needs to keep up the precautions of masking, physical distancing and hand sanitising unabated. We now know that the symptoms and signs that make us suspect the possibility of COVID-19 disease needs to be investigated, irrespective of whether the patient has already had the disease. From a community perspective, we need to rethink immunity passports, herd immunity and vaccination strategies, taking into account the possibility that with the passage of time, immunity may wane, and reinfections/vaccine failures may become more common. The SARS-CoV-2 virus continues to outsmart us, and till the time that an effective vaccine is available, a world with the virus will continue to haunt us, like the lyrics of a famous song: “You can check out any time you like, but you can never leave!”.  (Dr. Lancelot Pinto is a Consultant Pulmonologist and Epidemiologist at P.D. Hinduja National Hospital, Mumbai.   Dr. Camilla Rodrigues is a Consultant Microbiologist and Head of the Department of Microbiology at P.D. Hinduja National Hospital, Mumbai.   Views are personal.)
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||How global warming might affect food security||Between the year 1870 (the first industrial revolution) and today, the global temperature has risen by almost 2 degrees Celsius. This has come about due to more fossil burning (oil, natural gas, coal), which has also increased the carbon dioxide ( CO2) levels from 280 ppm to 400 ppm. This heating has caused glaciers to melt and the sea level to rise. Daniel Glick, in the October 2 issue of National Geographic Magazine warns that the glaciers in Garhwal, Uttarakhand may virtually disappear by 2035! Ocean acidification The rise in CO2 levels has also acidified the ocean, leading to weakening the shells and skeletons of animals living in the sea, climate.org. On land, the rise in CO2 levels has both positive and negative effects. This being a ‘Green House Gas’, it traps the Sun’s heat from the atmosphere and warms the temperature, aids in the photosynthesis of plants, making them grow more, but at the same time restricts the plant’s ability to absorb nitrogen, thus restricting crop growth, phys.org. How will this CO2 level heating affect food security in the coming years? D.S. Battisti and R.L. Naylor warned of this in 2009 in their paper in Science : “Historical warnings of future food insecurity with unprecedented seasonal heat”. They warned that such higher temperatures during the ‘growing season’ in the tropics and sub-tropic regions (India and our neighbours, Saharan and Sub-Saharan Africa and parts of South America) will greatly affect crop productivity, and that this would be the ‘norm’. Given this double whammy of affecting ocean life and food security, it is unpardonable for Donald Trump, president of the US, and Jair Bolsonaro, president of Brazil, to promote industry at the cost of climate change. Experimental probes How do global rise in temperature and CO2 level affect plant growth and yield? Can we do some laboratory experiments on a model plant and see what happens at today’s (normal) temperature and CO2 level and a ‘future’ higher one? J. Yu and his colleagues did try such experiments in 2017 in their paper: “Metatabolic pathways involved in CO2 enhanced heat tolerance in Bermuda grass” in the journal Frontiers in Plant Science https://doi.org/10.3389/fpls.2017.01506.They found that there was improved heat tolerance, and suppressed heat-induced damages. These are interesting results, but on a grass which is good for animals such as rabbits and cattle, and not for humans. Plant meat While grasses are what botanists call C4 plants, food grains (our staple food) are C3 and the way photosynthesis is done is somewhat different. It would thus be useful if such experiments are done on beans and legumes such as chana, chickpeas and similar grains (called ‘plant meat’).  It is towards this that a group from the Hyderabad Centre of the international agency ICRISAT (International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics) decided to look at how two kinds of chickpea (the desi chana dal or the Bengal gram and the Kabuli chana (originally from Afghanistan) behave under different CO2 levels (current level of 380 ppm, and two higher levels (550 and 700 ppms). The plants were sown under these conditions, and harvested during the vegetative and reproductive stages post germination. The results of this study titled: ‘Molecular and physiological alterations in Chickpea under elevated CO2 concentrations’, by Paramita Palit et al in Plant and Cell Physiology 61(8):1449-1463 (2020) doi:10.1093/pcp/pcaa007, available online at https://academic.oup/pcp. Since the whole genome sequence of the chickpea was earlier published by this group (Varshney et al, Nature Biotechnology 31,240-246, 2013 https://doi.org/10.1038/nbt.2491, they could identify as many as 138 metabolic pathways, mainly involved in sugar/starch metabolism, chlorophyll and secondary metabolite biosynthesis, and could get to decipher the pathways that lead to how high CO2 levels modify the growth of the chickpea plants. They found a noted increase in the root and shoot (plant height) lengths. Also the number of nodules in the roots (where nitrogen-fixing bacteria live) changed at high CO2 levels. A decrease in chlorophyll synthesis hastens leaves turning yellow and plant ageing (senescence). Different responses Interestingly, the group found that desi chana and kabuli chana responded differently at high CO2 levels. This needs to be explored further. Now, given the details of the 138 metabolic pathways identified, one can look deeper into how we can use molecules or agents that can promote or inhibit specific pathways through which growth and yields can be increased, and also the type of legumes that will best suit local conditions. Now that Nobelists J. Doudna and E. Charpentier have shown us how to edit genes, perhaps the time has come to do this too on specific local legumes!  dbala@lvpei.org
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Early childhood stress and mental illness||It is known that adversity in early life can have long-term effects on mental health of adults. Now, a study using mice led by scientists from Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, finds that stimulating a particular pathway in the brain in early life can cause anxiety, depression and even schizophrenia-like symptoms later in life. This does not happen if the stimulation is carried out in adolescent or adult mice. The study has been published in the journal eLife . Engineering the mice Using genetic engineering the researchers modulated a specific pathway in the brains of mice which is known to stimulate the excitatory neurons in the forebrain region. When they carried out prolonged stimulation in two-week old mice and observed them when they grew into adults, the researchers found that the adult mice exhibited signs of increased anxiety, depression-like behaviour and even symptoms of schizophrenia-like behaviour. Such behaviour was not observed in mice that had been subjected to the stimulation as adolescents or adults. The group used bigenic mouse models that were engineered to express Designer Receptors Exclusively Activated by Designer Drugs (DREADDs) in excitatory neurons of the forebrain. Vidita Vaidya of TIFR who led the research says, “The DREADD in question results in increased Gq signalling when it is stimulated by [specific] drugs...” This increased Gq signalling stimulates the excitatory neurons in the forebrain. Prof. Vaidya further explains the observation of schizophrenia-like behaviour thus: Usually when someone is surprised by a sudden, loud sound, they show a startled response. But if the loud sound is preceded by a softer sound of lower volume, they show inhibition of the startled response. This is called pre-pulse inhibition.  Pre-pulse inhibition In the case of individuals with schizophrenia, the pre-pulse inhibition does not happen. The behaviour of the experimental mice that had been subjected to stimulation of excitatory neurons in their infancy was interesting. “We study the pre-pulse inhibition behaviour which is a hallmark of a behavioural change noted in patients of schizophrenia. Animals in which we have stimulated Gq signalling in forebrain excitatory neurons go on to exhibit pre-pulse inhibition deficits in adulthood,” she explains. The entire study took nearly six years, with major participation by Sthitaprajnya Pati, a PhD student with Prof. Vaidya. Collaborators James Chelliah at JNCASR, Bengaluru and Anant Patel at CCMB provided key support for electrophysiology experiments and NMR experiments, respectively. Early-life window The researchers had several controls for different aspects of the experiment: “We checked whether the genetic strategy itself has behavioural effects which it didn’t. We tested the effects of DREADD activation in adolescent and adult mice and that also had no effect,” says Prof. Vaidya. Thus, there is a “tight time-window in early life” when animals are highly sensitive to this perturbation. The study throws open several interesting questions. “If we can mimic the effects of early stress using these chemogenetic strategies, can we also reverse the effects of early stress? If so, is there a restricted window of time in which reversal would work?” says Prof. Vaidya.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Sweet and salt in blood||Can mosquitoes taste human blood? Researchers at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute at the Rockefeller University have for the first time found that female mosquitoes have individual neurons that sense human blood’s distinctive flavour. The sense of taste is specially tuned to detect a combination of at least four different substances in blood — glucose, sodium chloride (common salt), sodium bicarbonate and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The researchers found that female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes possess different neurons in the syringe-like stylet, which punctures the skin, to distinguish blood from nectar ( Neuron, October 2020). Blood-feeding mosquitoes survive by feeding on nectar for metabolic energy, but require a blood meal to develop eggs. They found that female mosquitoes have two feeding modes that use different mouthparts and detect different flavours. To see what’s special about the combination of these four ingredients, the researchers first tested how mosquito stylets responded to each component. Surprisingly, glucose found in both nectar and blood did not activate any neurons. But the other three ingredients — sodium chloride (common salt), sodium bicarbonate and ATP — which are found only in blood and not in nectar activated a specific group of neurons. One prominent cluster of neurons activated only when the entire blood recipe was delivered together and not individually. The findings shed light on just how specially adapted the female mosquito is to find blood.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Reinventing auctions for the real world||The story so far: American economists Paul R. Milgrom and Robert B. Wilson, both of whom teach at Stanford University, were awarded the 2020 economics Nobel Prize last week. This year’s Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel was awarded to the duo “for improvements to auction theory and inventions of new auction formats”. The Nobel Prize committee noted that Dr. Milgrom and Dr. Wilson did not just come up with original ideas in auction theory, but they also played a crucial role in implementing their ideas. What is auction theory? Auction theory is a branch of economics that deals with, as the name suggests, auctions. Auctions are important to economists because they are the most widely used and also the most efficient mechanism to allocate scarce resources. The allocation of scarce resources, in turn, matters to economists because there is a limited supply of resources on earth when compared to unlimited human needs, and hence they need to be allocated only to the most urgent needs of society. In particular, auction theory deals with the various ways in which auctions can be designed to improve seller revenues, increase benefits to consumers, or even achieve both these goals at the same time. How is it relevant? Throughout history, countries have tried to allocate resources in various ways. Some have tried to do it through political markets, but this has often led to biased outcomes. Think of how the rationing of essential goods worked in various State-controlled economies. People who were close to the bureaucracy and the political class came out ahead of others. Lotteries are another way to allocate resources, but they do not ensure that scarce resources are allocated to people who value it the most. Auctions, for a good reason, have been the most common tool for thousands of years used by societies to allocate scarce resources. When potential buyers compete to purchase goods in an auction, it helps sellers discover those buyers who value the goods the most. Further, selling goods to the highest bidder also helps the seller maximise his or her revenues. So, both buyers and sellers benefit from auctions. What are its applications? Auctions happen almost everywhere in the modern world. Even the sale of groceries in retail stores is based on an auction, albeit an implicit one that is relatively slow to adjust to changing market conditions. For instance, a supermarket manager, just as an auctioneer, tries to price his goods based on how much of it is sold during a certain day, week, or month. If there is a huge demand for a certain product and shelves empty quickly, the supermarket manager will raise its price to prevent a shortage. If another product fails to sell as fast as expected, its price may be lowered in order to clear any unsold inventory. More sophisticated and explicit auction mechanisms are used in the allocation of capital goods such as spectrum and minerals. But whether it is the auction of spectrum waves or the sale of fruits and vegetables, auctions are at the core of allocation of scarce resources in a market economy. What are the economists’ contributions? To understand Dr. Milgrom and Dr. Wilson’s contributions, it is important to take note of the criticisms levelled against auctions. The most common one is that auctions can lead buyers to overpay for resources whose value is uncertain to them. This criticism, popularly known as the ‘winner’s curse’, is based on a study that showed how buyers who overpaid for U.S. oil leases in the 1970s earned low returns. Dr. Wilson was the first to study this matter. He found that rational bidders may decide to underpay for resources in order to avoid the ‘winner’s curse’, and argued that sellers can get better bids for their goods if they share more information about it with potential buyers. Dr. Milgrom added further nuance to this analysis by arguing that individual bidders may still submit vastly different bids due to their unique circumstances. A company that can sell oil at a higher price or process it at a lower cost, for instance, may be willing to pay more for crude oil. Secondly, economists traditionally working on auction theory believed that all auctions are the same when it comes to the revenues that they managed to bring in for sellers. The auction format, in other words, did not matter. This is known as the 'revenue equivalence theorem'. But Dr. Milgrom showed that the auction format can actually have a huge impact on the revenues earned by sellers. The most famous case of an auction gone wrong for the seller was the spectrum auction in New Zealand in 1990. In what is called a ‘Vickrey auction’, where the winner of the auction is mandated to pay only the second-best bid, a company that bid NZ$1,00,000 eventually paid just NZ$6 and another that bid NZ$70,00,000 only paid NZ$5,000. In particular, Dr. Milgrom showed how Dutch auctions, in which the auctioneer lowers the price of the product until a buyer bids for it, can help sellers earn more revenues than English auctions. In the case of English auctions, the price rises based on higher bids submitted by competing buyers. But as soon as some of the bidders drop out of the auction as the price rises, the remaining bidders become more cautious about bidding higher prices. Dr. Milgrom and Dr. Wilson, however, are most popular for their contribution towards devising new, real-world auction formats. The combinatorial auctions designed by the duo, for instance, have been used to sell complex goods such as spectrum as bundles, instead of as individual units. Earlier, governments sold spectrum rights on a piecemeal basis, which made it unappealing to companies which demanded spectra in a bundle. This led to private speculators earning billions in the secondary market by reselling spectrum, while the government was starved of revenues that it could have easily earned with better auction design. How do these contributions matter? The contributions of Dr. Milgrom and Dr. Wilson have helped governments and private companies design their auctions better. This has, in turn, helped in the better allocation of scarce resources and offered more incentives for sellers to produce complex goods. In fact, Auctionomics, a firm Dr. Milgrom co-founded, has been helping companies and governments design auctions, thus adding to other innovative auction formats adopted over the centuries by sellers trying to maximise revenues. Lastly, not all economists necessarily agree with the popular use of Dr. Milgrom and Dr. Wilson’s work on the ‘winner’s curse’ to take a dim view of  auctions. They argue that while enthusiastic bidding may lower the returns earned by companies, it will not necessarily lead to higher prices for consumers, as is commonly believed. This is because in any competitive market, pricing of consumer goods is based on what the market will bear, rather than on sunk costs. Further, persistent overbidding is unlikely as financial losses weed out inefficient speculators over time.  Whether it is the auction of spectrum waves or the sale of fruits and vegetables, auctions are at the core of allocation of scarce resources in a market economy
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality likely to improve tomorrow||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram remained in the ‘poor’ category on Saturday, while that of Noida deteriorated to the ‘very poor’ level, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. The air quality of Delhi is expected to improve on Monday and Tuesday, as per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi on Saturday was 287, and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 280 and 309, respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. Delhi’s AQI on Friday was 239 (poor). “Wind speed is likely to slowly improve from Sunday, leading to relatively better dispersion in Delhi. But, AQI is predicted to stay in the higher-end of ‘poor’ to the lower end of ‘very poor’ category for Sunday, and likely to improve to ‘poor’ category by October 19 and further improvement is expected by October 20, but well within poor range,” SAFAR said. The fire count due to stubble burning in Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions of Delhi was 882 on Friday, as per SAFAR. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to the PM2.5, a chief pollutant, levels in Delhi is estimated to be around 19% on Saturday. The impact is likely to “increase significantly” by October 19, the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi said. The wind direction is favourable for transport of pollutants due to stubble burning. Also, local wind speed is less and this leads to pollutants not getting dispersed easily and in turn negatively affects the air quality. “The local wind speed is calm, almost nil during the night and during the day time it is 8-10 km/hr, which is also less. The local wind speed has to be above 15 km/hr and continue for a good amount of time to disperse pollutants properly,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD. Meanwhile, no rain is expected in Delhi for the next seven days, which may result in higher dust pollution. Officials said fire tenders sprinkled water in Wazirpur, Dwarka and Ohkla as part of measures to curb dust pollution. The Delhi Fire Services conducted the operation.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Surface science in tennis and player skillsets||The story so far: Rafael Nadal’s comprehensive defeat of World No.1 Novak Djokovic in the French Open final last Sunday earned him a record-extending 13th Roland Garros crown. The Spaniard now has more than double the number of titles the previous Open Era record-holder, the legendary Bjorn Borg, held (6). The summit clash was Nadal’s 100th match win in Paris, a whopping 26 more than second-placed Djokovic, with only two defeats. How is Nadal’s game suited for clay? Nadal, like Borg in his heyday, is an exceptional athlete. He moves swiftly across the turf and uses the heavy top-spin game to clear the net and still pull the ball back safely into the court. The slowness of the surface helps construct points better and the hotter summer temperatures generate more bounce, which, coupled with Nadal’s heavy spin, takes the ball away from the strike-zone of most players. The 34-year-old also receives the serve way behind the baseline, waiting for it to slow down to allow himself the time for a full swing at the ball, before moving closer to the baseline to dictate with his forehand. The courts at Roland Garros are among the biggest in the world, allowing Nadal the space to execute this strategy. His aggressive court-positioning during rallies, depth of shot-making, and the ability to play through nerves and be brave on the most crucial of points have stood out of late. This was particularly evident this year, when even the cold, heavy and low-bouncing conditions could not halt his march. The slowed-down court may have even given him that extra fraction of a second  to employ his first-strike approach and helped track down Djokovic’s cross-court backhand. According to Michael Chang, the 1989 French Open champion, Nadal being a left-hander is another important part of his success. All the spin he puts on the ball breaks in the opposite direction of what players are accustomed to. Among the top 30 male singles players, Nadal and Denis Shapovalov are the only left-handers, giving them an edge. Growing up in Spain is a big factor too, for clay is the natural surface in the country. It not only teaches the virtue of patience, but also helps develop the ability to choose the right moment to go for the kill. What are the skills required on grass and hard courts? Grass generally rewards players whose games flow from their serves — Pete Sampras, Roger Federer and Serena Williams, to name a few. Federer’s tennis, through his record eight Wimbledon titles, is instructive. Apart from the serve, no one employs the backhand slice quite like him. On grass, the ball bounces at a low angle and the Federer slice lowers it further and disrupts the rhythm. The ball appears to zip through, forcing the opponent to act faster. Thereby, it exaggerates the speed of the court, which, in turn, plays on the mind and creates indecision in future points. Grass, unlike the crushed brick of Roland Garros, is a living entity and behaves capriciously. No two balls that land on the same spot bounce the same, even when hit at comparable angles and speeds. Federer’s razor-sharp instincts and high skill are often the differentiators. The hard court, in contrast, is mostly true and rewards a repeatable technique. Unlike grass, it does not wear and tear, and unlike clay, it is not affected by the elements. In terms of speed and bounce, if clay is the slowest and highest, and grass is the fastest and lowest, a hard court is somewhere in between. Djokovic’s style, which does not lend itself to easy categorisation like Federer’s or Nadal’s, has proved the most effective, as his record eight Australian Open and three US Open trophies show. Federer, too, has a combined total of 11 titles  in Melbourne and New York, but he won seven of those before Djokovic won his first. The Serb hits a clean, efficient and flat stroke, devoid of top-spin. No one in modern-day tennis takes the ball as early as him and smothers it. This is particularly true of his fine two-hander, which he uses to forcefully change direction or hit flat down the line. Blessed with fleet-footed movement, especially side-to-side, Djokovic is a master at regaining balance and readying himself for the next shot. The acrylic is unforgiving and requires supreme fitness. But Djokovic’s endurance levels are such that he can come up with short bursts of intense, momentum-shifting tennis over long periods of time. What does the future hold for specialists? Improvement in racquet technology has, in fact, brought surfaces closer. Compared to yesteryear’s small racquets with clearly demarcated sweet spots, the large-headed modern versions have made hitting through the court easier. The effect of this has been the most pronounced at Wimbledon. With the grass slowing down and the bounce truer and higher, the net-rushing game has become a rarity. In 2001, when Federer beat Sampras and made the last eight, 71% of all his points were serve-and-volley. In the 15 years after that, during which he won seven of his eight crowns at SW19, such points crossed 20% only thrice. Djokovic winning Wimbledon five times and Nadal securing the US Open on four occasions to emerge as the last decade’s most successful champions at the respective Slams are said to be the clearest examples of homogenisation of courts. Lending further credence to this is the fact that Federer and Djokovic, having triumphed just once in Paris, have both reached the final on four other occasions. Nadal’s at the Australian Open is a similar record — winner once and a losing finalist four times. But across the seven Majors in 2019 and 2020, a pattern has been observed. Nadal has trumped both Federer and Djokovic at the French Open; Djokovic has felled both Nadal and Federer at the Australian Open, and Federer outwitted Nadal at Wimbledon and came within a single stroke of repeating it against Djokovic. Tennis across surfaces may be closer than ever, but it appears that there is still room for the specialist to work his magic.    Improvement in racquet technology has brought surfaces closer. Compared to yesteryear’s small racquets with clearly demarcated sweet spots, the large-headed modern versions have made hitting through the court easier
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Outstation students lead again in DU rush||Despite soaring cut-offs announced by Delhi University, admissions to over 49%  of the merit-based undergraduate seats have already taken place in the first list itself. As of Friday, 34,814 admissions had taken place against close to 70,000 undergraduate seats in the varsity. Political science has emerged to be one of the most sought after courses with colleges over-admitting students. The cut-off for BA (Hons) Political Science at Miranda House and Ramjas College was 99% while at Hindu College it was 99.5%. All three colleges are likely to close admissions to the course in the first list itself. Principals of both North Campus and off-campus colleges said that similar to previous years, a large number of outstation students have taken admission this year. Stay undeterred Lady Shri Ram College principal Suman Sharma said, “We were thinking that the pandemic might have an effect on the number of students applying from outside Delhi. However that is not the case and the rush has been the usual.” Stating that most of those who have taken admissions are outstation students, Anju Srivastava, Hindu College principal said, “There has definitely been a surge in applications from students outside of Delhi. Most of those who have taken admissions are outstation students. They must be having their own peer groups and seniors, and a streamlined process as we have not really received any query or mail regarding apprehensions, especially due to the pandemic. Despite high cut-offs, several of the courses closed after the first list.” Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said, “There has been absolutely no change whatsoever from the previous years. The overall rush is the same with a substantial number of outstation students applying. Students from Karnataka, Bihar, Andhra Pradhesh and the North-East have taken admissions. The cut-off for political science was 99%. Despite that there have been 145 admissions against 78 seats. It is definitely one of the most popular courses. The other courses that saw a rush were Hindi and BA (Programme).” Miranda House also saw students from Telangana and Kerala among other States taking admissions, said acting principal Bijayalaxmi Nanda. Minor glitches Aspirants from outside the city added that the online admission process has been mostly smooth barring a few glitches Kamalkali Majumdar, an applicant from Kolkata said, “Not that there was a lack of information regarding the admissions but there were minor glitches. On the second day, a lot of us faced issues with the payment as the portal was not functioning properly. It was only later at night that the respective dashboards reflected that the payment was successful. Nodal officers were unreachable and emails unresponsive several times. We were mentally prepared for the process to take longer but it got done just in two days.” “Overall, the process was smooth, however, I would have loved to experience the whole process first-hand and complete all the formalities along with other friends together,” said Ms. Majumdar, who has taken admission in a North Campus college. Bibhasha Banerjee, another outstation student who has taken admission for the (BA) Sociology course in an off-campus college, said: “The online admission process had both advantages and disadvantages. The biggest advantage was that we did not have to travel all the way to the campuses during the pandemic. However, the disadvantage which the online process has is related to the ECA admissions as there will be no trials this year.”  We were thinking that the pandemic might have an effect on the number of students applying from outside Delhi. However that is not the case and the rush has been the usual Suman Sharma Lady Shri Ram College principal
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P. told to keep vigil on brick kilns in wake of rising pollution||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Uttar Pradesh government to maintain vigil against illegal operation of brick kilns to protect air quality in the National Capital Region. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that the industry had a contribution of 5% to 7% of PM10 emissions in winter and summer respectively, to the ambient air of Delhi-NCR. Illegal operation “The authorities concerned in the State of U.P. may keep a vigil against illegal operation of brick kilns so as to protect the air quality in NCR,” the Bench said. The green panel also dismissed an application seeking permission to operate a brick kiln. Earlier, the tribunal had rapped the State government for permitting brick kilns to operate despite prohibition during the lockdown. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Shailesh Singh and others who sought action against brick kilns that were operating without complying to environmental norms leading to air and water pollution. The plea alleged that 600 brick kilns were operating illegally in the Baghpat district in the absence of requisite clearances from statutory authorities concerned. It alleged that 600 brick kilns are illegally operating in Baghpat district without obtaining requisite clearances from statutory authorities concerned.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU second list sees marginal decline||The second cut-off list announced by Delhi University (DU) on Saturday saw marginal dips in required scores with several arts courses being closed across colleges. At Lady Shri Ram College, which had pegged the cut-off at 100% for economics, political science and psychology, the asking score dipped to 99% for economics and 99.75% for the other two respectively. BA (Hons) English saw a marginal dip with the cut-off being reduced to 97% at Gargi College, 97.75% at Hansraj College, 97% at Kirori Mal College and 98.75% at both — LSR and Miranda House. Courses closed At Indraprastha College and Hindu College, BA (Hon) English has closed for the unreserved category. Political science which has emerged to be one of the most sought after courses got closed for the unreserved category at Miranda House and Hindu College which had set an asking score of 99% and 99.5% respectively. Courses like geography, philosophy and psychology closed at IP college while Miranda House and KMC also closed its list for geography honours. Hindi and Sanskrit honours also saw a rush with the list closing in colleges like Hindu and Gargi Colleges. At Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC), the cut-off for both economics and BCom (Hons) remained the same at 99% and 99.5% respectively. Among the science courses, at Aryabhatta College, the cut-off for BSc (Hons) mathematics increased from 94% to 95.5% while at Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College, the cut-off for BSc (Hons) physics saw a spike from 94% to 95.66%. At Daulat Ram College, the cut-off for mathematics honours increased from 96% to 96.25% while at Hansraj College the asking score for chemistry increased from 96.33% to 96.66%. At several colleges, including Hindu, ARSD and LSR, courses like physics, chemistry and mathematics have closed for the unreserved category. Admissions under the second cut-off list will begin from Monday. Students who have already applied to colleges under the first list, will have the option of changing colleges, if they meet the cut-off under the second list, for Rs. 1,000.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Jagan vs. judges||The story so far: Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister (CM) Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has stirred a hornet’s nest by writing to the Chief Justice of India complaining about Supreme Court judge Justice N.V. Ramana for allegedly influencing posting of cases in the State High Court and alleging that some High Court judges are hostile to his government and are deliberately striking down his regime’s decisions and orders. In effect, he has accused many judges of misconduct, corruption and political bias. Such an open conflict between the judiciary and a Chief Minister is without precedent. Questions arise about what can be done about this serious complaint. How are allegations of misconduct against judges dealt with? The Constitution protects the independence of judges of the High Courts and the Supreme Court by making them removable only through a long process of impeachment. However, not all forms of misconduct will warrant impeachment. There could be other kinds of impropriety too. There are times when serious complaints of this sort are received, and the Chief Justice of India (CJI) is called upon to examine them. Since 1997, judges have adopted an ‘in-house procedure’ for inquiring into such charges. When was the procedure adopted? After Justice J.S. Verma took over as Chief Justice of India (CJI) in 1997, he circulated among judges a document called ‘Restatement of Values of Judicial life’. This was a set of principles containing the essential elements of ideal behaviour for judges. The Full Court passed a resolution that an ‘in-house procedure’ would be adopted for action against judges for acts of commission or omission that go against these values. A five-judge committee was constituted to come up with a procedure. Its report was adopted on December 15, 1999. It was made public in 2014. How does the in-house procedure work? When a complaint is received against a High Court judge, the CJI should decide if it is considered frivolous or if it is “directly related to the merits of a substantive decision in a judicial matter”, or it does not involve any serious misconduct or impropriety. If it is serious, the CJI should get the judge’s response. He may close the matter if he is satisfied with the response. If a deeper probe is considered necessary, both the complaint and the judge’s response, along with the Chief Justice’s comments, are recorded for further action. The same procedure holds good if the CJI receives a complaint directly. After considering the High Court’s Chief Justice, the judge involved and the complaint, the CJI, if deemed necessary, forms a three-member committee. The committee should have two Chief Justices from other High Courts and one High Court judge. The inquiry it holds is of the nature of a fact-finding mission and is not a formal judicial inquiry involving examination of witnesses. The judge concerned is entitled to appear before it. If the case is against a High Court’s Chief Justice, the same procedure is followed, but the probe committee comprises a Supreme Court judge and two Chief Justices. If a Supreme Court judge faces such a charge, the in-house panel will comprise three Supreme Court judges. The in-house procedure does not give any separate provision to deal with complaints against the Chief Justice of India. But in practice, a panel of three other Supreme Court justices is formed. What happens after the probe is done? If the committee finds substance in the charges, it can give two kinds of recommendations. One, that the misconduct is serious enough to require removal from office, or that it is not serious enough to warrant removal. In the former case, the judge concerned will be urged to resign or seek voluntary retirement. If the judge is unwilling to quit, the Chief Justice of the High Court concerned would be asked to withdraw judicial work from him. The President and the Prime Minister will be informed of the situation. This is expected to clear the way for Parliament to begin the process of impeachment. If the misconduct does not warrant removal, the judge would be advised accordingly. How will the CM’s complaint be handled? The complaint by the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister will have to be examined by the CJI from the perspective of whether it can be rejected as baseless, or it requires a deeper investigation. In details annexed to his letter, Mr. Reddy has cited several writ petitions in which adverse orders were passed against his regime. He also accuses the judges concerned of political bias not only against himself, but also in favour of his rival, N. Chandrababu Naidu, the former Chief Minister. Therefore, a key question would be: do the charges pertain merely to the merits of judicial orders, or are they serious enough to warrant a probe?  The complaint by Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will have to be examined by the CJI to see if it can be rejected as baseless or if it requires a deeper investigation
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth beaten to death by two for ‘stealing phone’||A 20-year-old youth was allegedly beaten to death by two persons who suspected him of stealing their mobile phones, the police said on Saturday. The accused have been arrested. DCP (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said that the accused, identified as Ajit alias Bhujang (23), resident of Gautam Buddha Nagar in U.P. and Rajkumar alias Balak (24), resident of Rajokri village, are both ragpickers. The police said the deceased and the accused knew each other. The police received an information on Wednesday that a body was lying opposite a hotel near the airport in a forest area. The body was identified as Deepak, resident of Mahipalpur. Deepak’s brother-in-law allegedly told the police that he was beaten by a person named Bhujang and his accomplices with sticks and rods. The police said that the accused confessed to have killed Deepak and claimed that Bhujang had bought a mobile, which was allegedly stolen by the victim and he was not returning it.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Riots: ED files chargesheet against Tahir Hussain||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday filed a chargesheet in a court here against former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in a money laundering case related to the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat took cognisance of the offences under Section 3 (money laundering) read with Section 70 (offences by companies) punishable under Section 4 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, against Mr. Hussain and co-accused Amit Gupta. The ED was probing the allegation that Mr. Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs. 1.10 crore funds by using purported shell or dummy companies to fuel the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and the riots. The court has summoned Mr. Hussain and Mr. Gupta on October 19. The ED said in its chargesheet that investigation in the case was in progress and a supplementary complaint may be filed later. The Enforcement Directorate may proceed with further investigation, as per law, the court said. Senior advocate K.K. Manan and advocate Rizwan, appearing for Mr. Hussain, had claimed that he was a victim of circumstances and was falsely implicated in the case.  Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after clashes between Citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.
23 October 2020||October 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Soaring prices||
