19 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘10 patrolling points in eastern Ladakh blocked by Chinese’||There are at least 10 patrolling points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh that have been blocked by Chinese troops, a senior government official told The Hindu . Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had informed the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that face-offs with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) happened because “patrols were interrupted”. ‘Perception overlap’ There was no commonly delineated LAC, and there was an overlap with regard to the LAC’s perception in many areas, he noted. The patrolling points (PPs) are the end points along the undefined LAC, up to which Indian troops patrol after starting from their base camps. Since April, Indian troops have been denied access to PPs number 9, 10, 11, 12, 12A, 13, 14, 15, 17, and 17A. The blocked PPs span from the Depsang plains in the north to Pangong Tso (lake) in the south. In all, there are more than 65 PPs from the base of Karakoram to Chumar. “Since the LAC is undefined, the PPs are the best way to assert territorial claims. With that access blocked by the Chinese and as per the disengagement plans in the past few months when buffer zones were created, many areas have become out of bounds for Indian troops as of now,” said the official. Another official said in the past, Chinese commanders had made untenable demands that India vacate an administrative post in Pangong and some heights near the Kurang nala.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||11 more succumb to COVID-19||Telangana reported 11 more deaths on Thursday, pushing the total number of COVID-related deaths to 1,016, according to media bulletin released on Friday. The number of COVID – 19 positive cases stood at 2,043, spiking the total number of cases to 1,67,046 and active cases at 50,634. The number of recoveries stood at 1,802, taking the total to 1,35,357. The bulletin stated that the recovery rate in the State is higher than the national average and stands at 81.02%. A total of 50,634 samples were tested. Of these, 22,279 were those of primary contacts of COVID patients. Another 6,076 secondary contacts were tested. As many as 24,081 persons are in home isolation. While there are 1,16,932 patients who are asymptomatic, 30% of patients - 50,114 – have shown symptoms of the novel coronavirus. The trends showed that 61.83% of positive cases were men, and those in the 21-30 age group were affected the most (24.24%) followed by those in the age group of 31-40 (23.51%) The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits continued to record the highest number of cases in the State with 314 being reported on September 17. This was followed by Rangareddy (174), Medchal Malkajgiri (144), Nalgonda (131), Siddipet (121) and Karimnagar (114) districts.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports 8,096 new cases and 67 deaths||The State reported 8,096 new COVID-19 cases and 67 deaths during the 24 hours ending Friday morning. The infection tally, as a result, increased to 6,09,558 and the death toll went up to 5,244. On the brighter side, 11,803 more patients recovered during the period, pushing the recovery tally to 5,19,891 and the recovery rate to 85.29%. As on date, 84,423 patients were undergoing treatment. The death rate stands at 0.86%. The daily positivity rate of the tests conducted has been coming down gradually. In the last 24 hours, 74,710 samples were tested, and only 10.8% of them turned to be COVID-19 positive. The daily positivity rate had been dropping since September 4 when it touched 17.98%. Disturbing trend in EG The overall positivity rate of the 49.59 lakh tests was 12.29%. The tests per million ratio stood at 92,866 and the confirmed cases per million at 11,415. East and West Godavari districts reported over a thousand new cases each with the former reporting the highest single-day spike. The new case and deaths in the districts are as follows: East Godavari (1,405 & 6), West Godavari (1,035 & 4), Chittoor (902 & 7), Prakasam (713 & 3), Guntur (513 & 6), Srikakulam (496 & 5), Krishna (487 & 7), Vizianagaram (487 & 3), Nellore (468 & 5), Anantapur (463 & 5), Kadapa (419 & 8), Visakhapatnam (371 & 6) and Kurnool (337 & 2). District tallies Prakasam district’s tally has crossed the 40,000-mark, and it also has the lowest recovery rate of 70%. The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (83,852), West Godavari (55,670), Kurnool (53,435), Chittoor (53,323), Anantapur (51,821), Guntur (48,393), Nellore (46,590), Visakhapatnam (46,057), Prakasam (40,156), Kadapa (38,744), Srikakulam (34,983), Vizianagaram (30,516) and Krishna (23,123).
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC steps in to bridge digital divide||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed both private and government schools in the Capital to provide gadgets and Internet package free of cost to poor students for attending online classes, a verdict aimed at narrowing the COVID-19 pandemic-induced digital divide. A Bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said if a school decides to opt for online mode as a medium of instruction, it will have to ensure that students belonging to the economically weaker section (EWS) and disadvantaged group (DG) category also have access and are able to avail of the same. “To separate the EWS/DG students from others in the same class due to non-availability of a gadget/device would generate a feeling of inferiority as to their status in the class that may affect their hearts and minds unlikely ever to be undone (sic),” Justice Manmohan said. “We must also acknowledge that because of the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, there could be a tendency amongst the underprivileged children to abandon education for work,” Justice Narula said in a concurring verdict. “This likely fallout needs to be immediately addressed, otherwise the gap between the learning experiences of children from economically weaker sections and the relatively privileged children will widen,” Justice Narula said. The High Court said schools are erecting a financial barrier for EWS/DG category students by not providing the required equipment, preventing them from pursuing their elementary education as the pandemic rages. This, the court said, was in violation of Sections 3, 8, 12(1)(c) of the Right to Education Act, 2009. ‘Digital apartheid’ Intra-class discrimination, especially between the 75% fee-paying students and the 25% EWS/DG students, upsets the level playing field and “amounts to discrimination as well as creates a vertical division, digital divide or digital gap or digital apartheid in addition to segregation in a classroom which is violative of RTE, 2009, and Articles 14, 20 and 21 of the Constitution”, the court said. The Bench said private unaided schools will be entitled to claim reimbursement of reasonable cost for procurement of the gadget and Internet package from the government under Section 12(2) of the RTE Act. Committee formed The court also ordered the formation of a three-member committee, including the Central and Delhi Education Secretaries, within a week to expedite and streamline the process of identifying and supplying the gadgets to poor and disadvantaged students. The High Court’s direction came on a public interest litigation filed by NGO Justice for All through advocate Khagesh B. Jha, seeking direction to authorities to supply free laptops or mobile phones with high-speed Internet to EWS/DG students so they could attend online classes.
19 September 2020||KALABURAGI,||Incessant rains throw life out of gear in Kalaburagi||The non-stop rains that have been lashing Kalaburagi district for a week now have disrupted normal life, especially in the rural areas along the Kagina and its tributary streams. With several bridges across the Kagina and its tributaries submerged, the connectivity between villages and towns has been cut for the last three days. All the routes that connect Sedam town with Kalaburagi city have been cut. The submergence of Malkhed bridge across Kagina has cut the key connectivity. Hundreds of trucks transporting goods between Mumbai and Chennai, and Kalaburagi and Hyderabad were found parked near toll plazas on either side of the bridge for the last three days. “I have driven my truck from Mumbai and need to go to Chennai. I have been stuck here for the last three days owing to the rain-caused road blockage. We are not finding even food here. The nearby hotels are overcharging. We are desperately hoping for road clearance,” a driver, who parked his truck at GVR Toll Plaza near Madbol said. The premises of Uttaradi Mutt on the bank of the Kagina near Malkhed has been flooded for the last three days. The river’s rising water level was posing a threat to villages, such as Samakhed and Dandoti, close to the river. Large tracts of lands with standing crops, especially green gram, black gram and red gram, continue to be flooded. “The rains had already destroyed half of the crops. Some could harvest the green gram, though the yield was drastically reduced. The black gram could not be harvested. It is rotting in the flooded fields,” a farmer from Dandoti village said on Friday. The fresh downpour in Sedam on Friday morning, about 133 mm, has flooded several houses in low-lying localities such as Basavanagar, Indra Nagar, Chotigini, Aggi Basaveshwar Colony, Ashraya Colony, and Kodla Cross. The rainwater also flooded the Sedam police station and destroyed the computers and other office material. The temple of Kottala Basaveshwara, the popular deity in the town, was also flooded.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases breach five-lakh mark in State||Over six months after recording its first COVID-19 case, Karnataka breached the five-lakh mark and hit 5,02,982 cases, as 8,626 people tested positive on Friday. Over 75% of this caseload has been reported since August 1. With 1,01,129 active cases as on Friday, Karnataka is in second position after Maharashtra. Fuelled by a rise in cases in Bengaluru, the situation in Karnataka took a turn for the worse from the beginning of July by breaching the 2,000 mark daily, initially. It subsequently jumped to over 5,000 per day, and later to over 9,000 cases. The State reported a record 179 new deaths on Friday, the highest on a single day so far. Previously, the State had reported 148 deaths on August 25, which was the highest on a single day then. The State’s COVID-19 toll touched 7,808 on Friday. This is apart from 19 non-COVID deaths. Nearly 97% of COVID-19 fatalities in the State have been reported since the beginning of July with 7,562 of the total deaths reported during this period. The State’s Case Fatality Rate (CFR) now stands at 1.55 %. This month alone (from September 1 till date), the State added 1,51,501 cases, of which 58,580 are in Bengaluru Urban alone. On August 31, while the total number of cases in the State stood at 3,42,423, Bengaluru Urban recorded 1,29,125 cases. On Friday, Bengaluru Urban recorded 3,623 cases and 37 deaths. With this, the total number of cases has touched 1,87,705 and deaths have shot up to 2,592. With 10,949 discharges on Friday, the total number of recoveries in the State has now touched 3,94,026. As many as 814 patients are being monitored in the ICUs of various designated hospitals. Steady rise since June From 101 cases in March, the State witnessed a four-fold rise in April and subsequently a six-fold increase in May. From May to June there was a five-fold rise and then an eight-fold increase from June to July when the number of cases crossed one lakh and touched 1,08,873. As many as 2,068 deaths were reported this month. Since then, the numbers more than doubled and touched 2,18,308 in August while fatalities rose to 3,388. The number of positive cases in the State has been rising steadily since the beginning of June and 80% of the total 10,118 positive cases reported as on June 24 were from June alone. Days taken to double The State recorded the first 1,000 cases on May 15, which is two months and six days after the first case was detected on March 9. Thereafter, the cases doubled to 2,000 on May 24. The cases crossed the 10,000 mark on June 24. After May 24, the doubling rate reduced to eight days and subsequently to an average of three days. In fact, the number of days taken to double COVID cases started increasing since mid-August. From 14 days on August 1, it rose to 19 days on August 16. Subsequently, cases started doubling in 24 days by August end and this further increased to 30 days as of date.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 4,000 plus cases for 2nd day||The State on Friday registered 4,167 new COVID-19 cases, crossing the 4,000 mark for the second consecutive day. The number of samples tested by the State in the last 24 hours also increased to 47,723, inching closer to the 50,000 samples a day target that the government has set for itself. The number of recoveries reported is 2,744. The cumulative case burden rose to 1,26,381, of which the total recoveries till date have been 90,089. The number of active cases or patients undergoing treatment is 35,724. Of these, 300 are critically ill and currently admitted in ICUs, with 68 of them put on ventilator support. Till date, according to official stats, 501 people have succumbed to COVID-19 in the State. On Friday, 12 more deaths which occurred between September 9 and 15 were added to the official toll. Four of these deaths were in Thiruvananthapuram, three in Malappuram and the rest in Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Kasaragod. 102 health workers Of the new cases reported, 3,954 (95%) of the cases are locally acquired infections. These include infections reported in 102 health-care workers, 27 of whom are in Thiruvananthapuram and another 22 in Kannur. In 410 of the new cases, authorities could not trace the source of infection. The case burden in Thiruvananthapuram district is rising with 926 cases, of which all except six cases are a result of local transmission. Kozhikode, where cases have been rising recently, reported 404 cases. Kollam has 355 cases, Ernakulam 348, Kannur 330, Thrissur 326, Malappuram 297, Alappuzha 274, Palakkad 268, Kottayam 225, Kasaragod 145, Pathanamthitta 101, Idukki 100 and Wayanad 68 cases. The number of hotspots in the State now is 614.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State imposes Rs. 1 cess on petrol, diesel||The State government has imposed a road development cess of Rs. 1 each on a litre of petrol and diesel to mobilise an estimated annual revenue of Rs. 500 crore, which will be transferred to the A.P. Road Development Corporation, according to a press release issued by Special Chief Secretary (revenue) Rajat Bhargava. The government’s revenues plummeted from Rs. 4,480 crore in April 2019 to Rs. 1,323 crore due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of COVID-19, he said. The severe financial crunch continued in May, June, July and August as the State went through a phased reopening. The government was struggling to find resources to spend on COVID-19 containment and on the slew of welfare schemes launched, Mr. Rajat Bhargava said. At the same time, the crucial road infrastructure needed to be augmented. Keeping the shoe-string budget in view, the Cabinet resolved to raise funds in the form of cess so that the government could undertake road development on a priority basis. An ordinance for amending the AP Value Added Tax Act, 2005, was promulgated by the Governor, facilitating the imposition of cess, which was in addition to other taxes, the release added.
19 September 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,||Vaccine test likely to begin in KGH soon||The test for the COVID-19 vaccine, COVISHIELD, developed by Oxford University with Serum India Limited and ICMR as partners, in King George Hospital (KGH) and Andhra Medical College (AMC) is likely to begin in about 10 days. Both the institutions in the city are among the nine identified for the purpose. A team from the Serum India Limited is expected to visit KGH early next week to inspect the facilities, the gadgets and other equipment available there before giving the final authorisation to conduct the tests. “Once the team leaves, we will give a public notification within one week for volunteers to come forward for the test,” said AMC Principal and KGH Superintendent (in-charge) P.V. Sudhakar. “In the notification, we will clearly mention who are eligible and who are not by defining the inclusion and exclusion criteria, as this will reduce the load on the team that will select the volunteers,” he said. It is understood that people with co-morbidities such as diabetes, blood pressure, renal problems and other ailments will not be allowed and they need not apply. Testing procedure KGH and AMC intend to select 100 volunteers for conducting the test, and all the volunteers will be tested for antibodies and COVID-19. “For COVID-19, we will conduct RT-PCR test and the volunteer should test negative for both COVID-19 and antibodies. People infected earlier with COVID-19 will also not be considered as volunteers,” said Dr. Sudhakar. “Three days after the basic test results are declared, we will administer, or inject, the vaccine that has been developed. On that day, we will monitor the volunteer for two hours, though the actual monitoring time is just 30 minutes, for any instant reaction. From then on, he or she will be monitored for overall health condition and antibodies as per the protocol,” he said. “Once the vaccine is administered to a group of volunteers, we will be monitoring the level of development of antibodies in them to see if the vaccine has the stimulating properties to develop antibodies that is required to fight the virus,” he said. Time period According to Dr. Sudhakar, the monitoring period starts from two weeks to six months. The last monitoring test would be held after a period of six months and the results sent to the designated labs for further evaluation, he said. According to him, the entire testing procedure will last from six to eight months.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Media should not target minorities: SC||A message needs to go out to the media that it cannot make a religious minority the target of its attacks, the Supreme Court said on Friday. The dignity of a community is as important as journalistic freedom, it noted. “We want a cohesive nation. We, as citizens and judges, are concerned about national security but we are also equally concerned about protecting human dignity... We, as a court, know what happened in the Emergency. So, we want a free flow of ideas. But we are also equally conscious about the right to dignity of a community,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, heading a three-judge Bench, observed. The court was hearing a plea for pre-telecast ban on a programme partially aired by Sudarshan TV on “UPSC Jihad”. The show, anchored by its editor-in-chief, Suresh Chavhanke, claims that members of the Muslim community are attempting to infiltrate the civil services. It raises questions about several organisations, such as the Zakat Foundation, which are run by Muslim community members. The show questions their funding and even accuses them of facilitating the “infiltration” of people with terror links into the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Senior advocate Shyam Divan said the programme,Bindas Bol, was based on a “fact-based investigation” into these organisations. The court should take a holistic view of the intent of the programme.
19 September 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal reports 3,192 new COVID-19 cases||West Bengal on Friday reported 3,192 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total number of infections in the State to 2,18,772. The State recorded 59 more deaths in the past 24 hours, pushing the fatality toll to 4,242. The active cases in the State have increased to 24,509 and the discharge rate stands at 86.86%. Of the 59 deaths, 14 deaths were recorded in Kolkata taking the fatalities in the city to 1,551. North 24 Parganas reported seven deaths taking the toll in the district to 950. With Howrah district recording 10 deaths, its fatality count reached 489. Kolkata reported 493 cases in the last 24 hours taking the total tally to 49,070. North 24 Parganas recorded 502 infections pushing the number of cases to 44,184. Meanwhile, the State government has decided that zoological gardens, national parks, and ecotourism centres will be opened for public. While national parks and ecological gardens will be opened from September 23, zoological gardens in the State will allow visitors from October 2.
19 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan sets price cap on COVID-19 treatment, tests||The Rajasthan government has set a price cap on the diagnostic tests and treatment of COVID-19 at private hospitals and laboratories, while listing various medicines, investigations and other services and incorporating the charges for personal protective equipment (PPE) kit in the treatment packages. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here that the decision was taken amid reports that private hospitals were charging an exorbitant fee for treatment. While the rate of RT-PCR tests at private laboratories for diagnosis of COVID-19 was fixed at Rs. 1,200, the cost of treatment was fixed on the basis of accreditation of hospitals by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). According to a notification which has replaced a previous order of June 20, the charges for treatment have been kept at Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 9,000 per day in hospitals not certified by the NABL. In the NABL-accredited hospitals, the charges will be Rs. 5,500 to Rs. 9,900 per day. The treatment cost includes Rs. 1,200 for a PPE kit. Mr. Sharma said the June 20 notification had not specifically mentioned which medicines, investigations and other expenses would be included in the treatment, leading to confusion about the packages offered in the private hospitals. The new rates had been fixed to remove confusion, he said. The treatment for comorbidities, including intervention procedures such as central line, chemoport, biopsy, bronchoscopy and ascitic and pleural tapping, will be provided at rates not exceeding those fixed in the Central Government Health Scheme. The State government has exercised powers under Section 4 of the Rajasthan Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, to fix the maximum costs of treatment for common people under the protocol prescribed for patients in the private hospitals.
19 September 2020||Mysuru,||Active cases rise by over 100% in 6 districts||Amid the ongoing battle against the spread of COVID-19, nine districts in Karnataka have managed to rein in the number of active cases over the past one month while six have seen their active cases more than double. While the number of active cases came down from August 15 to September 15 in Bidar, Kolar, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Udupi, Ballari, Gadag, Raichur, and Dharwad districts, it increased by more than 100% in Chitradurga, Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Chikkamagaluru, Haveri, and Tumakuru. The number of active cases in some other districts such as Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Davangere, and Hassan also recorded a steep increase. The number of active cases in Chamarajanagar and Ramanagaram remained more or less steady during the period. Jeevan Raksha, an initiative by management consultant firm Proxima and supported by Indian Medical Association and the Public Health Foundation of India, is studying COVID-19 trends across the country. It said the increase in number of active cases in a majority of the districts in the State was an indication of the growing disease burden. Except for the nine districts which recorded a negative growth during the last month, the remaining have shown an increase in active cases. The Moving Growth Rate (MGR) has been as high as 171% in Chitradurga, followed by Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada at 130% and 120%, respectively. Bengaluru and Mysuru Bengaluru Urban recorded a modest rise of 13.8% when its active cases went up from 34,848 to 39,681 during the period. However, Mysuru, where active cases went from 3,532 to 6,546, registered an MGR of 85%. With the number of active cases showing a decrease only when the recoveries increase at a rate higher than the number of persons testing positive, Sanjeev, convener of Jeevan Raksha, Mysuru, said all the districts should work towards bringing down active cases by taking the necessary measures.
19 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Farmer outfits call for ‘Bharat bandh’ on Sept. 25||Several farmer outfits have announced an intensified agitation after the Centre passed three agriculture Bills in the ongoing monsoon session of the Lok Sabha. Over 250 farmer and farm worker organisations, under the umbrella of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), have given a call for a ‘Bharat bandh’ on September 25 in protest against the passing of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. “These three Bills will completely stop government procurement of crops, ending price security for peasants as private ‘mandis’ will be set up and price and trade regulation of all cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion and potato will be removed from coverage under essential commodities,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) in Punjab, which is a part of the AIKSCC. “The working group of the AIKSCC has decided to go ahead with its opposition to the Bills and on September 25, we will hold a ‘Bharat bandh’,” said Mr. Singh. Sarvan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Samiti, which had been staging continuous sit-ins in Punjab since September 7, on Friday announced a “rail roko” agitation in the State from September 24. In Haryana, as many as 17 farmer outfits have joined hands under the flag of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Chaduni). “On September 20, we will block all major roads between noon and 3 p.m... we will also support the ‘Bharat bandh’,” said Rakesh Bains of the BKU. The Lower House’s nod for these Bills amid ongoing protests has also invited sharp opposition from political parties, including the Shiromani Akali Dal, hitherto one of the oldest alliance partners of the BJP.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. doctors withdraw agitation||Government doctors under the Health and Family Welfare Department, who had launched a protest from September 15 demanding a pay revision on a par with their counterparts in the Medical Education Department or as per the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) scale, withdrew their strike on Friday after the government agreed to consider their demand in the next financial year. The doctors have now been promised incentives, which will cost the exchequer Rs. 125 crore. The doctors, under the banner of Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), stopped submitting all reports, including those related to COVID-19, to the government and stopped attending all official meetings from Tuesday. They had threatened to stop all work, except COVID-19 duties and other emergencies, and take out a ‘Bengaluru Chalo’ on September 21. KGMOA president G. Srinivas said Health Minister B. Sriramulu has now agreed to consider their demand for the CGHS pay scale in the next financial year. “He has promised us incentives till then. Apart from this, all our other demands have also been considered. Following this, we have withdrawn our strike,” he said. At the meeting, Mr. Sriramulu said that their demand for CGHS pay scale could be considered only through a pay commission. The Minister said he had convinced the Chief Minister and got the Finance Department’s approval for the payment of incentives to all the 4,968 doctors. Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu that the Minister had also assured them of allocating a additional budget towards the CGHS scale in the next financial year. “The incentives will be paid with effect from September 1,” he said. “If the CGHS scale has to be implemented, it will cost the government an estimated Rs. 256 crore. Moreover, the government had earlier announced that all government employees will get the Central pay scale from 2023. We are convinced with the Minister’s assurance and have withdrawn our strike.” Sources in the KGMOA said although their main demand was not immediately met, the association has agreed to withdraw its strike considering the pandemic.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,||Gold smuggling: I-T dept. to question accused||The Income Tax Department has joined the National Investigation Agency, Enforcement Directorate, and the Customs in probing the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The I-T Department has approached the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, seeking permission to probe the suspected income tax evasion and benami purchase of holdings by the accused in the smuggling case. The department has sought permission to interrogate Swapna Suresh, P.S. Sarith, Sandeep Nair, Hamjad Ali, A.M. Jalal, P. Mohamad Shafi, T.M. Mohammad Anwar, E. Said Alavi, and K.T. Rameez. Cash in locker According to the department, the investigation has so far yielded over Rs. 1 crore from the safe deposit lockers of Swapna, besides 982.5 gram of gold ornaments. The source of the cash and valuables was unclear. Gold smuggling and subsequent activities had generated unaccounted income for various persons, attracting provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961. It submitted that some of the unaccounted income generated through the gold smuggling could be invested in properties in benami names, attracting the provisions the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988. In-depth probe The agency believed that the gold smuggling case had to be investigated in depth to identify those in the total value chain, look into the unaccounted income generated, and recover the legitimate taxes. As the accused were in judicial custody, the permission of the court was required for the department to issue summons, submitted Rishikesh Shenoy, counsel for the department. The nine persons could have concealed their income and assets. They needed to be examined under oath and asked to produce documents, the department submitted. The court posted the case for September 22.
19 September 2020||Pune,||At 22,078, Maharashtra records highest single-day recoveries||While Maharashtra reported 21,656 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, the State recorded its highest single-day recoveries as 22,078 patients were discharged. The State’s total case tally now stands at 11,67,496 of whom 3,00,887 are active cases. The cumulative recoveries till date have risen to 8,34,432. As many as 440 more deaths — of whom 398 were reported on Friday while 70 were from an earlier period — pushed the death toll to 31,791. “Of a total 56,93,345 laboratory samples tested thus far, 11,45,840 (20.51%) have returned positive with more than 89,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stands at 71.47%,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate was currently 2.72%. Pune reported more than 4,000 cases to take its total case tally to 2,53,554. The district reported 39 deaths to take its fatality toll to 5,133. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has crossed the 42,000 mark. Mumbai reported 2,283 cases to take its total case count to 1,80,668 of whom 34,259 are active. As many as 52 more fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 8,375. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 16 more deaths as its fatality count climbed to 1,733. As many as 876 new cases saw its total case tally cross the 60,000 mark. Raigad recorded nine deaths and 452 cases to take its death toll to 640 and total case tally to 27,313. The situation continued to remain grim in Nagpur district, which reported more than 2,000 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 60,109 of whom 21,746 are active. With 64 more deaths, the mortality count touched 1,586. In western Maharashtra, Sangli reported a consecutive second-day surge of more than 1,100 new cases to take the district’s total case tally to 29,769 of whom 10,404 are active. With 21 deaths, the fatality toll reached 904. Satara reported 34 fatalities to take its death toll to 697. A surge of 902 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 28,518 of whom 8,719 are active. Kolhapur reported more than 800 cases and 11 deaths as its total tally surged to 36,076 of whom 9,537 are active.
19 September 2020||Tirunelveli,||Inspector, AIADMK functionary booked for murder||An Inspector at the Thattarmadam police station in the Sattankulam police sub division of Thoothukudi district and a ruling AIADMK functionary have been booked, among others, on the charge of abducting and murdering S. Selvan, 30, on Thursday due to a land dispute. The incident of alleged police atrocity comes close on the heels of the recent custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks at Sattankulam. The victim’s mother, Elizabeth, 77, has alleged that inspector Harikrishnan had in the past got multiple false cases registered against Selvan, and her other sons Panguraj alias Rajan and Peter Raja and beaten them up. The family had then approached the State Human Rights Commission and the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court for relief. Mr. Harikrishnan has been cited as the first accused in the abduction-cum-murder case, registered in the Thisaiyanvilai police station in neighbouring Tirunelveli district, on a complaint from Ms. Elizabeth. AIADMK functionary M. Thirumanavel of Usaraththukudiyiruppu and a few others have also been arraigned as accused. The police said Mr. Thirumanavel had allegedly encroached upon 1.75 acres belonging to Selvan’s family after buying an adjacent plot from his uncles in 2019. Selvan’s family had resisted the alleged pressure from the AIADMK functionary to sell their property. Ms. Elizabeth said that following the dispute, Mr. Thirumanavel got false cases registered through Mr. Harikrishnan. “We have formed special teams to nab the accused,” said N. Manivannan, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli. This is the third murder case to be registered against the police in the Sattankulam Police Sub-Division after the deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks and construction worker Mahendran of Srivenkateswarapuram near Peikulam, both under the Sattankulam police station. She said her son Peter Raja’s complaint that the land was used to illegally make country-bombs was not entertained. Instead, her sons were booked. When Selvan, who deals in packaged drinking water, was returning home on Thursday afternoon, a speeding car hit his two-wheeler at Kozhunthattu near Chokkankudiyiruppu. As Selvan fell down, the occupants of the car abducted him. After a couple of hours, Selvan’s body was found in a forest area close to Kadakulam. It was taken to the Thisaiyanvilai Government Hospital by passers-by who thought he was alive. However, the doctors there declared Selvan “brought dead”. On information, Godwin Jagadeesh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sattankulam, and Mr. Harikrishnan went to the spot and conducted an inquiry with Selvan’s family members, who accused Mr. Harikrishnan of being the brain behind the murder. Subsequently, the police booked the accused under Sections 107 (conspiracy), 336 (acting rashly or negligently endangering human life), 302 (culpable homicide by causing death of a person) and 364 (kidnapping or abducting any person in order that such person may be murdered) of the Indian Penal Code. Since the scene of crime falls under the Thattarmadam police station, the case will soon be transferred by the Thisaiyanvilai police to their Thattarmadam counterparts. “We have formed special teams to nab the accused,” said N. Manivannan, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli. The police indicated that any action against Mr. Harikrishnan would be based on the statements of the co-accused. Ms. Elizabeth alleged that on January 19, Mr. Thirumanavel and his supporters thrashed her son Panguraj, who was admitted to the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. She said Mr. Harikrishnan got him discharged and took him to the police station where he was hung upside down from the ceiling and thrashed. “Even after my son filed a complaint with the State Human Rights Commission, Harikrishnan’s torture continued, forcing my sons to approach the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court explaining the threats they were facing from the police officer, while seeking anticipatory bail. Enraged, Harikrishnan has orchestrated the murder of Selvan with the help of Thirumanavel,” she said in her complaint to the Thisaiyanvilai police. Ms. Elizabeth said her son’s body bore grievous injuries all over. This is the third murder case to be registered against the police in the Sattankulam Police Sub-Division after the deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks and construction worker Mahendran of Srivenkateswarapuram near Peikulam, both under the Sattankulam police station.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Water level rising in the Krishna||With the water level increasing in the Krishna at the Prakasam Barrage, officials discharged 4.01 lakh cusecs downstream of the barrage on Friday and issued the first warning level. Irrigation authorities said the discharge from the Pulichintala project was about 4.25 lakh cusecs, and the flood level was raising in the river. Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, along with other officials, visited the barrage and enquired about the flood situation with the authorities. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Imtiaz alerted the officials of the Revenue, Irrigation, Medical and Health, Panchayat Raj, Rural Water Supply, Police and other departments, and directed them to take steps to prevent human and animal loss. The Disaster Management officials asked fishermen and villagers not to venture into the river as the flood level was raising. “Villagers are requested not to venture into the river on small and manual boats for taking bath and swimming. People staying in the low-lying areas should move to safer places,” the Collector said. Officials advised people residing on the river bank in the downstream to stay alert and cooperate with the police and other staff as the flood level might rise further.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Schools in Capital to remain closed for all classes till October 5||The Delhi government on Friday said all schools in the Capital will remain closed for all classes till October 5. The announcement put to rest speculation about schools in the city being allowed to open for students between Class 9 and 12. While several restrictions have been eased in different phases of ‘Unlock’ since June 8, educational institutions continue to be closed. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare however, as a part of the ‘Unlock’ measures, has permitted the partial opening of schools from September 21 on a voluntary basis for students in Classes 9-12 so that they can take guidance from their teachers. The Ministry has also come up with a set of guidelines that include specific measures to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19. It said students would be allowed to visit subject to written consent of their parents/guardians and that during such visits, teacher-student interactions must be organised in a staggered manner. The Delhi government said that online teaching and learning activities will continue as usual and heads of schools are authorised to call teachers/staff as per requirement for smooth conduct of online classes, teaching/learning activities and any other work. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16 when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus.
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant probe: NCB arrests five in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the drugs angle in the actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case, on Friday arrested five people in separate cases and seized over 1.4 kg of contraband, an official said. Rahil Vishram (42) was apprehended from his residence in Versova and arrested after questioning. A team of the NCB’s Mumbai unit raided Mr. Vishram’s house following the questioning of Ankush Arenja (28), arrested by the agency earlier, about drug peddlers. The team seized 928 gram of charas and Rs. 4,36,000 in cash during the raid on Mr. Vishram’s house, he said. In a separate case, 490 gram of ganja was seized from four people about whom Mr. Arenja had provided some leads. Vishal Salve (25) and Jaichetan Raichera (29) were arrested from Badlapur in Thane district, while Rohan Talwar (29) and Nongthung Lotha (30) were arrested from Powai. The NCB has so far arrested more than a dozen people, including actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, in the drugs case lodged in connection with the Sushant death probe. HC adjourns hearing The Bombay High Court on Friday adjourned the hearing on bail pleas of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s aide Samuel Miranda and two others, arrested by the NCB in a drugs case related to the actor’s death. Justice Sarang Kotwal said drug trafficking was a serious issue and the NCB can probe a person even if no drugs have been recovered from him.
19 September 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal govt., experts spar over NGT order||The West Bengal government and some environmentalists from Kolkata are all set for a showdown in the Supreme Court over allowing one of the biggest water bodies in the heart of the city to be used for Chhath Puja celebrations. The development comes after the National Green Tribunal refused to entertain a review petition of the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Agency to allow Rabindra Sarobar, a park and water body, for Chhath Puja. “We wanted the NGT to allow the park for one day, but unfortunately, the NGT did not allow us. We will approach the Supreme Court,” said Firhad Hakim, the State’s Urban Development Minister.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||To the brim||
19 September 2020||Bhopal,||HC tells M.P. to free man held under NSA||The Indore Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has quashed an order of the Indore District Magistrate invoking provisions of the National Security Act (NSA), 1980 based on “media trial” on a former corporator for reportedly organising a Muharram procession. A Division Bench of Justices S.C. Sharma and Shailendra Shukla on September 15 directed the State government to set former Corporator Usman Patel, 60, free along with three other persons detained under similar charges.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature blooms||
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 impact on tourism||
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Two more Maharashtra ministers test positive||Two more Maharashtra ministers on Friday tested positive for COVID-19, taking the total number of infected ministers from the State to 10. Energy Minister Nitin Raut and Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushreef announced on Twitter that they had tested positive and appealed to all those who had come in their contacts to get themselves tested. “I have been tested positive for Covid-19 today. I would like to request to all those who had come in contact with me in the past few days to get themselves tested as a precautionary measure. Stay safe everyone and take care,” Mr. Raut, a senior Congress leader from Nagpur, tweeted.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Perils of water scarcity||
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paytm back on app store after Google rap||Google on Friday restored the listing of Paytm on its application store, a few hours after it pulled down the popular financial services platform for violating its policies related to gambling. In a blogpost, Paytm said it had recently introduced the ‘Paytm Cricket League’ on its consumer app, where users receive player stickers after each transaction, collect them and receive Paytm Cashback. It was because of this feature that Google had removed the application from its Play Store. While assuring users that their account balance was safe, Paytm, which competes with Google’s digital payments application GPay in India, said all activities on Paytm are completely lawful. It added that, however, it had temporarily removed the cashback component to meet the Play Store policy rules.  “Today afternoon, we received communication from Google that they are suspending our app because they believe this to be a violation of their policies on gambling. The Paytm Android app has thus been unlisted from Play Store and is temporarily unavailable,” Paytm said.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready to roll out||
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||CCB summons former councillor||The Central Crime Branch probing the drug racket issued a notice to R.V. Yuvraj, former councillor (Sudhama Nagar ward) and son of R.V Devraj who served as MLA for Chamarajpet.
19 September 2020||Guwahati,||First Kolkata nearby||The Bharatiya Gorkha Parishad (BGP) has lauded Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma for supporting the demand for a separate Gorkhaland State. Mr. Sangma had on September 4 written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah saying the Gorkhas deserve their “Bas Bhoomi” (homeland) and their “just and legitimate demand” should be considered. “The BGP welcomes the support extended to the Gorkhaland demand by Mr. Sangma. In his letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, he has batted for a homeland of the Gorkhas and highlighted the contributions made by the Gorkhas in the nation-building process,” Assam-based BGP leader Nanda Kirati Dewan said.
19 September 2020||Guwahati,||Second Kolkata nearby||The tallest grass on earth at its smallest could be among the cheapest immunity boosters for increasing the human body’s resistance to viral attacks, experts have said. The bamboo, considered the grass of life in the northeast, takes care of almost every requirement from birth to death. But the focus of more than 25 experts from 11 countries who converged digitally to mark ‘World Bamboo Day’ on Friday was on the nutraceutical bamboo shoot.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||ASG opposes plea to transfer Jamia probe||Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi on Friday opposed before the Delhi High Court pleas to transfer the probe into the December violence at Jamia Millia Islamia, saying they were “misconceived in law”.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Over 4K new COVID cases push tally to 2.38 lakh||The Capital has recorded 4,127 COVID-19 cases and 30 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,38,828 and the death toll to 4,907. Over 61,000 tests were also conducted in a single day.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||No headway on Cabinet expansion plans||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday fuelled rumours of a possible leadership change, while there was no headway on the Cabinet expansion.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||KSRTC to resume services to Maharashtra||After a gap of almost six months, the KSRTC is resuming services to Maharashtra. From September 22, buses will run to the neighbouring State from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Davangere and other points.
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai nearby||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday postponed the foundation stone laying ceremony of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar’s statue at Indu Mills compound after only 16 dignitaries being invited for the event led to discontent in political circles. Mr. Thackeray said, “It is everyone’s wish to build a grand memorial to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar at Indu Mills. There cannot be political or organisational differences in it.” Only a few people had been invited to the function to maintain social distancing. “The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority did all the preparations. However, I brought to their notice that everyone needs to be part of such an important programme. I have directed that the event be postponed and all important dignitaries be invited,” Mr. Thackeray said.
19 September 2020||Chennai,||State records 5,488 fresh infections||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 5,30,908, with another 5,488 persons testing positive on Friday. Sixty-seven persons died of the virus. In Chennai, 989 persons tested positive.
19 September 2020||Chennai,||No criminal contempt case against Suriya: HC||The Madras High Court on Friday declined to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against actor Suriya for his remarks against the judiciary in the light of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET).
19 September 2020||Bhopal,||HC directs M.P. to free man held under NSA||The Indore Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has quashed an order of the Indore District Magistrate invoking provisions of the National Security Act (NSA), 1980 based on “media trial” on a former corporator for reportedly organising a Muharram procession. A Division Bench of Justices S.C. Sharma and Shailendra Shukla on September 15 directed the State government to set former Corporator Usman Patel, 60, free along with three other persons detained under similar charges. The court observed, in the case of Mr. Patel, “The District Magistrate has formed his opinion on the basis of media trial. It is unfortunate that media trial has become very common these days and now the adjudicating authorities are delivering their judgments based on media trials. Resultantly, there appears to be total non-application of mind on the part of the District Magistrate”. District Magistrate Manish Singh, in his order, while referring to news reports in Hindi dailies Nai Duniya, Dainik Bhaskar, People’s Samachar , invoked the NSA against Mr. Patel, claiming he had reportedly provoked members of the Muslim community to take part in droves in the procession, thereby violating prohibitory orders and physical distancing norms. The judges observed the detention order of Mr. Patel had been passed only because he had participated in a procession and “that itself is certainly not a ground” for detaining him under the NSA. No longer in force The court, while hearing four petitions together, further held that as the detention orders were not confirmed by the State government within 12 days, they were no longer in force, according to Sub-Section 4 of Section 3 of the NSA. While hearing the petition by Tanveer Patel, son of Mr. Usman Patel, the Justices wondered how an opinion was formed by the District Magistrate merely on the basis of newspaper clippings, in the absence of any other cogent material. Earlier, Mr. Patel had quit the BJP after protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, before joining the Congress.
19 September 2020||Srinagar,||Pak. shelling makes villagers flee in panic||A heavy exchange of fire and mortars was reported along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district on Friday, as Chief of the Army Staff (COAS) Gen. M.M. Naravane concluded his two-day visit to J&K and left for Delhi . “Pakistan initiated an unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Kanzalwan, Gurez Sector, Bandipora, on Friday morning by firing mortars and other weapons. A befitting response was given”, a Srinagar-based Army spokesman said. An official said many forward defence locations were targeted by the Pakistani Army in the Bagtore Sector. “There were no reports of casualties,” he said. The shelling started around 11 a.m., according to locals. Scores of villagers fled in panic, especially those living in the Bagtore Sector. “Necessary steps are being taken to shift the locals to safer locations,” the officials said. Around 4.30 p.m., the Pakistan Army also fired from small arms and launched mortar shelling in Poonch’s Balakot Sector, an Army official said. An Army spokesman said Gen. Naravane had a “first-hand assessment of the situation along the LoC in north Kashmir” on Thursday. ‘Effective management’ An official spokesman said Gen. Naravane also met Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha and “discussed issues related to effective management of internal and external security”. A Raj Bhawan spokesman said, “The discussion was particularly in the context of attempts at infiltration and the steps required to be taken for more effectively dealing with terrorist activities.” An official said Gen. Naravane, during his visit, commended the use of technology to ensure effective day and night surveillance across the LoC, “which has resulted in many successful operations to foil infiltration bids from Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK)”.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka reports 179 deaths in highest daily toll||Karnataka had 5,02,982 cases as of Friday, as 8,626 people tested positive. Over 75% of the case load was recorded after August 1.With 1,01,129 active cases on Friday, Karnataka was just behind Maharashtra. Fuelled by a rise in cases in Bengaluru, the situation in Karnataka took a turn for the worse from the beginning of July by breaching the 2,000 mark daily, initially.The State reported 179 more deaths, the highest on a single day. The State reported 148 deaths on August 25. It was another day of 4,000-plus COVID-19 cases in Kerala with 4,167 testing positive on Friday. The number of samples tested increased to 47,723. Telangana reported 11 more deaths on Thursday, pushing up COVID-related deaths to 1,016, an official bulletin said on Friday. There were 2,043 positive cases. A total of 50,634 samples were tested of which 22,279 were from primary contacts of patients. While 1,16,932 patients were asymptomatic, 30% showed symptoms. Data showed 61.83% of positive cases were men, and those in the 21-30 age group made up 24.24%, followed by the 31-40 age group (23.51%). Greater Hyderabad continued to record the highest number of cases at 314 on September 17, Rangareddy had 174, Medchal Malkajgiri 144, Nalgonda 131, Siddipet 121 and Karimnagar 114. Andhra Pradesh reported 8,096 new cases and 67 deaths on Friday. As on date, 84,423 patients were under treatment. The daily positivity rate of tests was coming down. East and West Godavari districts reported over 1,000 new cases each, the former at a fresh high. The new cases and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (1,405 & 6), West Godavari (1,035 & 4), Chittoor (902 & 7), Prakasam (713 & 3), Guntur (513 & 6), Srikakulam (496 & 5), Krishna (487 & 7), Vizianagaram (487 & 3), Nellore (468 & 5), Anantapur (463 & 5), Kadapa (419 & 8), Visakhapatnam (371 & 6) and Kurnool (337 & 2). Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 5,30,908 with another 5,488 persons testing positive for the infection on Friday. As many as 5,525 persons were discharged, and 67 more persons died. In Chennai, a total of 989 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 16 persons died. The cases remained high in Coimbatore - 543 (including an imported case). Four districts had 200-plus cases - Salem (288), Chengalpattu (265), Tiruvallur (258) and Cuddalore (254). Fourteen districts including Tiruppur and Thanjavur had 100-plus cases. With 139 new cases, Villupuram’s overall tally surpassed 10,000. The number of active cases in the State stood at 46,506 of which Chennai accounted for 9,946 persons and Coimbatore had 4,034 persons. Till now, a total of 4,75,717 persons were discharged in the State, while the toll climbed to 8,685.   (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Hyderabad, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)
19 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Over 250 farmer outfits call for a ‘Bharat Bandh’||Several farmers outfits have announced an intensified agitation after the Union government passed three agriculture Bills in the Lok Sabha. Over 250 farmer and farm-worker organisations, under the umbrella of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), have given a call for a ‘Bharat bandh’ on September 25. “The working group of the AIKSCC has decided to forcefully go ahead with its opposition to the Bills and on September 25, we will hold a ‘Bharat bandh’ in protest,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartaiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda) in Punjab, which is a part of the AIKSCC.     Sarvan Singh Pandher of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti, which had been staging continuous protests (sit-in) in Punjab since September 7, on Friday announced a “rail roko” agitation in Punjab from September 24. In Haryana, as many as 17 farmer outfits that have joined hands under the flag of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni) announced continuation of their protest. “On September 20, we will block all major roads between 12 noon and 3 p.m ... We will also support the Bharat bandh,” said Rakesh Bains of the BKU.
19 September 2020||Patna,||Farmers being misled: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asserted that some people in the country were trying to mislead farmers over agriculture Bills. “Misinformation is being spread in the country today by some people that farmers will not be getting right prices of their produce but our government is committed to helping farmers get fair prices…now they can sell their produce anywhere in the country without any restrictions”, he said, inaugurating and flagging off railway projects worth Rs. 2,700 crore in Bihar. Referring to the new farm Bills, the Prime Minister said, “The farmers of the country will get freedom from middlemen and they will get more options and opportunities to sell their produce… these Bills have come as a raksha kawach [protection safety] for them. But some people are spreading different kinds of misinformation about farm Bills…they’re protesting for the sake of protest. Farmers are watching them…they’re very much aware as to who are the middlemen”. ‘Tall claims’ They (the protesters) made tall claims about MSP [Minimum Support Price] but never fulfilled them for farmers’ benefit, he said. But the NDA government had done it, he noted. “I appeal to all farmers of the country to beware of those who are spreading misinformation over farm bills… these people who have been in power for decades and have spoken so much about farmers and agricultural issues have done nothing for them”, he said in an oblique reference to the Congress. “My government is committed to giving right MSP to farmers… there are arrangements that farmers of the country get the right MSP... Our government has been continuously trying to remove each and every problem of farmers ... through Pradhan Mantri Kisan Kalyan Yojna, Rs. 1 lakh crore has been directly transferred to the accounts of 10 crore farmers of the country.... I want to convey to you [farmers] that you should not be misled by anyone... ” he stated. The Lok Sabha has passed The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and its lone representative in the Union Cabinet, Harsimrat Kaur Badal, resigned over the Bills pushed by the government.
19 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Hooda demands special House session on farm Bills||Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday led a delegation of party MLAs and submitted a memorandum at the office of Governor Satyadev Narayan Arya here, demanding a ‘special session’ of the House to reject the Centre’s agriculture sector-related Bills, on the lines of Punjab. The former Chief Minister said the State farmers were facing an existential crisis due to the three “anti-farmer black laws”, which the Union government brought in Parliament. They would take away the protection provided to farmers, he alleged. “The situation demands a political consensus and it’s important that all parties raise their voice in the interest of the State’s farmers. A special session of the Assembly should be called and these three laws should be rejected outright, on the lines of Punjab. These laws should be discussed in the House so that people will know which party and member stands with the farmer and who is against them,” he said. A resolution should be passed in the Assembly against the Bills because the agriculture and market systems were in the jurisdiction of the State and the House had the legal and moral right to discuss this and voice the will of people, he stated.  ‘Not acceptable’ “Laws that dismantle the existing market system and take away the MSP [Minimum Support Price] guarantee are not acceptable to the State’s people and farmers. Also, a Bill should be brought in the Assembly in which farmers should be guaranteed MSP under the M.S. Swaminathan C2 formula. The provision of MSP with C2 benefits should be added. If a private agency buys a crop of the farmer for less than the MSP, then it should be ready for the legal consequences,” he added.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks response to plea to ban ART in livestock||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to a plea to ban Artificial Reproduction Technique (ART), including Artificial Insemination (AI), used on livestock and other animals. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde issued notice to the government, the Animal Husbandry Department, the Animal Welfare Board of India, and the National Biodiversity Authority. The petition was filed by Madurai resident Dr. S. Venkatesh. The petition said ART performed on livestock/animals without any proven biomedical need was cruel, illegal, mala fide and contrary to the established principles of law. It said invasive techniques were used on animals which were not even anaesthetised to the pain but merely restrained physically. “Reproduction is a basic natural and biological need as well as urge of all living beings... No authority can arbitrarily trample or destroy the rights or needs of any living being, including animals, by means of policy or practice, which in itself against nature and natural principles,” the petition said. Bypassing and preventing natural mating, and artificially reproducing as a principle/policy is by itself cruel, not to mention the cruelty or pain inflicted by the artificial process and the methods of reproduction in animals, it said. The petition said ART is violative of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, the Biological Diversity Act and the Environment (Protection) Act.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sitharaman rebuts Oppn. criticism on ‘act of God’ remark||As Opposition MPs slammed the Centre’s handling of COVID-19, the economic crisis, the GST stand-off with States and the lack of data on migrant worker deaths and job losses in the Lok Sabha on Friday, speaker after speaker poured special scorn on Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement terming the impact of the pandemic an “act of God”. In response, Ms. Sitharaman said those criticising her “act of God” statement were acting with condescension towards a woman Minister, noting that it had the same meaning as the “force majeure” clause repeatedly invoked in legal arguments. Given that there was no cure or vaccine for the virus, and the government did not wish to raise money through heavier taxation, the Centre was taking all steps to deal with the situation and move the country towards stability and recovery, she said. MPs were discussing the first batch of supplementary demands for grants for 2020-21, with the Lok Sabha finally approving a gross additional expenditure of Rs. 2.35 lakh crore, including net cash outgo of almost Rs. 1.67 lakh crore. ‘Pandemic as excuse’ “This government has got COVID-19 as a blessing in disguise. The government can now blame all its policy failures on this act of God. But people shouldn't forget that the failure of a once-promising economy is not an act of god but an act of bad governance,” said BSP MP Ritesh Pandey. Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Roy also noted that “the economy was in a downward spiral even before the pandemic struck”, and asked the government to allocate more money to demand-side interventions like the MGNREGA scheme and recognise that unemployment is the biggest problem at the current time, rather than wasting its time on selling off airports and PSUs. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury called for a scheme for migrant workers. Ms Sitharaman also refuted criticism that the Centre was withholding money from the States, noting that the total transfer to States, was higher than last year.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||RS passes Bill to slash salaries of MPs||The Bill to reduce the salaries of parliamentarians by 30% for one year to meet the exigencies arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic was cleared by Rajya Sabha on Friday even as the government came under a sharp attack from the Opposition for not cutting down on “luxuries” like the Central Vista redevelopment project and construction of a new Parliament building. Lok Sabha had passed the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020 bill earlier this week. It will replace the Salary, Allowances And Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, that was cleared by the Cabinet on April 6 and promulgated the next day. Congress MP from Maharashtra Rajeev Satav said he fully supports the Bill and was willing to work for Rs. 1 if that would aid COVID-19 response. But he pointed out that while the government wants to save Rs. 8,000 cr by suspending MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) Fund, it is willing to spend more than Rs. 20,000 on the Central Vista redevelopment project. Many older buildings Mr. Satav also said the government’s claim that the present Parliament building is old is wrong. Across the world, parliaments of many nations are functioning out of buildings older than the Indian Parliament like the Dutch Parliament built in the 13th century, the Italian Parliament in the 16th century, the French Parliament in the 17th century, the U.S. Senate in the 1800s and the British Parliament in 1840. “Our Parliament is less than hundred years old,” he said. The government could have pushed the project by another four to five years, till the COVID-19 fight is done with, Mr. Satav added. DMK MP P. Wilson said that in 2012 the then Parliamentary Affairs Minister had said the expenses incurred for conducting Parliament per session is Rs. 2.5 lakh per minute. “The savings due to the introduction of the bill is roughly around Rs. 4 crore rupees in one year. However, the money spent by us in considering and passing this Bill is around Rs. 6 crore since it is going to occupy four hours in both Houses to pass this Bill. Thus, this Bill doesn’t cut down expenses but has created loss to the exchequer to the tune of Rs. 1.4 crore,” he said. At the same time, he said, his party was not opposed to the pay cut. He added that perhaps it is time to tighten the purse strings by shedding other expenses by the government. “It is extraordinary that the Centre has turned to the MPLAD scheme to generate funds, when vanity projects like the Rs. 20,000 crore Delhi Vista project, which is useful to none, are still on the table. The government owes about Rs. 1,147 crore to Air India for the travel of VVIPs. It has also spent Rs. 5,200 crores in advertisements since 2014-15,” Mr. Wilson said.  RJD MP Manoj K. Jha also echoed the sentiments by saying that a new Parliament building and a redeveloped Central Vista is a “luxury” that the country can’t afford at this time. Replying to the debate, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Opposition’s criticism about the Central Vista project is contrary to its demand that the government should initiate public spending to revive the economy. Mr. Joshi also addressed Mr Wilson’s criticism. “The saving from the bill is not Rs. 6 crore, but Rs. 53.83 crore,’ he said.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC asks Gunjan Saxena for her view on Netflix biopic||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked former Flight Lieutenant Gunjan Saxena, based on whose life Netflix movie Gunjan Saxena - The Kargil Girl was made, to give her stand on the allegations that the movie depicted the Indian Air Force (IAF) in a bad light. Justice Rajiv Shakdher asked Ms. Saxena, who was represented by senior advocate Dayan Krishnan, to respond if she agreed with what had been shown in the film. “I want to know your [Ms. Saxena’s] assessment of the film,” Justice Shakdher said, further asking Ms. Saxena if there was any violation of her agreement with the producers of the film. The court posted the case for hearing on October 15. During the brief hearing, senior advocate Krishnan said his instructions from Ms. Saxena were that she had seen the film and, in fact, she felt it glorified the IAF. “That’s all I can say,” Mr. Krishnan said, adding that he would provide a proper response to the High Court’s specific queries. The Ministry of Defence and the IAF, in the suit filed through the Central government’s standing counsel Gaurang Kanth, has claimed that facts had been “completely distorted” in the film to give an impression to the public at large that the IAF practices gender bias and discrimination. The suit stated that the movie was never shown to the preview committee, set up in accordance with the Ministry of Defence’s 2013 guidelines, and that the producers of the movie went ahead with the release of the movie on Netflix without obtaining a no objection certificate (NOC) from the IAF. The Ministry stated that a historical film made on the IAF, based on the life story of a war hero, has to be based on true incidents or instances, as the audience watching such a biopic film assumes they were actual and true events. It said the IAF “has always provided equal opportunities to meritorious officers irrespective of their gender, caste, region, religion, etc.” Dharma Productions, the producers of the film, had previously stated that the movie was only “inspired” by Ms. Saxena’s life. The High Court had in previous hearings refused to stay the streaming of the movie, as sought by the Defence Ministry.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||336 railway employees died of COVID-19, Goyal tells RS||Over 300 railway employees have lost their lives due to COVID-19, the government said on Friday, adding that no special compensation was given to the families of those deceased. As per the data shared by Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in the Rajya Sabha, the total COVID-19 cases among the railway employees stood at 14,714, while the deceased was 336. A maximum of over 2,200 infections were reported by the South Central Railway, followed by 1,323 cases in the Central Railway, 1,307 in the Northern Railway, 1,145 in the Southern Railway and 1,013 cases in the East Central Railway. Asked whether any special compensation was given to the families of those deceased due to COVID-19, Mr. Goyal replied in the negative. “Compensation to the family of deceased railway servants who die during performance of their bona fide duties is granted in the form of ex gratia payment as per the guidelines of the Department of Pension and Pensioners Welfare. However, death on account of any disease is not included in these guidelines,” he said. Isolation wards Replying to a separate query on conversion of passenger train coaches into isolation wards, Mr. Goyal said 5,601 coaches had been converted into COVID Care Centres from March till June. The Railways, he added, spent approximately Rs. 60,000 per coach on minor modifications such as removal of middle berth and conversion of one toilet into shower room and provision of medical facilities, including oxygen cylinders and other items. “An average expenditure of approximately Rs. 7,000 has been incurred per patient in the COVID care coaches,” he added. The Minister told Parliament that as on date, 813 coaches had been provided as requisitioned by State governments. These include 503 coaches in Delhi, 270 in Uttar Pradesh and 40 in Bihar. “As per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, these special coaches are to be used by the State governments only after they have exhausted their own medical facilities,” Mr. Goyal said.
19 September 2020||Special Correspondent NEW DELHI,||Central team for Jammu as cases rise||With 9,428 confirmed COVID-19 cases, of which 6,115 are active ones, and 117 deaths in Jammu, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday that it had decided to depute a team to Jammu to support the efforts to strengthen containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of positive cases. The team shall also guide in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and follow-up. “The total cases one week ago was 6,878. Jammu has been reporting doubling time of 15.4 days. The team will comprise S.K. Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC); and Vijay Hadda, professor, Dept. of Pulmonary Critical Care, AIIMS, Delhi,’’ said a release issued by the Ministry. The team, it said, would interact with the Collectors and health officers and visit hospitals in Bakshinagar and Gandhinagar. “These teams interact with the State/UT authorities and get a first-hand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any,’’ said the Ministry. Meanwhile, 87,472 active cases have recovered and discharged in the past 24 hours from home/facility supervised care and hospitals. The total recovered cases thus stands at 41,12,551, said Ministry data. Cases in 5 States The five States with high active caseload were also the ones that were now reporting a high recovery rate. Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh were reporting 59.8% of the active cases. They were also contributing to 59.3% of the total recoveries. Ninety % of the new recoveries were reported from 16 States and UTs, the Ministry said. Maharashtra (19,522) contributed 22.31% of the new recoveries, while Andhra Pradesh (12.24%), Karnataka (8.3%), Tamil Nadu (6.31%) and Chhattisgarh (6.0%) followed with 32.8% of the new recoveries. These States together contributed 55.1% of total new recoveries. “India has also allowed for rational use of ‘Investigational Therapies’ such as Remdesevir, convalescent plasma and Tocilizumab and adopted measures such as use of high-flow oxygen, non-invasive ventilation, use of steroids and anti-coagulants to aid in recoveries. Supervised home isolation, improved services of ambulances have enabled seamless and efficient patient management,’’ noted the Ministry.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Money laundering case: Enforcement Directorate attaches assets worth Rs. 45 cr.||Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on Friday attached immovable and movable properties worth Rs. 45.32 crore belonging to office-bearers of Sri Guru Raghavendra Sahakara Bank Niyamitha and Guru Sarvabhouma Credit Cooperative Limited and their associates in connection with a fraud case. The assets were attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), 2002. The attached movable assets to the tune of Rs. 7.16 crore are in the form of bank balances and fixed deposits belonging to the president, ex-vice-president, former CEO, the incumbent CEO and their associates of both the bank and the cooperative society. The ED has also attached 29 immovable properties worth Rs. 38.16 crore in the form of agricultural land, residential apartments and houses in the name of K. Ramakrishna, late T.S. Sathyanarayana, former CEO late M.V. Maiya, Santosh Kumar A. and various other employees of the two entities. K. Ramakrishna was president and late T.S. Sathyanarayana was vice-president of the two entities. “Between 2016-2019, crores of rupees were transferred from the society (Guru Sarvabhouma Credit Cooperative Ltd.) by the president and M.V. Maiya to the NPA accounts of the bank to reduce the NPA parameter,” said the ED in a statement. It had initiated investigations based on an FIR registered by the Banaswadi police. A detailed probe found that Maiya and others had allegedly embezzled more than Rs. 1,500 crore from a large number of depositors, mostly senior citizens, by promising interest in the range of 12-16% per annum on fixed deposits. Fictitious loan accounts The accused allegedly withdrew money from the bank by creating fictitious loan accounts and did not repay the money. Proceeds of the crime were found to be laundered in the name of many bank employees too. The investigation found that K. Ramakrishna, along with his wife and son, who is one of the directors of Mukhyaprana Agro Farming and Research Info Pvt. Ltd. “layered the proceeds of crime in the name of the company and also in the name of Guru Sarvabhouma Credit Cooperative Ltd. by diverting funds from Sri Guru Raghavendra Sahakara Bank Niyamitha”. Maiya had purchased immovable properties by diverting funds from the bank and society. Employees of the bank and society created fictitious loan accounts and purchased properties in their names and in the name of their associates.
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Chennai Mail, Island Express are likely to be restored||Kerala, left out by Railways from the list of 40 pairs of special trains and 20 pairs of clone trains announced as part of the ‘graded restoration’ of passenger train services, is now looking for the restoration of three prestigious long-distance express trains to Chennai, Bengaluru and Delhi. Although the poor patronage of express trains running within the State and to other cities is continuing, Railways are for restoring the Chennai Mail, Bengaluru-bound Island Express, and the Kerala Express to Delhi, as it will help long-distance commuters. “We have recommended immediate restoration of the Chennai Mail and Island Express to the zonal railway headquartered in Chennai,” a top official told The Hindu . A decision in this regard is expected next week so that the two train services could commence this month itself. Even if the restoration of the Delhi-bound Kerala Express does not come through now, railway authorities say the 02618/02617 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Mangala Express that is running as part of the first tranche of graded restoration of the train services will address the needs of commuters. Failure of the State to make a request to Railways is cited as the main reason for Kerala failing to make it to the list. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs is insisting on an official letter from the State for introduction of more trains. Railway authorities are still unaware of the request from the State. The State is also yet to respond to the clarification sought by the General Manager, Southern Railway, to restore the stoppages of the Shatabdi Specials to Kozhikode and Kannur and back. Officials say the State is of the view that restoration of the stoppages will increase the patronage for Jan Shatabdi and Venad Expresses.
19 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan sets price cap on COVID-19 treatment||The Rajasthan government has capped the price for diagnostic tests and treatment for COVID-19 at private hospitals and laboratories, while listing various medicines, investigations and other services, and incorporating the charges for personal protective equipment (PPE) kit, in the treatment packages. Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here that the decision was taken amid reports that private hospitals were charging an exorbitant fee for COVID-19 treatment. While the rate of RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests at private laboratories for COVID-19 diagnosis was fixed at Rs. 1,200, the cost of treatment was fixed on the basis of accreditation of hospitals by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). According to a notification which has replaced a previous June 20 order, charges for treatment have been kept at Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 9,000 per day at hospitals not certified by NABL. At NABL-accredited hospitals, charges would be Rs. 5,500 to Rs. 9,900 per day. The treatment cost includes the Rs. 1,200 for a PPE kit. Mr. Sharma said the June 20 notification had not specifically mentioned which medicines, investigations and other expenses would be included in the treatment, leading to confusion about the packages offered at private hospitals. The new rates had been fixed to remove the confusion, he said. The treatment for co-morbidities, including intervention procedures such as central line, chemoport, biopsy, bronchoscopy and ascitic and pleural tapping, would be provided at rates not exceeding those fixed in the Central Government Health Scheme. The notification stated that action would be taken against hospitals not complying with the orders.
19 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Bamboo shoots can be among cheapest immunity boosters’||The tallest grass on earth at its smallest could be among the cheapest immunity boosters for increasing the human body’s resistance to viral attacks, experts have said. The bamboo, considered the grass of life in the northeast, takes care of almost every requirement from birth to death. But the focus of more than 25 experts from 11 countries who converged digitally to mark ‘World Bamboo Day’ on Friday was on the nutraceutical bamboo shoot. The term ‘nutraceutical’ is used to describe medicinally or nutritionally functional foods while bamboo shoots are the edible sprouts of the perennial grass. “Bamboo shoots are emerging as high-value and safe edibles and growing in utility globally along with all other value-added bamboo products. The protein content in fresh bamboo shoots, considered as nutraceutical, can range between 1.49-4.04%. They also contain 17 amino acids, eight of which are essential for the human body,” said Syam Vishwanath, director of the Kerala Forest Research Institute. Global market The present global market of bamboo shoots is around $1,700 million. More than 3 million tonnes of bamboo shoots are consumed across the earth annually, but the shoot production and consumption in India are confined mostly to the north-eastern States. “Value-addition which enhances storage and diversification in new-age food products like vegetable protein concentrates can enhance its market potential and consumer acceptability further,” Mr. Vishwanath said. Kamesh Salam, executive director of South Asia Bamboo Foundation, said India had a long way to go before bamboo shoots were appreciated as a superfood. “Countries such as Philippines have worked wonders with bamboo and bamboo shoots vis-a-vis COVID-19,” he told The Hindu after a ‘festival’ to mark ‘World Bamboo Day’ that he had proposed in 2009 during his stint as the president of the World Bamboo Organisation. Bamboo has been a key ingredient in new antimicrobial soaps and hand mists developed by Filipino scientists to fight the novel coronavirus. According to the National Bamboo Mission, India has the highest area (13.96 million hectares) under bamboo and is the second richest country after China in terms of bamboo diversity with 136 species. The annual production of bamboo in India is 14.6 million tonnes and the bamboo-rattan industry in the country was worth Rs. 28,005 crore in 2017. Data with the International Network for Bamboo and Rattan (INBAR) say China exports 68% of the world’s bamboo and rattan products valued at $1,112.
19 September 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal govt., experts spar over NGT order||The West Bengal government and some environmentalists from Kolkata are all set for a showdown in the Supreme Court over allowing one of the biggest water bodies in the heart of the city to be used for Chhath Puja celebrations. The development comes after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) refused to entertain a review petition of the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Agency (KMDA) to allow Rabindra Sarobar, a park and water body in south Kolkata, for Chhath Puja. KMDA, an agency under the State’s Urban Development and Municipal Affairs Department, is the custodian of the Rabindra Sarobar. “We wanted the NGT to allow the park for one day, but unfortunately, the NGT did not allow us. We will approach the Supreme Court,” said Firhad Hakim, the State’s Urban Development Minister. However, environmentalist Subhas Dutta, who had taken the issue to the NGT, said that the State government will face a defeat in the Supreme Court as it did before the NGT. “Instead of adhering to the NGT’s order, the State government is making attempts to violate it,” said Mr. Dutta. In a 2017 order, the NGT had strictly prohibited “performance of any Puja, community picnic or organisation of other social events in and around Rabindra Sarobar”.
19 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Village head shot dead in U.P., four held||In another violent incident ahead of the panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, a village headman in Jaunpur was shot dead by masked assailants, police said on Friday. The murder led to tension in the area as locals staged a road blockade on the Lucknow-Ballia highway demanding action against the culprits. The deceased was identified as Basant Lal Bind, gram pradhan of Amari in Satpatha area of the Purvanchal district. Mr. Bind was allegedly killed by three unknown persons who stormed into a clinic run by him a few kilometres near his village and shot him dead on Thursday evening. Based on the complaint of the pradhan’s son, Praveen Bind, police arrested four of the five persons named by him, said Superintendent of Police Jaunpur Raj Karan Nayyar. Team formed “Four out of the five persons named are in custody and being interrogated,” said the officer. A special team was formed to probe the incident, he added. The inspector in-charge, Sarpatha, was among the three policemen suspended over the incident. The murder comes a month after a pradhan in neighbouring district Azamgarh’s Tarwa area was shot dead, following which enraged locals indulged in vandalism and damaged a police outpost.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||No headway on Karnataka Cabinet expansion plans||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday further fuelled rumours of a possible leadership change in the State, while the main agenda of his Delhi visit — clearance for Cabinet expansion or reshuffle — continued to hang fire. Mr. Yediyurappa late in the evening met party president J.P. Nadda on this thorny issue, apparently as per the direction of the Prime Minister, but nothing concrete emerged. Following the meeting with the Prime Minister, Mr. Yediyurappa told mediapersons that he had a “fruitful and warm meeting” with the Prime Minister. “I discussed development issues of the State, including floods, COVID-19, and irrigation projects. He enquired about my health,” he said. Touchy issue broached? BJP circles, however, were abuzz with rumours that the Prime Minister had broached the subject of leadership change in Karnataka and expressed unhappiness over certain aspects of governance in the State. Several leaders in the State BJP unit speculated that a leadership change was imminent after the Bihar Assembly polls by the year-end. Sources close to the Chief Minister, however, painted a contrary picture of the meeting. “The meeting was scheduled to be for just 15 minutes but was extended to 45 minutes, indicating it was constructive,” said one of his close aides and strategists who has accompanied him to Delhi. They argued that the Prime Minister asking Mr. Yediyurappa to consult Mr. Nadda on Cabinet expansion/reshuffle was itself an indication that leadership change was not on the cards, at least not any time soon. The Chief Minister met Mr. Nadda in the evening, but was not given a go ahead for Cabinet expansion/reshuffle. This only added to rumours that the party leadership had its reservations. Later, Mr. Yediyurappa told mediapersons that he had discussed threadbare the proposed Cabinet expansion with the party president and that Mr. Nadda told him that the party would give him suitable directions after discussions with other leaders. Sources pointed out that Home Minister Amit Shah, who has been taking all key decisions, would be discharged from AIIMS only on Thursday. Waiting for direction “I am waiting for directions from the party and will do as they say. I was keen on carrying out the exercise before the Assembly session. Let us see what the party says,” the Chief Minister said. When quizzed whether it would be a Cabinet expansion or reshuffle, he said that also would depend on the directions from the party leadership. Multiple sources in the party said the main aim of the Chief Minister’s Delhi trip was to secure a clearance for Cabinet reshuffle, in which he was not successful and the matter would continue to remain in limbo for now.
19 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Jail no bar for Hyderabad-based IS handler||Hyderabad-based Abdullah Basith, 26, an alleged key Islamic State handler in India, currently lodged in Tihar jail as an undertrial, has used a smartphone to continue activities behind bars to radicalise youth and carry out his operations. Popular as Khattab Bhai or Khurasani among militant groups, Basith has turned his cell into a broadcasting centre to indoctrinate youth, sources in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said. “The arrest of a few sympathisers recently has revealed that Basith is using a smartphone inside the central prison and is in constant touch with his ‘friends’ outside. Basith using a mobile phone from prison was mentioned in a recently filed chargesheet and the same was informed to jail authorities,” a senior NIA official said. The engineering drop-out from Gulshan Iqbal Colony of Chandrayangutta in the Old City, is also believed to be in contact with radical elements in Bangladesh. “He is in touch with them on various secure messaging applications on how to propagate the ISIS ideology and its activities in India. He is also trying to build up a cadre of ISIS in the country,” the official said. He added that the alleged IS handler’s main channel of communication is WhatsApp, though he is also active on other social media platforms including Facebook and Snapchat. His role in fomenting trouble in the backdrop of protest against Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) came to light after the NIA arrested a Kashmiri couple, Jahanzaib Sami and Hina Bashir Beigh, the operatives of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), for allegedly making use of the protests to instigate Muslims to indulge in arson and riots. In December 2015, Basith and his two cousins were apprehended by the Special Investigation Team of Hyderabad police at Nagpur airport. He was planning to go to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and Afghanistan via Srinagar.
19 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Missing Hyderabad girl’s body found in lake after 15 hours||Fifteen hours after she was reported missing, the body of 12-year-old Sumedha Kapuria was found in a lake about 2 km from her home at Neredmet in Hyderabad on Friday. On Thursday evening, the Class V student, had gone cycling in the neighbourhood with her friends before it started raining in the area. “She left home after informing her father Abhijit. At that time, her mother Sukanya had gone out for some work,” Neredmet Inspector A. Narsimha Swamy said. As she did not return home, the couple, along with family members, started searching for her in the neighbourhood. After speaking to the other children, who had already returned home, they came to know that Sumedha had gone towards the end of the lane on her cycle. They searched in all possible places, and in her private school at Kakatiya Nagar as well but in vain, Mr. Swamy said. As they couldn’t find her, Sumedha’s family members were worried that she could have been kidnapped, and lodged a complaint with the police. While analysing footage of surveillance cameras in the area, the police found that the girl had been riding the bicycle in her colony and had gone towards an open nala (drain). Suspecting that the girl could have accidentally fallen into the open drain due to the heavy rain on Thursday night, the police began a search operation and found her bicycle in the nala on Friday morning. Around 1.30 p.m., they found the girl’s body in Banda Cheruvu, into which the drain joins.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. exhorts BJP allies to take a stand||A day after the exit of Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal from the Narendra Modi Cabinet, the Congress exhorted all other BJP allies to decide their stand on the three agriculture-related Bills. The Bills will come before the Rajya Sabha next on Sunday, where the Opposition does not have enough numbers. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told reporters on Friday that Bihar Chief Minister and JD (U) president Nitish Kumar, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the YSR Congress Party, the AIADMK and all other parties would have to take a stand on the issue. “They will have to decide on whose side they like to stand. Are they with the farmers or against them,” he said. The BJP is the single largest party in the Rajya Sabha with 86 members. The gap between the Congress (40 MPs) and other like-minded parties and the NDA allies is big. The thin attendance, mostly, in the opposition benches, adds to this difference.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||LS erupts over Thakur’s remark on ‘Nehru-Gandhi’ family||The Lok Sabha on Friday was adjourned four times as Treasury and Opposition benches sparred in the House over certain remarks made by the Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur, specifically with regard to the Nehru-Gandhi family. The disturbance began during the introduction of the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020. After speaking for some time during the procedure for the introduction of the bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that her deputy Mr. Thakur would talk about the PM-CARES Fund. Opposition members had raised concerns about the fund. While speaking, Mr. Thakur said the PM National Relief Fund had not been registered till date, and also stressed that the alleged misuse of funds needed to be looked into. When Congress members protested, Mr. Thakur said that “the names of the Nehru and Gandhi family should be taken” and alleged that the “Gandhi family had ruined the country”.  In protest, Congress members walked out of the House. When Speaker Om Birla asked the Minister to stop, Mr. Thakur said that he needed more time to bring out the real face of the Opposition. Amid the din, BJP member from West Bengal Locket Chatterjee also made some remarks that were opposed by Trinamool Congress members. Some Congress members entered the Well of the House raising slogans. The Speaker first adjourned the proceedings for 30 minutes till 4.20 p.m., and later from 4.20 p.m. to 5 p.m., and from 5 p.m. to 5.30 p.m., and then till 6 p.m.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala Minister named a ‘person of interest’ in Customs offences||The Customs Department on Friday named Minister of Higher Education and Welfare of Minorities K.T. Jaleel as a ‘person of interest’ in offences relating to consignments of palm dates and the Koran received by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram in 2017 and 2020 which were allegedly subsequently handed over to the State government. Customs Commissioner Sumit Kumar said the offences pertained to “conspiracy to evade Customs duty by fraudulently claiming exemption.” The Customs would probe the role of the officials of the consulate in the alleged conspiracy. According to a senior official of the department, duty exemption granted to a diplomatic mission is conditional and it remains no longer valid when the conditions are violated. “The consignments of 18 tonnes of palm dates which were stated to be for personal consumption and 4.5 tonnes of the Koran were eventually handed over to others without paying Customs duty. Doesn’t this amount to bypassing the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) norms,” asked the officer. Ideally, either they should have sought permission from the Government of India or paid duty for the freights, he said. The Customs, the official said, was looking into the 12 instances of exemption said to have been granted by the State Protocol Officer to the consulate in 2017. As for the consignment of the Koran in March this year, the official said that since Dr. Jaleel had himself admitted to receiving a part of the cargo, the agency would take a thorough look into it before summoning the Minister for questioning. “But it is not going to end there, as it involves dealings with a foreign mission. We need to find out the authority in the Kerala government that had granted permission to do all this,” he added.  18 tonnes of dates, 4.5 tonnes of the Koran handed over to others without paying Customs duty.
19 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Death of two sloth bears worries Nandankanan zoo authorities||Authorities at the Nandankanan Zoological Park (NZP) are concerned over the back-to-back deaths of two sloth bears at the park. A total of three bears have died in the Nandankanan zoo since August 30. One of them was a Himalayan black bear and the death was said to be age-related. But the deaths of two sloth bears is said to be a cause for worry. “On Wednesday, a male sloth bear named Debasish, which was rescued in 2013, died. It was only seven years old. It probably died due to irreversible neurological disorders,” said NZP Deputy Director B.P. Acharya here.  ‘Haemorrhages found’ On Thursday, a female sloth bear called Aarti died with similar symptoms at the NZP. Sources said multiple haemorrhages were detected in both bears. After the death of the three bears, the NZP is left with 14 bears. Suspecting some kind of viral infection, the authorities have kept the bears in separate cells. Blood samples have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly, to assess the cause of death. The zoo authorities are also trying to get in touch with national experts on sloth bears to prevent further deaths. In 2019, four out of the eight elephants in the park died within a span of one month due to Elephant Endotheliotropic Herpesvirus.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai police bust a gang indulging in online loan fraud in Namakkal||The Cyber Crime Cell of the Adyar police busted a gang, operating from Komarapalayam in Namakkal district, swindling money from people here and elsewhere under the pretext of offering quick online loans. On September 9, Karuppaih, a driver from Kallukuttai, approached V. Vikraman, Deputy Commissioner of Adyar, alleging that in March, a young woman called him up and said she was from a leading financial services firm. She offered him a personal loan Rs. 2 lakh at a cheaper rate of interest and said the loan would be sanctioned immediately. He agreed to get the loan and shared Aadhaar, debit card and PAN card details with her on WhatsApp. A few minutes later, she asked him to share a one-time password and verification code. After he gave the password and the code, Rs. 20,000 was debited from his account and the loan was not credited. He tried to reach the woman but in vain. Investigation revealed that the phone number was used only for outgoing transactions and sending SMS. The SIM card was obtained with fake documents. “After analysing signals, we traced the mobile number to an illegal call centre at Komarapalayam in Namakkal district. A special team of police arrested Kumerasan, who was running the call centre, in the name of Feather Lite, with 17-year-old girls for making phone calls to potential victims,” Mr. Vikraman said. “Once the victims showed interest, their Aadhaar and other important documents were collected. These were used for creating accounts with two private banks which allow for creating accounts online [without the customer having to visit the premises even once], and new accounts were created in the names of the victims. They withdrew money from the existing accounts of the victims and transferred [it] to newly created accounts. After withdrawing the money from the ATM, the accounts were closed,” Mr. Vikraman said. “In some instances, the suspect transferred the money to an online gaming portal which allows him to transfer it to his account. We have traced all these electronic evidence,” he said. The police also arrested Kumerasan’s associates, who are all native of Komarapalayam.
19 September 2020||KASARAGOD,||3 more cheating cases against Kamaruddin||Three more cheating cases have been filed in the past two days against MLA M.C. Kamaruddin, chairman of Fashion Gold International, which is being probed for a gold investment scam. On Friday, Khairunnisa T.C., a resident of Mavilakaduparamba, who invested 227.68 gm gold in the firm in 2017, filed a case against the company at the Chandera police station in Kasaragod district. Similarly, two other persons, Safiya and Mohammed Khadhim from Vadakkumpad in Thrikaripur, filed cases on Thursday alleging that they were cheated by the MLA after they invested Rs. 12.50 lakh and Rs. 10.50 lakh in the firm in 2017. So far, 54 cases for cheating have been filed against the MLA. All these cases will be handed over to the Crime Branch team investigating the case. Meanwhile, Zainabuddin, former general manager of the companies started by the MLA, has claimed that Fashion Gold Jewellery has been incurring loss since sales fell in 2014.
19 September 2020||Srinagar,||‘Powers under AFSPA exceeded in Shopian’||The Army on Friday said it has concluded the inquiry ordered into the Shopian encounter of July 18 and suggested that the powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) were “exceeded during the operation”. “During the operation, the powers vested under the AFSPA, 1990, were exceeded and the do’s and don’ts of Chief of Army Staff [COAS] as approved by the Supreme Court have been contravened,” a Srinagar-based Army spokesperson said. The spokesperson said the inquiry has brought out “certain prima facie evidence”. “Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed that disciplinary proceedings be initiated under the Army Act against those found prima facie answerable,” the spokesperson said. The evidence, collected during the inquiry, has prima facie indicated that the three unidentified terrorists killed in Amshipora in Shopian on July 18 were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohammad Abrar, all labourers who hailed from Rajouri in the Pir Panjal Valley. Earlier, the security forces had claimed all the three killed were “unidentified militants” and were buried in a graveyard in north Kashmir. “Their DNA report is awaited. Their involvement with terrorism or related activities is under investigation by the police,” the Army said. The families of the three missing youth claimed that they spoke to them just a day before the Shopian operation was conducted jointly by the police and the Army.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Paytm back on app store after Google rap||Paytm Founder and CEO tweeted, “Thanks everyone for your support! Paytm App is back, live in Play Store. We launched a UPI CashBack campaign this morning. Our app got suspended by Google for this. India, you decide if giving cash back is gambling.” Ahead of the start of Indian Premier League, Suzanne Frey, Vice President, Product, Android Security and Privacy a Google, said the company does not allow online casinos or support any unregulated gambling apps that facilitate sports betting. “This includes if an app leads consumers to an external website that allows them to participate in paid tournaments to win real money or cash prizes, it is a violation of our policies,” she said. She added that these policies are there to protect users from potential harm. When an app violates these policies, Google notifies the developer of the violation and removes the app from Google Play until the developer brings the app into compliance, Ms. Frey said. Ms. Frey added, “Google Play is designed to provide a safe and secure experience for our consumers while also giving developers the platform and tools they need to build sustainable businesses. Our global policies have always been designed with that goal in mind, considering the good of all our stakeholders. We have the same goals for our gambling policy.”
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||‘Asymptomatic positive migrants can’t work’||The State government has scrapped its September 14 order allowing asymptomatic COVID-19-positive migrant labourers to work by adopting precautionary measures. “If the migrant worker is found COVID positive, he shall be segregated and shall not be allowed to work till he recovers from COVID-19,” says a modified order issued by the General Administration Department on Thursday. Other conditions The other conditions in the order remain the same. Employees who arrive in Kerala will remain in quarantine for 14 days. The contractor should provide them with individual rooms which are safe and hygienic. Employees who arrive without certification to prove that they have undergone the COVID-19 test will take the antigen test on the fifth day. The cost of the test will be borne by the contractor. The order further requires project workers, technical officers and other staff to be kept in isolation and tested for COVID-19 using antigen or RT-PCR test if they are symptomatic.  Protocols sacred Employees who test negative should follow the COVID-19 protocols and take care not to mix with the local populace. They should remain confined to their place of work and accommodation, says the order.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,||‘National security plan for safe cyber space soon’||The Union government is set to come up with National Cyber Security Strategy 2020 for ensuring a safe, secured, trusted and resilient cyber space, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval has said. He was delivering the keynote address at c0c0n, the two-day virtual international conference on hacking and cybersecurity, being organised jointly by the Kerala police, the Society for the Policing of Cyber Space and the Information Security and Research Association. Mr. Doval said that the proposed strategy aimed at bringing together all cybersecurity agencies for securing, strengthening and synergising the cybersecurity ecosystem by closely associating with businesses, citizens and beyond. He said that attempts were being made by adversaries to exploit the crisis in the wake of the pandemic through various misinformation, fake news and social media campaigns. He said that phishing campaigns using the COVID-19 theme targeted banks, defence and critical infrastructure during this period. Increase in crime “Malicious domains and websites to the tune of around 5,000 were registered in a short span of time. We have also witnessed an increase of 500% in cybercrime owing to people’s limited awareness and poor cyber hygiene. Financial frauds have also increased owing to the increased reliance on digital payment platforms,” he said.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Media should not target minorities, says SC||Justice Chandrachud said the court did not have a problem with Sudarshan TV exercising its journalistic privilege to investigate an organisation’s funding in public interest but the channel had no business to make sweeping comments about the entire Muslim community. It crossed the Rubicon when it implied that civil services aspirants from the community had terror links. Not every child can afford to enrol for elite UPSC coaching classes. They may be helped by organisations to enter civil services. These students may also be from other religious communities... “Is it right to imply they have infiltrated UPSC and have terror links,” Justice Chandrachud asked. ‘Plainly hurtful’ Justice Indu Malhotra said such content was “plainly hurtful”. The Sudarshan TV show has smeared an entire community. Justice Chandrachud said, “Flames come up on the screen, bearded people in skull caps and the colour green are featured when a reference to a Muslim is made in the show. Every time you refer to the UPSC, you show ISIS and jihad. You suggest a deep-rooted conspiracy.” Justice K.M. Joseph said several communities run institutions to help students crack the civil services exam. “Communities run institutions for their children to attempt civil services. These attacks will marginalise people who want to come into mainstream... You may end up driving them into the wrong hands. Every community strives to have a voice in the bureaucracy. Every community wants to have a slice of power. What is wrong in that?” Though calling media regulatory bodies such as the News Broadcasters Association “toothless”, the court asked them and the government to suggest measures to strengthen media self-regulation. The court said it would not have stepped in and ordered an injunction on the Sudarshan TV show recently had there been a strong self-regulatory mechanism. Justice Chandrachud said, “A pre-telecast injunction is like a nuclear missile. The court would not have intervened had the government, regulatory bodies had a viable mechanism for self-regulation.” The court agreed that a pre-telecast ban is an “extreme recourse”. Justice Chandrachud said, “We are very conscious of the fact that pre-publication, pre-telecast ban by us is a matter of extreme recourse. We do not do it easily. It could take us down a slippery slope... This court is circumspect about clamping down on any news/opinions. Only in certain narrow range of issues is it [pre-telecast ban] done, like child sexual abuse cases, gender violence or cases regarding matrimonial or even any personal relationship.”
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘10 patrolling points in Ladakh blocked by PLA’||As per the disengagement plan agreed between the Corps Commanders of India and China on June 30, the two sides agreed to pull back from all the friction points and decided that “depth areas” such as the Depsang plains in the north, where China has amassed troops, will be looked into. However, so far the Chinese transgression at Depsang has not been discussed and in none of the government statements it finds a mention. As reported by The Hindu , about 1,000 sq. km. of surface area in Ladakh along the LAC is said to be under Chinese control, with Indian troops denied access to patrolling since early this year. The major part — 972 sq. km. — lies in Depsang. Patrolling points 10-13, which have been obstructed, fall in Depsang. The entire stretch along the LAC has witnessed “worrisome hardening of Chinese positions” since April-May, with China occupying a considerable area from Finger 4 to 8 near Pangong Tso. The distance between Finger 4-8, the mountainous spurs abutting the lake, is around 8 km. This was till now patrolled both by India and China as India’s perception of LAC ends at Finger 8. “The areas currently blocked by the Chinese have always been patrolled by the Indian troops. In all the meetings so far, we have demanded the restoration of status quo ante before April,” said the second official. After the Foreign Ministers of both countries– S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi, met in Moscow on September 10 and agreed on a five-point solution to ease the border tension, there has been no clarity on when the Corps Commanders will meet. Since June, the Corps Commanders have met on five occasions- the latest one took place on August 2. The north and south banks of Pangong have witnessed firing in the air on multiple occasions since August 30, a first of its kind escalation since 1975. On June 15, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes with the Chinese.
19 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||CBI searches properties of BJD MLA in chit fund scam||After a hiatus, the Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the chit fund scams in Odisha saw renewed activity on Friday with searches at the official residence and other properties of senior Biju Janata Dal MLA Debiprasad Mishra. The CBI team spent three hours at Mr. Mishra’s house though he was in isolation after testing positive for COVID-19. Sources said the raid pertained to his alleged involvement in the Rs. 578 crore-Seashore chit fund scam, especially the Mahanadi Boat Project at Cuttack. The CBI officers also raided other properties related to Mr. Mishra at Cuttack, Bhadrak and Narasinghpur. “The case has been continuing since 2013 and the CBI knows all papers,” said Mr. Mishra. “The papers are with the Tourism Department. I was merely a Minister. The CBI had already been handed over all papers,” he said.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘113 complaints on lack of food, water on Shramik Specials’||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) had received 113 complaints from passengers regarding unavailability of food and water on board 4,621 Shramik Specials, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on Friday. Asked about the number of Shramik trains which lost their way and travelled in the wrong direction, the Minister replied in the negative. “Very few trains were routed through alternate non-congested routes,” he said.
19 September 2020||Bijapur,||Naxals kill CAF jawan in Chhattisgarh||A Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) jawan, who had been missing, was killed by Naxals in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district, police said on Friday. The body of constable Mallu Ram Suryawanshi, 38, who had been missing from his camp since last week, was found on the Bijapur-Gangloor road near Padeda village on Friday morning, a police official said. A police team later shifted the body to a hospital for post-mortem, the official added. Pamphlet recovered A pamphlet was recovered from the spot. The Gangaloor area committee of Maoists claimed responsibility for the jawan’s murder, he said. Suryanwanshi, a native of Bilaspur district in the State, was attached to the 17th Battalion of the CAF. He was posted in the Battalion’s pioneer company which handles construction work, including setting up police camps in the interior areas, the official said. Cause of death  Prima facie , it seems the jawan was killed with sharp-edged weapons but the exact cause of the death will be known only after the autopsy, the police official said. A search operation has been launched to trace the assailants, the official added. With this, eight people — three policemen, a forest official and four civilians — have been killed in separate Naxal-related incidents in Bijapur district in the last one month, he said.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||VAIBHAV to be held online from Oct. 2||The Department of Science and Technology and the Defence Research and Development Organisation will be organising a month-long session of webinars and online discussions involving non-resident Indian (NRI) scientists. The event will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 2. The Vaishwik Bharatiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV) Summit, as it is called, is being organised to help develop a “comprehensive road map to leverage the expertise and knowledge of global Indian researchers for solving emerging challenges. By bringing the Indian overseas and resident academicians/scientists together, a structure of association will be evolved,” says the programme website. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, told The Hindu that several eminent researchers would be participating in the summit. “The end product will be a road map and broad direction on the kind of research that will benefit India in the future.” Key areas of discussion will include: quantum technologies, artificial intelligence and machine learning, electronics and semi-conductor technologies, communications technologies, photonics, computational and data sciences and aerospace technologies among others.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Nature’s fury||
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Oppn. parties call for a shorter session||Three Opposition parties — Trinamool Congress, NCP and DMK — have approached the government, calling for a shorter session owing to the rising COVID-19 cases. However, sources said the government is in no mood to curtail the session till all the 11 ordinances are cleared. The parties conveyed to Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi that the longer Parliament runs, the greater will be the exposure for MPs. So far, three MPs have died of COVID-19 — two from the Lok Sabha (Tirupati MP Balli Durga Prasad and Kanniyakumari MP H. Vasanthakumar) and one from the Rajya Sabha (Ashok Gasti). According to sources, Trinamool’s Derek O’ Brien, NCP’s Praful Patel and DMK’s Tiruchi Siva met Mr. Joshi on Friday, a day after BJP MP Vinay Sahasrabuddhe tested positive.
19 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Chautala meets Khattar over protests||Amid the ongoing protests over the agriculture reform Bills, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, whose Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) is part of the coalition government, on Friday met Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to discuss the issue, even as the Congress mounted pressure on him to step down. JJP leader and Indian National Students Organization national president Digvijay Singh Chautala said the party’s coalition with the BJP in Haryana was on strong footing. He added that there was no pressure on the party to leave the alliance in the backdrop of resignation of Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cleared the doubts of the farmers on the farm ordinances and the country must trust him,” he said.
19 September 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. hospital accused of negligence||Groups working with survivors of the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy have accused the Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC) of negligence, reportedly causing the deaths of six COVID-19 patients in 16 days. In a letter to the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, the groups, while sharing details of the patients who reportedly died from September 1 to 16, claimed there was no full-time doctor posted at the isolation ward, and no treatment for COVID-19 was being administered to them at the Indian Council of Medical Research-run institute. “Keeping in view the vulnerability of gas survivors, the BMHRC should have prepared for this crisis. We are hoping the committee directs it to start a 40 ICU [intensive care unit] and HDU [high dependency unit] bed unit to cater to survivors suffering from COVID-19 at the earliest,” said Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information and Action. The BMHRC’s director and public relations officer didn’t take calls.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Can’t quash FIR against Dua if offence is made out’||The government on Friday argued in the Supreme Court that a sedition First Information Report (FIR) against senior journalist Vinod Dua could not be quashed even if one of the offences listed against him is made out. The FIR was registered against Mr. Dua for his YouTube broadcast allegedly blaming the government for its COVID-19 preparedness and making personal allegations against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice U. U. Lalit, Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju submitted that even an attempt to disobey an order promulgated by a public servant (Section 188 IPC) or giving provocation with intent to cause a riot (Section 153 IPC) amounts to a cognisable offence. Earlier, Mr. Raju had raised the submission on whether a journalist comes under the legal definition of a “professional”. He said a professional was someone who had a client relationship. The government argued that a journalist was like any other citizen.
19 September 2020||CHANDIGARH / NEW DELHI,||‘Cong. responsible for farm Bills’||A day after Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) quit the government over three agriculture sector Bills, pushed by the NDA government, the party has decided to “expose” the Congress party, which it accused of adopting ‘double-speak’ on the issue. At meeting of its core committee on Friday, the party discussed the different aspects of the alliance with the NDA, but the focus remained on sorting out the challenges that have currently come to the fore in the backdrop of farm legislations. Senior party leader Prem Singh Chandumajra told The Hindu that at the core committee meeting, party members analysed the entire situation in the backdrop of the Ms. Badal’s resignation. Mr. Chandumajra said the ruling Congress government was directly responsible for amending the State APMC Act (Agriculture Produce Marketing Act) in 2017 immediately after coming to power in the State, to include all the provisions of the Farming Produce Trade and Commerce Ordinance 2020. “Not only, this the Congress government is also party to the passing of the Farming Produce Ordinance as it participated in the consultative process to enable implementation of the Bills. Congress stands completely exposed and we will now tell people about Congress’s doublespeak,” said Mr. Chandumajra. Deflecting threat Responding to speculations surrounding the SAD’s departure from the NDA, Mr. Chandumajra said the Assembly election in Punjab, which is due in 2022, are far away. “Our first priority is to sort out the challenges that have currently come to the fore,” Prime Minister Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J.P. Nadda, however, kept up the rhetoric on how the three farm bills to which the SAD objected were important reforms in the agricultural sector. The SAD soft-peddling on withdrawing from the NDA, and the BJP’s support for the farm Bills does not augur an easy resolution to the issue within the alliance.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC steps in to bridge digital divide||The Delhi High Court on Friday directed both private and government schools in the Capital to provide gadgets and Internet package free of cost to poor students for attending online classes, a verdict aimed at narrowing the COVID-19 pandemic-induced digital divide.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||JMI violence: ASG opposes petitions to transfer probe||Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi on Friday opposed before the Delhi High Court pleas to transfer investigation in the Jamia Millia Islamia violence case of December last from the police, saying the pleas was “misconceived in law”.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,||Haja case: official testifies in court||A former First Secretary of the Indian Embassy in Iraq was examined at the NIA Special Court, Kochi, on Friday. The official was examined in the Subhani Haja IS joining case. The official, a protected witness, gave the details of the activities of the Islamic State in Iraq. The court posted the case for final hearing on Wednesday.
19 September 2020||BENGALURU,||KSRTC to resume services to Maharashtra from Sept. 22||After a gap of almost six months, the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is resuming services to Maharashtra, one of the States facing high prevalence of COVID-19 positive cases. From September 22, buses will run to the neighbouring State from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Davangere and other points from Karnataka. A senior KSRTC official said, “After the outbreak of the pandemic, interstate operations were stopped in March. The Karnataka government was the first State in the southern part of the country to initiate resumption of interstate services. KSRTC is operating buses to Andhra Pradesh, Goa and a few services to Kerala.” In the initial days of resuming services to Maharashtra, KSRTC plans to run only a few buses to popular destinations such as Mumbai, Pune, Shirdi and others. “We are planning for 25 services initially and the number will be increased depending on the demand. The services include AC buses,” said the official. When asked about why there is a delay in resuming services to Telangana and Tamil Nadu, the official said, “There are some disputes between road transport corporations of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh that are affecting resumption of interstate services. Basically, it is the fallout of bifurcation of the State. They are holding talks at the government level to resolve issues on how many interstate services they should run. Once that is done, the KSRTC will operate buses to destinations such as Hyderabad.” He added that the corporation has received a positive response from Tamil Nadu on running bus services. Intrastate services of KSRTC have gradually increased over the weeks; it is currently operating close to 5,000 buses out of 8,200 buses. The average revenue generated is Rs. 4.5 crore per day and recently it had also recorded revenue of Rs. 5.09 crore. “Interstate services are one of the major sources of revenue generation. We hope that gradually the number will increase on these routes too,” said the official.
19 September 2020||Lucknow,||Adityanath govt. mulls ordinance against ‘love jihad’||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked officials to formulate a strategy and “bring an ordinance if required to prevent religious conversions in the name of love”, an official said on Friday In Kanpur, the police had recently set up a SIT to look into reports of “love jihad”.
19 September 2020||Kolkata,||Well-known fashion designer found dead in Kolkata||Well-known fashion designer Sharbari Datta was found dead at her residence in Kolkata on Friday morning under mysterious circumstances. She was 63. The body was discovered in her bathroom, and according to some reports, there were small traces of blood in her face and ankles. A case of unnatural death was registered and the post mortem was conducted at a State run hospital. Preliminary reports suggested that the death had occurred at least 36 hours ago. Family members including Ms Datta’s son, who is also a designer, however, ruled out any foul play. Ms. Datta was a prominent name in Kolkata's fashion scene. The designer carved out a new path for herself by reviving ethnic designs in men’s clothing in the country. “I had understood long ago that men like to dress... the west has enslaved us to notions of masculine dress codes which, we forget, have only a short history, dating after the Industrial Revolution,” Ms Datta had said. The designer’s clientele included not only actors from Bengali and Hindi film industry but also former cricketers Kapil Dev, Sunil Gavaskar, Sachin Tendulkar and sportspersons Leander Paes, and Bhaichung Bhutiya among others. Her brand ‘Shunya Sharbari Datta’, is one of the most well-known fashion brands in India.
19 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records highest single-day recoveries with 22,078 discharges||Maharashtra added 21,656 new COVID-19 cases on Friday and recorded its highest single-day recoveries to outweigh the case surge as 22,078 patients were discharged. As many as 440 deaths — of whom 398 were reported on Friday — pushed the total fatalities to 31,791.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK leaders hold intense discussions||Amid intense discussion over a number of issues concerning the reorganisation of the ruling AIADMK, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and several senior functionaries of the party met over an hour at the party headquarters in Chennai on Friday evening. The meeting assumed importance as it was for the first time that party co-coordinator Mr. Palaniswami and coordinator Mr. Panneerselvam, visited the AIADMK office after the eruption of the debate between their respective camps over the AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assembly election. The day’s event had its share of dramatic moments when Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami arrived at the party headquarters in Royapettah separately, as they were greeted with the slogans of “Amma’s [Jayalalithaa’s] political heir” and “permanent Chief Minister” respectively. As not all the invitees could make it to the meeting, it was decided that the party’s executive would take stock of all the organisational issues at its meeting on September 28. Senior leaders concede that the discussion saw participants making pros and cons of a host of issues. For example, there was a view that the party’s existing Coimbatore (Suburban) district unit and two district units of South Chennai (North and South) should be divided further. Likewise, some others had questioned why no uniform yardstick was followed on the number of assembly constituencies to be covered by each district unit of the party. This was because of an opinion in certain sections of the party that for every two assembly constituencies, there should be one district unit. One reason cited for the need for more number of district units in Chennai was the size of population in the city. Mr. Panneerselvam was said to have reiterated his demand for the formation of an 11-member steering committee, an idea which, the Chief Minister’s camp, said would not be workable. Already in place was a panel of five seniors, including deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy and Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, which would take care of organisational issues.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC declines to open contempt proceedings against Suriya||The Madras High Court on Friday declined to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against actor Suriya for his comments against the judiciary in the light of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The court said individuals should carefully frame their minds and express themselves without crossing the border of just and fair criticism. Likewise, it is not the job of a constitutional court to use a sledgehammer for avoiding something which can be perceived to be not capable of even being propped up as contempt, much less debated to the level of criminal contempt. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations after accepting Advocate-General Vijay Narayan’s opinion that there was no necessity to initiate criminal contempt proceedings against the actor. Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the High Court had written to the Chief Justice on Sunday, taking exception to the actor’s statement against the judiciary. The actor, involved in educating poor students through his Agaram Foundation, was annoyed by the Supreme Court having refused to exempt students from NEET for medical admissions. He said the court that was functioning virtually “fearing a threat to life” was expecting students to write the examination without any fear of COVID-19. ‘Absolutely unnecessary’ After giving statistics on the number of cases filed and disposed of by courts in the State during the pandemic, Chief Justice Sahi said: “We find that the utterances by the cine actor may have been absolutely unnecessary or even unwarranted, for being ignorant of the manner in which the entire judiciary of this State has served the interest of its citizens during the pandemic.” “A person in public life enjoys a position because of the responsibility with which he conducts himself and not by making other human activities look small for perceptibly no valid reason,” he said. “We would not say anything further as we find that the NEET examination and the dispute around it was not even a subject matter of the courts in the State of Tamil Nadu,” he added. Following Justice Subramaniam’s letter, six former High Court judges, led by Justice K. Chandru, wrote to the Chief Justice asking him not to initiate contempt proceedings. They said the actor was a philanthropist. A section of lawyers, too, wrote to the Chief Justice both for and against the initiation of contempt proceedings against him. The Chief Justice, on the administrative side, referred the issue to the Advocate-General, who declined consent to initiate contempt proceedings. However, since no such consent was required to initiate suo motu contempt, the judges went on to pass judicial orders. “A righteous person should himself be humble enough to acknowledge the contribution of others… Before a scoff or a mocking comment is made, it should also be weighed as to whether it is fair criticism or not,” the first Division Bench said and appreciated a fairly balanced article penned by senior counsel Sriram Panchu and published in the The Hindu on Friday. Drawing the curtains on the suo motu contempt of court proceedings, the Chief Justice said the entire judicial system that fosters on the faith of the public at large should be the concern of everyone. He said every citizen needs to learn, even if curriculum does not prescribe it, the need for civility, humility, courteousness and righteous expression.  A person in public life enjoys a position because of the responsibility with which he conducts himself Amreshwar Pratap Sahi Chief Justice
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||29 senior citizens recover from COVID-19 in Stanley Hospital||As many as 29 senior citizens, 25 of them aged above 70, with multiple comorbidities, recovered from COVID-19 and were discharged from the Government Stanley Medical College and Hospital on Friday. The residents of Anandam, a free home for senior citizens in Ambattur, had tested positive on September 5, and were shifted to the hospital after some of them complained of fever. Of them, 25 were women, sources in the hospital said. “They were all aged between 60 and 95 years with comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension and cardiovascular disease. Some of them even had seizure disorders and glaucoma. The intensity of COVID-19 was of the moderate category, and we followed the treatment protocol prescribed for elderly patients. Special teams were formed to ensure round-the-clock monitoring and attention to these patients as they need special attention in managing routines,” Stanley Hospital Dean Dr. P. Balaji said. Personalised care He said nursing attendants were attached to each of the patients to take care of feeding and other activities. “Besides a nutritious diet plan, we also had to provide counselling to reassure the senior citizens that they were in safe hands and would go back soon. They all recovered well and got discharged today. We will continue to monitor their health conditions,” he said. Dr. Balaji said at least 95% of the patients who got admitted in the hospital with COVID-19 had been treated and discharged. Of the 25,114 patients who recovered, 3,439 were senior citizens and 236 of them were aged above 70 years. Anandam managing trustee Bhageerathy Ramamoorthy said the staff at Stanley Hospital took good care of the senior citizens, and that the quality of treatment, food and medicines was very good. Source of infection Ms. Ramamoorthy said the source of infection remained a mystery since the home took all safety precautions to protect the 105 residents. “We have been giving them multivitamin tablets and other Indian medicines prescribed by doctors to boost immunity. No visitor was allowed to enter the home for the last five months. The inmates wore masks and never stepped out… We are still clueless how they contracted the virus,” she added.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail incurs a loss of Rs. 80 crore due to the lockdown||The Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) incurred loss of Rs. 80 crore due to the service suspension which lasted for several months after COVID-19 hit the city. In response to a question raised by Member of Parliament Benny Behanan in the Lok Sabha, Union Minister of State for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said CMRL had reported a loss of Rs. 80 crore during the lockdown. Before the pandemic, CMRL used to run trains from 4.30 a.m. to 11 p.m., totalling nearly 650 trips, carrying an average of 1.15 lakh passengers each day. Sources said the firm used to earn nearly Rs. 12-Rs. 14 crore each month, inclusive of fare and non-fare box revenue. But now services run from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. with just 450 trips and 15,000-16,000 passengers a day. Train timings may soon be increased by an hour if more people use the service. Sources in CMRL said though they were able to meet the operational expenditure with the revenue they used to get, it could now pose a challenge. “Right now, fewer people are travelling because of the pandemic. So, revenue is likely to dip significantly. But we cannot help it,” a source said. Various austerity measures were on the anvil to tackle the lockdown-induced financial stress but these would not affect passengers or train services, sources said.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic no bar to MGNREGS work in State||COVID-19 seems to have made little difference to the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in the State, if the generation of mandays is any indication. Ever since the authorities allowed the execution of works under MGNREGS, from April 17, 14.46 crore mandays have been generated, against 15.03 crore mandays during the corresponding period last year. This year’s performance accounts for around 53% of the overall figure of 27 crore mandays for the entire year. According to the MGNREGS portal (as maintained by the Union Ministry of Rural Development), the originally projected generation of mandays for the five months was 15.46 crore. An official of the State Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department said that it was only after a few weeks of the commencement of works under the scheme that implementation was in “full swing”. Subsequently, there has been “no let up” in the execution of works or turnout of workers. Of the 31 districts, as stated in the portal, which apparently does not take into account the new districts in the State, Villupuram, Thiruvarur, Sivaganga, Nagapattinam, Dharmapuri, Coimbatore and Ariyalur are the districts where the generation of mandays is over 100% of their projected figures. The top three districts in terms of higher generation of mandays are: Villupuram 160% (1.22 crore mandays); Nagapttinam 150% (71.24 lakh mandays) and Thiruvarur 145% (50.87 lakh mandays). Pointing out that all safety protocols were being observed, the official asserted that thanks to “stringent precautionary measures,” no COVID-19 case was registered at MGNREGS worksites. As in the past, women constitute the predominant workforce, accounting for about 85% of workers. As many as 29% of the workforce are from the Scheduled Castes (SC)/Scheduled Tribes (ST). As many as 56,182 differently-abled persons are among the total workforce. Of the works being taken up, Scheduled Caste habitations are provided with basic amenities such as cement concrete pavements individual and community soak pits, at a cost of Rs. 1,400 crore. This is as per Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s announcement, the official said.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,488 infections, 67 deaths||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 5,30,908, with another 5,488 persons testing positive for the infection on Friday. As many as 5,525 persons were discharged, and 67 persons succumbed to the infection in the State. In Chennai, 989 persons tested positive for COVID-19 and 16 persons died. Cases remained high in Coimbatore, with the district seeing 543 (including an imported case) new cases. Four districts had 200-plus cases — Salem (288), Chengalpattu (265), Tiruvallur (258) and Cuddalore (254). Fourteen districts, including Tiruppur and Thanjavur, had 100-plus cases. With 139 new cases, Villupuram’s tally surpassed 10,000. The number of active cases in the State stood at 46,506, of which Chennai accounted for 9,946 cases and Coimbatore 4,034. Till now, 4,75,717 persons have been discharged in the State following treatment. Tamil Nadu’s toll touched 8,685. Fatalities in State Of the 67 deaths (33 in government hospitals and 34 in private facilities), Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Kanniyakumari and Tiruvallur accounted for four deaths each. A 36-year-old woman from Cuddalore, with severe pre-eclampsia, a pre-term delivery and achalasia cardia, was admitted to the ESIC Medical College in K.K. Nagar, Chennai, on September 14, with complaints of fever and difficulty in breathing. She died on September 17 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Three nonagenarians also died. This included a 95-year-old woman who died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on September 16, a day after admission, due to respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 85,543 samples were tested in the State. Till date, 63,03,466 samples have been tested. One more private laboratory — Techmed Healthcare and Diagnostic Pvt Ltd, Chennai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. As of date, there are a total of 175 testing facilities in the State.  The number of active cases in the State stood at 46,506, of which Chennai accounted for 9,946 cases and Coimbatore 4,034. Till now, 4,75,717 persons have been discharged in the State
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate less than 10% in all districts: Health Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Friday said positivity rates were less than 10% in all districts of Tamil Nadu. “For the first time, the positivity rate is less than 10% in all districts in the State. At one point, the positivity rate was 30% in Chennai and we have brought it down to less than 10%. Now, COVID-19 cases are under control, including in districts such as Cuddalore, Krishnagiri, Coimbatore and Salem,” he told reporters, after inspecting a newly-set up 120-bed ward at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH). The Minister said the improvement came at a time when there was complete relaxation in lockdown restrictions, including a resumption of public transport services. “This shows that people are aware. But we need to keep in mind that cases are rising in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala. We need additional caution to further reduce case count. We need public cooperation,” he said. He pointed out that the impact of the relaxations on disease transmission would be known in two to three weeks. “The relaxations came into force on September 1. We have crossed two weeks. The incubation period of the virus is 14 days. We will know the trend in a week, but we are continuing with aggressive testing,” he said. Oxygen facilities Noting that there were presently 1.42 lakh beds in the State, he said the government had increased oxygen facilities at all medical college hospitals, on a war footing. “We have already instructed colleges to ready 50% of their beds with oxygen support. Of the 1.42 lakh beds, 40,000 have oxygen facilities. We have increased the capacity of tanks and oxygen pipelines, and have procured high-flow nasal cannulas,” he said. The 120-bed ward at RGGGH is for persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19, he said. He said that for some patients, the test results returned negative for COVID-19, even when they had symptoms such as breathlessness, due to lung involvement. “Such wards are being set up in a phased manner at all government medical college hospitals. The reason is that we treat these patients as COVID-19 patients,” he said. Over 3,000 persons have visited the “post-COVID-19 follow-up clinic” at RGGGH, he said. Till date, around Rs. 71 lakh has been collected as fine from 34,260 persons in the State for violating norms under provisions of the amended Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, he said. Replying to a question on the Indian Medical Association, Headquarters’, data that 63 doctors had died due to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, the Minister said the government’s priority was the safety of its frontline workers. “We have collected the list of doctors from IMA and sent it to the Government of India,” he said. Among others, RGGGH dean E. Theranirajan was present.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hardship pushes 16-year-old student into doing odd jobs||When 16-year-old L. Samuel, who is waiting to enroll in Class 11, was found cleaning a stormwater drain in Koyambedu market on Wednesday, little did anyone know of his dream to become an IPS officer. It is this dream that pushed him to take up menial jobs. He wants to earn enough to be able to continue his education and at the same time support his family members, who live in a slum in Kodungaiyur. A narrow lane in Kodungaiyur’s R.R. Nagar, opposite a dumping yard, leads to the single-room house of Mr. Samuel. He lives with his parents Lucaraj and Rebbeca and sisters Sheeba and Salomi. In his almirah are certificates he received for taking part in a young scientist workshop and sports and painting competitions. “I completed Class 10 from the Government High School in Kannadasan Nagar, and scored 308 marks. My father is an autorickshaw driver and during the lockdown, he was not able to earn. My mother, who was a sweeper at the Dr. MGR Chennai Central Railway station, too, does not have a job now,” he said. There is only one smartphone in his house and it is being used by his elder sister Sheeba, who joined college recently. “I know that I will need a phone to attend online classes once I enroll in Class 11, and my sister too can use it when I get one. So I decided to work without telling my father and save money,” the teenager said. But he does not find work every day. On the days that he does, he earns anywhere between Rs. 300 and Rs. 500 a day. “I reprimanded him when I found out on Thursday that he has been doing such odd jobs. I want all my children to study well and get good jobs,” said Mr. Lucaraj. Mr. Samuel said he would not go for work henceforth and would focus on studies. On Friday evening, DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin gifted Mr. Samuel a laptop at a DMK meeting in Perambur. Many like him There are several other children like Mr. Samuel, who have been struggling to continue their education. Virgil D. Sami, director, Arunodhaya Centre for Street and Working Children, said her team visited several pockets in north Chennai, as part of a study, and found that many children had started working to support their families during the lockdown.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Omandurar govt. hospital bags award for workplace safety||The Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, has bagged an award for excelling in worker and workplace safety during COVID-19. A designated COVID-19 critical care centre, the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, came first among large hospitals in a national/international-level competition on the “Measures taken by hospitals towards worker/workplace safety during COVID-19”.  The competition was organised by the Consortium of Accredited Healthcare Organisations, India, in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Occupational Health and the Global Society of HSE Professionals. Its aim was to identify and recognise worker safety practices in hospitals and learn from the best practices. According to a press release, the hospital administration said it was selected for the award from among over 100 hospitals that participated, both from India and abroad. It was a recognition for the State government and the Health Department for their continued effort in disease prevention, control, treatment and safety guidelines in the State during the pandemic. R. Jayanthi, dean of the hospital, said the award was announced to mark World Patient Safety Day on September 17. This year, the theme was “Health worker safety: a priority for patient safety.” “We were adjudged the winner in the large hospitals’ category. We submitted details on measures taken by the hospital, including setting up a committee to ensure patient safety, 100% adherence to norms in the area for donning and doffing of personal protective equipment, non-contact radiology, robots and tele-monitoring of patients, and yoga for both doctors and patients,” she added.  We were adjudged the winner in the large hospitals’ category R. Jayanthi Dean, Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM wants all districts to be part of NABARD’s e-Shakthi platform’||NABARD chairman G.R. Chintala on Friday said women’s self-help groups in the four districts of Tamil Nadu are on its e-Shakthi platform, an initiative to digitise SHGs, and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has instructed all districts to be part of the platform by December end. “Tamil Nadu has one of the highest number of self-help groups, but credit disbursements have been low. E-Shakthi provides grading reports on SHGs, to enable banks to take credit decisions,” he told reporters in Chennai. The system would help the credit flow to increase to Rs. 8,000 crore from the present Rs. 4,000 crore, based on the comfort level of banks. Namakkal, Tiruvannamalai, Nagappattinam and Virudhunagar are the four districts which are on the e-Shakthi platform. Mr. Chintala said NABARD would sanction Rs. 4,600 crore to Tamil Nadu under its Infrastructure Development Assistance and Rural Infrastructure Development Fund this financial year for various projects. On the reduction in weightage for priority sector lending in 32 districts of Tamil Nadu to 90%, Mr. Chintala said it won’t impact the credit flow to the State, but affect the accounting for banks. However, it might affect banks which are focused only on Tamil Nadu and already some representations have been made to the RBI for reconsideration.  T.N. has one of the highest number of self-help groups, but credit disbursements have been low
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suriya did not intend to scandalise court: A-G||Advocate-General (A-G) Vijay Narayan had refused to grant consent to initiate criminal contempt of court proceedings against actor Suriya after coming to a conclusion that the latter did not intend to scandalise the court or lower its authority. The A-G relied on the records before him, without even following his usual practice of issuing notice to the alleged contemnor. “I do not see any necessity to issue notice on the question of admission of this contempt petition,” he said. The actor issued a statement on Sunday expressing anguish over the Supreme Court refusing to exempt students from writing the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) despite the prevalence of COVID-19. He said the court was conducting virtual hearings “fearing for life” of judges but was expecting the students to write exams without fear. This prompted Justice S.M. Subramaniam of the Madras High Court to write to Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi to initiate contempt proceedings against the actor. The Chief Justice referred the issue to the A-G since the latter’s consent was mandatory for initiation of criminal contempt of court proceedings, exceptsuo motu, against any individual. After taking the matter on file and considering it in the light of various Supreme Court judgments, the A-G said the actor appeared to have made the statement in anguish to highlight the plight of students who have to attend NEET amid the raging pandemic. “The statement is neither a hostile criticism of judges or the judicial system nor a personal attack on any particular judge. Moreover, the conduct of NEET was not a subject matter of any proceedings before the Madras High Court and therefore the question of initiating proceedings in this court would not arise,” he concluded. The A-G took note of the judgment delivered by the Supreme Court in Prashant Bhushan’s case but heavily relied on the verdict in the case of Arundhati Roy in 2012 before deciding to refuse consent.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre has disbursed Rs. 3 crore for six COVID-19 death claims’||The Centre has disbursed a total claim of Rs. 3 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package for six COVID-19 death cases of frontline warriors, Minister of State of Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey said. Replying to questions posed by DMK MP Kalanidhi Veeraswamy in the Lok Sabha, who sought to know details of frontline warriors such as doctors, nurses and paramedical staff found to be positive for COVID-19 during their duty in Tamil Nadu and the number of persons who had recovered or died, Mr. Choubey said the Centre did not have those details as health was a State subject. For frontline workers To a question on whether the Centre had announced any compensation for such persons, the Minister said there was no scheme for compensation for such personnel in the Central government, “except for the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan package for health workers fighting COVID-19 and contracting the disease resulting in loss of life. This scheme provides an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh to the insured person”. “For Tamil Nadu, so far, a total claim of Rs. 3 crore has been disbursed, covering six cases,” he said, adding that the Centre had issued a detailed advisory, including FAQs, to all the States about the insurance scheme.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM Kisan scheme: SIT to probe scam||The Crime Branch CID of the Tamil Nadu police has formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) under the direct supervision of the Director-General of Police to investigate the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scam in the State. In a statement on Friday, investigators sought information from the public, particularly government employees, social workers and NGOs, on the scam. Assuring confidentiality of the informers, the investigating agency announced a suitable reward to those providing information that could lead to a further breakthrough in the case. After receiving complaints that many ineligible farmers were inducted to avail the benefits through malpractices with the connivance of officials and outsourcing agencies, the CB-CID registered 13 cases in different districts. “A Special Investigation Team has been constituted under the head of the DGP, CB-CID, assisted by the IGP, Crime CID and 2 SPs with the field staff of six DSPs and 18 inspectors. During the course of the investigation, 52 accused were arrested for their involvement in the crime,” the statement said. The information may be given by calling 044 – 28513500, 044 - 28512510 and 94981 81035 or by sending an mail to cbcid2020@gmail.com. The postal address of the agency is Crime Branch-CID, No. 220, Pantheon Road, Egmore, Chennai - 600 008.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Open-book exams could be the way forward||The decision to hold end-semester examinations for students in colleges has come after several rounds of discussion, initially among university officials and later among heads of departments within the varsity. Though professors feel that open-book exams would be the way forward, they are not sure if students are equipped for it. L. Elango, professor and head of Applied Geology at Anna University, said it depended on how well teachers could assess students and use tools for the same. He recalled using the method with his M.Sc. students. “In a subject like sub-surface exploration, I asked students to assess the pitch for an IPL match, as an exploration geologist, and decide the strategy for the match. The student has to think before answering,” he said. The decision to bring about open-book exams is not feasible, said the principal of a college affiliated to the University of Madras. “The present curriculum is not based on the concept of reference books, where students are given topics to research and have to answer questions. Ours is a textbook-based curriculum, and so, the exams must follow the pattern,” he said. Before open-book exams can become a reality, there must be a thorough rehaul of the pedagogy, he said. Open-book exams would help develop confidence among students, with respect to self-learning and self-assessment, said R. Subramanian, a retired lecturer from Presidency College. “If you are not able to remember a fact, there is no harm in opening your book and finding the answer,” he said, adding, “Enquiry-based learning is more important than memorising facts in isolation.” A humanities professor from the University of Madras said pedagogy had not evolved yet for open-book exams. “Although it is the best possible way under the current circumstances, the teaching methodology has to change for it to happen,” the professor added.  If you are not able to remember a fact, there is no harm in opening your book and finding the answer R. Subramanian Retired lecturer, Presidency College
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Judge recuses himself from hearing DMK MLAs’ cases||Justice K. Ravichandrabaabu of the Madras High Court on Friday recused himself from hearing a batch of writ petitions filed by DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 other MLAs from his party challenging fresh notices issued to them in the 2017 breach of privilege proceedings. The judge told senior counsel R. Shunmugasundaram and N.R. Elango, representing the DMK MLAs, that he had on November 2, 2017, recused himself from hearing the earlier writ petitions filed by the Members of the Legislative Assembly on the same issue and hence, he did not want to hear the present writ petitions too.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Last-mile connectivity restored at two stations||Chennai Metro Rail has partially resumed last-mile connectivity, with electric bikes for rent now available to commuters at the Thirumangalam and Vadapalani stations. Howdy Bikes has parked six electric bikes in each station to assist commuters. In a week, this service will also be available at the Alandur station. P.S. Venkatesh of Howdy Bikes said commuters would pay Rs. 3 per kilometre and 10 paise a minute to hire the bikes. “Last mile connectivity is crucial for commuters. We have begun with these two stations as they have a reasonable patronage compared to the others. We have made it mandatory to sanitise the bikes after each ride,” he said. Commuters who wish to use these bikes would need to install the Howdy Bikes app and provide their licences. The bikes could be locked and unlocked using a QR code and were available for long term hire as well, Mr. Venkatesh said.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP cadre stage protest in Maduravoyal||Over 500 BJP cadre staged a protest on Poonamallee High Road in Maduravoyal on Friday, condemning the Highways Department for taking down their party flag pole near the bypass road. They were arrested and later released. The pole was installed on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday but was taken down by the department as it was erected without permission.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water to reach State border by Monday||In a couple of days, the storage in the city’s reservoirs will get a boost as Krishna water was released from Andhra Pradesh on Friday. About 1,500 cubic feet per second (cusecs) was released from the Kandaleru reservoir into the Kandaleru-Poondi Canal for Chennai. After travelling 152 km, the water is likely to reach the Tamil Nadu border at Uthukottai in Tiruvallur district by Monday. It would then travel another 25 km to the Poondi reservoir. The water discharge is significant because the combined storage of the four primary reservoirs that supply drinking water to the city stand at 3.9 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft), which is 34% of the total capacity of 11.2 tmcft. Water Resources Department officials said water was being released this time exclusively to meet Chennai’s drinking water needs as there was not much requirement for irrigation or drinking water in areas en route.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin flays AIADMK for backing farm Bills||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday criticised the AIADMK government for supporting the three agriculture Bills introduced in Parliament by the Centre, and said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should stop calling himself a farmer in his public speeches. “The DMK condemns the AIADMK for supporting the Bills in Parliament even while the BJP’s ally, Shiromani Akali Dal, opposed them and Harsimrat Kaur Badal [belonging to Shiromani Akali Dal] has resigned from the Ministry, but the AIADMK continues to support the Bills that are against the welfare of farmers,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said the Bills were aimed at enabling corporates to hoard agricultural products and would destroy the livelihood of farmers. “But the AIADMK supports these Bills, saying they will benefit farmers and give them protection. This is an unpardonable betrayal of farmers’ welfare by Mr. Palaniswami, who has already done a lot of damage to the livelihood of farmers,” he said. He said the Bills went against the concept of federalism and infringed on the States’ rights over agriculture. “Asking farmers to provide PAN for selling their produce online is a conspiracy to bring them under the ambit of the Income Tax Department,” he said. The Bills are against the concept of ‘Uzhavar Sandhai’ that were started in Tamil Nadu by the DMK government, he said. They would not pave the way for increasing income or providing relief to farmers affected by droughts, floods or other calamities. He said the DMK opposed the Bills keeping in mind the BJP government’s “conspiracy” against farmers and the growth of agriculture. He accused the ruling AIADMK of trying to save its leaders from various cases and spend the remaining few months in office under the BJP’s protection. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri urged the BJP government to take back the three agriculture bills, which would impact farmers and their future. In a statement, he said hardships for the farmers were already on the rise.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Home Guards felicitated for lockdown service||Over 184 Home Guards were honoured by Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal for their service during the lockdown. He said the Home Guards had helped the police in many ways. As many as 84 Home Guards had tested positive for COVID-19 and had rejoined duty after recovering. They were given medals and letters of appreciation.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu food grains market reopens||After four months, nearly 60% of the shops at the wholesale food grains section reopened at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market complex on Friday, with many restrictions to ensure safety against COVID-19. As the number of shops reopened here is lower compared to other sections of the market, there was not much traffic or congestion in the locality. Wholesale traders noted that customer response was lukewarm on the first day, and said it would take some time for business to improve. The number of vehicles were limited to only 50-60. P. Pandiarajan, a wholesale food grains trader, said of the 240 shops in the market, about 130 shops were opened on Friday. Most were only stocking up and engaged in cleaning. Other shops are set to be opened over the weekend. The Koyambedu Market Management Committee (MMC) has put in place several restrictions for the market to operate, including entry and exit from only Poonamallee High Road, and a limited number of customers. Food grains merchants and workers have been given identity cards. While residents were not allowed into the market, traders noted that nearly 80% of the business was delivered on orders, and was based on credit. Small retailers and residents, who came in two-wheelers, helped in the cash flow.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM writes to Union IT Minister||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday wrote to Union Minister for IT and Communications Ravi Shankar Prasad, seeking allotment of 10,000 seats under the India BPO promotion scheme to Tamil Nadu. Mr. Palaniswami said the scheme was very successful in Tamil Nadu and had resulted in providing 7,705 seats in Software Technology Parks of India, Chennai jurisdiction — 7,605 seats in Tamil Nadu and 100 seats in Puducherry — to the BPO industry.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers protest at Pachaiyappa’s College||The faculty of Pachaiyappa’s College staged a sit-in on Friday, continuing their protest against the interim administrator of the Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board. The teachers are protesting against the show cause notice served to 152 faculty in the six colleges run by the Trust. The teachers said the termination order issued to 102 teachers by interim administrator P. Shanmugam was in violation of the Tamil Nadu Private Colleges Regulation Act, 1976. The Association of University Teachers said the State government should intervene and cancel the termination order. It pointed out that in an earlier instance, Mr. Shanmugam had terminated the services of an assistant professor of Tamil at Pachaiyappa’s College. The faculty are upset also because the interim administrator cancelled the appointment of four principals of the colleges who had approached the Supreme Court. He appointed a principal without following the norms of the University Grants Commission, the University of Madras or the State government, they alleged.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three injured by exploding balloons||Three youth were injured on Friday when 100 gas balloons burst after sparks from fireworks ignited them at a gathering arranged in Padi to celebrate Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. The youth were taken to the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital. The police registered a case against the organiser for conducting the event without permission.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former DMK MP A. Kalanithi dead||Former DMK MP Dr. A. Kalanithi died on Friday due to a cardiac arrest. Kalanithi was a two-time Member of Parliament from Central Madras, (now Chennai) constituency. He was elected to the post in 1980 and 1984. DMK president M.K. Stalin expressed his condolences to the family in a tweet. “It saddens me to hear about the death of Dr. Kalanidhi. During his two stints as MP, he worked tirelessly for the welfare of the people,” he said. MDMK general secretary Vaiko in a condolence message said the former MP’s wife died recently and that had affected his health. Mr. Vaiko recalled his contributions and said Dr. Kalanithi would treat patients in a humane way and was very popular with the poor and ordinary citizens. “He performed his duties as MP in a sincere manner and won the respect of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi,” Mr. Vaiko said. He said, Dr. Kalanithi was very passionate about the Dravidian movement and when P. Nedumaran went on a fast for the Eelam Tamils issue, he would regularly come and check his health.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CS reviews northeast monsoon preparedness||Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam held a meeting on Friday to take stock of the monsoon preparedness of the State ahead of the northeast monsoon. Discussions were held on preparations to be made by the departments. Officials were advised to put in place measures to ensure physical distancing in relief camps and to set up adequate number of relief centres.
19 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 90% private buses to be operated from October||After partial resumption of private bus operations in Coimbatore district, over 90% of the total fleet of will be operated from October. According to V. Duraikannan, president of Coimbatore District Bus Owners Association (South), out of the total 330 private buses, only around 20% (60 town and 15 mofussil buses ) resumed operations in the district earlier this month. Many private bus operators have submitted stoppage forms at the respective Regional Transport Offices as their buses were off the roads for over three months and they would prefer to begin operations from October 1 so that they did not have to pay the monthly road tax for September, Mr. Duraikannan said. COVID-19 precautionary measures such as allowing passengers only if they wear masks, provision of hand sanitisers to passengers and wearing of masks and gloves by the drivers and conductors are being implemented in all the private buses, he said. However, the occupancy in and earnings of the private buses now on roads remained too low, forcing some operators to meet the daily operational expenses from of their own pockets, he said. “Most of the buses end up earning only around Rs. 1,500 at the end of a day, which cannot be enough to cover the fuel expenses along with the salaries of the drivers and conductors,” he said. The public remained hesitant to travel in buses amid the COVID-19 situation, he said. Echoing these views, G. Nagaraj, who operates three buses in Coimbatore, said his buses had not seen any increase in occupancy in the past two weeks. “The public seem to prefer auto rickshaws or share autos to buses,” he claimed. A Regional Transport Officer (RTO) from the city said that all six RTOs in the district were monitoring the private buses and no complaints of violation of COVID-19 norms had been received as of Friday. “We have conducted meetings with private bus operators and instructed them on [following] the precautionary measures,” he said.
19 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 15 tusk-inflicted wounds found on dead elephant||Forest Department officials on Friday identified over 15 tusk-inflicted wounds on the carcass of the male elephant that was found dead in Mettupalayam forest range, suggesting that it died due to an attack by another tusker. Estimated to be around 16 years old, the elephant was found dead within the Mettupalayam forest range limits on Thursday evening. During the autopsy conducted on Friday, veterinarians found that the tusk-inflicted wounds were sustained at various points of time. No pellet or other metal objects were found in the carcass, the officials said. The elephant was first spotted with a swollen left foreleg in Nellithurai reserve forest area of Mettupalayam forest range on March 25. The autopsy revealed ossification and fibrosis of the foreleg’s bone joint, which caused immobility of the joint and erosion of the foot pad. Anti-poaching watchers from Mettupalayam range suspect that a male elephant nicknamed ‘Oosi Komban’ might have injured the deceased elephant. Oosi Komban is also suspected to have caused the death of a 50-year-old female elephant in May and an 11-year-old male elephant in July within the forest range limits, according to the officials. Officials said the Coimbatore Forest Division was currently holding more breeding males according to a landscape study and that intra-species aggression and dominance were signs of healthy male elephant populations.
19 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. Commissioner reviews projects||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Friday reviewed the progress in projects taken up under the Smart Cities Mission. ‘Finish within deadline’ A press release from the civic body said that he learnt about the lake development, street light replacement, model road, drinking water system improvement, park development and other projects and directed the engineers concerned to ensure that the civic body completed the projects within deadline.
19 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||GST searches on brick manufacturers||A team of 60 GST officials conducted simultaneous searches at the factories, residence, and offices of four major brick manufacturers in Thadagam area here on Thursday. According to a press release from Joint Commissioner V.K. Vamshadhara, building bricks attract 5 % GST. The units under the survey were found to be removing the bricks without paying the applicable tax, leading to revenue loss to the exchequer. Several incriminating documents and materials exhibiting tax evasion were seized during the searches. The quantum of evasion is under calculation and is expected to run into a few crores. Further investigation is on. It is found that a lot of brick kilns located here do not have GST registration and those that have it have not paid the taxes properly. Hence, they are under the scanner of the department, the release said.
19 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shops violating COVID-19 protocol warned of action||Shops that violate COVID-19 safety protocol would face severe action, a press release issued by the Coimbatore Corporation said. Shops selling meat, fish, other commercial establishments and showrooms should strictly follow the protocol, ensure that their customers maintained physical distancing norms and wore mask. Meat and fish shops should mandatorily have markings with two metre space in front of their shops. If the Corporation found any violation, it would first fine the establishment and in case of repeated violation would seal and shut those, warned the release quoting Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian. The release also asked shopkeepers not to patronise customers without mask and asked them to take the responsibility of educating their customers.
19 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for sexually harassing girl||The Perur All Women Police, on Thursday, arrested a 26-year-old man on charges of sexually harassing a five-year-old girl on the outskirts of Coimbatore. The accused, a native of Palakkad district in Kerala, was staying near the victim’s residence for the last five years. On Wednesday, the accused took the girl to his house and sexually harassed her, the police said. The man was booked under the provisions of POCSO Act.
19 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||14 country-made guns found in a stream||Fourteen country-made guns were found in a stream in Thavasimadai near here by the Dindigul Taluk police on Friday. On September 12, the Forest department officials had arrested four persons, including a mechanic working with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation here, and seized a country-made gun from them. They had confessed to have made these weapons in a lathe. Superintendent of Police Ravali Priya had recently issued a stern warning action against trespassing into reserve forests and instructed the police to check on violators. She had also told the people to surrender their weapons without licences. The police had been keeping a close watch in the reserve forests of Sirumalai, Adalur, Panrimalai and Kodaikanal. On the one hand farmers living close to the reserve forests have been complaining of wild animals destroying their produce. On the other hand, poachers, in connivance with field staff from the police and forest departments, have been catching rare birds. In this backdrop, a team led by DSP Vinodh seized the 14 country-made guns.
19 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Indefinite protest by VAOs enters Day 3 in Erode||The indefinite protest staged by the village administrative officers (VAOs), demanding to conduct general transfer counselling, entered the third day here on Friday. A section of protesters, under the banner Tamil Nadu Village Administrative Officer Development Association, began their protest on the Erode Taluk Office premises on September 16. The district president of the Association, V. Rajagopal said they staged a protest last month urging the government to conduct the counselling for the current year. Erode Revenue Divisional Officer C. Saibudeen had promised to conduct the counselling in the first week of September, after which the protest was withdrawn. “But the counselling was not conducted,” Mr. Rajagopal claimed and added that over 50 VAOs in Erode, Kodumudi, Perundurai and Modakurichi blocks were participating in the protest. Another group, under the banner Tamil Nadu Village Administrative Officer Association, is protesting since Thursday on the premises of the Revenue Divisional Office. The protest would continue until the counselling date was announced, the VAOs said.
19 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||90% of NEET questions from State board books: Minister||In the recently-held National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), 90% of the questions were from Tamil Nadu State Board books, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said. Addressing the press at Nambiyur in Gobichettipalayam block on Friday, he said of the 180 questions asked in the NEET this year, over 90% of the questions were from the State board books. “The revised syllabus helps students face any type of competitive examination conducted by the Central government,” he said.  Syllabus reduced About the syllabus for this academic year, he said an 18-member committee that was set up to look into reducing the syllabus for the 2020-21 academic year, and had submitted its report last month based on which, 40% of the syllabus was reduced. Mr.Sengottaiyan said that students of government and government-aided schools can get their doubts in subjects cleared through Kalvi Television for six hours on Saturdays and steps are being taken to execute the programme [effectively].
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||95% of COVID-19 patients discharged from GRH: DME||Around 95% of the 6,817 COVID-19 patients admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital here till date had been discharged after complete recovery, said R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education, here on Friday. Addressing media persons after inspecting the COVID-19 treatment facilities at the hospital, Dr. Narayana Babu said availability of all medicines, doctors and oxygen facilities in the GRH helped in treating COVID-19 patients successfully, even when there was a steep rise in positive cases in Madurai. Being the main referral hospital for south Tamil Nadu, the GRH has 1,467 beds to treat COVID-19 patients. Out of these, 416 beds are presently occupied. Dr. Narayana Babu said the oxygen capacity of GRH had been increased from 22 kl to 44 kl. Out of the 64,000 pulse oximeters issued across the State, 750 were given to GRH. The hospital had 97 high-flow nasal cannulas and 155 ventilators. There were around 500 doctors, 675 nurses and 300 postgraduate students at the hospital, he said. The concerted efforts of the doctors had helped reduce the death rate of COVID-19 in the State, he said. “Oxygen capacity has been doubled in all hospitals. Also, high-flow nasal cannulas and ventilators were provided to ensure total treatment for COVID-19 patients.” Regular medical check-ups were done for 21 days, after the discharge of the patients, he said. Acknowledging that COVID-19 was taking a huge toll on the mental health of positive patients, Dr. Narayana Babu said counselling, including telecounselling, was provided for all patients under treatment. “After 21 days of discharge from hospitals, the recovered patients are given psychiatric opinion and counselling,” he said. With further relaxation of lockdown norms in the past two weeks, there had not been any major spike in the COVID-19 positive cases, said Dr. Narayana Babu. “But we are exercising caution and urging the public to wear face masks, maintain personal distancing and wash their hands frequently,” he said. Dean J. Sangumani and Treatment Coordinator of COVID-19 Speciality Wing K. Senthil were present.
19 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Arduous yet successful surgery||Enough literature has been published about pneumothorax, a condition where the lung is punctured and damaged either due to chest injury or scarring, says Medical Superintendent of Devadoss Hospital R. Sudhir. However, little information is available about treatment procedure when a COVID-19 patient develops it as it is rare, he says. The doctor recounts the arduous yet successful journey of treating a rare case where a 55-year-old patient from Madurai developed pneumothorax after testing positive for COVID-19. “When he came to us with a COVID-19 positive result, he was under treatment for 20-odd days. He was also on ventilator support in the beginning. However, he started recovering and was to be discharged as his COVID-19 test turned negative on the 26th day,” he said. Two days later the patient's lung collapsed due to pneumothorax. The second lung too collapsed the next day, he said. The damaged lung gave way like a balloon, leaking air into the chest cavity, Dr. Sudhir said. “We had not encountered such a case in the past. When we consulted with other pulmonologists in different parts of the world, we recognised that this was a rare case,” he said. Medical Director Sathish Devadoss said they inserted tubes into the chest for decompression and had the patient on ventilator support to provide oxygen. For better healing of the damaged lung, they also performed tracheostomy to provide direct ventilation to the lungs. The patient’s lung capacity improved with time and he was discharged by the 55th day. “The patient’s treatment kept throwing us a number of surprises. We had to improvise to ensure that the patient does better with time. Sudden complications would develop at odd hours. When people develop pneumothorax, many go for lung transplants. “We wanted to try treating the patient without a transplant in order to find a way to undo the damage,” said Dr. Sudhir.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Geological investigations begin at Keeladi, Agaram||A group of experts, led by R. Jayangonda Perumal, an associate professor of Central University of Tamil Nadu, along with the Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA), undertook a geological investigation at Keeladi and Agaram sites on Friday, where the sixth phase of archaeological excavations are currently under way. Deputy Director of Archaeology R. Sivanandam said that this was the first time that geological investigations are undertaken at archaeological excavation sites in the State. “After completing the Keeladi cluster, similar geological investigations in other excavation sites across the State will also be undertaken,” he said. During the excavation at Keeladi, various layers with different soil textures and colours were identified, said Mr. Sivanandam. “This prompted us to do a geological study to understand the kind of civilisation that existed earlier,” he added. Mr. Perumal said that geological investigation helps to identify the duration of the civilisation that had existed in these sites. “The Keeladi civilisation has existed on the banks of Vaigai river. So, we checked sediments that are present along the river and compared them with those present in the excavation sites,” he said. Soil samples, broken pot shreds and charcoal samples are taken to undertake the investigation. In Keeladi, trenches for a depth of 4.5 metres have been dug up and in Agaram trenches for a depth of 6 metres are dug up, he said. “By carrying out a geological investigation, we are trying to find out how climate change affected the civilisation that time. For instance, it helps to understand if there was a flood or drought that time. Basically, we need to understand if the matured civilisation in Keeladi vanished or moved to another place,” said Mr. Perumal. Mr. Sivanandam said that such investigations will give scientific proof to an archaeological excavation. “This will help in better understanding and interpretation of the civilisation that existed earlier at the Keeladi cluster,” he said. Priyanka Singh Rao, assistant professor at Central University of Tamil Nadu and Saravanan, a hydrologist, also participated in the investigation.
19 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records 82 cases||A total of 82 COVID-19 positive cases were recorded on Friday, taking the total number of cases in Madurai district to 15,724. The day saw no deaths and 165 persons were discharged. The active cases in the district stands at 730. Virudhunagar district registered two deaths that increased the toll to 207. Two men, aged 80 years and 79 years, had died in different hospitals in Salem and Madurai in the last two days. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the district rose to 13,929 after 39 fresh cases were reported on Friday. After 108 patients got discharged on Friday, the number of patients who have been discharged till date has risen to 13,379. This has left 343 active patients in the district. Theni district had 69 fresh cases with which the tally moved to 14,112. There were 104 discharges from hospitals. Active cases stood at 665 and 164 had died of the virus so far. Dindigul district has reported 91 new cases and the tally stands at 8,230. As many as 131 people have been discharged from hospitals. The number of active cases stands at 633 and 153 had succumbed to the virus. Ramanathapuram had 33 fresh cases with which the tally stands at 5,332. As many as 32 people were discharged on a single day and the total discharged patients till date stands at 4,945. Active cases were 273 and 114 had died of the virus so far. Sivaganga district had 32 new cases, pushing the tally to 4,701. There were 24 discharges from hospitals. Active cases standsat 274 and 115 deaths have been recorded till date. Kanniyakumari district which added 115 new cases on Friday lost four patients to the viral infection. After adding 115 patients, Kanniyakumari’s tally rose to 11,547 and the number of active cases increased to 750 after 125 patients were discharged. The four deaths has raised the fatality to 215. In Tirunelveli district, 104 new cases were reported on Friday to take the tally to 11,620 and the number of active cases to 1,049 after 98 patients were discharged. With the death of one more COVID-19 patient, the district has lost 193 persons so far. Tenkasi district’s tally increased to 6,638 and the active cases to 571 with the addition of 97 new cases on Friday even as 48 patients were discharged. Since the district witnessed the death of a patient due to COVID-19, the district’s fatality rose to 124. Thoothukudi district, after adding 90 patients on Friday, had 799 active cases and the tally got jacked up to 12,710. While 80 patients were discharged, the district did not lose anyone to the viral infection and hence its fatality stood at 119.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rejuvenation of 10 ‘ooranies’ under way||Rejuvenation of ooranis (ponds) within the purview of Madurai Corporation is under way in full swing after a lull in the past few months owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. There are 33 ooranis in the city. The Corporation signed a memorandum of understanding with a city-based firm, Hi Tech Arai, last year to revamp 10 ponds at a cost of Rs. 1.10 crore using the Corporate Social Responsibility fund of the organisation. Dhan Foundation, a non-governmental organisation, provides the technical assistance in renovation of these ponds. The 10 ponds are Silayaneri oorani, Milagaranai oorani, Kottangulam oorani, Paaloorani, Kamban oorani, Uthangudi oorani, Kalludaiyaan oorani, Semboorani, Muthupatti Kalthaar oorani and Sooravalimedu oorani. Work is underway at seven ponds. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected Kalthaar oorani and Sooravalimedu oorani on Friday. S. Elamuhil, Project Executive at the Centre for Urban Water Resources (CURE) at Dhan Foundation, said desilting, bund strengthening, clearing garbage from feeder channels and sapling planting along the bunds were all undertaken as part of the renovation. “Parks and walkways have also been established along the bund of a few ooranis,” he said. Residents’ associations had been formed for each pond and the members would maintain the waterbodies, said Mr. Elamuhil. “The engagement of residents will help them have a sense of ownership over the ponds as they will protect them from degeneration,” he said. Concurring with this viewpoint, S. Palraj, secretary of Sooravalimedu oorani Padugappu Vayalagam, said the residents were happy over rejuvenation of the oorani. “It will help in increasing the groundwater level in the nearby areas,” he said. Apart from these 10 ooranis , several ponds are renovated with funds from other private organisations. The Corporation Commissioner said the ooranis would act as rainwater harvesting structures and help in harnessing rainwater efficiently. “The Corporation is taking several measures towards rejuvenation of the waterbodies,” he said.  Work in progress Desilting, bund strengthening, clearing garbage from feeder channels and sapling planting along the bunds taken up Resident associations have ben formed for each pond and the members will maintain the waterbodies
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Only one out of 14 Smart City projects completed in Madurai’||Only one out of 14 projects under Smart Cities Mission worth Rs. 977.55 crore in Madurai has been completed to date, indicated data furnished by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in the Lok Sabha on Thursday. The data was provided in reply to a question raised by Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP. It said Madurai was selected to be a Smart City in the second round of the Smart Cities selection process in 2016. The infrastructure provided at the fruit market in Mattuthavani at a cost of Rs. 12 crore is the only completed Smart City project in Madurai to date. Of the remaining 13 projects, including the reconstruction of Periyar bus stand, laying a heritage pathway, laying ‘smart roads’ on four Masi streets, Vaigai riverfront development, multi-level car parking, smart street lights, water supply distribution in ABD area and construction of a convention centre on Tamukkam ground, work orders have been issued, the data revealed. It further mentions that all Smart City projects are to be completed within five years from the date of selection. The Smart City projects were being executed at an extremely slow pace in Madurai. “Other Smart Cities in the State have completed many projects. So, work has to be speeded up in Madurai to meet the deadline,” he said.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Four robbers held||A slip of tongue proved costly for four robbers who are cooling their heels behind bars for having robbed two youths at a short interval of time around midnight of Wednesday. After robbing the first victim, V. Muthukumar, 22, of Thathaneri, of Rs. 400 near Arapalayam bus stand, one of them tried to search for more valuables in his possession. Forgetting to maintain anonymity, one of them called the robber by his name which the alert victim told the police. “While robbing, the youth had called one Madan by his name and advised him to let off the victim,” Inspector of Police (Crime), Karimedu, S. Muthupandi said. A little later, the same gang had struck another person, R. Sathish, 23, of Oddanchathiram, who was walking towards his work place at Virattipathu. The robbers snatched two mobile phones from him. After the two alerted the police, teams searched for all youths by name Madan in the vicinity and zeroed in on the accused, identified as M. Madan, 26, of Manjalmettu Colony. The police arrested his accomplices K. Karthi, 22, of Gomezpalayam, Siva, 23, and L. Prakash, 27, of Ezhil Street and recovered the valuables and the knife.. Theywere sent to remand under judicial custody.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Watchmen assaulted||Four unidentified persons assaulted two night watchmen - V. Ponnaiah, 56, and P. Ponnamaravathi, 54, of Kidaripatti in a failed attempt to burgle a TASMAC shop near Melavalvu in the early hours of Thursday. Police said the unidentified persons had come to the TASMAC shop at Kidaripatti and after assaulting them, they tied and gagged them. Later, the accused tried to break open the locks of the shop. However, as their burglary bid failed, the accused fled the scene. Based on a complaint by shop supervisor R. Kurunthalingam, 40, Melavalvu police have registered a case. In an unrelated incident, unidentified persons sneaked into a TASMAC shop in Kalligudi and decamped with 36 bottles of liquor on Thursday night. Police said the accused had gained entry into the shop by breaking open a window. The police suspect that some urchins could have been used to steal the bottles.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC: Hear teachers before taking final decision||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the order of education authorities, Virudhunagar, to initiate action against school teachers of two minority institutions, for taking part in anti-CAA protest, be kept in abeyance. The teachers should be heard before a final decision is taken, it said. It was hearing the petitions filed by correspondents of two recognised minority institutions in Srivilliputtur. They challenged the order of the education authorities directing school managements to take action against their teachers for participating in the protest on January 30, 2020. Justice R. Suresh Kumar directed that the school managements should conduct an inquiry by putting the teachers on notice and get their responses on the issue. A comprehensive report should be filed before the district education authorities and till then the order of the education authorities shall be kept in abeyance. After a comprehensive report is furnished to the officials, the education authorities shall take a decision as to whether the action against the school teachers can be dropped or not, the court said. It was said that the school teachers along with students took part in a peaceful protest organised by an NGO after school hours.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Privatisation will affect rail passengers: SRMU||The Centre should give up the railway privatisation move that has failed in England, said Southern Railway Mazdoor Union (SRMU). Leading a protest here on Friday, its divisional secretary J.M Rafi wondered why the Centre should privatise 150 routes to raise Rs. 30,000 crore. Railway runs with its own resources, pays salaries and pensions, without support from the Centre, raising this fund through loan would be an easy option,” he said. When the entire nation came to a grinding halt during the pandemic, it was the public sector Air India and Indian Railways that moved people and not private players. “Privatisation will lead to wiping out of all concessions. Passengers cannot travel at a fare of Rs. 115 from Madurai to Chennai in private trains,” he said.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC orders notice to Centre, State||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday ordered notice to the Centre and the State in a public interest litigation petition that challenged inclusion of Pazhavoor, Karunkulam and Levinchipuram of Tirunelveli district in the master plan for Kanniyakumari wildlife sanctuary eco-sensitive zone. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notices in the PIL petition filed by residents of Pazhavoor. The court said further proceedings would be subject to the outcome of the petition and adjourned the hearing for filling of counter affidavits. The villagers said the Centre and the State were in the process of publishing the master plan. This would result in curtailing activities of the villagers permanently. Instead, the villages can be retained as ‘zero metre’ eco-sensitive zone, the petition read.
19 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||briefly||Vijayabaskar, 40, of Karuppayoorani, a pawn broker, has alleged that Rs. 10.80 lakh kept in the side box of his motorbike parked outside the Registrar office in Othakadai was missing on Friday. Police said that Vijayabaskar and his father had gone there for registration of a land which he was buying for his relative Tirupathi. He had parked his bike around 10 a.m. and after the registration was completed at around 3 p.m., he found the cash missing. “There is no sign of the box having broken open. We are looking into the complaint,” said Oomachikulam DSP M. Vijayakumar.    A. Sridhar, 12, who slipped into a well near Vadipatti died on Friday. Police said the boy, studying seventh standard, from Chockalingapuram near Vadipatti had gone to graze animals. He had gone near a well and slipped into it. The boy did not know swimming and drowned. The body was sent to the Government Hospital in Vadipatti.
19 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Six die of COVID-19 in Puducherry, toll 437||The COVID-19 death toll in the Union Territory went up to 437 with the death of six more patients on Friday. Addressing a press conference here on Friday, Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao said of the six deaths, five were reported in Puducherry and one in Karaikal. On Friday, 5,344 people were tested for the virus in the four regions of U.T. Of them, 490 returned positive, taking the number of cases to 21,913. There are 4,761 active cases, including 2,975 under home isolation. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 16,715 people had been treated and discharged, he added. District Collector-cum-Secretary (Health) T. Arun, in an order on Friday, asked people with influenza-like illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) to immediately report to the nearest Public Health Centres or COVID-19 focus centres. A daily report of cases referred to the nearest PHCs should be submitted to Deputy Director Thirumalai Shankar (ph: 9443480506), he said. The government had roped in SHGs, Nehru Yuva Kendra and healthcare workers for house-to-house surveillance of patients, he said, adding that early detection of cases was necessary as 70% of COVID-19 deaths reported were due to late admission to hospitals.
19 September 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID interrogates Sri Lankan national||A Sri Lankan national, Pradeep Kumar Bandara, 30, who claimed to be a policeman from Colombo, and reached Dhanushkodi on September 5 illegally, is being interrogated by the CB-CID police. He has claimed that he was a policeman at Port Station, Colombo, and had reached the Indian shores in a fibre boat. He told the Marine Police that he apprehended arrest after officers in Colombo zeroed in on him in connection with a case of 23 kg of narcotic substances, including heroin, going missing.
19 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam increased||The outflow from Mettur dam was increased to 18,000 cusecs of water from late hours of Thursday. According to the Public Works Department officials, the water level in the dam was 91.35 ft against the total scale of 120 ft. The stored capacity in the dam was 54,208 mcft and the inflow was 13,001 cusecs. Farmers’ demand The outflow of water from the dam was increased from 15,000 cusecs to 18,000 cusecs following demand from farmers in delta region. The release through East-West canal was maintained at 700 cusecs of water.
19 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three held for consuming snake||The Forest Department on Friday held three persons after a video showing them killing and consuming a snake went viral on social media. Department officials said a ratsnake, a Schedule-II specie, entered the house of one of the accused, Sivakumar, near Mettur on Thursday. He and two others, Muhamed Hussain and Jaya, cooked and consumed the snake. Taking cognisance of the act, the department nabbed all the three and registered a case against them under the Wildlife Protection Act.
19 September 2020||Special CorrespondentTirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 9.57-crore fine imposed on illicit sand miner in Tirunelveli||A fine of Rs. 9.57 crore has been imposed on an ‘M Sand’ manufacturer for allegedly mining sand illegally in Kallidaikurichi area in Tirunelveli. Sources in the Collectorate here said one Manuel George, who had obtained licence for manufacturing ‘M Sand’ in Kallidaikurichi, allegedly quarried sand illegally in Vandalodai in the same area with the connivance of lower-level revenue staff and sold it for a premium. On getting information about this, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish instructed Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi Pratik Tayal to inspect the spot and verify the information. When the Sub-Collector confirmed that illicit sand quarrying had been done there with the assistance of a few officials, Ms. Shilpa asked him to ascertain the quantum of damage caused to the area due to illegal sand mining and slap appropriate fine. Accordingly, Mr. Pratik, with the inputs he collected during the survey, imposed a fine of Rs. 9.57 crore on Manuel George on Friday evening. He also placed under suspension Village Administrative Officer Mohan on charges of aiding illicit sand mining.
19 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers air grievances online after a long break||The monthly farmers’ grievances meting went online with the Thanjavur district administration conducting the exercise over video conference on Friday. Arrangements had been made at the offices of Assistant Director of Agriculture in all 14 blocks from where farmers aired their grievances over video conference to Collector M. Govinda Rao. The move was mainly aimed to reduce overcrowding at the Collector’s Office, where the meeting is normally held, in view of the pandemic. Farmers were requested to attend the meet at the block offices by adhering to physical distancing and wearing face masks. The initiative was largely welcomed by farmers representatives as the monthly grievances meetings had remained suspended during the lockdown. “It was a welcome opportunity to air our grievances after a long break. We were apprehensive of connectivity issues, but there was no problem with officials able to set right minor hiccups quickly,” said V. Jeevakumar, district vice-president, Tamil Nadu Vivasaya Thozhilalar Sangam. Mr.Jeevakumar said he participated in the meeting from Budalar and put forth demands for opening more direct procurement centres in Budalur and ensuring transparency in assessment of damages for sanction of compensation under crop insurance scheme. He also insisted that no more oil wells should be allowed to be dug in the delta region, which has been declared a protected agricultural zone. Agricultural Department officials informed the farmers that kuruvai paddy has been raised on a record 58,948 hectares in the district this year. This was a new high in the last 35 years, they said. Of this, harvest has been completed on 30,031 hectares. Samba paddy has been raised on 7,173 hectares in the district so far.
19 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi SP extends a helping hand||A nice gesture by Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar has ensured unhindered education of three children who were orphaned after their mother was murdered recently. When G. Sengamalam, 47, a widow from Sambadi under Eral police station limits, was found murdered in her house a week ago, her children – a boy and two girls – became orphans. Their aunt Ashtalakshmi is taking care of these children as Sengamalam’s husband Ganesan died 10 years ago. Mr. Jayakumar, on coming to know about their pathetic situation, decided to help them. As the children were brought to the District Police Office on Friday, Mr. Jayakumar interacted with the children and Ms. Ashtalakshmi. After handing over Rs. 70,000 to the woman, he asked her to take care of the children and assured her that he would bear the educational expenses of the three children.
19 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi-Chidambaram NH widening project gathers pace||Widening of the 134-km long Tiruchi-Chidambaram National Highway by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is gathering pace despite problems in availability of migrant labourers. The NHAI had resumed work on the first two packages of the project midway through the lockdown after obtaining permission from the authorities in the districts. The NHAI is executing the project in three packages at a total investment of about Rs. 4,000 crore. While package-I covers the Tiruchi – Kallagam stretch, package-II will run from Kallagam to Meensuritti and package-III will cover the stretch between Meensuritti in Ariyalur district and Chidambaram in Cuddalore district. While work on the first two packages is under way, the NHAI has called for fresh bids for the third package after the initial contract was terminated due to land acquisition issues, NHAI sources told The Hindu . According to sources, nearly 50% of the work on the first package has been completed so far and NHAI was hoping to complete it by August/September 2021. Thirty percent of the works have been completed on the second package and this stretch was expected to be ready by the end of December 2021. “The fresh contract for package III will be awarded soon for building the 31 km-long highway stretch of which about 26 km will be bypass road stretches, making it almost a greenfield highway,” sources said. The NHAI is now said to be in possession of nearly 85% of the land required for this stretch. The third package would be executed in 30 months from the date of awarding the contract. Under the project, the first 50 km of the highway, from Tiruchi to nearly Keezha Pazhur, is being converted into a four-lane highway with carriage ways of 8.7 metres on each side. Beyond this point, it will be a two-lane highway with paved shoulders. The two-lane highway would have a width of 10 metres. Bypass roads will come up at various places including Lalgudi-Poovalur, Keezha Palur, Mela Palur, Jayankondam and Kattumannarkovil. The bypass stretches will be concrete roads, the sources said. The project is expected to come as a boon to residents of Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Cuddalore and the industries located along the highway. The Tiruchi-Kallagam section is a busy stretch of the highway with high traffic volume of goods vehicles, especially in view of the cement factories located along the highway. Road accidents involving vehicles carrying raw materials to the cement units often trigger protests in and around Ariyalur. Once the project gets completed, almost all major highways running from Tiruchi would have been widened as either four-lane or two-lane highways with paved shoulders.
19 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman found murdered in Sirkazhi||A 49-year-old woman who was drawing a kolam in front of her house in Thenpathi in Sirkazhi Town in Mayiladuthurai district, was attacked by an unidentified person, who killed her on the spot in the early hours, on Friday. Police identified the victim as A. Chithra who resided in Thiruvalluvar Nagar. Her husband Anandajothi, is a headmaster at a middle school. Police said the woman came out of her house in the early hours and was drawing kolam when she was attacked with a deadly weapon on the rear side of her head and forehead. The jewellery worn by the woman was found intact. Local residents who noticed the woman lying dead informed the family who rushed out. On receipt of information, the Sirkazhi police inspected the crime scene and conducted inquiries. A detective dog was pressed into service to aid investigators. The body of the woman was taken to the Sirkazhi Government Hospital for a post mortem. The motive behind the murder is yet to be established. The Sirkazhi police are conducting a probe.
19 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi Class 11 student makes short film on actor Sonu Sood||A student from Tiruchi has made a short film involving actors from across the country and Sri Lanka, praising actor Sonu Sood for helping out migrant workers during the pandemic. The film urges the youth to help each other during a crisis. K.A.V. Dhanushwaran, a Class 11 student from a private school in Tiruchi, was spending time on social media, reading about the migrant labour crisis, when he started following Sonu Sood, a Bollywood actor. Mr. Sood, at the time, was helping thousands of migrants reach their homes by arranging chartered flights, buses and trains, Mr. Dhanushwaran said. “I recognised him as the villain from a few Tamil films like Devi . While several media houses and TV channels commended Mr. Sood, his charitable work was not well known in Tamil Nadu and south India,” he said. To help tell Mr. Sood’s story, Mr. Dhanushwaran wrote a script in four languages — Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Hindi. When it came to casting actors for the film, he looked to Charles Prabhu, a film-maker in Chennai. “Mr. Prabhu put me in touch with actors from across the country. He even gave me the contact details of a Sri Lankan girl, who I included in the film so that the story could reach Sri Lanka as well,” he said. The actors were all given the script and asked to shoot their parts individually on their mobile phones. In the 10 minute-long film, the actors can be seen learning from Mr. Sood and helping out those in need. Once the scenes were shot, Mr. Dhanushwaran edited them himself and released the film on YouTube on September 8. The response to the video has been amazing, he said. “The cherry on the cake was when Mr. Sood posted a message appreciating the film on Twitter,” he added.
19 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a rise in cases||The central districts on Friday recorded an increase in new cases of COVID- 19 with 714 patients testing positive for the viral infection compared to Thursday's 667. Meanwhile, seven patients - three in Tiruchi, two in Thanjavur and one each in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur - died of the infection. Two men aged 46 and 76 with pre-existing conditions of diabetes and hypertension and a 66-year-old man suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome succumbed to the infection in Tiruchi. In Thanjavur, an 81-year-old man who suffered an acute respiratory failure, and a 68-year-old man with no medical history died of the infection, while in Tiruvarur, a 48-year-old man with acute respiratory distress syndrome too, died of COVID-19. In Nagapattinam, a 40-year-old woman with a history of hypertension died of the infection. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts on Friday with 162 new cases. Meanwhile, a total of 150 patients recovered from the infection and were discharged on Friday. In Tiruchi, 136 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Some local index cases with no history of contact or travel were also among those who tested positive. Pudukottai recorded 123 new cases while Tiruvarur recorded 101 new fresh cases for the viral infection. Patients who tested positive in both districts were local index cases with no contact history and primary contacts of patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Nagapattinam, 80 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday while Karur recorded a spike in cases with 68 new cases on Friday. Ariyalur recorded 33 new cases for COVID-19. Two new containment zones were added in the district, increasing the total number of containment zones to 36. Meanwhile, 11 patients, five of whom were from Perambalur block tested positive in Perambalur district.
19 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Parcel containing explosive substances sent to farmer||A parcel containing an electric detonator and a gelatin stick were sent by courier service to a farmer, Arivazhagan of Kandarakudi village in Orathanadu police station limits in Thanjavur district, causing a flutter, here on Friday. The parcel containing the explosive substances were sent in a bogus name and fake address in Tiruchi, said police sources. Sources said Arivazhagan who received a call from the courier office to get the parcel sent his father on Thursday to collect it. Upon opening the parcel on Friday, Arivazhagan (28) found the explosive substances. He placed these in a grove near his house. On receipt of information, the Orathanadu police personnel rushed to the village and conducted detailed inquiries. The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad personnel checked the explosive substance. A case has been booked under Section 4 of the Explosive Substances Act. Further investigation into the case was on.
19 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||17 stolen two-wheelers recovered, one held||A special team of the City Police on Friday arrested a 31-year-old man on the charge of stealing two-wheelers from various places in the city and recovered 17 stolen vehicles. The team was constituted on the direction of Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan to apprehend motorcycle thieves in city limits. The team was conducting vehicle checks at Tiruvanaikoil on Friday morning when they noticed a man riding a two-wheeler and attempting to escape on spotting the police personnel. The team caught the man and inquired during which he disclosed his name as K. Saravanakumar of Mathur near Tiruchi. He confessed to having stolen 17 motorcycles from various places in the city. The stolen vehicles valued at Rs. 4.86 lakh were recovered and the accused was remanded in judicial custody.
19 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Constable ends life||A Grade-II Police Constable allegedly ended his life at the Armed Reserve quarters here on Friday. The deceased identified as M. Alagarsamy (33) was attached to the Detective Dog Squad of the Tiruchi Rural Police.He was a native of Thiruthangal in Sivaganga district. Police have recovered a note purportedly written by him stating that nobody was behind his death and that he had taken the step due to stress. The Constable was unmarried and had been staying alone in the Armed Reserve quarter allotted to him The body was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for post mortem. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
19 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||SI suspended for aiding illicit sand mining||Close on the heels of the suspension of a police constable for his alleged close association with illicit sand miners, a Sub-Inspector of Police has been placed under suspension based on similar charges. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu, following complaints against Sub-Inspector of Police of Veeravanallur police station, Karthikeyan, suspended him for allegedly aiding the lucrative illegal sand quarrying in areas under his jurisdiction. Illicit quarrying of sand and stone is going on in the district for the past several years after sand mining along the Tamirabharani watercourse was banned by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court based on a petition filed by veteran CPI leader R. Nallakannu. As demand for river sand, an essential construction material, is very high, those who are indulged in illicit sand mining are minting several lakhs of rupees every month. When the Veeravanallur police found that a youth, who projected himself as the reporter of a Tamil satellite television news channel, was actively involved in illegal sand quarrying, he was nabbed by the police patrol team when the sand-laden tractor owned by the reporter, was seized in May last week. Though illicit sand mining by this individual was going on for the past several years, then Inspector of Police, Veeravanallur, Samson, arrested him and detained his sand-laden tractor. As Mr. Samson was transferred to Thaazhaiyooththu police station, illicit sand quarrying is actively going on with the connivance of the police, complaints received by the police indicate. After N. Manivannan assumed office as Superintendent of Police, a few illicit sand miners were detained under the provisions of Goondas Act. He also suspended a police head constable attached to Munanjipatti police station a few days ago for his close links with illegal sand miners. When the SP and the DIG received complaints against Karthikeyan of facilitating illegal sand mining in Veeravanallur area, the veracity of the charges against the police officer was verified. When the charges were found to be true, the Sub-Inspector has been placed under suspension. “Those who are working for illicit sand miners, particularly the men in uniform, will have to pay a hefty price,” Mr. Manivannan has warned.
19 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Children get specially designed wheelchairs||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish on Friday handed over specially-designed wheelchairs worth about Rs. 6.60 lakh to children suffering from spinal cord problem and cerebral palsy. The wheelchairs were purchased from the Collector’s Discretionary Funds. While six children suffering from spinal cord problems received specially-designed motorised wheelchairs, each costing about Rs. 99,999, 20 children suffering from cerebral palsy received the specially-designed chairs, each costing about Rs. 3,000. Ms. Shilpa explained to the beneficiaries how to operate them carefully to move around. A laptop costing Rs. 53,300 was handed over to the Office of the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer for official use. “The district administration is prepared to give similar assistance to the special children to improve their living conditions and rehabilitate them. Hence, those who are in need of such assistance may approach the District Differently Abled Welfare Officer,” Ms. Shilpa said. District Differently Abled Welfare Officer Shanthi Glory Emerald was present.
19 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 9.57 crore fine imposed on illicit sand miner||A fine of Rs. 9.57 crore has been imposed on an ‘M Sand’ manufacturer for allegedly mining sand illegally in Kallidaikurichi area in Tirunelveli. Sources in the Collectorate said Manuel George, who had obtained licence for manufacturing ‘M Sand’ in Kallidaikurichi, allegedly quarried sand illegally in Vandalodai with the connivance of Revenue Department officials.
19 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Posters of actor Suriya torn during demonstration in Tiruppur||Members of Hindu Youth Front, the youth wing of Hindu Munnani, tore posters of actor Suriya during a demonstration to condemn his statement against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) in Tiruppur on Friday. According to the Tiruppur City Police, nearly 75 members participated in the demonstration near Pushpa Theatre carrying placards condemning the actor. Towards the end of the demonstration that lasted around 30 minutes, a section of the protesters tore the images of Mr. Suriya despite the police personnel attempting to stop them. Around 35 police personnel were deployed at the spot. The police said that the members dispersed after the demonstration. Tiruppur North police registered a case for violation of prohibitory orders.
19 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead in MTR||A 20-year-old female elephant was found dead in the Theppakadu forest range of the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) on Thursday evening. Assistant Conservator of Forests (Training) Garwit Gangwar, who oversaw the postmortem on Friday, said tissue samples were collected from the carcass and sent for testing as a precautionary measure. “However, prima facie, it seems like the elephant died of natural causes,” he said. The elephant must have died a few days prior to the carcass being found, Mr. Gangawar said, adding that it was suspected that the animal had sustained injuries from a fall. “We also spotted the pug marks of a tiger, which has also eaten parts of the animal,” he said. After postmortem, the carcass was left for scavengers, as there were no human settlements nearby. Leopard found dead In a separate incident, a female leopard, aged around five, was found dead in a government-run TANTEA estate in Cherambadi Range in Gudalur forest division on Friday. Officials said that a postmortem would be conducted on the carcass to ascertain the cause of death.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Waste management company threatens to stop operations||The company that receives around 50% of city’s waste a day for processing from the Coimbatore Corporation has threatened to stop operations. The company, Coimbatore Integrated Waste Management Company Pvt. Ltd. (CIWMCPL), sent a notice to the Corporation a few days ago saying it would be constrained to stop processing around the 500 tonnes waste a day if it did not clear its dues. Sources in the Corporation said the CIWMCPL sent the notice on September 3 seeking Rs. 56.93 crore in dues and sought Rs. 5 crore by September 10, another Rs. 5 crore by September 20 and a like sum by September 30. The Corporation had not yet paid the Rs. 5 crore the company had demanded by September 10, the sources added. The company had said, “It is expressly further notified that on the Corporation’s failure to cure/comply with this notice, our company shall be constrained to treat this notice as a preliminary notice for termination of concession agreement as numerous notices to rectify including the Legal Notice dated 06.04.2020 have been neglected by the Corporation.” The CIWMCPL pointed out to the Corporation that right since the time they signed the concession agreement to treat segregated waste, the latter had been in material breach of various clauses of agreement. One of the breaches was non-payment of transportation fee, processing fee, solid landfill fee and closure charges, all of which amounted to Rs. 25.93 crore. It was forced to move the Madras High Court to recover the dues. During the course of proceedings, the company, case went in for arbitration, where the Corporation agreed to clear the dues with arrears totalling Rs. 56.93 crore. Even after the arbitration proceedings, the Corporation failed to comply with the order, forcing it to move a contempt application, the CIWMCPL reminded the Corporation. The Corporation’s failure to pay the dues had crippled its operations so much so that it was dependent on its group companies for running day-to-day operations. Sources in the Corporation said the civic body had received the notice and very soon senior officials would meet the CIWMCPL representatives to sort out the matter. The CIWMCPL said the company hoped for an amicable settlement of the issue.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||543 new cases, four deaths in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Friday reported four COVID-19 deaths and 543 fresh cases, taking the toll to 372 and the overall case tally to 24,778. The persons whose death were reported on Friday were aged 62, 42, 79 and 69. A total of 108 patients were discharged after treatment on Friday. Out of the total 24,778 cases, 20,372 have recovered and 4,034 are active cases. Tiruppur district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 187 fresh cases, taking the overall case tally to 5,727. Two women aged 54 and 72 died of the infection. The toll so far in the district is 92. A total of 3,889 people have recovered and 1,746 are active cases. On Friday, 189 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Indigenous cases Six patients died of the disease in Salem. They were aged 67, 62, 64, 54, 79 and 50. The district reported 288 fresh cases, of which 285 were indigenous, including 187 in Salem Corporation limits. Three patients had returned from other districts like Dharmapuri and Namakkal. Namakkal district reported 108 new cases. Of these, 18 had travelled to Tiruppur, Chennai, Salem, Coimbatore, Erode, Villupuram, Karur. Five had returned from West Bengal, Karnataka and Bihar. In the Nilgiris, 72 people tested positive on Friday. The total number of cases so far in the district is 2,750, and 589 people are under treatment. Erode district reported 118 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 5,116. A total of 171 persons were discharged on Friday while 964 persons are under treatment. Three persons died, raising the toll in the district to 67. Krishnagiri recorded 50 positive cases on Friday. The district has 752 people under treatment. Dharmapuri recorded 106 new cases, and with these, 993 people are under treatment.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inspector, AIADMK man booked||She said her son Peter Raja’s complaint that the land was used to illegally make country-bombs was not entertained. Instead, her sons were booked. When Selvan, who deals in packaged drinking water, was returning home on Thursday afternoon, a speeding car hit his two-wheeler at Kozhunthattu near Chokkankudiyiruppu. As Selvan fell down, the occupants of the car abducted him. After a couple of hours, Selvan’s body was found in a forest area close to Kadakulam. It was taken to the Thisaiyanvilai Government Hospital by passers-by who thought he was alive. However, the doctors there declared Selvan "brought dead". On information, Godwin Jagadeesh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Sattankulam, and Mr. Harikrishnan went to the spot and conducted an inquiry with Selvan’s family members, who accused Mr. Harikrishnan of being the brain behind the murder. Subsequently, the police booked the accused under Sections 107 (conspiracy), 336 (acting rashly or negligently endangering human life), 302 (culpable homicide by causing death of a person) and 364 (kidnapping or abducting any person in order that such person may be murdered) of the Indian Penal Code. Since the scene of crime falls under the Thattarmadam police station, the case will soon be transferred by the Thisaiyanvilai police to their Thattarmadam counterparts. "We have formed special teams to nab the accused," said N. Manivannan, Superintendent of Police, Tirunelveli. The police indicated that any action against Mr. Harikrishnan would be based on the statements of the co-accused. Ms. Elizabeth alleged that on January 19, Mr. Thirumanavel and his supporters thrashed her son Panguraj, who was admitted to the Tirunelveli Government Medical College Hospital. She said Mr. Harikrishnan got him discharged and took him to the police station where he was hung upside down from the ceiling and thrashed. ‘Torture continued’ "Even after my son filed a complaint with the State Human Rights Commission, Harikrishnan’s torture continued, forcing my sons to approach the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court explaining the threats they were facing from the police officer, while seeking anticipatory bail. Enraged, Harikrishnan has orchestrated the murder of Selvan with the help of Thirumanavel," she said in her complaint to the Thisaiyanvilai police. Ms. Elizabeth said her son’s body bore grievous injuries all over. Third murder case This is the third murder case to be registered against the police in the Sattankulam Police Sub-Division after the deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks and construction worker Mahendran of Srivenkateswarapuram near Peikulam, both under the Sattankulam police station.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Trio sentenced to multiple life terms for murder||The Salem District Court on Friday sentenced three persons to multiple life imprisonment for murdering a woman in 2014. According to the police, the deceased Regina was married to N. Ramesh, prime accused in the case and doubting her husband to be in an illicit relationship, Regina moved out of the house with the children and started residing with her mother-in-law. Regina visited Ramesh’s paramour Thangam and quarrelled with her. Ramesh along with his friends P. Ramesh and R. Vimal Raj hatched a plan to kill Regina. Ramesh took his wife to a burial ground at Minnampalli and along with other accused murder her and left the body on railway track nearby. Principal District Judge Kumaraguru sentenced N. Ramesh to triple life imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 9,000. The other two accused were sentenced to double life term and a fine of Rs. 4,000 each.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC directs CBI to file counter affidavit||The suspended policemen - Murugan, Muthuraj and Thomas Francis - accused in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks have again approached Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking bail on Friday. Justice V. Bharathidasan directed the CBI to file a counter affidavit in the case and adjourned the hearing to September 28. On Thursday, the court had dismissed the bail petition of suspended Inspector of Police Sridhar, another accused in the case. Earlier, the trio had withdrawn their petitions that were subsequently dismissed after the court said they had filed their petitions seeking bail when the investigation was at a preliminary stage.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman found dead||An elderly woman was found dead near Mallur here on Friday. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Lakshmi (60), a farm worker. Lakshmi was staying near Arangalthitu and people found her dead in a bush close to her house and alerted Mallur police.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Till September 18||Cases on Friday: 543 Persons tested +ve so far: 24,778 Active cases: 4,034 Persons recovered: 20,372 Deaths: 372    Cases on Friday: 187 Persons tested +ve so far: 5,727 Active cases: 1,746 Persons recovered: 3,889 Deaths: 92
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for abetting suicide||Annur police, on Thursday, arrested a 20-year-old man on charges of abetting the suicide of a 17-year-old girl near Annur in Coimbatore district. The accused, a neighbour of the deceased, allegedly recorded obscene videos of the girl and threatened her, the police said. The girl died by suicide on September 10. Following this, the youth was arrested on Thursday night and booked under Section 306 (Abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. He was remanded in judicial custody, the police said. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||19-09-2020-city-cinema||MISCELLANEOUS  C.P. ART CENTRE, 1 Eldams Road, Alwarpet, Chennai - 600 018. Exhibition of Textiles, Jewellery, Bags, Masks, Sanitizers, Gloves and Home-made Food items made by self-employedwomen. Tomorrow last day. 10 a.m.to 6 p.m. All are welcome.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dip in enrolment of students in BBMP-run schools, colleges||The exodus of migrant families from the city during the early days of the lockdown and the impact on the education of their children is reflected in the enrolment in schools and colleges run by the civic body. According to Bruhat Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) officials, children of migrant labourers are yet to turn up for admissions even through the process is well under way. Hundreds of children of migrant labourers from across the State and even from outside Karnataka study in these schools. “Only a few children of migrant families obtained the transfer certificate (TC),” said a BBMP official expressing concern over whether they will continue their education in their hometowns. Around 11,800 students – from Class 1 to degree colleges – have enrolled in civic-run institutions so far. “The total strength in the last academic year was around 17,500, including nursery. This year, we are yet to begin admissions for nursery classes,” a senior BBMP official said. J. Manjunath, Special Commissioner (Education), BBMP, said that there was a slight dip in the admission for II PUC as well. “We will get in touch with such parents and see to it that they get admission as soon as possible, and also as and when they come back,” he said. Admissions are open till the end of September, and civic officials expressed hope that the intake will increase by then. “There will be a substantial increase in the number of admissions once nursery classes begin,” Mr. Manjunath added. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad admitted to a shortfall in enrolment. “Once people return, we will make sure that their children return to school and that the process is simple,” he said. ‘Be pro-active’ Social workers, however, say the authorities should be more pro-active in tracking down students so that no child is left behind.. “The civic body and the government should follow up on such children. If they are no longer in Bengaluru, it is the duty of the government to ensure that they join schools or colleges in their respective hometowns,” said Nagasimha G. Rao, director, Child Rights Trust. Vidyagama Scheme As many as 7,000 children studying in BBMP schools are part of the Vidyagama Scheme, a continuous learning programme introduced by the government. It involves mainly activity-based classes that are held in open spaces. Even as the civic body grapples with various challenges, including lack of suitable open space and the fear of spread of COVID-19, it has managed to introduce the programme in over 15 primary and over 30 high schools in the city. “We want to get all the students on board, but some have left the city and others do not turn up due to fear of COVID-19,” said Special Commissioner (Education) J. Manjunath.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB summons former councillor||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the police probing the drug racket issued a notice to R.V. Yuvraj, former BBMP councillor (Sudhama Nagar ward) and son of R.V Devraj who served as MLA from Chamarajpet. Television host Akul Balaji and actor Santosh Kumar have also been summoned for questioning. Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Sandeep Patil said, “In the Cottonpet case, it was felt necessary to question Akul Balaji, Santosh Kumar and R.V. Yuvraj. Notice has been issued to them to appear on Saturday.” According to the police, the trio had allegedly attended private parties along with other accused. “They are in touch with the accused. We are probing their affiliations with the accused and their possible role in the racket,” said sources in the CCB. Parties during lockdown Akul Balaji owns a resort near Lagumenahalli in Doddaballapur. He had rented it to socialite and event manager Viren Khanna on three different occasions to host parties. Khanna was arrested by the CCB. “One of the parties was organised during the lockdown. Neighbours had informed the police,” a CCB official said. The police suspect that drugs were supplied during these parties and have asked the three men for an explanation. CCB officials said that Yuvraj and Santosh were in touch with some drug dealers who have been arrested. The CCB has prepared a list of celebrities, businessmen and VIPs who were in touch with the accused and attended the parties. The police are investigating the nature of their relationship before summoning them for questioning.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Norm on wearing mask observed in breach’||Noting that norms such as wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing were observed only in the breach, the High Court of Karnataka on Friday said that actors and prominent political leaders should be examples to the common man by strictly following these norms. The court also directed the State government to take special measures to ensure that these norms are followed scrupulously at congregations related to religious places and to instruct the officials authorised to visit places of religious worship to ensure compliance. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while hearing a PIL petition, filed by the city-based Letzkit Foundation complaining about large-scale violation of COVID-19 norms. The Bench also said failure to adhere to social distancing norms and the wearing of mask during such congregations could add to the already increasing number of COVID-19 cases across the State.  The authorities must initiate action against all those violating the norms, irrespective the status of the individual, the Bench said. The Bench also directed the government to submit fresh inquiry reports on violations of norms by prominent political leaders, including Ministers, while stating that the reports submitted were far from satisfactory. The instances include allowing prominent political leaders and actors into Chamundeshwari Temple, gathering during the death of Kannada film actor Chiranjeevi Sarja, and certain events attended by Ministers and legislators. Further hearing on the matter was adjourned till October 6.     A large number of people have been found moving around on the Vidhana Soudha premises without wearing face masks, the Chief Justice pointed out on Friday. “We see such scenes every day,” he said.  The authorities must initiate action against all those violating the norms, irrespective the status of the individual, the Bench said.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM appeals to Modi for speedy release of NDRF grants||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on Friday and appealed for speedy release of grants from the National Disaster Response Fund and revision of norms for assistance from the Disaster Response Fund for the current year itself. Mr. Yediyurappa also urged the Prime Minister to declare Upper Krishna Project (UKP) Stage III and Upper Bhadra Project as national projects, in the meeting that lasted for 15 minutes at the Parliament House, according to an official press release from the Chief Minister’s Office. He requested Mr. Modi to take action for early approvals and clearances for irrigation and drinking water projects, including Mekedatu and Kalasa-Banduri Nala to utilise the precious water resources allocated to the State. Later, Mr. Yediyurappa called on Union Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar and requested that his Ministry grant the terms of reference for Mekedatu project. The Chief Minister also sought first stage forest clearance for Kalasa-Banduri Nala project. Mr. Yediyurappa called on Union Minister for Petroleum, Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan and requested him to expedite the process of disinvestment in Visvesvaraya Iron and Steel Ltd. (VISL). Irrigation projects He also called on Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and urged the Centre to declare UKP Stage III and Upper Bhadra Project as national projects. The Chief Minister requested for early approvals and clearances for irrigation and drinking water projects, including Mekedatu and Kalasa-Banduri Nala. Mr. Yediyurappa had called on Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Colleges and exams resume, but teachers still on COVID-19 duty||Lecturers from government and aided degree colleges are in a dilemma over whether to report for COVID-19 duty that the State government has assigned to them or go to colleges for examination duty. With teachers on COVID-19 duty, many colleges are finding it difficult to conduct the final-year undergraduate examination that began last week, and are facing a shortage of invigilators. Besides being posted for exam duty, teachers have to conduct online classes and take part in the admission process, among other duties. District officials are using them for contact tracing, uploading data, and for other field work. A geography lecturer of a government degree college in Bengaluru said principals were continuously urging them to return to college, while the district officials have been asking them to work for one more week with assurances that they will be relieved soon. “When we ask our seniors to relieve us from COVID-19 duty, they tell us that action can be taken against us under the Disaster Management Act if we do not comply with the orders,” said the lecturer. At the same time, colleges that are finally getting back on track say they need more staff for examination duty as several safety protocols have to be followed in the backdrop of the pandemic. Another teacher pointed said many of them have taken up work on the field and are requesting officials to conduct a COVID-19 test before they report to their colleges. T.M. Manjunath, president, Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association, said even though the Chief Secretary had written to all the Deputy Commissioners last week to relieve lecturers from COVID-19 duty, several districts are yet to do so.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah to Yediyurappa: ‘Don’t succumb to your leader’s bullying’||The former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday hit out at the BJP government in the State and the Centre and told Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa not to “succumb to your leader’s bullying and betray us” on payment of Goods and Service Tax (GST) funds. “Karnataka should get Rs. 25,508 Cr as GST compensation. Centre should take complete responsibility to raise funds & compensate,” Mr. Siddaramaiah tweeted. “Apart from your desperate attempts to save your position, please ask few questions that concern Kannadigas @BSYBJP,” he said in another tweet. Seeking justice to the State, the Congress leader said Karnataka had requested Rs. 35,000 crore for last year’s flood relief but got just Rs. 869 crore. “Then there were floods this year as well & and your estimated loss is Rs. 8,000 Cr. Present our case effectively to demand our rightful flood relief,” the former Chief Minister said. Reduced funding On reduced funding in the 15th Finance Commission recommendation, Mr. Siddaramaiah said “in the preliminary 15th FC report, Ktaka is clearly at a disadvantage for effectively controlling population growth rates. Mr @BSYBJP, ask your party head to re-evaluate the indicators & the calculations to decide both devolution of taxes & SDRF.” He also raised a series of questions on the Centre’s help for COVID-19 management. The State legislature session is scheduled to commence on Monday and the Congress is expected to focus on “failures” of the government in handling of COVID-19 situation, alleged corruption in purchase of equipment, management of floods, “anti-farmer” Bills proposed to be tabled in the legislature, violence in K.G. Halli and D.J. Halli in Bengaluru, and ongoing investigation into the drug racket.
19 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown on Sept. 19 & 24||In view of bifurcation of works on NJY feeders in Jigani and Bannerghatta limits, there will be no power supply on September 19 and September 24 between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. According to a release from Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited, the areas that will be affected on September 19 are Bandenallasandra, Kyalasanhally, backside of Biocon, Maruthi Nagar Road, Celebrity Layout 1, 2 and 3, and surrounding areas. The areas that will be affected on September 24 are Balaji Layout, Yallamma Temple Road, Madhumithra Layout, Phase-1 and 2, Drakshi Tota and surrounding areas.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Adalat today to highlight farmers’ plight||As part of the ‘Nammoora Bhoomi Namagirali’ campaign by farmers and other like-minded people, a State-level adalat will be organised on Saturday to highlight the plight of farmer families who have lost their lands and the likely impact of amendments made to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act in the future. According to a release, farmers from across the State will share their experiences. The adalat will be held at Ashirwad, St. Mark’s Road, in Bengaluru between 10 a.m and 5.30 p.m.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Surge in numbers due to increased testing’||Karnataka has ramped up its testing capacity and is conducting over 75,000 tests daily now. The total number of tests crossed 41 lakh on Friday, including 14.26 lakh rapid antigen tests, according toMedical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. Speaking after inaugurating a Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory and skill-training centre at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Medical College in Kodugondanahalli, he said. “So far, Kerala’s count of cases was low because of lower number of tests. The cases are surging there now because of increased testing. The pandemic is under control in Karnataka.” He said the State required more ventilators and ICU beds. “Although we have enough general beds, there is a need to increase our ICU and ventilator capacity.”
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stone laid for Karnataka Bhavan building||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday laid the foundation stone for a new building of the Karnataka Bhavan in New Delhi. Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and D.V. Sadananda Gowda, and Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, who also holds the PWD portfolio, participated in the event. They also performed a ‘puja’ for construction work of Cauvery Karnataka Bhavan. The previous coalition government had estimated the construction cost at Rs. 82 crore, which has been raised by the BJP government to Rs. 120 crore. The proposal to construct the new building was approved by the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government. The Congress-JD(S) coalition government had approved the building plan.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Weavers demand answers for State govt.’s neglect of handloom sector||As the State legislature is set to meet on Monday, an assembly of rural artisans that met at Heggodu village in Shivamogga on Friday posed a series of questions to people’s representatives over the state of affairs of Gramodyoga, especially on the neglect of the weaving sector in Karnataka. The assembly, convened by Grama Seva Sangha, attracted participants from several districts to discuss possible course of action for the sector. When the artisans go back to their villages, plans are afoot to pose these questions to their elected representatives. Comparing the affairs in Karnataka to that of neighbouring States, the artisan assembly pointed out that in Andhra Pradesh, each artisan who lost their job due to COVID-19 received Rs. 24,000 as compensation while their counterparts in Karnataka received only Rs. 2,000 ‘in a badly administered manner’. Kerala has come to the rescue of all rural artisans including bringing them under MNREGA thereby doubling their incomes. “Why is Karnataka unable to do this for our artisans,” they asked. The weavers said that Karnataka has failed to even get cloth for government school children from handloom weavers. “Is it not pitiable that State enterprises such as Priyadarshini Handlooms, Kaveri Emporium, Handloom Development Corporation among others, are on the verge of collapse,” they sought to know. They pointed out that several schemes for the sector, such as the khadi spinning programme, were gathering dust because of bureaucratic apathy and corruption. They recalled that Karnataka has a legacy in the sector, citing the establishment of Badanvalu Khadi Institution established by erstwhile Mysore Government in 1917.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||School, college buildings to be renovated||Taking advantage of the lockdown, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to renovate 36 school and college buildings. “Many school and college buildings, especially in North, South and East zones, are decades old, and are in need of renovation,” a senior BBMP official said adding that the BBMP Engineering Department had inspected the buildings and work is set to begin soon. The renovation will include repair and construction of toilets, construction of additional class rooms, paintings, and renovation of the play areas. “Schools in Ganganagar and Kasturba Nagar have got more admissions. There is a need for additional classrooms. Hence, we will build new classrooms in such schools,” the official said.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sanjjanaa custody extended||The special court on Friday extended the judicial custody of actor Sanjjanaa Galrani till September 30. Her bail application has been postponed to Saturday. Another accused, Vaibhav Jain, has been remanded in police custody for five more days. The CCB will produce in the special court again on September 22. The hearing on actor Ragini Dwivedi’s bail petition has been moved to Saturday. She is currently in judicial custody along with the seven others.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jala Spandana||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will organise a Jala Spandana programme from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. on Saturday. It will be held in 16 sub-divisions across the city. The engineer-in-chief and additional chief engineers will participate in the programme and address water and sewerage issues.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||At Vidhana Soudha||A large number of people have been found moving around on the Vidhana Soudha premises without wearing face masks, the Chief Justice said on Friday. “We see such scenes every day,” he said.
19 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water supply to be hit||The work of shifting of water supply and UGD lines near Vellara junction will be taken up by Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board on Saturday.  There will be disruption in water supply in Domlur village, Domlur Layout, Amarajyothi Layout, HAL 2nd Stage, Kodihalli, Ejipura and surrounding areas, BWSSB said in a release.
19 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||CBI continues questioning in ZP member murder case||The sleuths of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing the murder of BJP leader and ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar continued questioning in Dharwad on Friday. Mallamma, the wife of the slain leader, was called for questioning a second time. Basavaraj Muttagi, identified as accused number one by in the chargesheet filed by the State police, was quizzed for the fourth time. Vice-President of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat Shivanand Karigar, who was questioned on Thursday, appeared again before the authorities on Friday. Mr. Karigar had played a crucial role in getting Ms. Mallamma to the Congress. According to sources, Mr. Karigar was questioned on his role in bringing Ms. Mallamma to the Congress and whether any negotiation had taken place prior to that. This apart, Gurunathgouda, the elder of brother of Yogeeshgouda, and Jaffer Tadkod, son of a former police official, and the counsel for Basavaraj Muttagi also appeared before the officials.
19 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan ZP president tests positive||Hassan Zilla Panchayat president Shweta Devaraj tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. In a video message, Ms. Devaraj said she is under home isolation in Hassan as she is asymptomatic. “As per doctor’s advice, I am under treatment at home. I hope people who came in contact with me in the recent days get tested for COVID-19,” she said.
19 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Vijayendra will be CM in future’||Hassan MLA Preetham Gowda on Friday said that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son B.Y. Vijayendra will become Chief Minister of the State in future. Speaking to presspersons, he said there was no need to call him [Vijayendra] ‘super CM’, he will become CM one day.  Further, Mr. Gowda said Mr. Yediyurappa would complete the remaining term as Chief Minister and the party would face the next Assembly election under his leadership. He said he was not an aspirant for a Cabinet berth.
19 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Private doctors will be roped in: Eshwarappa||The Shivamogga district administration has decided to utilise the services of private doctors at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga to treat COVID-19 patients, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said. In a meeting with medical officers in Shivamogga, Mr. Eshwarappa said as number of cases is on the rise, doctors had been working overtime to treat patients. “We have decided to involve private doctors for the service. If found necessary, we will involve more private nursing homes for COVID-19 treatment in the city,” he said. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar said four private doctors had already started working at McGann Hospital. Those refusing to work would attract legal action, he said. IMA Shivamogga district unit president Parashuram said private doctors would wish to work, provided they are given necessary facilities. They would require training on the treatment protocol, he added.
19 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Body found||The body of a GESCOM employee, who was washed away in the strong current on Thursday evening, was found on Friday morning. The deceased has been identified as Siddram D. Awate, Assistant Engineer at GESCOM, Afzalpur taluk. Rajashekar Kumbar, who was travelling along with the deceased officer, was rescued on Thursday night.
19 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||95 pvt. hospitals to come under AB-ArK scheme||All 95 private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in Dakshina Kannada will be empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) scheme so that patients can get free treatment, said Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra recently. Speaking at an interaction with councillors here, Dr. Rajendra said so far 12 hospitals, including eight private medical colleges, were empanelled under the scheme. “Instead of seeking an application, we have decided to grant deemed approval for empanelling all hospitals, which are registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishments Act and treating COVID-19 patients,” he said. Notices are being issued to these hospitals to complete the empanelling formalities, he added. The DC said the government was ready to bear all treatment cost. So far the State government had paid Rs. 2 crore towards 1,800 patients in the district. “Patients should bear in mind the scheme applies when the treatment is in a general ward and not those who are in special and other wards,” he said. Earlier, District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said it was mandatory for all hospitals in the district to get empanelled under the AB-ArK scheme in a week. To another question, Dr. Rajendra said as the district receives patients from across the State, it was difficult to arrange online availability of beds in hospitals. Dr. Rajendra said as more cases were coming from the Mangaluru City Corporation areas, ward-level committees are being involved in tracking and testing suspected and vulnerable people. As many as 30 mobile testing vehicles are being used to collect throat and nasal swabs, he said. Plasma therapy centre The convalescent plasma therapy centre will start functioning at the Government Wenlock Hospital by the end of September, said Dr. Rajendra. Presently one such centre was functional at K.S. Hedge Hospital, Deralakatte.
19 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Old building partially collapses in Udupi||A three-storey old building in the heart of Udupi city at Chittaranjan Circle – Royal Mahal Lodge – partially collapsed on Friday noon. Fortunately, there was no casualty. Following the incident, the Udupi City Municipal Council has decided to ask owners of uninhabited old and dilapidated buildings in the city to get them demolished within a month. Municipal Commissioner Anand C. Kallolikar who along with other officials inspected the site, said the CMC would immediately issue a newspaper notification urging owners of such buildings to clear them. He told The Hindu that  the CMC would also identify owners of such buildings and issue them individual notices. Old buildings that have been uninhabited for the last three years would identified for demolition. If the owners do not demolish them, the CMC would execute the same at their cost, he added. Mr. Kallolikar said Royal Mahal, built in 1947, belongs to one Sairaj Hegde.
19 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Pregnant leopardess operated upon||An eight-year-old pregnant leopardesswas operated upon at the Pilikula Biological Park here on Friday. Cubs found dead Its two cubs were found dead in the stomach and were taken out by conducting the surgery, according to H. Jayaprakash Bhandary, director of the park. The leopardess, Chintu, is recovering after the operation. The veterinary doctors at the park, Vishnudutt and Yashaswi, conducted the operation. Chintu had been rescued from near Moodbidri when it was a five-day-old cub after it was abandoned. Later it had found shelter in the park, which has 10 leopards now, Mr. Bhandary added.
19 September 2020||Mangaluru/Hubballi,KARNATAKA||456 new cases, 11 deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada reported 456 new COVID-19 cases and 11 deaths on Friday. In all, 340 patients were discharged after treatment on the day. The active cases in the district was 4,506. Meanwhile, Davangere and Haveri districts recorded over 450 persons discharged, while Belagavi recorded close to 400 on Friday. Dharwad and Belagavi recorded nine and eight deaths, respectively. Davangere saw 146 new cases; Haveri 116 and six deaths; Belagavi 395; Dharwad 134; Gadag 182 and two deaths; Bagalkot 112 and three deaths; Chitradurga 184; Uttara Kannada 105 and three deaths, and Vijayapura saw 77 new cases and one death.
19 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Schools to complete admissions by Sept. 30||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education Suresh Kumar on Friday said the State government has issued directions to schools to complete the process of admission from Class 1 to X by September 30 and collect the fees applicable only for the first term. Fielding reporters’ queries in Mysuru, Mr. Kumar said the State government was awaiting necessary directions from the Centre to start regular classes for students. “Students of Classes 9, 10, 11 and 12 can go to their respective institutions to clarify doubts in studies from September 21. Regular classes will not begin. We are still awaiting a green signal from the Centre,” he said. Students visiting their educational institutions for doubts should mandatorily carry a consent letter signed by their parents, besides wearing a mask, and maintaining social distancing. A detailed Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) in this regard will be issued by the government on Saturday. He said there was a need to complete the admission process for schools by a particular date. By June every year, about 10 lakh students would be admitted to schools. As the process could not be completed this year due to COVID-19, Mr. Kumar said the schools had been asked to complete it by September 30. Completion of the admission process was necessary for various reasons including the need for educational institutions to know how many textbooks they would require for the year, he said. “Also, we have given directions to schools to collect fees only for the first term. Parents can complain to their local Block Education Officer (BEO) or Deputy Director of Public Instruction (DDPI) if any dispute arises,” he said. Different schools divide their annual fees into two terms or three terms. Depending on the number of terms each institution has divided its annual fees into, they can collect the fees for one term. Mr. Kumar clarified that the government has issued directions that no educational institution can increase its fees for the year. “The school fees should not be higher than last year’s fees,” he said.  We have directed schools to collect fees only for the first term. Parents can complain to their local BEO or DDPI if any dispute arises. Suresh Kumar Minister for Primary and Secondary Education
19 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘No change of guard in State’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s ministerial colleagues S. Suresh Kumar and S.T. Somashekhar on Friday refuted speculation on a possible change of guard in the State. Mr. Kumar, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education, told reporters here that there was no truth in the reports on the replacement of Mr. Yediyurappa as Chief Minister. “Mr. Yediyurappa will complete the entire term as Chief Minister,” he said. Though reports of a change of guard keep cropping up every now and then, there was no truth in them, he said. Echoing him, Mr. Somashekhar, Minister for Cooperation, said the speculation over replacement of the Chief Minister was restricted to the media.
19 September 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Ashok Gasti cremated with state honours||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti was cremated with state honours near Potgal village in Raichur taluk in the district on Friday. The first-time MP died on Thursday owing to COVID-19. The mortal remains were brought by an ambulance from Bengaluru to Raichur and kept at the RTO Circle for a few minutes, while political leaders and members of the Savita Samaj paid their last respects. Then, officials of the Health Department took the mortal remains to Potgal village, where Mr. Gasti’s daughter performed the last rites. The mortal remains were cremated by following the COVID-19 norms. Police personnel fired three rounds in the air and a police band played the national anthem. A low-profile leader, he rose to to the top owing to his hard work and commitment. He was well known for organising the BJP at the grassroots level.  Condolences poured in from Laxman Savadi, Deputy Chief Minister and Raichur in charge, Raja Amareshwar Naik, MP, and others. R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Prakash Nikam, Superintendent of Police, and others were present.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Permission for hoardings misused: HC||Observing that the State government has prima facie misused the permission granted to put up temporary hoardings to spread awareness on COVID-19, the Karnataka High Court on Friday directed the government to immediately pull down all hoardings containing private advertisements. The court also directed the government to explain why permission granted to put up around 2,000 temporary hoardings should not be withdrawn for prima facie misusing the permission by including private advertisements in violation of the condition imposed by the court. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions related to illegal hoardings. The government had made a specific application in these petitions seeking permission to put up temporary hoardings and had given an undertaking to use hoardings only for creating awareness on COVID-19. The court’s July 19 order had stated: “...the hoardings, which are displayed pursuant to the permission granted by this court, no person will be allowed to advertise any product or any other item and all the hoardings displayed under the permission granted by the court will contain no other material except the material which is required for spreading awareness and for giving requisite information to the members of the public regarding the measures taken by the authorities to prevent the spread of COVID-19.” However, the hoardings put up by the Health and Family Welfare Department, through an advertisement agency, contained private advertisements, the bench noticed from the affidavit and photographs submitted by Mayige Gowda, one of the petitioners. The bench directed the government not to act further on its letter entrusting an advertisement agency to put up the hoardings on awareness.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Only 45% of Koramangala elevated corridor completed||Two years after work began in 2017, the elevated corridor from Ejipura to Kendriya Sadan in Koramangala is far from complete. The deadline for the 2.5-km long corridor – being constructed at a cost of Rs. 203 crore – was November 2019, but only 45% of the work has been completed to date. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, accompanied by B.T.M. Layout MLA Ramalinga Reddy, inspected the site on Friday and directed officials to expedite work on the project. Officials plan to hold monthly review meetings to oversee progress. The corridor will cover seven junctions – Ejipura Main Road-Outer Ring Road Junction, Sony World Junction, Kendriya Sadan Junction, Koramangala 8th Main Junction, Koramangala 60 feet road junction, Koramangala 5th Block, 1st A Cross junction, Koramangala BDA junction. In a press release, BBMP said that of the 81 pillars for the elevated corridor, 67 had been constructed. According to officials, once completed, traffic congestion is likely to come down by around 40% and commute time will be reduced by at least 30 minutes. The elevated corridor will ease vehicular movement to Tavarekere, M.G. Road, Halasoor Road, Agara, B.T.M. Layout, Koramangala, Sarjapur Main Road and Viveknagar via Kendriya Sadan Junction. It will also provide relief to motorists moving towards Indiranagar, Kendriya Sadan, Jakkasandra via Sony World Junction, read the release. The elevated corridor will have four ramps, of which one ramp will come up near St. John’s Research Institute. Though the BBMP had requested the institute to provide some land for the same, the space was yet to be handed over. Civic officials plan to hold a meeting with authorities of the institute. As many as 25 trees along the defence land will be transplanted for the project while branches of over 83 trees along the alignment will have to be trimmed. Mr. Prasad has directed civic officials to take up pothole filling along the entire stretch. After the inspection, the commissioner tweeted: “BBMP is trying to solve land acquisition and other issues. Meanwhile, immediate steps are being taken for desilting side drains and filling of potholes on the entire stretch.”
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Revanna urges govt. to help maize growers||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has appealed to the State government to come to the rescue of maize growers, who suffered loss due to dip in price in the market. Farmers have grown maize in about 90,000 ha in the district, he said in a press conference on Friday. He said the State government was busy transferring officers accepting bribes, but there was none to respond to woes of farmers. “Police officers are paying Rs. 20 lakh to 30 lakh to get posting in Hassan. Engineers are paying up to Rs. 1 crore. Officers who get posts after paying so much will not work with honesty,” he said. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi accusing the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government of being ‘a 10% government’, he wanted to know what the PM would call the present BJP government in the State. He alleged that COVID-19 patients were not getting proper care in government hospitals in Hassan.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Smart parking system on 10 roads in CBD||Finding a parking spot on 10 major roads in the Central Business District (CBD) may no longer be a nightmare. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has put in place a smart parking system on 10 major roads in the first phase of the project, which will be inaugurated by the civic body’s administrator Gaurav Gupta on Saturday. Under the first phase, the smart parking has been put in place on Cunningham Road, M.G. Road, Kasturba Road, St. Mark’s Road, Residency Road, Museum Cross Road, Vittal Mallya Road, Mallya Hospital Road, Church Street and Ali Asker Road. These roads will have a total of 475 parking spaces for four-wheelers and 510 for two-wheelers, said the BBMP. To find a vacant spot, citizens have to log on to the Namma Bengaluru smart parking app on their smartphones. They may make payments using UPI, credit/debit cards. Those without smartphones may use parking meters to make payments through cash, UPI, credit/debit cards. To encourage citizens to use the system, users will get 100% cashback for the parking charges. The BBMP is expected to earn Rs. 31.56 crore a year through this system. Parking spaces have been divided into different zones with tariffs fixed accordingly. For four-wheelers, the tariff in zone A will be Rs. 30 an hour, Rs. 20 in zone B and Rs. 15 in zone C. For two-wheelers, the tariff is Rs. 15 for zone A, Rs. 10 for zone B and Rs. 5 for zone C. All roads will be monitored by enforcement marshals. The system has dynamic real-time parking guidance boards to indicate parking space availability on various roads and CCTV cameras to cover the parking areas, said the release.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All set for session||
19 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Do new agri Bills impact State?||Three agrarian reform Bills introduced by the Centre have evoked mixed reactions among experts in the State. While some are apprehensive about the possible impact of the proposed legislation on the State’s farm sector, others feel its implications will be minimal. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill were passed by the Lok Sabha earlier this week. Apart from fears of an end to Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the Centre intruding into States jurisdiction, P. Indiradevi, Professor and Director of Research (Retired), Kerala Agricultural University, says the proposed laws are not in the best interest of farmers. The Bills are largely favourable to big buyers, corporates, exporters, traders, and processors who want to control the food and agriculture business. The second Bill relates to contract farming, which until now is not practised in the State. The Bill seeks to provide a framework on farming agreements for the sale and purchase of farm produce. It is feared that contract farming will open up the State’s farm sector to multinational companies and corporates who look to buy the entire produce from large tracts of land. “The so-called big people will lure farmers into an agreement to sell their produce by offering lucrative prices. This may lead to intensive farming using a lot of chemicals, fertilizers, and pesticides without considering land sustainability and environmental impact. There is also a chance of spread of monocropping,” says Ms. Indiradevi While the impact of the first Bill will be more on States having Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis, experts say the implications will be felt in States such as Kerala where there is no APMC or APMC Act. This legislation should be considered along with the Essential Commodities Bill. While one Bill allows more choices for farmers to market their produce at higher remunerative prices, the other one facilitates bulk purchasing. “In the future, there is a chance that the competition will become less and the so-called big buyers, who will be a few, can reach an understanding among them on the price and exploit farmers,” Ms. Indiradevi says. Jacob Joseph, legal academic and an expert in agricultural laws, says the reforms will lead to buyers hoarding farm produce, causing inflation, and other consequences such as shortage of food items in the public market. G.S. Unnikrishnan Nair, retired Additional Director of Agriculture, however, says the first Bill will open avenues for better prices for farm commodities. Kerala already has a free marketing system as far as commodities such as vegetables and paddy are concerned. Contract farming reforms will be more relevant in States with large per capita land possession and big farms. “It is also a welcome measure that a framework will be formed and a guaranteed price will be assured by the contract farming agency to the farmer,” he says, adding that the removal of export restrictions should have been addressed in the Bill. V. Mohandas, AITUC leader and secretary, Chithira Kayala Padashekara Samiti, termed the Bills pro-corporate that will only benefit speculative traders and promote stocking of produce.
19 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha’s case burden goes up by another 274||The district recorded 274 COVID-19 cases and 146 recoveries on Friday. Of the total cases, 259 patients contracted the disease locally. Nine people who came from other States, five from abroad, and one health-care staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the 259 contact cases, 34 were reported from Ambalappuzha South, 30 from Arattuppuzha, 25 from Kayamkulam, and 21 cases each from Kadakkarappally and Mannar. Most cases The rest of the locally transmitted cases were from Alappuzha (17), Ambalappuzha North (9), Thamarakulam (9), Cheriyanad (8), Pathiyoor (6), Panavally (6), Kumarapuram (5), Chettikkad (4), Champakulam (4), Thrikkunnappuzha (4), Vayalar (4), Bharanikavu (3), Ezhupunna (3), Haripad (3), Cherthala (3), Thanneermukkom (3), Karthikappally (3), Mulakuzha (3), Kandalloor (3), Kodamthuruth (3), two cases each from Chettikulangara, Mannancherry, Nooranad, Mararikulam North, Palamel, Chingoli, and Chennithala and one case each from Cheppad, Cherthala South, Chunakara, Edathua Krishnapuram, Kanjikuzhy, Kavalam, Pallippuram, Punnapra North, Punnapra South and Thazhakara. Active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 2,665.
19 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||PM’s portrait on paper made of water hyacinth||The Centre for Research on Aquatic Resources (CRAR) at SD College, Alappuzha, has released a digital portrait of Prime Minister Narendra Modi printed on a special handmade paper from water hyacinth. It was unveiled by college Principal P.R. Unnikrishna Pillai on the occasion of the 70th birthday of Mr. Modi on Thursday. It was prepared by a team led by G. Nagendra Prabhu, principal investigator of CRAR, Anoopkumar V., a research scholar, and Sreekuttan V.N., alumnus of Zoology Department, as part of the research and development activities on the value addition of aquatic weeds. The digital portrait was sketched by Anoop over a period of four days. The CRAR is involved in developing such rural technologies for the past two decades and had made life-size half bust of Mahatma Gandhi and A.P.J. Abdul Kalam using water hyacinth pulp.
19 September 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Building curbs limited to 8 villages in Idukki||The Revenue Department has issued an order limiting the control on constructions only to eight villages in Idukki district. The order has been issued to revise an earlier order legalising unauthorised constructions issued as per the 1964 Land Assignment Rules.  HC order in 2010 As per the new order, the control on constructions is applicable only to Kanan Devan Hills village, Bisonvalley, Chinnakanal, Santhanpara, Vellathooval, Anaviratty, Pallivasal, and Anavilasam villages. As per a High Court order in 2010, the no-objection certificate from the Revenue Department was made mandatory for construction activities in Munnar region. “The earlier order stated that putting a control on land use pattern, the government has made mandatory the certificate from the village office specifying the land use in the title deed for issuing building permit for commercial constructions in Idukki. The order was issued to prevent illegal constructions in Munnar,” the new order, issued on August 20, says. It says that considering the ecological significance of Munnar, there is a need for another system to regulate construction there.
19 September 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Land identified for landslip survivors||A team led by District Collector H. Dinesan has identified nearly 50 cents at Kuttiyarvalley for rehabilitating the survivors of the Pettimudy landslip last month. The death toll in the landslip, which destroyed four estate lanes in the Nayamakkad division on August 7, has been put at 66. Four persons are still missing. Devikulam Subcollector S.Prem Krishnan, who was also in the team, on Friday said eight families in the area would be given title deeds within 10 days. The house construction would be completed by February, he said adding that if more eligible persons arrived, they would also be considered for allotment of land and houses. The land had been identified in 3.5 acres marked for public purposes at Kuttiyarvalley, where nearly 2,000 families had already been accommodated under various housing schemes. The land was identified after considering water availability, road, and other facilities, the Subcollector said.  22 families hit Earlier, at a meeting with the Chief Minister, representatives of Kanan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) Ltd. said the company would construct houses on land provided by the government. The District Collector was entrusted with finding land. A total of 22 families from 30 homes in the four tea estate lanes were caught in the landslip. Only members of eight families had survived the tragedy, according to the KDHP.
19 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Plus One seat a distant dream for tribal students||The commendable performance by tribal children of Wayanad in the SSLC examinations in the past few years has created a different kind of crisis in the region with hundreds of tribal students failing to find admission to Plus One courses under the single-window admission procedure. Just 530 seats As many as 2,009 tribal students in the district are eligible for higher secondary education this year, but only 530 seats are available for them under the 8% reservation for the Scheduled Tribes (ST) quota, says M. Geethanandan, State coordinator, Adivasi Gothra Mahasabha (AGM). The remaining 1,479 tribal students — most of them from the landless Paniya, Adiya, and Kattunaika communities — are unable to get admission this year, Mr. Geethanandan says. The tribal students could not afford to apply for admission in other districts, considering the geographical isolation of Wayanad and the miserable condition of their families. Though the issue has been recurring every year, the Education Department is yet to adopt any solid measures to address it. If the government fails to increase the number of seats for Adivasi students immediately, tribal organisations would launch a series of agitations to address the issue, Mr. Geethanandan says. Spot admission A spot admission process was organised for tribal students who failed to get admission through the single-window process last year and only 422 tribal students of the 666 eligible applicants got admission, he adds. “A majority of the tribal students tend to choose the Humanities stream but only 158 seats are available under reservation for the ST students. Hence, many an eligible student would face the risk of becoming a dropout,” he said. Volunteer team The Adi Shakti Summer School, a collective of Adivasi and Dalit youths under the AGM, has organised a team of volunteers this year to assist the Adivasi students to navigate the online admission process. “The team has found it difficult to track down every single student because they do not have access or are not familiar with Internet and the modern communication facilities,” Mary Libiya, coordinator of the collective, said.
19 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||National award for NSS unit||E.K. Nayanar Memorial School, Vengadu, has bagged the national award for the best National Service Scheme (NSS) unit and Shinith Patyyam, political science teacher at the school, has won the best NSS programme officer award.
19 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Crude bombs hurled at CPI(M) office||Two crude bombs were hurled at the local committee office of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) at Kunhimangalam early Friday. While one bomb was hurled at the office wall, the other exploded inside the office damaging the door and windows. The damage to office was put at Rs. 3lakh. Party district secretary M.V. Jayarajan and MLA T.V. Rajesh visited the office.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NGT comes down on State govt. over Brahmapuram fiasco||The Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi, has told the Kerala government that it may consider imprisonment of bureaucrats who fail to comply with its orders seeking action against those responsible for the unscientific handling of waste at the Brahmapuram solid waste processing plant. The Bench, comprising Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel (Chairperson), Justice S.P. Wangdi (Judicial Member), and Nagin Nanda (Expert Member), said in its order on September 16 that “there is serious dereliction of duties of the State authorities under the public trust doctrine to provide pollution-free environment. Under the NGT Act, 2010, violation of orders of this tribunal is criminal offence, apart from an executable decree which can be enforced even by directing detention of violators in prison till compliance. This course of action may have to be considered even against highest erring officers, if the default continues.” The tribunal pointed out that no meaningful coercive measures had been adopted as expected from the State Pollution Control Board, as a regulator. “The local bodies as well as the Urban Development department have failed to take effective steps in the matter. We record our disapproval for the lack of sincerity and sensitivity of the authorities to the health of the citizens on flimsy grounds. There is non-compliance of orders of this tribunal dated February 28, 2020. Not even compensation has been recovered as directed nor action taken against erring officers,” the Bench said. The Chief Secretary has been directed to set up a three-member team of Secretary, Urban Development; Chairman, Kerala State Pollution Control Board, and the Municipal Commissioner concerned to take immediate remedial action. The Bench said the failure of the authorities was at the cost of public health. The Chief Secretary, who has to personally monitor compliance with the tribunal’s directives, should inform the erring officers that they will not be entitled to draw salaries from a specified date till compliance. The tribunal asked the Chief Secretary to file his personal affidavit giving information about commencement of work relating to remediation of legacy waste site(s) and waste processing plant to handle day-to-day waste generation before January 21, 2021.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corporation wants to collect advt, entertainment taxes again||After a Kochi Corporation Council meeting held on Friday to assess the financial situation of the civic body and report to the Sixth State Finance Commission on the necessary changes to be made to increase the civic body’s revenue and streamline expenditure, the corporation is likely to suggest that it should be allowed to collect advertisement and entertainment tax again. “When the GST system was implemented, the advertisement and entertainment tax were done away with. The power of the local bodies to collect these taxes has not been reinstated in Kerala. These taxes had earlier contributed in a big way to the corporation’s income,” Mayor Soumini Jain told The Hindu . Besides, officials should be allowed to continue in office for a minimum of three years without frequent transfers, and companies functioning here should be required to spend at least a part of their CSR funds here, she said. The corporation was also likely to ask for timely appointments of bill collectors to be made, besides the appointment of a health officer and an estate manager to handle the civic body’s property, Deputy Mayor K. R. Premakumar said. An increase in State government grants in keeping with the amount of tax collected by the corporation was necessary, he said. The corporation should also be able to levy tax from professionals in the service sector, like lawyers and doctors, he said. About 50% of the the three-fold hike in fees for regularisation of unauthorised constructions should be made available to the corporation, he said. While these points have all been laid out in the corporation’s budget, it would be reiterated in its report to the finance commission. Opposition leaders said that the existing funds from the State government were not being utilised. “Out of Rs. 730.98 crore received from the State from 2015-16 till 2019-20, only Rs. 542 crore was spent,” said V.P. Chandran, LDF Parliamentary party secretary. Besides, the amount under the Plan Fund for projects meant for Scheduled Caste persons had also remained under-utilised, he said. “Of the Rs. 47 crore allotted for this purpose in the past five years, only Rs. 21 crore was spent”. The Opposition also pointed to the need to maintain an asset register of the corporation, and implement an online system of tax collection. Both property tax and profession tax were not being assessed or collected adequately, they said.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Biodiversity index map for Kochi, a first in State, ready||In what is the first for a city in Kerala and the second in the country, a biodiversity index has been prepared for Kochi. The index took into account 18 biodiversity indicators that measure the city’s native biodiversity, the ecosystem services provided and biodiversity governance to give the city a score of 45 out of 72. “In terms of ensuring sustainable development, an index like this is significant in evaluating where we stand now and what more needs to be done. Now that we have a score, if the process is repeated a few years from now, it would tell us to what extent the city’s biodiversity has changed,” said Rajan Chedambath, executive director, Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED). In order to prepare the index, C-HED, which functions under the Kochi Corporation, has been working with ICLEI-South Asia, an international network of governments working towards sustainable development. The process was part of a German-funded project called the Integrated Subnational Action for Biodiversity (Interact-Bio) being implemented in the city. A report on the index was launched by Mayor Soumini Jain on Friday. The preparation of the index was mentioned in the corporation’s 2019-20 budget. The Mayor said in a press release, “while the city’s score is good, the report points out that serious interventions are to be made to protect biodiversity, and increase the green cover in the city.” Tree cover An illustrated natural asset map of the city, prepared earlier as part of the same project, was also launched on the day. The report on the index says that the total tree cover in the city is only 6.655 sqkm, which is less than 10% of the total terrestrial area of 78.31 sqkm and suggests plantation of native trees and community participation in restoring green spaces. Budget allocation Only about 1.8% of the city’s total budget allocation for 2019-20 was for biodiversity. This includes canal rejuvenation and fisheries and animal husbandry projects. The report also notes that the city needs to strengthen mechanisms in biodiversity governance and management, though concrete steps such as the development of a local biodiversity strategy and action plan, and inclusion of biodiversity in the municipal budget were already being done. The city also needs to take greater ownership for the protection of the backwaters, the report notes.  While the city’s score is good, the report points out that serious interventions are to be made to protect biodiversity and increase the green cover Soumini Jain Mayor
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Start-ups develop prototype of cost-effective ventilator||Advancements in the collaborative efforts of three start-ups and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in developing three emergency care ventilation solutions has brought something to cheer amidst a still raging pandemic and a resultant acute shortage of ventilators felt across the world, especially in India. IndVentr, a consortium of three startups – Sinergia Media Labs and Ionics 3DP based in Kochi, and Aruvii based in Singapore – and Prana Foundation, a not-for-profit foundation which grew out of biomedical engineering efforts at MIT and the Brigham and Women’s Hospital have been working on low-cost emergency ventilators and multiplexing systems to cater to the challenges of the fast evolving situation. iSave, an innovative and frugal ventilator sharing platform developed by Prana Foundation facilitates ventilation of two subjects simultaneously the validation of which was recently published in Science Translational Medicine. Priced at Rs. 20,000, it can quickly scale up the ventilator infrastructure around the world, which is now under severe stress. “We have also completed the functional prototypes of INADVENT-100, which is a time-tested BVM-based manual emergency resuscitator, which we are automating with added features and will be priced in the region of Rs. 50,000-Rs. 60,000,” said actor Prakash Bare, who heads the project at IndVentr. INADVENT-200 is a more advanced and feature-rich ventilator with pneumatic design and priced at Rs. 1.50 lakh, will be the costliest of the three solutions.
19 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Waste management citizens’ responsibility, says expert||A sustainable waste management system can be evolved only through public participation, a total change in attitude and policy clarity, said P.K. Raveendran, a retired professor of chemistry who has worked extensively on waste management. On the Kochi Corporation’s failure to properly handle waste despite more than two decades of efforts, he said the authorities appeared to promote an attitude that people were not responsible for the waste generated in households. “Just as polluter pays, my waste is my responsibility,” said Mr. Raveendran emphasising that people must involve themselves in waste segregation, proper disposal at source and decentralised management. Lack of clarity Speaking at an online conference on decentralised waste management recently, he said there was a lack of clarity on the part of the government on waste management policy. The government often appeared confused over whether to adopt a centralised or decentralised system. The government has now come out with an announcement favouring decentralised waste management. But he pointed out that the Kochi Corporation had, about five years ago, favoured a centralised system with a proposal for a waste-to-energy plant. “Such a centralised system cannot work without the residents involving themselves in the process. Segregation at source is a must,” he said. The extremely wet climate in the State is a major factor that has to be considered. The government and local bodies must create a situation in which citizens are responsible for the waste they generate. They should be ready to take waste to a local or decentralised processing facility. The success of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation is an example to emulate, he said. According to a study by the Green Tribunal, 47% of the divisions in the State capital had succeeded in sustainably managing waste in a decentralised manner, he said.
19 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cyber attackers turn masters in impersonation||The cyber attackers being deployed by North Korea targeting its adversaries, especially the United States, are increasingly turning masters at impersonation. This was among the fascinating insights offered by Ryan Sherstobitoff, senior analyst with the advanced threat research wing of software security giant McAfee, in a session at the 13th edition of the two-day cOcOn, the international hacking and cybersecurity conference organised by the Kerala Police, which got under way virtually on Friday. He was talking about Hidden Cobra, the name given to North Korea’s cyber offensive programme by the US, which has spotted four major groups identified as Lazarus, Bluenoroff, Andariel, and APT37 as active under the programme. Mr. Sherstobitoff said actors associated with Hidden Cobra had been impersonating defence sector employees since 2016 through fake profiles in LinkedIn, a US-based business and job-oriented online service. In fact, the US government tracked the number of impersonation campaigns targeting defence contractors as covered in a Federal Bureau of Investigation indictment. Noticeably, the command of English and other foreign languages of Hidden Cobra attackers has improved significantly. He went on to share information about the various operations of Hidden Cobra over the past few years. There is the Operation ‘Bankshot’ that targeted the Turkish banking sector after the US government referred to the implant used for the attack as such. Mr. Sherstobitoff said a four-month-long fake job recruitment operation was run under Hidden Cobra between April and July 2017 in which major United States defence contractors were targeted. “This operation was part of an elaborate impersonation campaign to ‘trick’ individuals into opening malicious document files disguised as job descriptions for roles involved with the targeted programs. Once opened, the documents load an implant that would take over the victim’s system,” said Mr. Sherstobitoff.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Delay in construction of Aluva market flayed||The merchant community in Aluva is up in arms against the inordinate delay in the construction of the municipal market nearly seven years after the existing market was demolished. With a majority of the displaced merchants continuing to ply their trade from makeshift shacks and stalls, they are planning to stage a protest in front of the municipal office on September 24, demanding construction of the market without delay. “When the existing market was pulled down in 2013, we were promised a new one in its place in eight months. Even seven years after collecting lakhs of rupees in advance from us, we are still languishing in temporary stalls,” said Nazir Babu, president of the Aluva Merchants Association. Meanwhile, the design of the proposed market has been a bone of contention, with some Independent councillors along with a BJP councillor questioning the three-storey plan at an estimated cost of nearly Rs. 10 crore. Sebi V. Bastin, an Independent councillor, alleged that it was a wasteful design that would land the municipal body in a debt trap. Municipal chairperson Lissy Abraham, however, said a change in plan was not possible and attributed the delay in the construction of the market to reasons ranging from government apathy and Assembly polls to the pandemic.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC calls for chargesheet in Maoist case||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to produce the chargesheet filed before the NIA Special Court in the Pantheerankavu Maoist case. The Bench comprising Justice A. Hariprasad and Justice K. Haripal issued the order on an appeal filed by the NIA against the bail granted to Alan Shuhaib and Thaha Fazal, accused in the case. NIA’s appeal In its appeal, the NIA said the trial court had overlooked the facts that granting of bail would undermine the very objective of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. The bail granted to the accused was totally improper and perverse. The lower court should have made a more objective appreciation of facts and application of law, the NIA added.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Consulate officials’ role needs to be probed: NIA||The role of UAE consulate officials and high-profile individuals in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case needs to be probed in the country and abroad to unearth the conspirators in the case, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The agency made the submission before the NIA Special Court here on Friday while seeking the extension of the remand of the accused in the case. The accused in the case had used various social media platforms for communicating with the co-accused and other suspects in the case. Digital evidences were collected from the electronic devises of the accused, it submitted. According to the NIA, the proceeds of the crime might have been used for financing terrorism or unlawful activities through various means. The deliberate act of the accused in using the diplomatic baggage of the UAE as a cover for smuggling may have serious repercussions to the friendly relations with the UAE. It was also prejudicial to the economic stability of the country, the agency submitted. Considering the application of the agency, the remand of the accused was extended by the court.
19 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||348 new infections in Ernakulam||A total of 348 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Friday. Of them, 26 had arrived from outside the State. Five health workers from private hospitals in the district and another health worker from a private hospital in Thrissur tested positive here. As many as 30 residents of Fort Kochi and 21 of Mattancherry have newly been infected, besides other areas including Alangad, Edathala, Rayamangalam, Kothamangalam, Edakochi, Thripunithura, North Paravur, Thrikkakara, Vadhuthala, Vyttila, Palluruthy, Eloor, Karumalloor, Keezhmad, Choornikkara, and Kumbalam. A total of 221 people have recovered and tested negative, while 3,410 patients are being treated for the disease. Of the samples sent for testing on Friday, 1,345 were from government facilities and 2,182 from private labs and hospitals.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Maradu Council meet halted halfway||While the Maradu Municipality was to have convened an urgent council meeting on Friday to address the demand of two residents near the demolished Alfa Serene apartments for compensation for damage to their homes, a tussle between the LDF and UDF over the absence of the Municipal Secretary kept the meeting from proceeding. Moly James, Municipal Chairperson, said the Secretary had not turned up for the meeting and had consequently not signed on the day’s agenda. But the meeting would have been valid with the Chairperson’s decision to continue with it, she added. But LDF councillors questioned the validity of the meeting and did not participate, said Disha Prathapan, LDF councillor representing Thattekadu, the area where Alfa Serene flats stood. “The insurance company has rejected the claims of four building owners on the grounds that the damages cost less than Rs. 2.5 lakh, and the insurance cover was only for a sum over that amount. While the company that carried out the demolition did pay for a few of the other damages, these were not paid for,” Ms. Prathapan said. Whether the municipality will now pay for the remaining damages, or the matter will have to be resolved through litigation is unclear, she said. Sugunanandan N., who lives close to Alfa Serene, said a portion of the ceiling of his house had been damaged. Rain has worsened the situation, and water has begun seeping in now, he said.
19 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Parties violating HC directive: govt||The State government on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that despite serving the High Court order against holding demonstrations, processions and agitations on political parties, protest meeting are still being held on some issues or other, violating the guidelines and directions of the court. The government made the submission when a public interest litigation seeking to ban demonstrations and other protest meetings organised by political parties and others in view of COVID-19 came up for hearing. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar, during the hearing, orally emphasised the need for adhering to the guidelines and directions of the court by all political parties. The petitioner reiterated that public gathering and agitations were still being organised across the State on various issues and appropriate penal action had not been taken against the violators by the government in accordance with the guidelines issued by the State and Central governments.
19 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Trawler intrusion irks traditional fishers||Trawlers intruding the coastal waters has once again sparked a rift between fishers in the traditional and mechanised sectors. According to traditional fishers, trawlers have been scouring the coastal waters day and night, breaching all regulations and threatening their livelihood. “The area has run out of catch due to overfishing and the traditional fishers are returning empty-handed. Night trawling is banned in Kerala and mechanised boats are not allowed to operate up to 10 km in coastal waters. But hundreds of trawlers from Kerala and Tamil Nadu are currently fishing in the area,” said T. Peter, general secretary, National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF), on Friday.  Juvenile fishing The trawlers are indulging in juvenile fishing, catching fish below regular legal size and supplying it to fish meal factories. “The coastal police and marine enforcement are taking no action against the trawlers. Traditional fishers across the State have expressed their resentment over the issue. The mechanised boats are using COVID-19 as an excuse to loot the coastal waters,” Mr. Peter said. The Kerala Swatantra Matsyathozhilali Federation and NFF had already appealed to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma demanding immediate government intervention in the matter. “The violators should be arrested and their boats seized, otherwise it will lead to a serious conflict among fishers in coastal waters,” they said in a statement.
19 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||355 more test positive in Kollam||The total number of active cases in the district rose to 2,582 on Friday with 355 more persons, including eight health workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. While 342 patients contracted the virus through contact, five others had travelled from other States. Death The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 68-year-old Thangassery resident is owing to COVID-19. She died on September 11. The health workers who tested positive are employees of government facilities, including two staff members of Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kollam. The district currently has 23,525 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,61,966. While 1,006 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department has traced 32,864 primary and 6,401 secondary contacts of the cases. At present, 17 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in the district and the number of recoveries on Friday is 345. Back to life after 72 days Meanwhile, a team of experts from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, brought back to life a 52-year-old COVID-19 patient who was on ventilator support for 43 days and in coma for 20 days.  Titus, a fish vendor from Sasthamcotta, who underwent treatment for 72 days, was discharged on Friday. He was admitted to the respiratory Intensive Care Unit of the hospital on July 6 after testing positive. A team of experts from different streams of medicine was formed to treat the patient and he was administered expensive life-saving drugs. Over 30 dialysis He underwent dialysis for over 30 times and a dialysis unit was installed for the purpose at Rs. 6 lakh. Though he tested negative on July 15, he remained in ICU till August 21. After being shifted to ward, he was provided physiotherapy to regain mobility.
19 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Hand over Manarcaud church to Orthodox faction: court||A sub-court in Kottayam on Friday issued an order to hand over the St. Mary’s Church at Manarcaud to the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. The church, with over 3,500 families as members, is one of the most important churches under the control of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church. It is also an internationally renowned Marian pilgrimage centre, with the faithful arriving from various parts of the country and abroad. According to M.C. Scaria, counsel of the Orthodox Church, the court ruled that the Manarcaud church is an essential part of the Orthodox faction and that it should be governed by the Malankara Church constitution of 1934. It further called for the constitution of a new governing body as per the 1934 constitution and the handing over of documents, keys, and all accounts related to the church to the vicar appointed by the Orthodox faction. Yuhanon Mar Diascoros, synod secretary of Orthodox Church, hoped the new order would pave the way for sustainable peace in the Malankara Church. “The order will bring an end to the differences between the factions and enable the faithful to remain as a united group, as was the case from 1958 to 1975,” he said.
19 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam reports 225 fresh cases||As many as 225 people, including a health-care worker, attached to the Government Medical College Hospital here tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 221 people contracted the virus through local transmission. 25 in Madappally With 25 cases, Madappally reported the highest number of cases while the Kottayam municipality followed close with 21 cases. Erattupetta and Meenadom reported 13 cases each. Cases were also reported from Ettumanur (12), Kumarakom(11), Panchikkad (10) and Poonjar (9). 115 recoveries With 115 more recovering from the disease on the day, the district currently has 2,445 active cases. As many as 32 locations in 21 local bodies in the district have been designated containment zones.
19 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 404 positive cases||The district recorded 404 COVID-19 cases on Friday, of which 368 were of local transmission of the infection. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said 12 of the new patients had come from foreign countries recently while nine had come from other States. The source of infection in 15 cases is unknown. With this, the total number of COVID-19 patients in the district has risen to 3,479. As many as 348 people were cured of the infection on Friday. In Kannur In Kannur, 330 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Of the infected, 281 contracted the virus after coming into contact with COVID-19 patients, while one person arrived from abroad and 24 arrived from other States. Twenty-four others are health workers. With this, the number of patients in the district has risen to 7,344. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 145 people tested positive for the virus on Friday. Of them, 130 were infected through contact, while five arrived from other States and 10 from abroad. As many as 121 people undergoing treatment tested negative on Friday. In Thrissur In Thrissur, 326 COVID-19 cases were reported on Friday. Of the cases, 319 people were infected through contact. The source of infection for five persons is not known. While there are 2,553 people undergoing treatment in various hospitals, 142 people were discharged on Friday. In Wayanad A total of 68 people tested positive in Wayanad on Friday. Of them, 62 were infected through contact, while four came from other States and two from abroad. The district recorded 79 recoveries on Friday. There are 3,082 persons under observation.  (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur and Wayanad bureaus)
19 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kappad beach spruced up for Blue Flag certification||As part of the eco-labelling process ahead of the prestigious Blue Flag certification, the final round of “I am saving my beach” campaign was kick-started on the Kappad beach in Kozhikode district on Friday. Koyilandy MLA, K. Dasan, hoisted a flag on the historical beach, inaugurating the campaign on the eve of International Coastal Cleanup Day. The flag-hoisting event also declared the completion of all the major facelift works and safety arrangements at the tourism destination. R.P. Gupta, Secretary, Ministry of Environment and Forests, opened the event through video-conferencing. District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) officials said the destination was prepared to win the prestigious international certification from the Foundation for Environmental Education. They said the formal announcement with regard to the title would come from the international jury in the second week of October. They said Kappad was the only beach short-listed in Kerala for the noted international certification which can boost its tourism prospects. The national jury representing the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, had already evaluated the renovation works and submitted their report to the international jury. At the same time, the international jury’s decision would be crucial for securing the title, which is accorded after evaluating a number of factors such as environmental issues, safety measures and sanitation standards. The officials said they were confident of Kappad’s success in the final evaluation process as the development works were completed in the area by complying with all the mandatory guidelines. District-level panel In support of the process, a district-level committee under the District Collector had earlier assessed the works and given their final suggestions. Based on their recommendations, nearly 1 km of the beach had been brought under the development project. Facilities such as jogging track, washrooms and scenic rain shelters had been completed at the site apart from the major beautification works. Tourism Department officials said the total cost earmarked for the renovation project was Rs. 8 crore. There were over 30 criteria to be followed while undertaking the works and those were met without any flaws.
19 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Religious card’ in focus||The attempts to invoke religious sentiments amid protests demanding the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel have not cut much ice with the mainstream Muslim opinion in the State so far. But there could be accelerated efforts to appeal to communal sensibilities with both the ruling front and the Opposition sticking to their respective positions on the protests. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has made it clear that the party seeks to portray the protests of the UDF and the BJP as ‘anti-Koran,’ thereby endorsing the Minister’s stand that he is being targeted for accepting imported Koran copies from the UAE consulate for distribution. Kodiyeri’s article Mr. Balakrishnan’s article titled ‘Affront to Koran?’ in the CPI(M) mouthpiece Deshabhimani on Friday is seen as an attempt to elicit responses that could resonate with sentiments of the Muslim community on Koran. An article published on September 15 in Siraj , the mouthpiece of the Sunni faction by Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musaliar, which has a cozy relationship with the LDF, concludes that the UDF’s demand for probe into Dr. Jaleel’s alleged violation of provisions of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act amounts to helping the implementation of the ‘anti-Muslim agenda’ of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Mainstream Muslim groups, including the Kanthapuram faction and its rival E.K. faction, known to be close to the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), have kept off attempts to drag religion into the controversy. IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty’s response that the move to drag in religion is to divert the discussion on the gold smuggling case indicates that the party is wary of the protests being used for communal polarisation.  Koran issue fails to cut much ice with mainstream Muslim opinion
19 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Services yet to fully resume at MCH||Services at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kozhikode, are yet to be resumed fully and COVID-19-related stigma is keeping a large number of people away too. Sources said that in-patient facilities were yet to restart for cancer patients though outpatient consultation and chemotherapy sessions were back on track now. The number of angioplasty surgeries at the superspecialty section was down to one or two a day from 20-25 per day earlier. Surgeries and trauma care treatment too had not been resumed fully. The department of general medicine, which received a large chunk of OP patients and 50% of those from the casualty ward normally, had allotted four of their 11 wards for COVID-19 treatment. Though they had been allotted a couple of wards from other departments, the gap was yet to be filled, the sources said. The MCH as well as the Government General Hospital are the only health facilities in the government sector in Kozhikode that offer COVID-19 treatment. Sources at the MCH told The Hindu that though the government was roping in more private hospitals in the fight against the pandemic, many were averse to approaching them for treatment considering the high cost. Less than 1,000 cases However, people who need non-COVID critical care treatment are not keen on coming to the MCH because they are scared of being infected. “Patients who are referred from other hospitals to the MCH are reported to have said they did not wish to come here for fear of getting infected,” a doctor said. The outpatient department at the hospital, which used to see around 3,000 cases a day earlier, are not even recording 1,000 these days. The department of oncology and casualty wards may be exceptions.
19 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Amicable end in sight to Randamoozham tangle||Finally, the deck seems to be clear for the film adaptation of M.T. Vasudevan Nair’s classic Malayalam novel Randamoozham.  The legal battle over the novel’s screenplay written by MT himself is likely to be over soon. He had demanded director V.A. Shrikumar Menon to return the script to him since the latter had failed to start the film’s shoot according to the time stipulated in the contract. Case in Supreme Court The director first tried to get the matter to be settled by arbitration and then demanded Rs. 20 crore as compensation from MT, stating that he had incurred losses in the project to turn Randamoozham – a masterly retelling of Mahabharata from Bheema’s viewpoint -- into a film. The two-year-legal battle, which began at the munsiff court here, is now at the Supreme Court. Shrikumar's application to withdraw the case is listed to be heard at the Supreme Court on Monday. After the withdrawal of the special leave petition, the suit filed by MT before a munsiff court here would be decreed according to the terms of the joint statement from the two parties. Shrikumar thus is likely to give the script back to MT, who, in turn, would return the advance he had received from the former. The agreement would also bar the director from making a feature film with Bheema as the central character. MT would thus become free to entrust the script of Randamoozham with another director. The novel had interested other directors even before Shrikumar approached him. In April 2017, Shrikumar had announced that Randamoozham would be made in multiple languages including Malayalam, English and Hindi at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore and that it would be produced by the UAE-based entrepreneur B.R. Shetty. He had also said that the two-part film would be released in 2020. The film never really took off. Shetty ran into considerable financial and legal woes.
19 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Wards to be categorised for local body polls||The categorisation of wards for all urban local bodies in north Kerala for the upcoming local body polls will be held at the Town Hall in Kozhikode. According to a recent State government circular, the wards in every local body have to be designated for women, Scheduled Castes, and Scheduled Tribes, depending on reservation for each of the categories besides the general category. Based on the circular, lots will be picked for all municipalities in the North Zone (not including those in Palakkad district) at the Kozhikode Town Hall, in various sessions on September 29, 30 and October 1. The categorisation process for municipal corporations will also be held at the same venue. The selection for Kozhikode Corporation will be held at 10 a.m. on September 28 while that of Kannur Corporation will be held at 2 p.m. the same day.
19 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Accused surrenders||Mundodan Anas, the second accused in a chain snatching case, has surrendered at the Thamarassery Judicial First Class Magistrate Court. He was at large after the incident which took place at Mambatta on August 7. The police took him to the crime scene on Thursday and collected evidence. According to the complainant, the first accused Sandeep along with Anas had snatched her gold chain. She had managed to identify the luxury bike used by the two.
19 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mix-up of tribeswoman’s body sparks protest in Palakkad||The body of an Attappady tribeswoman brought for postmortem to the district hospital here was mistakenly handed over to the relatives of another woman who had died of COVID-19. The COVID-19 victim’s relatives cremated the body. The mix-up of the bodies took place because of an apparent negligence by the hospital authorities. The incident sparked protests from the tribespeople of Attappady and human rights supporters. Rights activist Raymond Antony, who intervened for the Adivasis, demanded stern action against those responsible for the “ghastly mixup”. The body of Valli, 22, wife of Baiju from Dhonikundu tribal hamlet at Marappalam in Attappady, was brought to the district hospital on Thursday evening for postmortem after she was found dead in mysterious circumstances. When Valli’s family and relatives reached the hospital on Friday to collect the body, they were given the body of a 75-year-old woman from Vadakkanthara who had died of COVID-19. Valli’s family refused to accept the body and raised a banner of protest. It was found that Valli’s body had been released without postmortem to the COVID-19 victim’s family, who cremated it forthwith as per the pandemic protocol. ‘Threatened by police’ A team of police personnel who reached the hospital threatened the tribespeople who protested against the hospital negligence. Mr. Antony alleged that the police and the hospital authorities tried to hush up the incident. The Adivasis returned home without the body. Hospital authorities said they would take stern action against those responsible for the mixup. The Youth Congress took out a march to the hospital in protest. DCC vice president Sumesh Achuthan sought action against health and hospital officials.
19 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||101 contract infection in Pathanamthitta||The district reported 101 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 149 recoveries on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 83 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while six persons landed from abroad. The remaining 12 cases are persons who came from other States. 1,049 in all Meanwhile, the contact source of at least 19 cases are yet to be traced. The district currently has 1,049 active cases.
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital sees yet another high at 926||The district on Friday reported 926 new COVID-19 cases, an all-time high for the district and indicative of the worsening situation, even as the death toll mounted to 161 with three recent deaths attributed to the infection. The district had reported 820 cases on Thursday. Of Friday’s caseload, disease transmission through contact alone accounted for 767 cases, while the source of infection was not known in 126 cases. The newly diagnosed included 521 men and 405 women. While 101 patients were aged below 15 years, 153 persons above 60 years also tested positive. The deaths of two men, aged 75 and 53, hailing from Thirumala and Balaramapuram respectively and a woman, aged 72, from Poonthura on September 11 were confirmed as due to the disease on Friday. Localities The highest number of cases have been reported from the Medical College region (37), Muttathara (33), Manacaud (18), Balaramapuram (17), Vallakadavu (17), Nettayam (13), Neyyattinkara (12) and Navayikulam (10). Pattom, Poojappura and Muttapalam reported eight cases each. Santhimandiram, a rehabilitation centre at Vettinad, also reported eight cases on Friday. Seven people each tested positive at Parasuvaikkal and Anayara. Nemom and Varkala reported six cases each. Statistics released by the Health Department indicate that the number of health-care workers being diagnosed with the infection continues to be alarmingly high. On Friday alone, 27 health workers tested positive in the district. As many as 488 people recovered from the disease on the day, even as the active case tally mounted to 6,464. On Friday, 2,104 people were placed under surveillance, taking the total number of people currently under observation to 25,538. In all, 720 swab samples were sent for tests from the district. The district has recorded a rapid increase in new cases over the past few days. As many as 656 cases were reported on September 15 and 675 on September 16.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Questions on utility of contact tracing||Kerala set the model for the nation when after reporting the first three cases of COVID-19 late in January, it set in motion a process to track and trace every possible person who might have interacted with the patients and who could potentially become positive later on. Eight months hence, when locally acquired infections have almost fully replaced imported cases and the State has been reporting close to 4,500 cases a day, contact tracing may have become a resource-intensive and time-consuming exercise and one which may not entirely be necessary or successful in the current context. However, the State maintains that contact tracing is still an important tool that can contribute to all other arms of disease containment — surveillance, testing and quarantine — but only that it has become more focussed and evidence-based. ‘Definite role’ “It is true that a general feeling has crept in amongst our surveillance team that they are ‘wasting” their time and energy on a futile exercise, as community transmission is rampant. Which is why we conducted a reinforcement training for our team members who are doing contact tracing in the districts earlier in the week, to emphasise that there is a definite role for contact tracing, only its character has changed,” a health official said. “In the earlier days, we may have overdone the contact tracing and isolation process. But now, we know that the disease does not spread through a casual contact. The change now is that there is a clear risk-assessment process and we isolate only high-risk primary contacts on the basis of the kind of contact they had,” he added. The contact-tracing process has also become very decentralised and has moved down to primary health centres, with medical officers and health field staff taking over the process on one side, with parallel investigations by the police on the other. The process has become cumbersome now that the numbers have gone up. But even one possible case identified and isolated is worth the trouble, officials said. There is also the argument that as most people are anyway asymptomatic and that patient numbers are becoming unmanageable, the State’s priorities should shift to improving critical care facilities and watching out for the vulnerable patients reaching hospitals so that no lives are lost.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. keeps the fight alive on streets||Street protests rocked Kerala for the seventh straight day on Friday, with Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists ratcheting up their demand for the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel on the ground that he had aided the illegal import of gold in Koran consignments and dates packets from Dubai in the name of officials at the UAE consulate here. The police swung batons, lobbed tear-gas shells, and fired water jets to disperse Youth Congress protesters in Kottayam and Malappuram. In Kottayam, activists of the Kerala Congress (M) P.J. Joseph faction and Youth Congress clashed with the police. The KC(M) activists were lathicharged when they attempted to topple barricades and march towards the collectorate. The protesters blocked the road, causing traffic disruption. Soon the Congress and Youth Congress activists reached the spot and clashed with the police. The police once again resorted to lathicharge and used water cannons. The injured were shifted to hospitals. Cases were registered against the protesters for unlawful assembly and rioting, among other sections of the Indian Penal Code. In Kasaragod, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha workers grappled with the police, resulting in injuries on both sides. BJP workers stormed the police line in front of the Secretariat gate, prompting law enforcers to train water cannons on the protesters. The BJP organised protests in Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha. Mobilisation Left Democratic Front convener A. Vijayaraghavan said the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League had partnered with the BJP to destabilise the government. It had employed criminal gangs to target Ministers and law enforcers under the guise of protests. They aimed to disrupt public peace and create communal division for political dividend. The LDF would muster people against such moves. On September 29, it would hold rallies across the State to safeguard peace. He said large-scale mobilisation of LDF supporters and a door-to-door campaign would dovetail with the front’s local body election preparations.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Panel to probe Keltron’s plaint||The Kerala State Electronic Development Corporation (Keltron) has raised objections to the Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited’s tender for setting up a system integrator for the Traffic and Safety Command Control Centre in the city Corporation office and an Adaptive Traffic Control System on the city roads. Initially, Keltron had filed a writ petition over some of the tender clauses. Writ petition Later, it withdrew the petition and filed a complaint with the Local Self-Government Department (LSGD). The LSGD has now set up a three-member committee consisting of the Additional Chief Secretary of the Finance Department, the Law Secretary, and the Industries Secretary, to look into the tender. The three-member committee has been asked to submit a report before September 25. Three companies According to Smart City officials here, three companies had responded to the Smart City tender. Keltron’s objections were over the period of the operations and maintenance contract. “Keltron had specified seven years, which makes it the lowest bidder. But Smart City Limited, as per its request for proposal, is opting for a five-year contract. It is an error on their part when they submitted the proposal,” said a Smart City official. Keltron officials handling the particular section were not available for comment.  Three companies respond to tender for system integrator for traffic control centre and adaptive traffic control system.
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rainfall alert for State||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued a heavy rainfall alert for Kerala, given the possibility of a low pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal by Sunday. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in the State from Saturday to Monday, the IMD said on Friday. Kottayam and Idukki have been put on orange alert — indicating the need to be prepared for rain-related emergencies — and the remaining districts on yellow alert on Saturday. Orange alert has been issued for Ernakulam, Idukki, Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Wayanad for Sunday. The remaining districts have been put on yellow alert. Idukki, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad have been put on orange alert on Monday. Yellow alert has been declared for the remaining districts. The low-pressure area is likely to take shape over the northeast Bay of Bengal by Sunday. Kerala is likely to receive heavy rainfall under its influence and the strengthening of lower-level winds along the west coast. The IMD Meteorological Centre here is monitoring the development, director K. Santhosh said on Friday.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Festival on Pedals to beat lockdown blues of students||Coming to beat the lockdown blues of students is Cyclolsavam 2020. Billed as the first of its kind event in the country, the online international bicycle cultural festival ‘Cyclolsavam – Festival on Pedals’ will provide a platform for students to showcase their talents. Organised by 20 young bicycle ambassadors, the virtual festival from October 2 to 5 has competitions, seminars, and film screenings lined up. The city Corporation, Indus Cycling Embassy, and Kumble, a group of former National Service Scheme volunteers, will support the event, aimed at getting young and the old to embrace cycling. Besides Malayalam elocution, Malayalam essay writing, and a Malayalam book review event, the programmes include competitions in abstract painting, pencil drawing, photography, poster making, an d flower arrangements on bicycle flower holders. The book review will be on Aamsterdaamile Saikkilukal authored by Raju Raphael. Artist George Fernandez will take a session on abstract painting and flower arrangements on bicycle flower holders to familiarise people with what is in store before the contests are held. Categories The contests will be held in four categories – up to class IV, class V to VIII, class IX to XII, and college and above. Competitions will be held for the differently abled in each category. Screening of film on bicycles will be held on the Indus Cycling Embassy website on all four days of the event. Two pre-events are also being planned in connection with the Cyclolsavam.  Cyclothons Cyclothons will be held from September 21 to 27 in three categories — classes V toV III, classes IX to XII, and college and above. The distances for the competition will be 5 km, 10 km, and 15 km, respectively. As it will not be held as a group event, participants will have to download the app Strava from the Google Play Store to track the distance cycled. Certificates will also be given away to participants on the basis of carbon footprint reduced. The second event is a 151-km ride to Kottarakara and back on October 1 in connection with the 151st birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi.  Speech, book review and other competitions to be organised for students.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IUML moving towards radical outfits, says LDF||A meeting of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) here on Friday reportedly felt that the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was wooing fundamentalist forces to its fold to stabilise its “shaky” base in north Kerala. The LDF said a newspaper article by a top IUML leader had supported the decision of the Turkey government to change the status of the Hagia Sophia in Istanbul from a historical museum to a mosque. ‘Appeasement’ The 15th century edifice was in turns a cathedral and mosque at different points in its history. The LDF perceived the opinion piece as an indication that the IUML was appeasing fundamentalist outfits. Islamist organisations have historically viewed the secular status of Hagia Sophia with hostility. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan later told journalists that the IUML’s “radical posture” on Hagia Sophia was a clear indication of the party’s new-found affinity towards “extremist influences”. The IUML had accepted the “spiritual leadership” of the “fundamentalist” Jamaat-e-Islami. He said IUML national general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty had returned to State politics to draw extremist organisations into the League camp. IUML counters The IUML has countered the LDF’s charges. Mr. Kunhalikutty said the LDF had cynically exploited the Koran and Ramzan charity to shield Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. He said Central agencies had questioned Dr. Jaleel on suspicion of using religion and matters of faith as a cover to aid the smuggling of gold. Mr. Kunhalikutty said the IUML and the UDF had taken a principled approach and would not bandy about religious texts, including the Koran, for politicking. CPI(M) stance Meanwhile, the CPI(M) State secretariat here on Friday targeted the IUML for ‘kowtowing’ to the BJP. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who chaired the meeting, said Mr. Kunhalikutty had done an about-turn and declared the BJP was the not principal enemy of the League. Both the parties had joined hands to attack Dr. Jaleel for accepting the Koran as a token of goodwill from the UAE during Ramzan. The BJP and IUML, with the support of the Congress, had tried to vilify Dr. Jaleel for a gesture that resonated with the Muslim community the world over.
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF, UDF not averse to temporary delay in polls||The State Election Commission (SEC) will announce the schedule for local body elections after consultations with health experts and senior police officials, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran has said. At an all-party meeting convened by the SEC here on Friday, political parties aligned to the Left Democratic Front and the United Democratic Front urged the commission to finalise the date by factoring in the worsening COVID-19 situation in the State. Both fronts were not averse to a temporary delay given the spread of the infection, but insisted that the democratic exercise should not be put off indefinitely. The BJP was of the view that the elections should be held without delay. The tenure of the elected the local bodies ends on November 11. The LDF suggested that the number of voters per polling booth be restricted to 1,000. The UDF wanted it to be fixed at 500 to reduce the chances of disease transmission. Against proxy voting While all political parties opposed the concept of proxy voting, they were supportive of the proposal for postal ballots for COVID-19 patients. Mr. Bhaskaran said the SEC would examine the concerns raised by the political parties and the suggestions made by them.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||QR code for contact tracing||The government has initiated a QR code-based Visitors’ Registration Service in the COVID-19 Jagratha portal. It is a one-time registration system. This code can then be stuck outside the office. Any staff member or visitor should scan the code, mark their presence and then only enter inside the office. In the event that a staff member or visitor tests positive , QR code scanning will make it easier for authorities to identify and contact those persons who had visited the office on that particular day at the particular time.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Man held for attacking doctors||The Medical College police on Friday arrested a 32-year old man for allegedly attacking two junior doctors at the Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Ansar. According to the police, Ansar and his brother had questioned the doctors regarding the delay in taking scans and providing treatment to their mother who was admitted there, and later attacked them.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Disinfection services from Kudumbashree||The Kudumbashree district mission will provide disinfection services in houses, offices and vehicles as part of measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Mayor K. Sreekumar released the poster of the Kudumbashree disinfection units on Thursday. The units provide three kinds of services and rates have been fixed for each. The rate for disinfection per square foot for government offices has been fixed as Rs. 1.8, while for private institutions and individuals, the rate is Rs. 2.25 a sq ft. For intensive cleaning and spraying of disinfectant, the rate for government institutions is Rs. 2.35 per sq ft, while for private institutions and individuals it is Rs. 3.45. For deep cleaning, the rate is Rs. 8 a sq ft. Separate rates have also been fixed for disinfecting vehicles. For making use of the services, call: 90485 03553, 0471-2447552.
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bodies of two youths missing in sea found||The bodies of two of the four youths who went missing in the sea at Azhimala on Thursday were found on Friday. The search for the two youths who are still missing is continuing. The bodies were of Manu Napoleon, 23, of Pulluvila, and Johnson Cleetus, 25, of Kanjiramkulam. The bodies were recovered from Kovalam and near Poonthura. Search is on for Santhosh Varghese, 25, and Sabu George, 23, the two others.
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Housing block at CET||Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel on Friday inaugurated a housing block for the employees of the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram (CET).
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM to unveil Guru’s statue in capital||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will unveil a sculpture of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru at Observatory Hills here on Monday. The sculpture marks the 100th anniversary of Sree Narayana Guru’s ‘Namukku Jathi Illa’ (We have no caste) declaration. The Culture Department is setting up the sculpture at a cost of Rs. 1.19 crore. It has been sculpted by Unni Kanayi. A garden too will come up at the site.
19 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AITUC to stage ‘family protest’ on Sept. 27||Workers owing allegiance to the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) will on September 27 organise a ‘family protest’ along with their family members raising 30 demands. The demands include monthly cash transfer to families who are suffering due to the COVID-19 pandemic, minimum wages of Rs. 600 for workers, increase of work days for MGNREGS labourers, and permanent jobs for all casual and contract labourers.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Applications invited for design course||The Kerala State Institute of Design has invited applications for a few vacant seats in the postgraduate diploma courses in IT- integrated communication design, textile and apparel design, and integrated lifestyle product design. Details are available on the website www.ksid.ac.in. Applications are to be filed before September 25.
19 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online courses by C-apt||The Kerala State Centre for Advanced Printing and Training (C-apt) has started admission to its online classes in cyber security, ethical hacking and Artificial Intelligence. Students can register for the courses onwww.captmultimedia.com. For details, dial 8848336424.
19 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Police register case against KBTA leader||The Thrissur West Police on Friday registered a case against the Kerala Bus Transport Association (KBTA) leader Johnson Padamadan for allegedly misbehaving with women workers in the Regional Transport Office. According to a complaint lodged by women workers in the RTO, Mr. Padamadan barged into the office without maintaining COVID-19 guidelines and took photos and videos of women workers there and posted them on social media. He also allegedly threatened women workers in the office.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Workshop on Poshan Abhiyaan||There is a need to address two contradictory issues when it comes to healthy food habits—malnutrition and obesity—Sijin M. of National AYUSH Mission, says. He was addressing a workshop on Poshan Abhiyaan held by the Regional Outreach Bureau, Thiruvananthapuram, on Friday.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Jubilee smile||
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Colleagues’ cause||
19 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kisan Rail’ brings no cheer to farmers||The first-ever Kisan Rail of South India might have been launched with much fanfare and received the attention at the national level with two Union Ministers and Chief Minister of Andhra Pradesh formally flagging off the exclusive fruits and vegetables train from Anantapur. But, did it derive the desired result? The district administration, on the advice of Anantapur Mmeber of Parliament Talari Rangaiah and the officials of Horticulture and Agriculture Department put in a lot of effort to make the first-ever consignment a success. Joint Collector (revenue) Nishant Kumar told The Hindu that in the first Kisan Rail 80% was tomato and they got a good price (Rs. 57 a kg) over Anantapur market (Rs. 40 a kg). The officer along with Horticulture Department officials visited a couple of tomato mandis on the city outskirts and persuaded them to send as much quantum as possible to fill the second train scheduled to leave Anantapur on September 19. S. Panduranga Rao, one of the traders, who had sent his tomatoes to Delhi in the train showed the bill, which said he would receive Rs. 5,31,900 deducting Rs. 38,100 towards labour charges. When asked about the cost he incurred, Mr. Panduranga Rao said cost per crate of 15 kg at Anantapur was Rs. 925 and transport cost was Rs. 180 per crate with arrival cost at Delhi mandi working out to be Rs. 1,105 per crate. So he had spent Rs. 8,28,750, while he got Rs. 5,31,900 sale proceeds leading to total loss of Rs. 2,96,850 on 750 crates. A chat with the Tomato Mandi Owners’ Association here revealed that many of the traders and farmers, who had sent their produce to Delhi, ended up in losses and are now in no mood to send their tomatoes again to Delhi as the prices had fallen there too. The key reason for their aversion to sending the tomatoes by train is 50% of the stock getting damaged in the process of transportation from the farmer’s field to Delhi mandi. Lengthy exercise “The produce gets handled in the crates at least for six times -- at the farm, at the railway station in Anantapur, at Delhi, and again at Delhi Mandi if it is sent by train compared to just twice if sent by a lorry,” pointed out association president C. Amarnath. “In the lorry the three sides are open and circulation of air ensures temperature of tomatoes does not rise, whereas in the train bogie, which is fully sealed except for a small vent, the consistency of the produce dwindled and entire inside turned watery,” added Sanjeev Rayudu, another member. To honour the word of district administration, the traders decided to buy produce from Chintamani and Kolar in Karnataka as the quality in Anantapur would not fetch them good price. They suggested that the Railways run just two bogies along with the daily Rajadhani Express from Bengaluru to Delhi so that even small farmers could fill part of the 23-tonne bogie. Each average individual farmer would have a maximum of a tonne or two of produce to send on any given day, they added.
19 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CU V-C meets Union Minister||Central University of Andhra Pradesh(CUAP) Vice-Chancellor S.A Kori called on Union Minster for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank in New Delhi on Thursday and explained about the upcoming programmes to be taken up on the university campus. The professor told the Union Minister that a series of webinars initiated by the university was in progress from September 9 to 25 to raise awareness on New Education Policy 2020 brought out by the Central Government. As part of the webinars, the CUAP had invited Vice-Chancellors, former Vice-Chancellors, eminent academicians, and consultants of the policy for disseminating knowledge to the students across the country.
19 September 2020||BAPULAPADU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Two labourers buried alive||Two labourers were buried alive while removing silt from a well at Mallavalli village in the district on Friday. The deceased were identified as Atchu Tirupataiah (50) and A. Ramesh 935), natives of Polasanapalli village, said Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. The incident occurred when sand caved in and fell on them while working at the well. Efforts are being made to retrieve the bodies. The Bapulapadu police registered a case against the owner and took up investigation.
19 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 ‘poachers’ nabbed, bushmeat seized||The forest officials on Friday arrested three persons on charges of poaching wild animals in Seshachalam ranges of Piler division, and seized bushmeat from their possession. Case registered According to the officials, acting on a tip off, a raid was conducted at a mango garden abutting the forests at Chintagunta village in Yerravari Palem mandal, when the accused, locals, were distributing meat to their customers, besides cooking a portion of a deer's meat at the spot. A case was registered. In another incident, the Punganur police on Friday took a five member inter-State gang into custody and seized stolen motorbikes worth about Rs. 15 lakhs on the outskirts. The police said the accused were arrested when they were moving suspiciously at the border area with Karnataka. A case was registered and further investigation is under way.
19 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Beware of impersonators, APPCB warns industries||The Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) cautioned owners of industries and companies against falling for fraudsters impersonating officers of the board and demanding money. The move comes in the backdrop of several cases being registered recently at police stations where fraudsters posing as APPCB officers have extorted money from industry owners. Police officials said that an inquiry is on into these cases and the fraudsters would be arrested soon. Vivek Yadav, APPCB member secretary, said that it has come to their notice that some persons have been posing as officers of APPCB and contacting owners of industries across Andhra Pradesh and demanding money on various pretexts. “The APPCB has already initiated criminal proceedings against such callers and a police inquiry is going on. The APPCB is not responsible for the transactions and consequences arising out of such fraudulent calls,” Mr. Yadav said. “All industry/company owners and the public are advised to remain alert and vigilant and prevent themselves from being cheated and lodge a complaint immediately with the police in order to ensure action under the law. The owners of industries/companies can inform about such calls to the APPCB on 7993477763,” he said. In one such instance, a man identified as Shankar Reddy called up some industrialists in Srikakulam and Guntur districts from the number 8008445437 and demanded money from them after claiming to be an APPCB official. He asked them to send money via Google Pay to 7093993736. As soon as the information reached APPCB, a police complaint was lodged in Guntur and during the inquiry it emerged that the phone signal was traced to Kalloor village in Chittoor, and that the Google Pay account details were from Tirupati.
19 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITC distributes masks to ryots||The ITC-Agri Business Division, as part of its CSR activities, is providing the necessary and basic safety tools like masks and sanitisers to farmers. ITC manager Bhanuprasad Reddy went to fields and distributed masks to the farmers while asking them wear masks at work all the time. ITC Vinukonda team has conducted multiple village-level awareness programmes among farm workers. They have distributed masks, face shields and sanitizers to 6,000 farmers and farm workers.
19 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grand Master title for ANU||Acharya Nagarjuna University(ANU) has secured a Grand Master title in Asia Book of Records for receiving maximum ranks and certificates from public university. Vice-Chancellor P. Rajasekhar said that the recognition will push the university in the global limelight, and help in attracting more number of students.
19 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP MLC among 26 held in Amalapuram||Twenty-six persons, including P.V.N. Madhav, BJP MLC, who had managed to evade house arrest on Thursday, were arrested on Friday at Amalapuram when they attempted to arrive at the office of the Sub-Collector to stage a protest against the recent burning of the chariot of the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district. The protest was a part of the ‘Chalo Amalapuram’ call given by the BJP to denounce the “series of attacks” on the Hindu temples being witnessed across the State. A senior police official said that BJP Amalapuram parliamentary constituency president M. Ayyaji Vema was among those arrested. Meanwhile, the office of the SP said no untoward incident was reported from anywhere in the district. Earlier, the police blocked all the roads leading to Amalapuram and the Konaseema area. Shops were closed in response to the call given by the Amalapuram Chamber of Commerce. Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik said the Police Act and Section 144 would be in force till September 20 in the Amalapuram Revenue Division.
19 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna water starts flowing to Chennai||Thanks to comfortable storage in the Kandeleru reservoir, irrigation officials in Andhra Pradesh began release of the Krishna water to Chennai city on Friday. With Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy giving the nod, 1,500 cusecs of water was let into the Satya Sai Ganga canal. The released water will reach Poondi reservoir in Tamil Nadu in the next six days. Going forward the water release would be stepped up depending on the requirement and maintained to the required level in the next 45 to 60 days, Kandaleru Chief Engineer K. Harinarayana Reddy told The Hindu soon after letting out water after performing pooja to Telugu Ganga. Thanks to continued floods in the catchment areas, the storage in the reservoir rose to 38.59 tmcft on Friday. The reservoir saw an addition of about 1 tmcft of water each day. Water was also released to fill drinking water reservoirs in SPSR Nellore and Chittoor districts including Tirupati, Srikalahasti, Venkatagiri and Rapur from Kandeleru, which had an inflow of 10,273 cusecs on Friday. With water replenishment for overflowing Somasila, there would be no problem in ensuring drinking water to Chennai and other cities and towns in the State, besides ensuring irrigation to three lakh acres, he said. A quantity of 2.40 tmcft of water was earmarked to fill drinking water reservoirs in SPSR Nellore district, including Nellore, Kavali, Gudur and in neighbouring Chittoor district.
19 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case incidence declining in south coastal Andhra||The intensity of coronavirus showed signs of abating in Nellore and Prakasam districts with the number of deaths as well as fresh cases coming down on one hand and more persons recovering on the other. The combined death toll in the two districts rose to 824 with eight more patients succumbing to the disease during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Friday night. The deaths, which had been in the order of double digit each day during last week, came down to single in both the districts. Nellore district reported 468 new cases and five deaths taking toll to 416 and tally to 48,136. In Prakasam, three more patients died taking the toll to 408, whereas the tally touched 40,176 with 713 testing positive in the last 24 hours. A lockdown was enforced in Ongole to check the spread of the disease. The number of fresh admissions into hospitals was less by over 1,200 patients when compared to the number of patients getting cured of the disease. While there were 1,428 recoveries in Prakasam, Nellore saw 959 getting discharged from the hospitals. With this, 71,350 patients, including 43,295 patients in Nellore district have recovered from the disease so far. 417 on oxygen support At present, as many as 9,849 persons were receiving treatment from home and 1,000 persons from COVID-19 Care Centres in Prakasam. Only 1,296 symptomatic cases were being treated in hospitals, with 417 of them in Ongole Government General Hospital on oxygen/ventilator support, a daily status report compiled by the district administration said. The GGH accounted for 274 deaths so far. As many as 5,479 persons tested negative for the disease in Prakasam district on Friday. So far, 3.71 lakh people, including primary and secondary contacts of infected persons, were subjected to testing in the district.
19 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||616 AITAM students get placement||As many as 616 students (2019-20 batch) of the Aditya Institute of Technology and Management could get placements in multinational companies and IT firms, according to a director of the college, V.V. Nageswara Rao. The major recruiters included TCS, HCL,Wipro, Infosys, Cognizant and L and T Constructions.
19 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bhavanapadu land owners seek Rs. 55 lakh per acre||People’s Associations United Forum leader B. Omkar on Friday asked the government to announce Rs. 55 lakh as compensation per acre and offer a 2BHK house to each family before initiating land acquisition for the Bhavanapadu port in Srikakulam district. Mr. Omkar also objected to acquisition of 2,417 acres of land for the proposed port. “Almost all ports in India were developed within 350 acres. But the government is trying to acquire huge land here. It would lead to socio-economic problems,” he said.
19 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties’ claims baseless: TTD Chairman||TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Friday refuted allegations levelled by opposition parties that proselytisation was on the rise in the temple town. “The allegations are totally baseless. There is more transparency in the administration of the temple now than in previous years. The present board has adopted a stubborn stance against corruption and has completely rooted out the system of middlemen, which was rampant in the town under the TDP regime,” Mr. Subba Reddy said. ‘False propaganda’ The Chairman said that it was under the previous regime that advertisements pertaining to other faiths were printed on APSRTC bus tickets, and said it was the present government which had ordered an investigation and booked cases against erring officials. He also condemned claims of opposition leaders regarding signing of a declaration by Congress president Sonia Gandhi during her visit to the temple, and termed it false propaganda aimed at tarnishing the image of the TTD. TTD Exective Officer Anil Kumar Singhal clarified that it was due to coinciding of Kalyanotsavams with the bhoomi pujan ceremony of Aydhoya temple that the TTD could not telecast proceedings of the latter. It was a clash of programmes and people should not read too much into it, he said. TTD Joint Executive Officer Basanth Kumar said that TTD has been providing funds to various peetams, mutts and other religious institutions for the past 30 years for carrying out dharmic activities and promotion of Hindu dharma, and the funds provided to Sarada Peetam in Visakhapatnam was part of the decision. As the authorities of Sarada Peetam had also organised vedic conferences, TTD on their request partially hiked the funds provided to it last year, he said. Mr. Subba Reddy said that the annual Brahmotsavams of Lord Venkateswara will be organised in strict accordance with the principles laid down in agama sastras.
19 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to attend Sundarakanda parayanam at Tirumala on Sept. 24||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will take part in the Sundarakanda parayanam at Tirumala on September 24. Disclosing the details of the programme, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said that the Chief Minister will arrive in the town on September 23 and take part in the customary presentation of a pair of ‘silk vastrams’ to the temple of Lord Venkateswara on behalf of the State Government on the same evening between 6 and 7 p.m. on the eve of the auspicious Garuda Seva. “After an overnight stay, the Chief Minister will offer his prayers to the presiding deity on September 24 morning between 6 and 7 a.m and also take part in the TTD-sponsored hour-long religious programme that will be organised at Nada Neerajana Mandapam situated in front of the main temple along with his Karnataka counterpart B.S. Yediyurappa,” Mr. Subba Reddy said. After the conclusion of the Sundarakanda parayanam, both Chief Ministers will take part in a foundation stone-laying ceremony of a massive guest house built by the Karnataka government at a cost of Rs. 200 crore. Mr. Subba Reddy said that the presentation ceremony has been rescheduled to September 23 on the day of Garuda Seva as TTD has already resolved to conduct the Brahmotsavams in ‘ekantham’ (private) and confine the festivities to the inner precincts of the temple. He added that the vahana sevas will be organised between 9 and 10 a.m. and 7 and 8 p.m. every day at the Kalyanotsava mandapam inside the temple complex. The procession of the golden chariot and wooden chariot (Rathotsavam) will be replaced with the Sarva bhoopala vahana seva inside the temple, he said.
19 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ankurarpanam’ performed||Religious fervour marked the ‘Ankurarpanam’ festival at the Lord Venkateswara temple here on Friday. The festival was observed as a prelude to the annual Brahmotsavams which are scheduled to take off with Dwajarohanam on Saturday. In connection with the festival, priests sowed ‘Nava Dhanyams’ for germination in the sacred earthen pots at the yagasala inside the temple. Later, Lord Viswaksena was taken around the Vimana Prakaram inside the temple and from there to Ranganayakula mandapam where other rituals were observed. The festival was held in a low-key manner with the TTD resolving to confine the celebrations to the inner precincts of the temple in strict adherence to COVID protocols. Meanwhile, the main deity inside the sanctum sanctorum was adorned with rare and precious jewels after the weekly ‘Abhishekam’ (sacred bath).
19 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chevireddy objects to parties targeting Jagan||Chief Whip and TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy has objected to certain political parties blaming Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the incidents unfolding around Hindu places of worship in the State. Addressing mediapersons here on Friday, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy accused the Opposition leader, N. Chandrababu Naidu, of unleashing a malicious campaign against the government for certain development, which he termed ‘unfortunate’, and projecting as if they were the handiwork of the State. Reiterating the government’s resolve to protect the temples and its properties, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said the culprits would certainly be brought to book. “People will know in the coming days about our commitment. Those utilising religion for deriving political mileage will be remembered for the same in history,” he said. He lashed out at the opposition parties for trying to besmirch TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy’s image on religious lines and project him in a poor light.
19 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jio Fiber services launched||Jio Fiber made a formal foray into the temple city of Tirupati by offering an unlimited data plan free on a 30-day-trial basis. The company, which recently revamped its tariff plans in the wake of increased internet usage due to online education and ‘work from home’.
19 September 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP leaders denounce ‘police raj’ in State||Taking exception to the spate of attacks on Hindu places of worship and the handling of its workers with an iron fist by the police, the Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) leaders wondered if the government is unleashing ‘police raj’ on the public. With several party leaders confined to house arrest, the party leaders staged a peaceful demonstration at the residence of State spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy on Friday. Speaking on the occasion, he called it unfortunate that the State had slipped into the hands of the police department. Resignation sought “This is an authoritarian regime, as the government is bent on arresting all those questioning it, instead of taking cognisance of the issue in question and arresting the culprits,” he said. He demanded that the Endowments Minister own up to moral responsibility for the series of incidents and tender his resignation. In Kadapa, the police arrested State executive member K.V. Chalama Reddy, Vishwa Hindu Parishad(VHP) leader K. Lakshminarayana Reddy, BJP district general secretary P. Sambasiva Reddy, treasurer M. Satish, city general secretary G.S.T. Lakshmana Rao, spokesperson Bandi Prabhakar, OBC Morcha member Y. Mahesh and leaders K. Srinivasulu Reddy and P. Yerukalappa on Thursday evening, as they were planning to participate in ‘Chalo Antarvedi’ programme. They were all taken into custody.
19 September 2020||VIAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre to enhance paddy procurement target in Nellore||The Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution has agreed to enhance the paddy procurement target in Nellore district by procuring a total of 34.8 lakh tonnes of paddy during the rabi crop and also extend the paddy procurement season in the district up to October 31 this year. Earlier, towards the end of August, the Ministry had extended the paddy procurement season in the district by one month, till September 30, following Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu’s intervention. The latest decision follows the intervention of Mr. Venkaiah Naidu in the last two days. Responding to a plea by the State government to depute a team to assess the damage for relaxation of uniform specifications for procurement, Agriculture Secretary informed Mr. Venkaiah Naidu that the damage due to heavy rains was not considered as a natural calamity, and therefore the relief had to be given to the farmers from the relief funds available with the State government. Boiled rice With regard to the State government’s request to accept boiled rice in the FCI depots in East Godavari district, the Secretary, Food and Public Distribution, said the Ministry had no objection to it if transport cost was borne by the State.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to run city services in Vijayawada, Vizag from today||M.T. Krishna Babu, Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has said that city bus services will be resumed in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam from Saturday. Addressing a press conference on Friday, Mr. Krishna Babu said the bus services were being revived from Saturday in view of the recruitment tests to village/ward secretariat posts from September 19. After the exams, the RTC would continue the services in strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the Medical and Health Department, he said. Commuters would be allowed to sit in alternate seats and only if the situation demands, both seats would be allowed to be occupied. Nobody would be allowed to stand and travel, he clarified, adding that use of thermal scanning and sanitisers would be mandatory. Mr. Krishna Babu said people above 60 years should avoid travelling in view of the prevailing pandemic and also stated that the fare concessions extended to senior citizens by the RTC would not be available during the pandemic period. Services to Telangana Referring to the stalemate in the talks with the Telangana counterparts on revival of the bus services, he said the neighbouring State insisted on parity of routes which was not possible. He said Telangana RTC officials had given their route plan for Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam. “We have suggested them to increase their bus services by 50 % by covering more cities in Andhra Pradesh that had demand. If they do not increase operations, we will have to reduce operations in 1 lakh km of distance and we are ready even for that,” he said. Mr. Krishna Babu said the private bus operators were taking undue advantage of the absence of RTC bus services and fleecing the public and hoped that the situation would improve soon. Inauguration of flyover Mr. Krishna Babu, who is also the Principal Secretary, Roads and Buildings, said the inauguration of the Kanaka Durga flyover had to be postponed for the second time. First time, the programme was deferred due to the demise of former President Pranab Mukherjee and second time, due to the ill health of the Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, who was supposed to have inaugurated the project. He said the new date of the inauguration of the project would be announced soon.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plasma therapy should be available in hospitals: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered that plasma therapy be made available in COVID hospitals and home isolation kits be distributed to all those needing them. He has also wanted due priority to be given to improving the medical services and sanitation in hospitals. At a review meeting on COVID on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the vacancies in hospitals should be filled up, to which the officials replied that 12,014 out of the 20,415 approved posts were filled up, including male and female nursing orderly posts and sanitation workers, trained nurses and data entry operators. The officials further said help desks have already been set up in 540 Aarogyasri hospitals and steps taken to streamline the network of Arogya Mitras. The Chief Minister said grading was mandatory for all Aarogyasri hospitals and efforts should be made to secure NABH accreditation within a year. He directed the officials to ensure standards in the existing 11 teaching hospitals along with 16 upcoming hospitals and all hospitals under ITDA limits. Tests cross 48.84 lakh With regard to COVID, the officials said that a total of 18,609 oxygen beds were available across the State and 5,723 patients were being treated with the oxygen facilities. The State has so far conducted 48,84,371 COVID tests and 94,453 cases were active, the positivity rate was 12.31% and the recovery rate stood at 84.48%. Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang, Special Chief Secretary (medical and health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy and Health Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar were present.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple attacks: BJP MPs write to Amit Shah||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs G.V.L. Narasimha Rao and C.M. Ramesh wrote a letter to Home Minister Amit Shah requesting him to ensure that the ‘rule of law’ prevails in Andhra Pradesh and the State government ‘does not harass’ the opposition parties discharging their democratic duties. They wanted Mr. Shah to direct the State government to go by its Constitutional mandate and ‘not target the Hindu community and its temples’. The MPs stated that the series of attacks on Hindu temples and desecration of deities, particularly the burning of the chariot of Antarvedi temple and disappearance and disfigurement of lions on the chariot of Kanaka Durga temple in Vijayawada, hurt the sentiments of Hindus. In all, 18 such incidents took place in the last one year. The Members of Parliament said while being ‘indifferent to the attacks on Hindu temples’, the State government acted with great urgency and alacrity in the case of stone-pelting on a church in Antarvedi. Using this incident, false cases were foisted on 41 Hindu activists who questioned the government's inaction against the miscreants who attacked temples. These attacks exposed the government's oppressive attitude, they said. As BJP State president Somu Veerraju gave a call for 'Chalo Amalapuram' to protest against the attacks, the State government got senior leaders detained across the State by unleashing all its machinery. Mr. Shah should, therefore, interfere in the matter and see that the rule of law prevailed in the State, the Members of Parliament appealed.  While being ‘indifferent to the attacks on Hindu temples’, the State government acted with great urgency and alacrity in the case of stone-pelting on a church in Antarvedi. BJP leaders
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID fee on bar licencees||The government has levied a COVID fee for the year 2020-21 on each of the bar licencees of an amount equal to 20 % of the base licence fee and non-refundable registration charge in each slab. A GO released on Friday said that the order comes into force from Saturday (September 19). Through a separate GO, the government also levied Additional Retail Excise Tax (ARET) of 10 % on the issue price of Indian Made Foreign Liquor, foreign liquor, beer, wine and ready to drink varieties supplied by the wholesale IMFL depots to the licencees of bars. The government has given permission to continue all the (840) 2B licences, including those existing in micro-breweries and 3-star and above category hotels existed as on June 30 this year, for a period from September 19 this year (2020) to June 30 next year (2021), on payment of proportionate licence fee. According to a GO released, the licence fee and non-refundable registration charge with 10% increase for the closure period from March 22 (2020) to June 30, 2020 (101 days) will be adjusted towards future licence fee and non-refundable registration charge.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe begins into theft of lion idols||The police began probe into the theft of silver lion idols fixed to the chariot of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamywarla Devastanam. With the temple authorities lodging a complaint on the theft of the idols, the One Town police registered a case and swung into action. The devastanam management did not take the chariot (ratham) out for any ‘utsavams’ for the last six months. The ‘ratham’ was placed at Mahamandapan, in Arjuna Veedhi, and police officials visited the place on Friday. Recently, the police reviewed on security of temple and its properties after the Antarvedi temple fire incident. Investigation officers questioned the chariot in-charge and temple officers and staff. They were asked when the temple officials and the gold appraiser visited the chariot last and when the chariot was coated last.
19 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC posts hearing on sale of govt. lands to Oct. 16||A Division Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, comprising Justices Rakesh Kumar and J. Uma Devi, has posted the hearing on the proposed auction of government lands in Guntur and Visakhapatnam under ‘Mission Build AP’ to October 16. During the arguments on Friday, the Judges directed the Secretaries of all the departments concerned to file affidavits by October 6 and the petitioners to submit replies by October 9 to facilitate the pronouncement of judgment on October 16. When the additional Advocate-General P. Sudhakar Reddy expressed displeasure that the petitioners were obstructing every programme undertaken by the government, Mr. Justice Rakesh Kumar said the High Court was not a political platform to make such comments. Guntur-based social activist Thota Suresh Babu had filed a PIL against the sale of government lands, alleging that the money was sought to be used for implementation of welfare schemes on which it was not supposed to be spent. In the last hearing, the court said, “Since the State is perpetual and the government is one that changes once in five years, the authority with which it has mooted the auction of lands needs to be examined.” The petitioner’s counsel, N. Srinivasa Rao, maintained that the State government was a custodian of the properties and it could sell them only under certain exceptional circumstances.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 more succumb to virus, toll rises to 349 in district||Visakhapatnam district reported 371 new COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours. This is sthe econd least number of cases in a day in the State after Kurnool which saw 337 cases, as per the State COVID-19 bulletin released on Friday. The new cases takes the district cumulative tally to 46,569 since the pandemic. On a positive note, as many as 979 persons who were undergoing treatment at various COVID-19 hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and in home quarantine were discharged/recovered. The death toll also rose to 349 after six more persons succumbing to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, according to the bulletin. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal, Andhra Medical College P.V/ Sudhakar said that the number of very active clusters has increased to 60 from 57, while the active clusters are 115.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rushikonda Beach gets ‘Blue Flag’||District Collector V. Vinay Chand hoisted the ‘Blue Flag’ at Rushikonda Beach here on Friday. GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, District Tourism Officer R. Purnima Devi, Regional Director of Tourism and ED of Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation A.V. Rama Prasad and Beach Manager Phanindra were among those who participated. Rushikonda Beach was one among the 13 beaches in India, and the only one in the State, which was selected by the Union government for development to enable it vie for the prestigious ‘Blue Flag’ certification in the first phase. It had sanctioned Rs. 7.3 crore for development of infrastructure. Amenities like bio-toilet blocks, grey water treatment, water vending kiosks for provision of purified water, solar treatment facilities, construction of walking and jogging tracks, bathing area and a solid waste management unit were provided at Rushikonda as part of the project. The basic criteria for getting the Blue Flag certification are: safety/security, pollution-free, good bathing water quality and environmental education of beach users. The ‘Blue Flag’ certification is given by the Denmark-based Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE), when all these parameters are met. “Foreign tourists evince keen interest in visiting Blue Flag beaches. The Rushikonda Beach was nominated for the project in 2017 and it was finalised in February, 2018,” Ms. Purnima Devi told The Hindu in the past.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna seeks action against Minister||TDP leader Ch Ayyanna Patrudu on Friday demanded action against Labour Minister G. Jayaram, as one of the accused in ESI scam Kartik, allegedly presented a luxury car to the Minister’s son Eswar. Speaking to the media here on Friday, Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu alleged that Kartik got bail in 14 days and as a token of gesture he gave a car to the Minister’s son. Mr. Ayyanna demanded that the Chief Minister dismiss the Minister from the Cabinet and order an inquiry into it. The TDP leader lodged a complaint with the ACB helpline seeking probe into the charges. He said that if the government was committed to end corruption it should take action within 24 hours. Mr. Ayyanna showed photographs of Mr. Jayaram’s son with Kartik along with the luxury car. The TDP leader said the YSRCP government was targeting TDP BC leaders and TDP deputy floor leader K Atchannaidu was in custody for over 75 days though charges against him were not proved. Even ACB officials have accepted that no money was paid to Atchannaidu, he claimed. According to him, the State government had filed cases against BC leaders such as Kollu Ravindra, Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy and also against him without any valid reason or proof. The TDP leader said the YSRCP government was filing cases against those persons who were questioning the functioning of the government. “In a democracy, everyone has the right to question and it should not be stifled,” he said.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JEE Advanced: EWS and OBC candidates face problems||Students from Economically Weaker Section (EWS) and Other Backward Castes (OBC), who have qualified in the IIT JEE Main examination, held by the National Testing Agency (NTA), from September 1 to 6, are in a quandary. The Main result was declared last week, and the students, who qualified under these categories, were asked to upload their latest certificate, issued by the authorities concerned after April 1, by September 26. It is mandatory for a student to secure 90.37 percentile in the common rank list, 70.24 percentile under EWS, 72.88 under OBC, 50.17 under SC and 39.06 under ST. This is apart from satisfying other norms like qualifying in Std, XII (Intermediate) with mathematics, physics and chemistry. The JEE Advanced examination is slated for September 27. “The EWS certificate has to be issued by the Tahsildar's office. But the candidates have to apply through Mee Seva centres. The time stipulated shows that it will take 30 days for issue of the certificate. The result was declared a week ago and even if a student applies for the certificate, the time left is less than three weeks and we are at a loss to understand on our next course of action,” said Ravi Kumar, of China Mushidiwada, whose son has qualified under EWS. “I had taken the certificate in March this year but it cannot be uploaded. In the time of the pandemic, making students and their parents run around Tahsildar’s office for certificate is not a good idea. The income of parents is unlikely to change in a month in times of the pandemic, when salaries are being cut by employers,” he said. Meanwhile, the SFI activists staged a protest at the Tahsildar’s office, at Seethammadhara, on Friday evening demanding quick issue of certificates to students to enable them attend the JEE Advanced examinations. “Students are being made to shell out Rs. 1,000 or more in view of the emergency for the issue of the certificate,” said Rajesh, who was present at the protest.  The EWS certificate has to be issued by the Tahsildar's office. But the candidates, have to apply through Mee Seva centres.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two youth die in hit-and-run accident||Two youth died in a road accident after allegedly being hit by a lorry near Marikavalasa under PM Palem Police Station limits on Friday. The deceased were identified as P. Balu (27), a native of Visakhapatnam and P. Kiran Kumar (21), a native of Krishna district and resident of Kommadi area in the city. Kiran is said to be pursuing engineering final year in a private college at Rushikonda. According to the police, Kiran attended the birthday party of his gym instructor on Thursday night. The incident allegedly occurred when Kiran along with the gym instructor’s cousin Balu was coming towards a petrol bunk near Marikavalasa at around 1.16 a.m. on Friday. According the police, it is a hit-and-run case, and from the CC TV footage the vehicle has been identified as a heavy duty 10-tyre truck. But the police are yet to ascertain further details such as registration number and details of the driver. A case has been registered.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1.5 lakh to appear for Secretariat exams||As many as 1,50,441 candidates from the district are appearing for Andhra Pradesh Grama/Ward Sachivalayam recruitment examinations, which are scheduled to be held from September 20 to 26 for 1,585 posts, District Collector V. Vinay Chand said, here on Friday. He said that the examination will be held from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., and he appealed to the candidates to reach their centres before the scheduled time. He said that candidates, who have tested COVID-19 positive, can appear for the examination and their seating will be arranged at an isolation room in the centre. He said that 277 examination centres, including 168 under the GVMC limits, have been set up.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prime accused in robbery case arrested||The city police on Friday arrested the prime accused in the Rs. 20 lakh robbery case which was reported in PM Palem area on August 17. The arrested has been identified as K. Kanaka Raju. Already five persons were arrested in the case on September 7. It may be remembered that on August 17, Rs. 20 lakh was robbed from one P. Koteswara Rao near YSR ACA VDCA Stadium at PM Palem in the city. With the arrest of five, the police have recovered Rs. 12.5 lakh from the gang. It was learnt that some more cash was recovered from the prime accused.
19 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dates out for APSET applications||Member Secretary, Andhra Pradesh State Eligibility Test (APSET-2020), K. Srinivasa Rao on Friday said that the last date for the submission of online applications without late fee (only registration fee) is October 5 and the last date for the submission of online applications with late fee of Rs. 1,000 and registration fee is October 12. Dr. Srinivasa Rao also said that the last date for submission of the online applications with late fee of Rs. 2,000 and registration fee is October 21 and with a late of Rs. 5,000 and registration fee is November 11. “Candidates can download hall tickets from December 12, and the exam is on December 20,” he said. Andhra University has been given the responsibility to conduct APSET 2020. For more details, visithttp://apset.net.in.
19 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grand plan for Gurajada’s birth anniversary||Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Friday directed officials to make arrangements for conducting Mahakavi Guarajada Apparao’s birth anniversary on September 21. The Collector said that floral tributes will be paid at his statues.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shot in the dark||
19 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Durgam Cheruvu continues to shrink||Unabated dumping of rocks and building debris is defacing the Durgam Cheruvu on its south-western side. As the new suspension bridge has become a tourist draw and a site for surreal selfies, the lake continues to shrink for want of protection. “The place of dumping is full tank level/buffer zone of Durgam Cheruvu. Such activities are prohibited in the area,” says Lubna Sarwath of Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL), when asked about the dumped rocks. On Wednesday, earth movers were deployed in the area to clean up the road for the scheduled inauguration of the suspension bridge on September 19. On the other side where the road girdles the lake, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) workers were busy working on the landscape. The Durgam Cheruvu is a natural rock formation which has small hillocks on its south-western side creating a deep valley. This natural valley is now being filled up. A number of roads were laid in the area starting from 2010 connecting the once inaccessible higher reaches of the lake. This allowed the illegal dumping activity to go on unimpeded. Now, one of the roads that reached deep into the valley has been blocked. “We have been asked to clean only this road stretch,” said the operator of an earthmover working on the road abutting the lake. The filling up of the valley will further reduce the carrying capacity of the lake as it has been hemmed in from all sides by range of earthen works like a park, a walking track, an STP and a mini pond for immersing Ganesh idols. The road connecting Inorbit Mall to Kavuri Hills near Nectar Gardens has been the site of frequent flooding during monsoons disrupting traffic flow. The new suspension bridge will dramatically ease the traffic flow even if the area is flooded. But for the residents of the surrounding areas the ongoing dumping of debris will further aggravate flooding.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rs. 150 cr. for works under MPLADS due ’||Taking a strong view of the Central government refusing to release pending instalments of MPLAD scheme up to March 30 last due to the impact of COVID-19, vice-chairman of the Telangana State Planning Board B. Vinod Kumar has reminded the Centre that small contractors who executed the works under the scheme were suffering a lot as they did not receive the money. Mr. Vinod Kumar addressed a letter in this regard to Union Minister for Statistics and Programmes Implementation Rao Inderjit Singh, highlighting that works worth Rs. 150 crore which were booked against Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members of Telangana were grounded in Telangana under the scheme in the last term of Lok Sabha. All the works were executed and due for payment. He reacted to an earlier letter received from the Deputy Director of MPLADS which said “the Union Cabinet had decided not to operate the MPLAD scheme for the years 2020-21 and 2021-22. Currently, there was no budget head available with the Finance Ministry which could be utilised for release of any unreleased instalments, including those from previous financial year up to 31-03-2020”. Mr. Vinod Kumar expressed concern that the dues were not released in spite of repeated reminders made by the MPs for the last one and a half years. Release of Rs. 95 crore pertaining to Lok Sabha members and Rs. 55 crore of Rajya Sabha members had been due for one and a half years. He lamented that the Union Cabinet took the decision not to operate the scheme for two years but did not stop payment incurred earlier during the 16th Lok Sabha. "It is unfortunate that the Cabinet has taken a decision to stop funds for the members of the 17th Lok Sabha, but the government was denying funds due to the members of the 16th Lok Sabha also", he said. This is highly objectionable and exposed the “negligent attitude” of the Centre towards the developmental activities taken up through these funds, he said. The vice-chairman of the board expressed concern that though works relating to MPLADS funds were completed, there were inordinate delays in the release of funds.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB to study airborne spread of COVID-19||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) will be undertaking study of the airborne spread of COVID-19. It involves collection of air samples from different places such as general hospital wards, ICUs, nurse stations, out-patient wings of various hospitals, etc., first and subsequently similar places where there is a congregation in closed spaces. “We are checking out technical aspects and possible places to survey. Taking air samples for a period of time as such is not a difficult task but recovering viral material after bringing it to the laboratory for the study needs careful monitoring and some standardisation. We will finalise these issues in a few days,” said CCMB director Rakesh Mishra on Thursday. In an exclusive interaction, the director said the study is being taken up in consonance with some scientific reports and the WHO indicating that there is possibility of airborne transmission of COVID-19 within the confines of an indoor place. “The study should tell us the extent of air transmission and how safe it will be for healthcare workers to take off their PPE within the confines of a hospital,” he said. Dr. Mishra pointed out that sampling is the key issue and what is known is that the virus can hang in the air in small droplets for half an hour or more when there is no air flow. It could happen during speaking or sneezing or coughing and there is no mask covering the face. “In a close environment, the virus can spread easily, especially when there is no proper ventilation or air flow. It is always better to have fresh air flow inside. But COVID-19 spread is not like air pollution. If we wear face marks and maintain physical distance, we are pretty safe,” he affirmed. Dry swabs CCMB is also trying to get the dry swab RNA extraction-free RTqPCR testing accepted by the ICMR. More institutions, private labs and other independent organisations are being involved to ensure robustness of method and taking care of reliability. “We got dry swabs testing validated by Centre for DNA FingerPrinting & Diagnostics and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Berhampur (Odisha). We are trying hard and doing what needs to be done for use in testing labs where such improvements are desperately needed,” said Dr. Mishra. It could be a game changer as universally RT-qPCR or real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction is accepted as ‘gold standard’ of testing and the improved dry swab version could bring down costs by 40% from the current Rs. 2,500-3,000 a sample with results in just 5-6 hours unlike one or two days.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fake FB accounts tricking friends of policemen||Tricking netizens to part with money by creating fictitious Facebook accounts is not a new cyber crime. Specifically targeting police officers using this modus operandi is surely a new pattern, and it is happening in the case of some Telangana police officers! Some Telangana police officers of the rank of Inspector and Deputy Superintendents posted on their FB walls that unidentified persons were trying to trick their FB friends. These tricksters, about whom the police officers have no clue at all, created fictitious FB accounts using the police officers’ profile pictures. The cheats sent friend requests to all those who are already in the friend list of the police officers. The persons, already in the friend list of the police officers and who again got friend requests, were puzzled. Some of them casually accepted the friend request while others got suspicious. “Those who accepted the friend request began getting messages from the ‘police officers’ stating that they need help and urgently required money,” one of those police officers, wishing anonymity, said. Till now, no instance of anyone sending money responding to the messages was reported. However, realising that someone was trying to take their friends for a ride, the police officers started posting on their FB walls not to accept any fresh friend requests. No specific complaint has been lodged so far, but it is clear that some individuals or organised gangs are trying to deceive friends of the police officers. A couple of police officers tried to track the persons by calling up the mobile phone numbers which the tricksters sent through messages. They wanted money to be sent through Phone Pay and similar online money transfer platforms. “When we called the numbers, some persons spoke in Hindi and eventually hung phones unable to answer our queries,” another police officer said. Cyber Crimes police officials said that the possibility of organised gangs adopting this modus operandi in case of civilians cannot be ruled out altogether. Everyone needs to be cautious and vigilant about receiving friend requests from those who are already on their friend lists, they said.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Martyrs’ memorial to be completed in six months||Minister for Roads & Buildings, Legislative Affairs and Housing V. Prashanth Reddy said construction of the Martyrs’ Memorial on the banks of the Hussainsagar is targeted for completion within coming six months. After inspecting the ongoing works of the memorial on Friday, Mr. Prashanth Reddy said it is Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s aim to make it a tradition for the visiting dignitaries from the Centre, such as President, Prime Minister, and others to pay their respects to the Telangana martyrs at the memorial. He termed Telangana’s development as separate State, as a result of the uncompromising fight by the Chief Minister, and sacrifices of a number of martyrs. The massive memorial, like Rajghat at Delhi, will be a tribute to the same. The Roads & Buildings department has undertaken the works, without compromising on cost, he said. The parking lot of the structure being built in 3 lakh square feet of space, will be spacious enough to accommodate 350 cars and 600 two wheelers. First floor will have a museum, a photo gallery, a meeting hall and an art gallery, all depicting the sacrifices of people who ended their life for the separate State. The second floor will have a world class convention hall where national and international level meetings may be conducted, while the third floor will accommodate restaurants, he said.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Face reading software for GHMC polls?||In view of the term of the present GHMC Council ending in February next, State Election Commissioner (SEC) C. Parthasarathi conducted a review meeting on preparedness for the forthcoming GHMC elections in the city on Friday. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, Additional CEO, General Administration (Elections), Jyothi Buddha Prakash, and senior officials from GHMC and TSEC participated in the meeting, which discussed the issues and challenges to be faced in conducting the polls. A plan of action has been discussed to train the GHMC officials right from zonal to circle level to acquaint them with the software applications developed by the Centre for Good Governance (CGG) for preparation and publication of electoral rolls, randomisation of polling and counting personnel and election process. He said technology should be used to the best extent for expeditious, error-free and transparent election with the help of CGG team. Innovations like face recognition software should be used among other pilots after thorough scrutiny. Considering the very poor poll turnout at 45.29% in the previous elections in 2016, efforts should be made to improve the same by organising intensive voter awareness campaigns, by involving NGOs, resident welfare associations and other civil society organisations. The meeting also discussed precautionary guidelines in view of COVID-19 pandemic, in line with the guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India. In view of the pandemic, it has been decided to fix the number of voters at 800 per polling station. However, it is yet to be decided if EVMS are to be replaced by ballot papers. The Election Commissioner has advised for advance action in accessing and obtaining information about employees from GHMC area and surrounding districts for drafting them as polling personnel. Mr. Parthasarathi requested Mr. Buddha Prakash to issue instructions to collectors, district election officers and electoral registration officers concerned, towards quick disposal of inclusions, deletions and transpositions if any in electoral rolls, till issue of the notification.
19 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Friendly joint visit to two-bedroom houses turns sour||The ‘friendly’ visit to the two bedroom houses turned sour leading to political accusations between the ruling party and the Congress with Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav and CLP Leader Bhatti Vikramarka takng divergent paths on the number of houses constructed so far. The second day of the visit to 2 BHK houses that the government promised to take the Congress leader on started off smoothly on Friday morning. But after visiting two spots in Tukkuguda and Nagaram municipalities Mr. Yadav and Mr. Vikramarka got into a war of words. Mr. Vikramarka said the housing spots were not under the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) but under different municipalities. “These same houses were promised to locals during elections in those municipalities. Now the same are being shown to GHMC aspirants as well. How can they include houses in other municipalities in the GHMC quota?” he asked speaking to reporters at the venue. Mr. Vikramarka said the government had shown only 3,428 houses under construction in the GHMC limits so far but were claiming they had constructed one lakh houses. “I want the Minister to show me all these houses since he has challenged,” he said. The CLP Leader said the Chief Minister had promised 5,000 houses in each constituency before the last GHMC elections and the government-challenged visit covered five constituencies so far and they could show only 3,428 houses, he said. Talasani at Kollur Mr. Yadav, along with Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy and Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, left Mr. Vikramarka at Nagaram and went to Kollur where the 2 BHK units were being constructed. He said the Congress leaders were unable to digest the fact on construction of such big houses. He said 90% of the houses being constructed in the surrounding municipalities would be given to applicants from the GHMC area as was announced earlier by Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao. Mr. Yadav challenged Mr. Vikramarka to show government land within the city limits and they were ready to use the same for 2 BHK houses.
19 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man arrested for cheating job aspirants||A 38-year-old man was apprehended by Cyberabad Special Operations Team of Madhapur zone on Friday for cheating gullible people on the pretext of providing jobs in MNCs. Modugumudi Guna Chandrasekhar from Nizampet operates a job consultancy. He hails from Krishna district in AP. Police said that he collected huge amounts from over 100 people after offering jobs in MNCs. “He collected anywhere between Rs. 1.5 lakh and Rs. 2.5 lakh from each candidate. He also made fake offer letters and sent them to candidates through employee’s mail ID as Wipro HR authority,” Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar said. Suicide attempt Demanding a house under the 2BHK scheme, an auto driver on Friday attempted to self-immolate in front of the CM’s Pragathi Bhavan. Alert policemen at the gate quickly intercepted and prevented Kodari Chander, 46, from ending his life. He is a resident of Moosa Nagar. “Chander stopped his auto near the gate and sprinkled diesel over himself. Soon, the match box was snatched and he was shifted to a hospital,” police said.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bail for 4 in fresh case of IMS scam||Justice K. Lakshman of Telangana High Court on Friday granted bail to four civilians arrested by ACB officials two weeks ago in a fresh case relating to Insurance Medical Services (IMS) scam. Three of them — K. Srihari Babu alias Babji, proprietor of M/s Omni Medi, his wife K. Sujatha, proprietor of M/s Omni Health Care and K. K. Krupasagar Reddy, proprietor of M/s Legend Enterprises — were directed to execute a personal bond of Rs. 1 lakh each. They should also furnish two sureties each for Rs. 1 lakh. The fourth accused B. Venkateshwarlu, employee of Omni Medi, should execute a bond of Rs. 20,000 and two sureties of equal sum, the order said. All the four accused should appear before the investigating officer every Thursday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. till completion of the probe, the judge said, adding they should co-operate with the IO. Justice K. Lakshman observed that except ‘bald allegation’ that the accused were not co-operating with the investigators, the ACB had no complaint against the accused. The accused had not violated conditions imposed by court earlier in this matter.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NREGS field assistants seek jobs back||A protest led by National Backward Classes Welfare Association (NBCWA) leaders demanding the reinstatement of 7,710 field assistants, engaged in the implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), was held in front of the office of Panchayat Raj Commissioner here on Friday. The field assistants taken as contract employees and who used to monitor the MGNREGS works for the last 15 years were removed by the Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Department earlier this year following their protest form March 10 to 20 in support of their demands. Later, their duties were transferred to Panchayat secretaries in July. The removed field assistants from different parts of the State started gathering at the PR&RD Commissionerate at Himayatnagar from 9 a.m. A sizeable number of them reached there in groups by the time the protest began around 11 a.m. Speaking at the protest, president of NBCWA R. Krishnaiah sought to know whether going on strike in support of demands was illegal and asked the government how it would justify its ‘inhuman’ act of throwing 7,710 families into uncertainty. He appealed to CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao to consider the field assistance issue on humanitarian grounds.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Quicker, more reliable testing method||Researchers at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research here have standardised a LAMP assay to rapidly detect the SARS-CoV 2 RNA among COVID patients in 30 minutes. The RT-LAMP (reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification) assay has emerged as a viable alternative to meet the need for quicker and reliable testing methods since the RT-PCR based test which is the most accurate COVID-19 testing method was time consuming (six to eight hours for results) and required an expensive experimental set-up. A release said the results of LAMP were determined by a change of colour of the sample once reagents were added. This was easily visible to the eye and aided in faster, easier detection. Contrary to RT-PCR based tests, this assay did not need experimental set-up. The test was validated against both positive and negative COVID samples. The validation was carried out by K. Madhumohan Rao at NIMS and ESIC Hospital and Medical College.
19 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seethakka, Kisan Congress workers arrested||Tension prevailed at Pragathi Bhavan when Congress MLA D. Seethakka and Congress Farmers wing president Anvesh Reddy along with Congress workers tried to storm Pragati Bhavan demanding compensation to farmers who lost crop in the rains. Ms. Seethakka and Mr. Anvesh Reddy surprised the policemen descending there and tried to get into Pragathi Bhavan. Police, however, blocked them and pushed them away. The police literally dragged Mr. Anvesh Reddy into a police vehicle while Ms. Seethakka tried to argue with them. She was furious at the police personnel pushing her into the vehicle and advised them not be slaves of the government but work for people. The behaviour of some police personnel was disturbing and they were acting as if protesters were criminals, she said. The unrelenting Congress workers raising slogans against the government were then taken into custody. Later, Ms. Seethakka said the government was insensitive to farmers’ issues.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||10 doctors from TS lost to COVID||The Indian Medical Association issued a list of 382 doctors who lost their lives while battling the COVID-19 pandemic. The list includes 10 frontline warrior doctors from Telanagna. According to Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, State Secretary, IMA, the list has names of doctors working in both public and private healthcare sectors. Those on the list are Nalinikanth, Bhooma Reddy, B Raghavendra Rao, Ayub Khan, Hari Kumar, Gnaneshwar Rao Bandari, KVR Prasad, G Sreenivas, Shankar Rao and Puri Vittal. Dr Yadav said around 1 lakh doctors from the country, 100 from the State, had recovered from COVID and were treating patients.
19 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Inflows into Singur bring cheer to residents||The heavy inflows into Singur reservoir in Pulkal mandal has brought cheer to the people in the region with groundwater levels rising and the residents of the district headquarters are the happiest as they can be assured of regular supply of water. The water level in the reservoir, which was 10 tmc ft on Thursday evening has crossed 13.8 tmcft by Friday afternoon and it is expected cross 15 tmcft in a day or two. However, the inflows have come down from 40,000 cusecs to 23,000 cusecs. Andol MLA Ch. Kranthi Kiran performed Ganga Pooja at Singur on Thursday evening and offered flowers to the river. The heavy flood flow in Manjeera can be seen at Gaudgav Janavada where the river enters Telangana. There has been heavy flow in nother stream in the Manjeera sub-basin — Gangakatwa — which is reaching the Manjeera dam. Collector M. Hanumantha Rao visited Singur on Friday and examined the reservoir and inflows. Noticing a large number of visitors to the Singur reservoir, the Collector has directed the officials not to allow visitors on the dam as precautionary measure. The residents of the district headquarters and several other places faced severe water scarcity in the recent past with water levels in Singur reservoir falling to rock bottom. At many places borewells had completely dried up till August and now they were getting charged. “Our borewells are getting charged almost after two years. They are yielding water comparing better than past. However, getting more water to Singur and Manjeera will address drinking water for the next one two years,” said Raju, a resident of town.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Give one lakh majority in Dubbak: Hairsh||SIDDIPET Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon people to give more than 1 lakh majority for the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in the byelections to Dubbak Assembly constituency. Participating in TRS party workers’ meeting held at Mirdoddi along with Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy on Friday, Mr. Harish Rao said the government had been making all efforts to provide irrigation for every acre. “The Congress has no leader and BJP has no cadre,” he said. The Minister said that as much as 1.25 lalk acres in the constituency would be provided with irrigation from Kaleswaram water.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||JMI violence: ASG opposes petitions to transfer probe||Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi on Friday opposed before the Delhi High Court pleas to transfer investigation in the Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) violence case of December last from the police, saying the pleas was “misconceived in law”. Mr. Lekhi, appearing for the Delhi Police, said: “Investigation can be transferred where there is want of fairness, honesty and credibility. This is an exception of the law. It is only where it is imperative in interest of justice that the court should do it”. ‘Lack of credibility’ “This is a case where the chargesheet has been filed and a court is seized of the matter. This is a case of the person accused not being before the court. There is no basis to suggest or allege want of fairness or lack of credibility,” the senior law officer said. “The National Human Rights Commission [NHRC] has dealt with it...The NHRC has not ordered compensation. I have pointed out that an independent agency has examined it and has not found any of the allegations made as true. And in this background, the transfer of investigation is completely unwarranted,” Mr. Lekhi said. The High Court was hearing a batch of petitions, moved by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla in south Delhi, seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the Jamia violence and registration of FIRs against the erring police officers. The Delhi Police had earlier defended its decision to enter the campus of the varsity during the violence that occurred in December last year, saying it was done to control the “aggravated form of unlawful assembly”. Mr. Lekhi had said the police’s reaction was “preceded by repeated pleas to the crowd to exercise restraint and go back, and after informing the crowd that they are part of an unlawful assembly”. Next hearing The High Court will hear the case again on October 1.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia Hamdard Chancellor asks UGC to probe ‘irregularities’ by V-C||Jamia Hamdard Chancellor Hamid Ahmed has written to the University Grants Commission (UGC) asking to set up a committee to inquire into the alleged financial/administrative irregularities committed by Vice-Chancellor Seyed. E. Hasnain. Mr. Ahmed, in his letter, alleged that during the administration of the current V-C, who was appointed in 2016, a culture of fraud and mismanagement has developed in the university with considerable financial implication. Mr. Ahmed, who was appointed Chancellor by Hamdard National Foundation (HNF), which is the sponsoring body of the university, said that he would like to invoke Clause 10.12.2 E of the UGC (Institutions Deemed to be Universities) Regulations 2019, for removal of the V-C on the grounds of procedural violations and impropriety. Taking loans The Chancellor said that Jamia Hamdard was taking loans to meet basic expenses like salaries and electricity and it is only a matter of last resort that the sponsoring body was approaching the UGC as per regulation. He added that in the present circumstances, due to the breakdown of trust with the Vice-Chancellor, HNF was withholding its financial contributions. The Chancellor said that the issue was also discussed at length at the Board meeting of HNF and feedback was received from the Board of Management (BOM) and Finance Committee of Jamia Hamdard and it was unanimously resolved to approach the UGC with facts. “The sponsoring body has attempted to counsel the V-C to resolve the irregularities. However, he has continued to take arbitrary decisions inconsistent with the rules and regulations governing Jamia Hamdard,” the letter says. It added that the conduct of the V-C to the members of the sponsoring body has also been unsavoury. Responding to the allegations, Mr. Hasnain said that these allegations are being levelled because of the university’s resolute resistance to the family’s (Hamdard) pressure to take steps that are in contravention of UGC’s applicable regulations for Deemed to be University-2019. “We oppose any partitioning of the university that is impermissible by law. On September 2, 2020, the university has sought the Delhi High Court’s intervention by filing an appeal against the family settlement pertaining to the university. The university was set up by the Hamdard family, but now it cannot be treated like an asset of the family ever since it was declared a deemed university by the UGC,” the V-C said. Not paying On the allegation that the university was taking loans to meet basic expenses, the V-C said that the sponsoring body is committed to pay a certain amount every year, which it has not been for the last four years since the dispute in their family crystallised. “The university has been told that it would have to cooperate in division of the university in two factions in order to get the funds expeditiously. As per UGC regulations 2019, there is no requirement to take approval from the HNF as the BOM is the empowered body to take all financial decisions.,” Mr. Hasnain said. HNF member On the appointment of the Chancellor, Mr. Hasnain said that Jamia Hamdard Memorandum of Association (MoA) is clear that the Chancellor shall neither be a member of the Hamdard National Foundation nor a close relative of the HNF president and will be appointed by a search committee. This time the president has appointed his son as the Chancellor which is against the MoA, the V-C said. Leave request The Chancellor has asked the UGC to send the Vice-Chancellor and the Pro-Vice-Chancellor on leave for three months till the UGC inquiry committee gives its findings and necessary orders to restore public confidence in the university and ensure fair and transparent administration for the sake of the students, faculty and staff of Jamia Hamdard. The UGC did not respond to queries regarding the allegations.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA hold protests against Sisodia||Representatives of the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) and other teachers’ bodies hit out against Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia over “unsubstantiated and even vindictive claims of misappropriation of funds, which were used to delay grants to 12 colleges fully funded by the government”, on Friday. The group hit out against the suggestion of using students’ funds for the payment of salaries, arguing that under the rules of financial administrations grants from one head could not be used for any other purpose.  DUSU supports The funds collected were meant for various student activities and not for salaries, they pointed out. The Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU) also opposed the suggestion, putting its support behind the staff and employees of colleges. The union said while the government was free to act against financial misdeeds, repeatedly subjecting these institutions to audits, even after three had reportedly been done, smacked of overreach and suggested that It was “only interested in settling some political score.”
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for creating fake FB profile||A 27-year-old man was arrested for allegedly creating a fake Facebook profile where he shared obscene pictures of women with vulgar captions, the police said on Friday. Suraj from Chirag Dilli – the accused in the case – hatched a plan with his girlfriend to take revenge on the complainant, for whom she worked as domestic help. The case came to fore when a resident of Greater Kailash lodged a complaint stating that she is getting several calls after someone posted her number on a Facebook account. Next, a case was registered on September 16 under Sections 354 D (stalking) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) of Indian Penal Code and an investigation was taken up, said Deputy Commissioner of Police Atul Kumar Thakur. The complainant claimed that she had caught her help stealing clothes a few months ago, but did not report the matter as it was settled amicably. This incident happened before the lockdown but the victim did not fire her, an officer said. ‘Teach a lesson’ However, the police said that the accused woman felt humiliated and wanted to teach a lesson to her employer. She roped in Suraj for the crime. The complainant told the police that she suspects the accused to be someone known to her maid. She said the fake account — Priya Roy — had obscene pictures with a caption — “Paid Sex”. She complained that the accused had uploaded her as well as her mother’s mobile numbers on the account following which they kept getting calls, a senior officer said. “We sought details from Facebook about the profile. We then got to know that Suraj had created the profile on September 8. He was nabbed from Greater Kailash on Thursday,” the officer said. During interrogation, the accused, who works at a private firm, confessed to the crime. Role of partner The mobile phone used for creating the fake profile has been seized and further investigation is under way to ascertain the role of his girlfriend in the case, the police added.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Slum dwellers demand rehabilitation from government before their eviction||Slum dwellers across the city on Friday held a National Day of Protest, demanding proper rehabilitation from the Delhi government before being evicted. Many of them said after having settled in the jhuggis for over three decades, it would be difficult to reconstruct houses and build their lives from scratch. Deepak Tandekar, a resident of a jhuggi at Anand Vihar said: “Our parents have lived all their lives here and have worked hard to build these homes. It is impossible for them to restart their lives at this point. There is unemployment all around and despite being a graduate, I have no job.” The 21-year-old added, “We had to struggle a lot during the lockdown to even arrange for food. My father, a carpenter, is also out of work. If the roof over our head also goes now, how will we survive? All kinds of promises are made to us only before elections.” A proper plan While on August 31, the Supreme Court had directed removal of 48,000 jhuggis that were present along railway tracks in the city, on Monday the Centre informed the apex court that no slum will be demolished till a proper plan is in place. Widespread unemployment, the ongoing pandemic and concerns over children’s education were the primary reasons behind their demand to be relocated in the vicinity, slum dwellers said. A 48-year-old, resident of a slum cluster near Mansarovar Park, Roopchand, said: “Promises like Jaahan Jhuggi Wahan Makaan and Beti Bachao Beti Padhao schemes were made to us. But here it seems like we are at a threat of losing our homes.” The father of three daughters asked, “How are we to save our daughters and educate them if we do not have jobs ourselves or even houses? Neelesh Kumar, a social worker said, “The residents have been living in the areas for decades and are not changing like politicians change every five years. When people have worked hard and built houses how can that be called illegal? Jhuggis are the first to be removed as they belong to the poor and weak. But now the government needs to rehabilitate us and ensure the DUSIB policy is followed.”
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anna Nagar residents again told to relocate||Anna Nagar residents, whose houses were washed away on July 19, lost the roof over their heads once again when a school asked them to leave their temporary shelter to make way for CBSE exams. K.C. Kotiyal, a member of one of the 12 families who lost their houses, said they were asked to leave the school on Wednesday. “We were told that CBSE exams will be conducted here and we have to relocate to some other place for 10 days. Initially, we were told by authorities that we have to shift to our relatives’ houses and then we were told that they will either shift us to a night shelter in Sarai Kale Khan or in another school in Vikram Nagar,” he said, adding that the residents had no idea about the exams. Another resident, who didn’t wish to be named, said they didn’t want to move to the night shelter because of the poor living conditions there but were fine with shifting to another school till they are allotted their own houses. The residents said they had met MLA Praveen Kumar regarding the matter on Friday. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kumar said allotting the houses will take time but the talks are under way and the matter is being expedited. “They will be shifted either to the night shelter or to the school by Saturday,” he said. Twelve houses were washed away after a heavy downpour on July 19 in Anna Nagar near ITO. The residents were first moved to tents installed near the metro station and subsequently to a school on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg where they had been living till Friday morning.  They [residents] will be shifted either to the night shelter or to the school by Saturday Praveen Kumar MLA
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Union wants phased return of JNU students to campus||The JNUSU on Friday organised a protest on the campus demanding that the administration start a phased return of students. The JNUSU said that research scholars and terminal year-end students, who have submission and lab work, are facing multiple problems and are unable to complete their thesis and dissertation as they are locked out. We have written to the JNU administration, Dean of Students, Union Health Minister, Chief Minister, Ministry of Education and Health Minister in the last one month to facilitate the process for phased return and understanding the issues students have been facing, the students said. “Despite the MHA guidelines to reopen the universities for research scholars, the JNU administration is still not releasing any guidelines/circular to do so, while other central universities are starting the process of phase-wise return from September 21,” JNUSU said. The union added that differently abled students should be prioritised with accessible medical and quarantine facilities along with students who are facing issues due to the digital divide. The administration must make arrangements for isolation, quarantine wards and in-house COVID-19 testing, it added.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC allows registration of BS-IV diesel vehicles||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed the registration of BS-IV emission norms’ compliant vehicles purchased on or before March 31, 2020 by the Municipal Corporations to carry out essential public utility services like garbage clearance in Delhi. Further, these vehicles which are purchased before March 31 should be with the e-Vahan portal of the government to establish the date of purchase. All these registrations will be scrutinised by the Environment Pollution Control Authority (EPCA). The EPCA will submit a report to the apex court. Public utility and essential services vehicles purchased by the Delhi municipal bodies after April 1, 2020 can be registered if they are compliant with the updated BS-VI emissions norms. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde allowed registration of all CNG vehicles. “Insofar as CNG vehicles are concerned, there cannot be any valid rejection to the vehicles, as the emission from these vehicles is within the limits. Therefore, we direct that these vehicles may be registered,” the court ordered.
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Stone laying of Ambedkar statue put off||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday postponed the foundation stone laying ceremony of Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar’s statue at Indu Mills compound in central Mumbai after only 16 dignitaries being invited for the event led to discontent in political circles. Mr. Thackeray said, “It is everyone’s wish to build a grand memorial to Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar at Indu Mills. There cannot be political or organisational differences in it.” Only a few people had been invited to the function in order to maintain physical distancing. “The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority [MMRDA] did all the preparations and planned the ceremony . However, I brought to their notice that everyone needs to be a part of such an important programme. Therefore, I have directed that the event be postponed and all important dignitaries be invited,” Mr. Thackeray said. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde were not informed about the event till late on Thursday, resulting in both of them remaining at their respective districts, Pune and Beed. While they had left for Mumbai, none of the other Cabinet colleagues, including former chief minister Ashok Chavan, and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) State president Jayant Patil, were informed about the event. Apart from Mr. Thackeray, Mr. Pawar and Mr. Munde, the 16 invitees included Ministers Balasaheb Thorat, Eknath Shinde, Chhagan Bhujbal, Varsha Gaikwad, Nitin Raut, Aslam Sheikh, Aaditya Thackeray; the Mumbai Mayor; the local MLA; two local corporators; the chief secretary; and the principal secretary of the Social Justice Department. NCP president and Rajya Sabha MP Sharad Pawar, who had reviewed the memorial along with Mr. Munde and Mr. Pawar just days after the Maha Vikas Aghadi government came to power, was not invited for the programme. Leaders of the Opposition in the State Assembly and the Council, Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar respectively, were not invited despite them being in Mumbai. The Central government had handed over the land at Indu Mills for the construction of the memorial when Mr. Fadnavis was the chief minister. Only Anandraj Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr. Ambedkar, received an invitation at the last moment, while Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar was not invited to the function. ‘Build school of studies’ Speaking to reporters, later in the day, Mr. Prakash Ambedkar said he is not interested in attending the programme and an intellectual centre should come up at the site instead of a statue. “Former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had proposed to set up an international school of studies at the Indu Mills site and the current government should stick to that plan,” Mr. Prakash Ambedkar said.
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||How many farmers benefited from loan waiver scheme?: HC||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to furnish details about the number of farmers who have benefited from the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule Shetkari Karjmukti Yojna (MJPSKY), which was announced in December last year. A Division Bench of Justices K.K. Tated and N.R. Borkar was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Bharatiya Janata Party MLA Ashish Shelar through senior advocate Rajendra Pai. The petition said as per the scheme, farmers who had taken bank loans of up to Rs. 2 lakh between April 1, 2015, and March 31, 2019, and had not repaid these loans till September 30, 2019, are eligible for a waiver on the entire amount. The plea said around 35 lakh farmers were eligible to seek benefits under the scheme. It stated, “There were more than one crore farmers across the State and only around 15 lakh farmers have benefited so far, while loans of the majority of others are not yet waived.” In his plea, Mr. Shelar said he wished to know why all eligible farmers had not got the benefit of the scheme. The MLA said he had raised this question several times in the State Assembly, but he did not receive a satisfactory answer. Left with no other option, he decided to approach the High Court, seeking directions for implementation of the scheme, the plea said. Additional government pleader Geeta Shastri, appearing for the State government, said since the petitioner is a MLA, he could have easily obtained information on the number of beneficiaries of the scheme from department concerned or by filing an application under the Right to Information Act. ‘Based on news reports’ Ms. Shastri said, “The PIL was based on news reports and did not show any actual figures of the number of beneficiaries, which were available with the concerned department.” The court told Mr. Pai that he should have also done some research of his own. The Bench asked the State government to inform the court “why only some farmers” had received the benefit of the MJPSKY scheme. The Bench then directed the State to file an affidavit in reply to the petition within three weeks and Mr. Shelar to file a rejoinder. The matter has been posted for further hearing on October 22.
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Reply to PIL seeking direct access to COVID-19 drugs, HC tells govt.||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Maharashtra government to reply to a plea seeking that medicines used to treat COVID-19 patients be made available directly at hospitals, isolation and quarantine centres where such patients are being admitted. A Division Bench of Justices K.K. Tated and N.R. Borkar was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an NGO, All Maharashtra Human Rights Welfare Association, through its president, Jayesh Mirani. The PIL claimed that since medicines which are crucial for treating COVID-19, such as Remdesivir, and an injection Actemra, are available only at select chemists, a patient loses much time in buying the drugs and availing themselves of treatment. Advocate Prashant Pandey, appearing for the NGO, told the court, “The patient’s caregivers need to procure the drugs and also have to pay much more than the maximum retail price on many occasions. If the drugs were instead made available at COVID-19 treatment facilities, much time would be saved and immediate care can be given to the patients through doctors and the hospital staff.” Mr. Pandey also said people are being made to pay exorbitant prices for medicines such as Remdesivir. Though the drug has an MRP of Rs. 3,000, it is being sold in the black market for nearly Rs. 30,000. Therefore, it is important that such drugs are made available directly at COVID-19 care centres. The PIL sought a direction from the court to the State government to make such medicines, including Remdesivir 100, Actemra 400 injections and FabiFlu tablets, available at all government and private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients, and at medical stores. Seeking time to file a reply to the PIL, government pleader Purnima Kantharia said she had to look into making all these medicines available over the counter. The Bench directed her to file an affidavit in reply to the PIL by October 2. The matter has been posted for further hearing on October 6.  The patient’s caregivers need to procure the drugs and also have to pay much more than the maximum retail price on many occasions Advocate Prashant Pandey Counsel for the NGO
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Special buses for women govt. staff||The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) will operate special buses for women government employees in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region from Monday, Transport Minister Anil Parab said on Friday. Mr. Parab, who is the chairman of MSRTC, said a special bus will be run from Panvel, Virar and Dombivli on an experimental basis and more services will be added depending upon the response. The MSRTC had started operating its buses with 100% passenger capacity, instead of the earlier 50%, from Friday morning. MSRTC is expecting an increase in ridership.
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Dismiss actor Kangana’s plea, impose fine, BMC tells HC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in an affidavit on Friday urged the Bombay High Court to dismiss actor Kangana Ranaut’s petition seeking Rs. 2 crore in damages for demolition of illegal alterations at her bungalow and impose a fine on her for filing such a plea. Responding to the actor’s plea, the BMC said it was an abuse of the process of law. “The writ petition and the relief sought constitute an abuse of the process. The petition should not be entertained and should be dismissed with costs,” the BMC said. In its reply, the BMC alleged that Ms. Ranaut falsely claimed the alterations were as per a permission granted by it. “Ms. Ranaut used the property as an office space and made substantial alterations in violation of the sanctioned building plan,” it said. Ms. Ranaut cannot argue that the demolition should not have been carried out during the lockdown, for if she was carrying out alterations during this period, she was liable to face action, the BMC said. The next hearing is slated for September 22.
19 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC to form squads to enforce COVID-19 rules||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has proposed to form a Nuisance Detection Squad to enforce COVID-19 rules within its limits. “We are drafting the proposal and will approve it at our level. Later, we will start hiring, mainly through walk-in interviews. Only ex-Army men will be hired and they will work on a contract basis,” NMMC chief Abhijit Bangar said. Two-member teams The NMMC will hire 100 ex-Army men to form 50 teams of two members each. “Every district has a welfare board for ex-servicemen. We will engage the welfare officer in the recruitment process,” Mr. Bangar said. The NMMC said people have been flouting COVID-19 rules with the easing of lockdown norms. Civic workers are finding it difficult to curb the spread of the virus and enforce guidelines at the same time. Mr. Bangar said the Nuisance Detection Squad will play a crucial role in enforcing norms in containment zones. “Urinating, spitting and throwing garbage in public places, and not wearing masks are crucial problems. The teams will be authorised to penalise offenders. We have decided to hire ex-Army men as they can enforce discipline and handle miscreants much better,” Mr. Bangar said.
19 September 2020||Pune,||Ajit Pawar moots restrictions on public movement in Pune||With the rise in COVID-19 cases in Pune district, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the district administration should implement restrictions on people’s movement only after discussions with elected representatives. “The number of COVID-19 patients is increasing at an alarming rate in Pune district. The administration can take a decision to discourage assembly and movement of people in consultation with elected representatives of Pune district and the Mayors of both Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad civic bodies,” said Mr. Pawar, Pune’s Guardian Minister, after his weekly review meeting. Mr. Pawar said ensuring uninterrupted supply of oxygen in hospitals was the need of the hour. He directed the district administration to take note of the rise in COVID-19 patients with coronary heart diseases. The district has been witnessing daily spikes of more than 4,500 cases and 50 deaths on an average for the past three weeks. The total case tally has crossed the 2.50 lakh mark with over 42,000 active cases and nearly 5,400 deaths so far. However, Mr. Pawar’s suggestion was met with fierce criticism from Siddharth Shirole, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA from Shivajinagar. He objected to any intimations of a ‘lockdown’ or a ‘quasi-curfew’. “Any restriction on public movement or lockdown at this stage will not be accepted by the people of Pune. They have suffered enough already through lockdowns imposed by the district administrations which were steamrolled only to hide the incompetence of the authorities and the failures of the government,” he said. Mr. Shirole asked why Mr. Pawar and the authorities were contemplating such a move when Pune’s residents had given the administration enough time to bolster its medical infrastructure. ‘Ample time given’ “The taxpayers of Pune, with infinite patience, had permitted the administration an ample six-month period to set up mega facilities in the city. However, thanks to the complete ineptness and lack of coordination between authorities, the jumbo hospitals have come up only now. Even then, they are not being operated at full capacity,” he said. Mr. Shirole said barely 40% of the 1,100 beds in the city’s jumbo facilities were functional. He said it was unfair to impose restrictions on the pretext of breaking the virus chain when more than 60% of Pune’s infected populace had quarantined themselves at home. “More than half of the COVID-19 patients are treating themselves at home. But the administration cannot even take care of the rest, of whom critical cases are even fewer. Then, pray, what is the use of these jumbo facilities, allegedly built with state-of-the-art equipment to serve critical care needs?” Mr. Shirole said. ‘Won’t tolerate laxity’ Meanwhile, Mr. Pawar reiterated his warning that no negligence on part of the authorities would be tolerated if there were any lacunae in measures to check the spread of the contagion. “The administration should be very careful in planning and making the beds available to the patients and the general public with updated information in the computer system,” said Mr. Pawar. Stating that there was an immediate need to drastically reduce the morbidity and mortality rates in urban as well as the rural areas of Pune, Mr. Pawar assured that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government will provide adequate funding to establish and enhance medical facilities to prevent the spread of the virus. ‘Need for oxygen beds’ “The Department of Health and Public Works should expedite the completion of pending work for more oxygenated beds and other amenities and must make efforts on a war-footing to staff medical personnel in the newly-constructed rural hospitals,” he said. Mr. Pawar urged authorities to work hard to ensure timely delivery of oxygenated beds and proper treatment to patients. “Adequate health facilities and medical equipment should be provided in rural hospitals for the treatment of patients in rural areas,” he said.  Thanks to the ineptness and lack of co-ordination between authorities, jumbo hospitals have come up only now Siddharth Shirole BJP MLA from Shivajinagar
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Rain round the corner||
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||China sends fighters towards Taiwan||While tensions remain high and a military build-up continues along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, China has ratcheted up tensions on its eastern front, with 18 Chinese fighters and bombers crossing the mid-line of the Taiwan Strait and flying towards Taiwan in a major show of military force. The combat drills on Friday were aimed to coincide with the visit to Taiwan of U.S. Undersecretary for Economic Affairs Keith Krach, the most senior official to visit the island in four decades. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) Eastern Theater Command said in a statement on Friday that “combat-ready patrols and joint air-sea exercises in the Taiwan Straits” were held “to test the joint operations capability of multiservices”. “The relevant moves are necessary measures to deal with the current situation across the Taiwan Strait and will help enhance the capability of troops under the PLA Eastern Theater Command to safeguard the national unity, territorial sovereignty and security,” said PLA Air Force Senior Colonel Zhang Chunhui, spokesperson for the Eastern Theater Command, adding that the PLA would “thwart any attempt by any person or force to carry out ‘Taiwan independence’ separatist activities in any form.” Military muscle-flexing Taiwan’s Defence Ministry said 18 PLA aircraft had crossed the mid-line of the Taiwan Strait and entered its Air Defence Identification Zone. These included two H-6 bombers, eight J-16 fighters, four J-10 fighters and four J-11 fighters. The Ministry said the Taiwan air force had scrambled fighters in response to intrusions. The Taiwan moves underline China’s military is now “muscle-flexing” on multiple fronts, said Lt. Gen. Vijay Oberoi (retd), former Vice Chief of Army Staff of the Indian Army. “If India is dealing with a two-front situation, China is now dealing with four or five fronts,” he said. “From Ladakh to the South China Sea issue, East China Sea with Japan, and Taiwan. There is also another western front, if you look at their internal problems in Xinjiang.” In Beijing, the Defence Ministry spokesperson and PLA Senior Colonel Ren Guoqiang blamed the U.S. for the tensions, and accused the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) “of stepping up collusion with the U.S.,” Reuters reported. “Trying to use Taiwan to control China or rely on foreigners to build oneself up was wishful thinking and futile,” he said. “Those who play with fire will get burnt.” ‘Preparation for attack’ The news agency quoted Hu Xijin, the editor of the hawkish Communist Party-run Global Times newspaper, as saying “the drills were preparation for an attack on Taiwan should the need arise, and that they enabled intelligence-gathering about Taiwan’s defence systems.” “If the U.S. Secretary of State or Defence Secretary visits Taiwan, People’s Liberation Army fighters should fly over Taiwan island, and directly exercise in the skies above it,” he said. Some Chinese analysts have also situated the LAC tensions with India within the broader framework of China’s worsening relations with America. On Friday, Yan Xuetong, a leading strategic expert at Tsinghua University in Beijing, said at a webinar organised by the Institute of Chinese Studies in Delhi that “in China, most people believe [India’s] current government did a major adjustment of traditional Indian foreign policy, and the non-alignment principle has already been given up and abandoned.” “India has a strong motivation to become an ally of the U.S.,” he said. “From Chinese eyes, we think currently non-alignment principle is just a cover or policy to making alliances for India.” Those moves, however, may only be reinforcing closer India-U.S. ties, said Joshua Eisenman, senior fellow for China Studies at the American Foreign Policy Council. “It is India that is on the frontline, on the razor’s edge, and if it wants a strong coalition to deal with China, it will have to sign on to the Quad big time,” he said at a recent discussion held by the U.S. Consulate in Chennai, referring to the India-U.S.-Japan-Australia grouping. “This is the moment where, from Canberra and Tokyo to Delhi and Washington, whether we like it or not, we have to do it,” he said, referring to scaling up the grouping, including beyond military cooperation.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Rajapaksas must honour their past commitments to India and the world’||Sri Lanka’s Tamil National Alliance (TNA), which chiefly represented the Tamils living in the north and east in the post-war decade, suffered a huge setback in the August general election, losing six seats in Parliament. With the Alliance’s presence in the legislature having weakened and the Rajapaksas back in power at the Centre, what are the prospects for TNA’s long-standing demand for a political solution? Alliance spokesman and Jaffna MPM.A. Sumanthiranweighs in...  What are the TNA’s reflections on the recent poll setback? It is a very serious setback. We have been reduced from 16 to 10 seats in Parliament. One of the primary reasons is that we supported the [Sirisena-Wickremesinghe] government in office from 2015 to 2019. The expectations of the people were very high then. The political solution, which is a historic demand of the Tamil people, did not materialise by way of a new Constitution that was promised... though we made great progress. Secondly, our party has been mainly, or one could say solely, looking for a political solution. We have been disregarding a lot of economic issues faced by our people. With the political solution also evading us, people who hoped that at least their economic lot would be made better were disappointed. Going forward, what will the TNA do? Well, the TNA must pursue its objective of a dignified solution to the Tamil national question. That is fundamental. Our efforts in that area must continue and I think people must realise that in a democratic space like what we have now, with a preponderant majority in the country being Sinhalese and Buddhists, for a solution to emerge, we must win over at least a sizeable section of the majority community. The other is, even as a political party, we need to get involved in providing better economic lives for our people. What about justice questions? The justice question is linked to the political solution. Questions of justice and accountability arose because of the ethnic conflict. Whenever we asked for our legitimate political rights, we suffered violence and the struggle ended up in a full-scale war. Sometimes, it is better to solve the root cause of the problems first and then look at the justice issues that had come up in the interim. This is something we learnt in South Africa — to secure the future before looking at the past. I think that is the more sensible way of addressing these issues. Both the 19th Amendment that the TNA backed and fiercely defended, and the 13th Amendment that you have sought to build upon have come under threat. How will this impact national politics and Tamil interests in particular? The present government, in trying to get back to office after suffering a defeat in 2015, appealed to narrow communal forces among the majority community, igniting fears about others who are numerically in the minority. Unfortunately, this is a political game that is often resorted to by politicians of the majority [Sinhalese] community. Naturally, having come to power, the government is now seeking to appease those forces and deliver their promise to their core constituency. They have promised a new Constitution, but as an immediate delivery they brought forward the 20th Amendment Bill to show that the President, or the Executive, will be a strong Sinhala-Buddhist ruler who will keep everybody else in the country in check and assure that the rights and safety of the majority community will be ensured. As for the 13th Amendment, although the Provincial Councils were set up in 1987 as a solution to the Tamil national question, it didn’t satisfy the Tamil side for one, who continuously claimed it is insufficient and not meaningful sharing of powers. While the Tamil side has been clamouring for more powers to the provinces, hardliners among the Sinhalese have been resisting that, claiming that it will lead to a division of the country. In order to assuage the feelings of that constituency, we are seeing rhetoric from the government side that they will keep that under control either by removing the provincial council system in its entirety or at least by reducing its powers. What is the scope of your engagement with the Rajapaksas now and the real prospects for a political solution? The Rajapaksas, when they were in office previously, repeatedly assured the world that there will be a proper settlement of the Tamil question in this country. After the war ended, assuring India at least three times, the Rajapaksa government agreed to implement the 13th Amendment to the Constitution in full and also build upon it. Now, again a Rajapaksa regime seeking to give the country a new Constitution cannot forget those repeated assurances given to the world at large, in very specific terms, and try to travel in the opposite direction. We, on our part, will cooperate fully as we did with them in 2011, when we had 18 rounds of talks, and as we did later with the other government for about three years in the constitutional assembly process. We will continue to constructively engage in the processes. On the TNA’s campaign trail, many candidates invoked India while referring to the pending political solution. Realistically, what do you think India, or the international community, can do? Sri Lanka is physically an island, but metaphorically no country can be an island. In today’s world, we must all live adhering to certain universal values and respect each other’s concerns. Sri Lanka’s foreign relations have always been mindful of that. As its closest neighbour, India’s concerns over political stability in this island is something that all Sri Lankans appreciate and value very much. So, that is why in 1983, when PM Indira Gandhi offered her good offices, that was gratefully accepted by the Sri Lankan government. The conflict in this island has had its impact on India as well, with over 1 lakh refugees having to be sheltered in India for three decades of war. It is foolhardy to say that conflicts in this island have no bearing on India or other countries in the world for that matter. That is why successive Sri Lankan governments engaged with India and the rest of the international community and gave these assurances in the past. To that extent, India’s continuing good offices will be necessary and will be appreciated by all parties in finally resolving this conflict.  The political solution, which is a historic demand of the Tamil people, did not materialise by way of a new Constitution that was promised
19 September 2020||Madrid,||Chinese hackers stole data from Spanish vaccine labs: report||Chinese hackers have stolen information from Spanish laboratories working on a vaccine for COVID-19, El Pais newspaper reported on Friday. The report emerged as drug companies around the world race to produce an effective jab to counter a virus that has now killed more than 9,40,000 people and infected 30 million. It was not clear what information was taken, when it happened, nor how important it was, with the paper citing sources privy to the attack. ‘Virulent campaign’ Quoted in the article, Spain’s secret service chief Paz Esteban said hackers had mounted “a particularly virulent campaign targeting laboratories working on the search for a vaccine” not only in Spain but elsewhere. Speaking to journalists on Thursday, Ms. Esteban who heads the CNI intelligence services, said there had been a “qualitative and quantitative” increase in attacks during lockdown, with hackers targeting “sensitive sectors such as healthcare and pharmaceuticals”. Such attacks had multiplied in other countries involved in efforts to develop a vaccine, prompting an exchange of information between their respective spy services, she said. Most attacks were carried out by hackers from China and Russia, often from state organisations, but also by criminal organisations and universities who trade in hacked data, security sources said. But the attack in which Spanish data were stolen was launched by Chinese hackers, they said. The CNI was not immediately available to comment on the report. In July, a court in the US state of Washington charged two Chinese nationals with stealing terabytes of data from hundreds of computer systems all over the world, in some cases on behalf of Chinese government agencies. The hacking, which took place over a decade, had more recently involved looking for vulnerabilities in the systems of firms developing Covid-19 vaccines, testing technology, and treatments, the US justice department said. Spain was one of 11 countries named in the indictment as being targeted by the attacks.
19 September 2020||Geneva,||Belarus needs ‘strongest global response’||Belarus and several allies tried on Friday to block a video message from opposition leader Svetlana Tikhanovskaya at the UN Human Rights Council, where she urged “the strongest” international response to Minsk’s abuses. Ms. Tikhanovskaya demanded “immediate international attention” for her country as it reels from a brutal crackdown on protests over the disputed re-election of President Alexander Lukashenko. But her short video message, in a rare urgent debate at the council, had barely begun before Belarus Ambassador Yuri Ambrazevich demanded it be switched off. He repeatedly interrupted the screening, raising procedural objections and insisting her words had “no relevance on the substance... on the events that are taking place today.” He was overruled by council President Elisabeth Tichy-Fisslberger. The debate on the rights situation in Belarus, requested by the European Union, focused on violations and the crackdown on the unprecedented demonstrations which broke out after disputed August 9 elections. Russian support Mr. Lukashenko, who has ruled the ex-Soviet state for 26 years, claimed to have defeated Ms. Tikhanovskaya with 80% of the vote. The leader, who on Thursday warned of a possible “war” with some neighbouring countries, has refused to step down and has turned to Russia for support. His security forces have detained thousands of protesters. Several people have died. Ms. Tikhanovskaya, who has taken shelter in Lithuania, insisted that the country’s violation of its international obligations to respect “human dignity and basic human rights... means the international community has a right to react in strongest terms.”
19 September 2020||WASHINGTON,||U.S. to ban WeChat & TikTok, cites privacy, national security||The U.S. will ban the downloads of the Chinese apps TikTok and WeChat on Sunday, with a total ban on the use of the latter, citing national security and data privacy concerns. A total ban on the use of TikTok will follow on November 12, but Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross said early Friday on Fox Business Network that access to that app may be possible if certain safeguards are put into place. “At the President’s direction, we have taken significant action to combat China’s malicious collection of American citizens’ personal data, while promoting our national values, democratic rules-based norms, and aggressive enforcement of U.S. laws and regulations,” Mr. Ross said in a statement. The government said its order will “combat China’s malicious collection of American citizens’ personal data.” The order also raises questions about California tech giant Oracle’s recent deal to take over U.S. operations of TikTok, a requirement by the Trump administration for the app to continue operating in the U.S. Details of the Oracle-TikTok deal were sketchy at best. Oracle didn’t refer to the deal as a sale or acquisition, instead saying it was chosen as TikTok’s “trusted technology provider.” It’s unclear at this point what assets, if any, Oracle would actually acquire. Chinese access to data Some security experts have raised concerns that ByteDance Ltd., the Chinese company that owns TikTok, would maintain access to information on the 100 million TikTok users in the U.S., creating a security risk. Like most social networks, TikTok collects user data and moderates users’ posts. It grabs users’ locations and messages and tracks what they watch to figure out how best to target ads to them. Similar concerns apply to U.S.-based social networks, but Chinese ownership adds an extra wrinkle because the Chinese government could order firms to help it gather intelligence.
19 September 2020||Islamabad,||To boost trade, Pak. plans to set up markets on Afghan, Iran borders||Pakistan will set up 18 markets along its border with Afghanistan and Iran to simultaneously boost trade with the both its neighbours, according to a media report on Friday. It also plans to curb the menace of smuggling that has dented the economies on both sides, said the report. According to a decision taken at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan on Thursday, initially the government would set up three markets — two in Balochistan and one in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa — as pilot projects, the Dawn newspaper reported.  Curbing smuggling “Pakistan will set up 18 markets along its border with Afghanistan and Iran to boost trade with the two nations and curb the menace of smuggling. Initially, three pilot projects would be functional,” the report said. The three markets will start operation by February next year. The meeting, which was also attended by Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa and other high officials, decided that stern steps would be taken to check smuggling. Pakistan has been fencing its border with Afghanistan and Iran to curb the movement of militants and smuggling of goods. However, it has been setting up border crossings at designated points to promote lawful movements of persons and goods.
19 September 2020||London,||Queen strips Weinstein of U.K. honour||Britain on Friday stripped disgraced movie mogul Harvey Weinstein of an honour recognising his contribution to the U.K. film industry. Weinstein, 68, was given the honour in 2004. The 68-year-old former Hollywood producer was convicted earlier this year of rape and sexual assault against two women and sentenced to 23 years in prison. Accusations by dozens of women in 2017 led to the end of his career and helped spur the #MeToo movement — a global movement demanding that powerful men be held accountable for their sexual misconduct. “The Queen has directed that the appointment of Harvey Weinstein to be an Honorary Commander of the Civil Division of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire, dated January 19 2004, shall be cancelled and annulled and that his name shall be erased from the Register of the said Order,” according to a notice inThe Gazette, the U.K.’s official public record.
19 September 2020||Washington,||Washington, Sept 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Winston Groom, author of Forrest Gump , the 1986 American novel that inspired the classic film, has died aged 77, said the Mayor of Alabama, where he lived.AFP
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Cracking the world of make-believe||The death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June in his home in Bandra, Mumbai, and the recent arrest of his girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty, for allegedly procuring drugs, has had ramifications not just in Mumbai, but in Bengaluru too. The gaze of the police turned to the Kannada film industry and to high-profile parties where socialites and actors allegedly mingle with drug dealers to procure and consume narcotics. With two female actors arrested and more being questioned for their alleged links to a narcotics syndicate, the Kannada film industry is in the midst of an unprecedented drug scandal. This has led to a prolonged media trial that has come under severe criticism for not only its sensationalism but also misogyny. The ‘scandal’ has had political ramifications too, with Opposition leaders accusing the State government of diverting public attention away from real problems such as the pandemic, rising unemployment, and floods that have affected parts of Karnataka. A can of worms The Bengaluru Central Crime Branch (CCB) police’s investigation into the drug racket followed raids in Bengaluru conducted by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is also investigating alleged narcotics use by people associated with the Rajput case. The NCB busted a drug ring in Bengaluru, and in doing so opened a can of worms. During the raids in the last week of August, the NCB arrested three peddlers in Bengaluru for dealing with synthetic drugs like ecstasy pills and LSD blots. At the time, NCB Deputy Director (operations) K.P.S. Malhotra said in a media statement that “preliminary investigation has revealed that the accused used to supply drugs to affluent sections of society, including prominent musicians and actors as well as to college students and youngsters.” The same week, the CCB of the Bengaluru Police arrested Ravi Shankar, a second division clerk at an RTO office in the city, after “surveillance and ground work on him for three months” for his alleged role in drug peddling. His interrogation led to the revelation of more names and the arrests of Bengaluru-based multilingual actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani. Actor-couple Diganth and Aindrita Ray have also been questioned. The two together have acted in many successful Kannada films and also made brief forays into Bollywood. Another high-profile accused in the case, whom the police were still tracking down at the time of going to press, is Aditya Alva, the son of the late Minister Jeevaraj Alva and brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi. His luxurious farmhouse in Hebbal, allegedly the venue of many of these parties, was raided earlier this month. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime), leading the CCB, said the investigation had for the first time unravelled “an ecosystem of lavish parties for the rich in the city, whose organisers ensured narcotics was freely available... The actors we have arrested have consumed drugs and promoted these events.” The CCB has made 14 arrests in the case till date, which includes a few businessmen acting as sub-peddlers. “There are three pillars: party organisers, drug peddlers who supplied narcotics to these parties, and celebrities who participated in and promoted these events, all of which we have been able to crack in the case,” he said. Investigations have identified three persons — noted socialite and event manager Viren Khanna, Aditya Alva, and Sheikh Fazil — as party organisers. So far, only Khanna has been arrested, while the other two are on the run. Khanna’s parties, held at pubs, microbreweries and star hotels, were popular among the city’s elite for many years. Venues used to vie to host his Holi parties every year, sources in the industry said. He was even a police informer. He provided information on rave parties where narcotics use was rampant. That information led to several raids. But while he gave information about his competitor party organisers, he ensured that his own parties went under the radar, sources said. “Efforts are on to arrest Aditya Alva and Sheikh Fazil,” a senior official said. These party organisers used to host after-parties at dedicated apartments or sometimes in their own homes till the wee hours. These after-parties, where substance abuse was high, were hosted for a close circle of individuals. Many of the actors being probed now were regular at these after-parties as well, sources said. Two dealers, both foreign nationals from Africa, have also been arrested for supplying drugs to these parties. How they sourced them is being investigated. Star power In the midst of these revelations, Kannada filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh announced that he was aware of the nexus between the film industry and drug dealers, claiming that Rs. 4 crore worth of drugs were sold during the lockdown. Though he was summoned by the CCB, he could not provide any evidence for his claims. The police claim that the actors under scrutiny were not mere bystanders or users. “Some of those questioned were not only regulars at some of these parties, but also promoted them to attract crowds. They were paid for the same as well. Party organisers made their money through the cover fee, while the venues made money from food and alcohol bills,” a senior officer said. Ragini and Sanjjanaa have been booked for peddling drugs, not just consumption. This is quite similar to actor Rhea Chakraborty from whom no drugs were recovered. However, with no significant recoveries made from them either, several doubts have been raised over their alleged role. CCB officials said they have made these arrests based on a huge cache of electronic evidence, and after analysing call detail records and messages from instant messaging apps that allegedly show they were in constant touch with a known drug peddler and were sourcing narcotics for others as well. Sleuths said they are confident that the evidence they have amassed will be enough to get a conviction. All the actors have denied these allegations. Ragini’s parents have alleged that she has been falsely implicated.  Attention diversion The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has tried to build a campaign around the enforcement saying it is striving for a “drug-free Karnataka”. The State police have made several seizures of narcotics, especially marijuana, across Karnataka in the last two weeks, including a big haul of 1.3 tonnes of marijuana from Kalaburagi. Not a day has gone without drug busts and seizures of marijuana in the last two weeks. However, many have argued that this only points to lax enforcement before and a concerted campaign now. While the Chief Minister has remained silent on the issue, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, presently under treatment for COVID-19 and not available for comment, has repeatedly claimed that “for the first time this government has given the police a free hand to act against the drug mafia. The BJP will ensure a drug-free Karnataka”. However, this has also backfired against the party. After she was arrested, videos of Ragini campaigning for the BJP candidate in the K.R. Pet bypolls in 2019, for which Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son, B.Y. Vijayendra, was in charge, went viral. The BJP was quick to distance itself from her and issued multiple statements claiming that it was neither accountable nor answerable to the actor’s activities in her personal and professional life. Since the onset of the case, almost every day, photographs of prominent politicians from across the political spectrum, including incumbent Ministers, with those allegedly linked to the narcotics syndicate are surfacing in the local media. Police officials said they are going strictly by evidence and photographs are no proof of anyone’s involvement. The non-stop media coverage fuelled by allegations from “activists” known to be close to the BJP claiming that Opposition politicians have links to the narcotics trade has been met with outrage in many quarters. Social activist Prashanth Sambaragi, who also jumped into the fray, claimed to have evidence against Congress MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan. “Both he and Indrajit made several allegations without providing any evidence for their claims,” said CCB officials. Opposition leaders have accused the government of employing a “diversionary campaign to escape accountability for the failures of the government”, as Leader of the Opposition in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah termed it. Noted media critic Krishna Prasad, who edits Indian Journalism Review , said there was a sense of deja vu with the coverage coming amidst the spotlight on the Sushant Singh Rajput case that also smacks of an attempt to divert people’s attention from more pressing issues. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy alleged money from dance bars and the drug mafia was used to poach MLAs from the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress coalition resulting in the toppling of his government, a charge vehemently denied by defectors who are now Ministers in the BJP government. Siddaramaiah has demanded a judicial probe into the scandal. Media trial and moral policing The media has also been criticised for moral policing and misogynist overtones in the coverage. “Nashe Raniyaru, Drugginiyaru (queens on a high, drug queens)” are some of the names sections of the media have given the two actors arrested in the case, who have remained the prime focus of coverage, even though the police say their attention is on the party organisers and peddlers who are the source of the narcotics. Kannada writer and critic M.S. Ashadevi has been critical of the misogynist tone of the media coverage on the case. “I am not condoning drug abuse. Let the guilty be punished. But it is evident that these women have become convenient symbols of a larger malaise in society. The language used in the media is extremely patriarchal, laced with innuendos, and objectifies them. This extreme misogyny and gender bias seem to be as dangerous as drug abuse,” she said. This may only help the bigger culprits to escape scrutiny, she added. Krishna Prasad said the coverage of the case smacks of a philistine view prevalent in the Kannada media. “The coverage clearly shows a lack of understanding of the drug scene, nightlife in the city and even the film industry. It not only smacks of misogyny but has slowly turned xenophobic as most of those arrested are not native Kannadigas,” he said. There have been muted protests from the film industry, echoing sentiments expressed by noted actor Jaya Bachchan in the Rajya Sabha recently, that the entire industry was being tarred with the same brush. D.R. Jairaj, president, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said the media was unfairly tarnishing the image of the film industry for the acts of a few, which were also yet to be proven. “I have been interacting with the government seeking help to restart film shoots and reopen theatres to salvage a bleeding industry. Following the media coverage tarnishing the industry, I felt embarrassed to talk to the government and seek help,” he said. Noted filmmaker Kavitha Lankesh said she had never come across drug abuse in the many decades she has been part of the industry. Even if there are stray cases, it is like any other industry, she said. “There is a clear tone of moral policing especially targeted at women in the industry, branding them and resorting to character assassination,” she said. Filmmaker K.M. Chaitanya said even if there was drug abuse in the Kannada film industry, it was similar to any other film industry or any other industry in the State. “There is something amiss here as a few individual cases are being picked up and extrapolated to tarnish the entire industry,” he said. Cryptocurrency comes in handy The investigation has also drawn flak for allegedly “scratching the surface and not netting the big fish”. “For all the claims of uncovering a larger nexus of parties and narcotics trade among Bengaluru’s affluent elite, it is surprising that not a single person from the families of politicians and industrialists of the city, known to have such a lifestyle, have been questioned. Even those arrested from the film industry are outsiders, not entrenched in the industry establishment,” said a former top police officer, who did not wish to be named. Dismissing allegations that the investigations are selective, City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the investigators were given a free hand. All arrests were based on evidence and no one who is found to be involved will be spared, he said. However, the former top police officer said the drug menace in Bengaluru was worsening by the day and posing new challenges. It was affecting youngsters from affluent families with easy money, he said. “Over the years, there have been multiple accidents and brawls involving those from the families of politicians and even from the film industry that raised strong suspicion of narcotics abuse. But investigation into these instances has glossed over this aspect,” he alleged. One reason why the drug menace is worsening is because there is easy access to synthetic drugs via the dark net. These are paid for using cryptocurrency. Recently the local police investigated a case involving a gang led by a young college graduate. He allegedly imported ecstasy and LSD from other countries through the dark net, paid for them with cryptocurrency like Bitcoin, and then used app-based delivery services to courier the shipped consignments to clients in Bengaluru. Narcotics hub When Pant took charge as Bengaluru Police Commissioner, he said taking action against the drug menace would be a priority. Speaking to The Hindu , when he took charge just over a month ago, he said, “It is a commitment to our children.” At least three of his immediate predecessors promised that putting a check on the narcotics trade would be a top priority during their tenure. “Narcotics trade not only harms our youngsters but also generates sinful employment, easy money and promotes other crimes like rowdyism apart from brawls and accidents. Working purely on a demand-supply dynamic, the narcotics situation in the city has been worsening over the years. It cannot be seen purely from a crime enforcement angle. Its high prevalence is linked to the burgeoning growth of the city, its booming economy, easy money and stressed lifestyles,” a former Bengaluru Police Commissioner said. He added that he was unhappy with how little he could do to check the menace during his tenure. “Anti-narcotics operations need focused and patient hard work. We have to collect intelligence and later carry out investigations that result in convictions. Rarely does being Police Commissioner of a city like Bengaluru offer such time,” he said. Bengaluru is often described as the hub of narcotics in south India. Marijuana remains most widely used due to its affordability and easy availability. The city gets a bulk of its supply of marijuana by road from the forests near Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh and Odisha. Multiple coordination meetings have been held with the police forces of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha over the issue, sources said. A tangled web However, the more lethal and pricier synthetic drugs are fast gaining ground. “Like all other metro cities the trend has been towards synthetic drugs like MDMA/ecstasy pills, LSD and cocaine in the city. We have observed that the availability of narcotics was not greatly affected even during the lockdown. We have found several cases during the pandemic as well,” said Amit Ghawate, Zonal Director, NCB, Bengaluru. A section of middle class professionals, especially those working in highly stressful and competitive environments like the Information Technology and start-up sectors, with high pay scales make for a significant section of the clientele for synthetic narcotics in the city apart from the rich with easy money. The preferred poison of the poor working class has remained marijuana, said sources in the City Police. “Synthetic drugs are mostly sourced from abroad. They are smuggled into the country predominantly through the air route hidden in cargo, in person or through postal services or couriers. And they are increasingly being procured via the dark web,” Ghawate said. For instance, the Customs at the Kempegowda International Airport seized Rs. 1 crore worth of ecstasy pills hidden inside foot massage machines on September 10. City police are now rearing a dedicated dog squad trained to sniff out narcotics to be deployed at the Kempegowda International Airport . The City Police have recently cracked three cases where narcotics were being procured through the dark web, including a racket where a group of Disc Jockeys (DJs) at the city’s prominent pubs were peddling synthetic drugs so procured. The kingpin of this racket is still at large. Investigations had then revealed that the same drug would be sold at Rs. 2,000-Rs. 10,000 as the night progressed and the particular network was supplying narcotics to other DJs in Mumbai, Kerala and Goa as well. Most of these peddlers procuring drugs from the dark web have an understanding with the postal/courier personnel to deliver the parcels without raising any suspicions and ensure that the person taking the final delivery is not identified. Police have also arrested five postal personnel in connection with such a case in the city in February earlier this year. “We have been able to enter the dark web networks. A constant surveillance of peddlers has paid us dividends. But what has remained a challenge is to bring to book the suppliers as they are stationed abroad. Many have masked their locations as well. We have cracked cases where narcotics came from diverse locations in Central and Eastern Europe and Canada,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime), Bengaluru. “NCB being the nodal agency can work with other international enforcement agencies and can go to the source of the narcotics in other countries. We will work in co-ordination with the local authorities as well,” Ghawate said. The ongoing investigation has unravelled only one of the several unconnected nodes of the narcotic network in the city, the police said. “But we hope a crackdown like this instils the fear of enforcement and has a chilling effect on other networks as well. We expect the party circuits that are breeding grounds for narcotic trade to be down for another year at least, even as we intend to expand our probe,” said a senior police official. With inputs from Shilpa Sebastian R. and Aparna Narrain in Bengaluru and Girish Pattanshetti in Hubballi
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Another Afghan peace push and a role for India||Last week, on September 12, the much awaited intra-Afghan talks between the Taliban and the Afghan High Council for National Reconciliation opened in Doha, Qatar, 19 years after the 9/11 attacks on the U.S. that stunned the world and marked the beginning of the U.S. war in Afghanistan against al Qaeda and the Taliban, its local sponsors. The initiation of intra-Afghan talks was a key element in the U.S.-Taliban peace deal signed in Doha on February 29 between the U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation, Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad, and the Taliban deputy leader, Mullah Abdul Ghani Barader. Originally planned to begin on March 10, the process had to overcome many hurdles along the way providing a small glimpse of the difficult road that lies ahead. Dynamics of negotiations The Trump administration soon realised that its 2017 policy of breaking the military stalemate by a small increase in U.S. troops was not working and reverted to seeking a managed exit. As the former Defence Secretary James Mattis put it, “The U.S. doesn’t lose wars, it loses interest.” Political optics demanded a relabelling of the withdrawal. Direct negotiations with the Taliban began two years ago with Ambassador Khalilzad’s appointment as Special Envoy. Actually, it became a three-way negotiation. The Doha track was with the Taliban, a second track was with Islamabad/Rawalpindi to cajole the Pakistan Army to lean on the Taliban to get them to the negotiating table, and the third was with Kabul to ensure that the Afghan government would accept the Doha outcome. Originally Ambassador Khalilzad had spelt out four objectives: an end to violence by declaring a ceasefire; an intra-Afghan dialogue for a lasting peace; the Taliban cutting ties with terrorist organisations such as al Qaeda, and U.S. troop withdrawal. Within months, the Taliban had whittled these down to just the last one with some palliatives regarding the third. Instead of an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled reconciliation, it had become a U.S.-led and Taliban-controlled process with nobody claiming ownership or responsibility. Timelines were fixed for the U.S. drawdown by mid-June (followed by complete withdrawal by April 2021) and for removal of Taliban from the UN Security Council sanctions list by end-May. The Taliban have released 1,000 members of Afghan security forces and the Afghan authorities have freed over 5,000 Taliban from their custody. This process took longer than originally foreseen but has now been completed. The two elements that remained open ended in the U.S.-Taliban deal are the ceasefire declaration and the intra-Afghan talks. The Taliban factor By end-June, the U.S. had reduced its troop presence to 8,600 as promised and in early September, Central Command (CENTCOM) commander Gen Kenneth McKenzie indicated that by November, the numbers would be down to 4,500. Despite two brief day truces in May and August for Eid al Fitr and Eid al Adha, the levels of violence showed no respite. Speaking the Doha at the opening session, Dr. Abdullah Abdullah, Chairman of the High Council regretted that more than 12,000 Afghans had been killed and another 15,000 injured since end-February. The number of attacks on government security forces and installations averaged over 80 a week. A report by the U.S. Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (SIGAR) issued in July covering the second quarter of 2020 (https://bit.ly/3hJqvpa) assessed that “The Taliban is calibrating its use of violence to harass and undermine the ANDSF [Afghan National Defense and Security Forces] and [the Afghan government], but remain at a level it perceives is within the bounds of the agreement, probably to encourage a U.S. troop withdrawal and set favorable conditions for a post-withdrawal Afghanistan.” The report expressed scepticism about whether the Taliban had cut ties with al Qaeda and stated that “the Islamic State-Khorasan maintains the ability to conduct mass casualty attacks”. A UN Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team report concerning the Islamic State and al Qaeda (also issued in July) concluded that “Al Qaeda in Indian Subcontinent continues to operate under the Taliban umbrella in Nimroz, Helmand and Kandahar provinces” with reportedly 400-600 fighters in the country (https://bit.ly/3hLjoN0). Challenges ahead Perhaps nothing reflects the challenges facing the intra-Afghan negotiations more starkly than the title of the U.S.-Taliban Doha deal (https://bit.ly/3hIk2Lk) – “Agreement for Bringing Peace to Afghanistan Between the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan Which Is Not Recognized by the United States as a State and Is Known as the Taliban and the United States of America”. This awkward phrase is repeated more than a dozen times in the Agreement. The leader of the Haqqani Network, Sirajuddin Haqqani, who is also the second-in-command of the Taliban happens to be on the U.S. wanted list with a reward of $10 million for information leading to his capture or death. All this is difficult to reconcile with the notion that the U.S. considers the Taliban a partner in counter-terrorism operations against the IS and other terrorist groups. In an op-ed in The Washington Post on August 14 (https://wapo.st/3mAFV2H), Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani wrote that “the Afghan people want peace” and that is why the government “made the decision to take another risk for peace”. Calling on the Taliban to sit across from Afghan representatives to arrive at a political resolution, he added that “we acknowledge the Taliban as part of our reality” and urged that “the Taliban must, in turn, acknowledge the changed reality of today’s Afghanistan”. The current reality is that 74% of Afghan population is below 30 and has lived, for most part, in a conservative but open society. However, the Taliban continue to maintain the Kabul administration as an imported western structure for continued American occupation. Senior members of the Afghan government continue to be targeted including Vice President Amrullah Saleh who narrowly escaped an IED attack on his motorcade on September 9, even as 10 innocent Afghans lost their lives. Evolving Indian stand Addressing the opening session of the Doha meeting, India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar reiterated that the peace process must be “Afghan led, Afghan owned and Afghan controlled” but Indian policy has evolved from its earlier hands-off approach to the Taliban. Speaking to Indian media a few months ago on separate occasions, both Ambassador Khalilzad and Russian Special Envoy to Afghanistan Ambassador Zamir Kabulov bluntly pointed out that if India had concerns regarding anti-India activities of terrorist groups, it must engage directly with the Taliban. In other words, if India wanted to be invited to the party, it must be prepared to get up and dance. Major powers, finite interest The reality is major powers have limited interests. For the U.S.,the peace talks provide U.S. President Donald Trump an exit opportunity weeks before his re-election bid. The European Union has made it clear that its financial contribution will depend on the security environment and the human rights record. China can always lean on Pakistan to preserve its security and connectivity interests. For Russia, blocking the drug supply and keeping its southern periphery secure from extremist influences is key. That is why no major power is taking ownership for the reconciliation talks, but merely content with being facilitators. A report issued last month by the Heart of Asia Society, a Kabul-based think tank observes that “the prospect for peace in Afghanistan depends on regional consensus to support the peace process as much as it depends on actual progress in the intra-Afghan talks”. India’s vision of a sovereign, united, stable, plural and democratic Afghanistan is one that is shared by a large constituency in Afghanistan, cutting across ethnic and provincial lines. A more active engagement will enable India to work with like-minded forces in the region to ensure that the vacuum created by the U.S. withdrawal does not lead to an unravelling of the gains registered during the last two decades. Rakesh Sood is a former Ambassador to Afghanistan and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||On the GST issue, the Centre holds the baton||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting has now been deferred to the first week of October due to sharp disagreement between the States and the Centre, the result of the unprecedented revenue shortfall faced by them. By July-end, the Centre’s fiscal deficit had reached Rs. 8.2-lakh crore, 103% of the full year’s target and 15.23% of the lower GDP. The States face a similar situation. The Centre had brought the States on board GST by promising higher revenue collection. Producing States such as Gujarat were sceptical because GST is a last point tax which is collected proportionately more in consuming States such as Bihar. States were lured by the promise of 14% annual growth in GST revenue over the base year of 2015-16. Any shortfall from this (for five years) was to be compensated by levying a cess on luxury and sin goods. States have been reminding the Centre of this promise of compensation for five years. Last year, because of the slowdown in the economy and a shortfall in revenues, the transfer to States was finally made by July 2020. The transfers due since April 2020 have been withheld. In the last GST Council meeting held on August 27, the Centre gave the States two options. First, they could borrow Rs. 97,000 crore (the shortfall in the GST revenue compensation) from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) under a special window at a low rate of interest. Second, borrow Rs. 2.35-lakh crore (the total compensation shortfall) from the market with the RBI facilitating it. The burden of repayment would be borne by the future collections from the compensation cess. It was proposed that this cess which was to end in June 2022 could be extended to facilitate the repayment of the debt. Clearly, the Centre is reneging on its promise to the States. The implication is that the States are on their own — cooperative federalism is a casualty. Accuracy of estimates What is the guarantee that the cess would continue beyond 2022? If the statutory provision of 14% increase is being given up, then how sacrosanct will something that is not even a part of the GST Act be? Adverse economic circumstances may continue given the great uncertainty about the duration of the downturn. Given the uncertainty, how accurate are the estimates of Rs. 97,000 crore and Rs. 2.35-lakh crore offered to the States? How are they arrived at when the Ministry of Finance is refusing to give a figure for growth in 2020-21? Budgetary calculations The Union Budget presented on February 1, 2020 assumed a nominal growth of 10%. But, given that the economy is still at around 60% of last year’s level, very optimistically it is likely to contract for the year 2020-21 by at least 10%. So, optimistically, the Centre’s budgetary calculations will be off by at least 20%. Revenue will fall by much more than 20%. Corporate sector profits will fall sharply. Some sectors such as fast-moving consumer goods, or FMCG, and e-commerce will do well. But companies in sectors such as airlines, hotels and consumer durables will show losses and, therefore, pay little tax. Thus, corporation tax collection will fall sharply — much more than 20% compared to the budget estimate. Similarly, income tax collection will fall since a large number of workers have lost employment and/or have faced salary cuts. Many private firms are also likely to incur losses. So, income tax collection will also be short by much more than 20%. The direct tax/GDP per cent may be expected to fall from 5.5% last year to less than 4% this fiscal. If GDP falls by 10% over last year, instead of being Rs. 224-lakh crore, it will be about Rs. 184-lakh crore. Using the lower tax/GDP ratio, direct tax revenue will be short by Rs. 5-lakh crore compared to the budgeted amount. This is an optimistic guess. The States’ share of all taxes collected by the Centre is 42%, so they will lose Rs. 2-lakh crore.  Greater shortfall GST collection will also be short by much more than 20%. The production of luxury and sin goods has been severely impacted and they pay the high rate of tax — 18%, 28% and cess on top. The essential production which is affected less by lockdown either pays 0%, 5% or 12%. Due to a drastic fall in imports, the Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST) and customs duties will also decline. The extra tax collected on petroleum products will help counter the decline to an extent. Consequently, the indirect tax/GDP ratio can be expected to fall from 10.5% to 8% resulting in a drop of Rs. 7 lakh crore. About 60% of this loss will be from GST and half of that would be the loss of States. About half of the remaining part (Rs. 2.8-lakh crore) will also be a loss of States.  The States’ GST shortfall would be about Rs. 2.1-lakh crore. On top of this, they will lose 42% of the shortfall in the Centre’s collection — so another Rs. 88,000 crore. The GST collection figures are gross; input credit remains to be paid back. So, the shortfall is likely to be greater than implied by the April to August figures. Thus, at an optimistic guess, if the economy declines by only 10%, the total tax collection will be down by about Rs. 12-lakh crore in 2020-21. The States will lose Rs. 6.4 lakh crore. The States GST revenue will be short by Rs. 3-lakh crore which should be compensated by the Centre. Subtracting from this the expected collection of Rs. 65,000 crore from cess we get the figure of Rs. 2.35-lakh crore. Even if the States take the loan of Rs. 2.35-lakh crore they would have an uncovered deficit of Rs. 4-lakh crore. Further, as many predictions are that the economy will be down by much more than 10% used in the calculations above, the revenue shortfall is likely to be far greater. This points to the dire position of the Centre (and the States) and the inevitability of a large borrowing programme. Only the Centre is in a position to do such massive borrowing. Arun Kumar is Malcolm Adiseshiah Chair Professor, Institute of Social Sciences, and the author of ‘Ground Scorching Tax’
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Market failure||The ambitious initiative of the Narendra Modi government to bring about far-reaching reform in agriculture has run into severe weather, mainly over fears that the free market philosophy at its core could spell the end of MSPs for produce that has so far been centrally procured by the government. An allied party’s Minister, Harsimrat Kaur Badal (Akali Dal) has resigned in protest, and there is a strong pushback from farmers against three Bills that seek to replace ordinances issued in June, on key aspects of the farm economy — trade in agricultural commodities, price assurance, farm services including contracts, and stock limits for essential commodities. The opposition to the Bills, particularly on trade, flows from the position, articulated by Punjab, that agriculture and markets are State subjects, and there should be no tinkering with the MSP and Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC), that form the backbone of existing trading arrangements. Several States have already liberalised agricultural marketing, amending their APMC Acts, and some have allowed regulated private commerce including direct marketing. Yet, provisions in the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, providing for unfettered commerce in designated trade areas outside APMC jurisdictions without levy of any fee, and more generally, empowering the Centre to issue orders to States in furtherance of the law’s objectives, have alarmed States. A challenge has been mounted by Rajasthan, declaring central warehouses as procurement centres under its APMC Act, and therefore required to pay a market fee to the State. Mr. Modi has characterised the arguments as misleading, promising that the MSP system will continue. This is welcome, but the new dispensation cannot bring cheer to small farmers, who form the majority and whose access levels to markets under the APMC system are at the rate of one for an area of 434.48 sq. km on average — well below the recommendation of the National Commission on Farmers (NCF), at one market for 80 sq. km. There is evidence also that mere liberalisation does not lead to private investment in new markets. When Bihar removed the APMC system, markets suffered loss of fee revenue, with no significant private investments in the sector. If the Centre’s intent is to strengthen competition, it should massively fund the expansion of the APMC market system, removing trade cartels, and providing farmers good roads, logistics of scale and real time information. Rather than opt for heavy centralisation, the emphasis should be on empowering farmers through State Farmers Commissions recommended by the NCF, to bring about a speedy government response to issues. Without strong institutional arrangements, laissez-faire policy may harm lakhs of unorganised small farmers, who have been remarkably productive and shored up the economy even during a pandemic.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Continuity in change||Less than a month after his sudden announcement that he would step down due to health reasons, Japan’s longest serving Prime Minister, Shinzo Abe, 65, has passed on the baton to his long-term associate, Yoshihide Suga, 71. Mr. Suga promises continuity rather than change as he takes the reins. His choice is itself an indicator of that continuity: he has been Chief Cabinet Secretary since 2012, as well as the top spokesperson and a key implementer of Mr. Abe’s policies. An elected MP since 1996, Mr. Suga was Minister of State for Internal Affairs and Communications during Mr. Abe’s previous tenure in 2006-07. In his press conference after winning the leadership of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party this week, Mr. Suga said his goal is to continue with Mr. Abe’s policies and complete his goals, particularly the tasks of reviving the economy and controlling the COVID-19 pandemic. He has also retained Mr. Abe’s key cabinet choices which include the Finance, Foreign and Environment Ministers. Despite his best intentions to stay the course, he has taken charge at a crucial moment in a rapidly changing world and will need to steer through the outcome of the U.S. elections in November, China’s growing aggressiveness, and a worldwide economic downturn. A main challenge will be to ensure the success of the Tokyo Olympics, now rescheduled for July 2021 due to the pandemic. For India, Mr. Abe’s exit is a loss, given his game-changing moves on India-Japan ties, which included upgrading the relationship to a Special Strategic and Global Partnership, instituting the annual Prime Ministerial summits from 2006, spearheading both versions of the Quadrilateral with the U.S. and Australia, and personally moving the India-Japan civil nuclear partnership through the Diet (parliament), Japan’s first with a non-NPT country. One of his last meetings as Prime Minister was a telephonic summit with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, announcing the signing of the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement, a significant step in defence cooperation. His close personal relationship with Mr. Modi, both seen as “strongmen” leaders, built on his earlier partnership with former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, with whom he shared his famous “three arrows” economic strategy called ‘Abenomics’. Mr. Suga would be well aware of the big shoes he must fill and the importance of the relationship with India for Japan. It is significant that one of the new government’s first engagements is likely to be the Foreign Minister-level meeting of the Quad countries in Tokyo next month, which will also give New Delhi insight into how much has changed and how much will stay the same in Japan’s view of the world with the change at the helm.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Country-of-origin: onus is on importers||Importers will have to do their due diligence from Monday to ensure that imported goods meet the prescribed ‘rules of origin’ provisions for availing concessional rate of customs duty under free trade agreements (FTAs), the Finance Ministry said. The Customs (Administration of Rules of Origin under Trade Agreements) Rules, 2020 (CAROTAR, 2020), notified on August 21, shall come into force from September 21, the Ministry said in a statement on Friday. This follows completion of the 30-day period that was given to importers and other stakeholders to familiarise themselves with new provisions. “An importer is now required to do due diligence before importing the goods to ensure that they meet the prescribed originating criteria. A list of minimum information, which the importer is required to possess, has also been provided in the rules along with general guidance. “Also, an importer would now have to enter certain origin related information in the Bill of Entry, as available in the Certificate of Origin,” the Ministry added. Ministry sources said the ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) FTA allows imports of most items at nil or concessional basic customs duty from the 10-nation bloc. Major imports to India come from five ASEAN countries — Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam. The benefit of concessional customs duty rate applies only if an ASEAN member country is the country of origin of goods. This means that goods originating from China and routed through these countries will not be eligible for customs duty concessions under the ASEAN FTA. The new rules will support the importer to correctly ascertain the country of origin, properly claim the concessional duty and assist customs authorities in smooth clearance of legitimate imports under FTAs, the Ministry said. ‘Protect local industry’ In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had mentioned the need to protect domestic industry from misuse of free trade agreements.  CAROTAR 2020 supplements the existing operational certification procedures prescribed under different trade agreements. India has inked FTAs with several countries, including Japan, South Korea and ASEAN members. Under such agreements, two trading partners significantly reduce or eliminate import/customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Drone insurance must be on lines of aviation liability’||A working group of insurance regulator IRDAI has highlighted the need to extend comprehensive insurance coverage for drones. Such coverage, addressing the different risk profile, is necessary to ensure public confidence as the market for drones develops, the working group on ‘Remotely Piloted Aircraft System/Drone Technology’ said in its report. The working group that went into different aspects of drones, across technology, operations, market and international practices, sought to differ with the draft Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2020, notified by the Civil Aviation Ministry, on the issue of third-party compensation. Noting that the draft rules suggest that the compensation should be on the lines of the Motor Vehicle Act, the working group said “this is not in line with international practices. Creating a solatium fund, similar to motor vehicles, for hit and fly / hit and crash drones is unthinkable as there is little opportunity for the drone insurance segment to generate such funds.” Noting that international markets have considered insurance options for drones under aviation lines of business and not in the traditional lines of business, the report said it recommended third-party liability insurance to be in line with aircraft /aviation liability.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||E-commerce to grow 40% to $38 bn in 2020, says Redseer||E-commerce revenue is forecast to grow 40% to $38 billion in 2020, helped by an anticipated strong sales performance in the festival season, according to Redseer, a management consulting firm. The first sale of the festival season is expected to see a 50% jump over the corresponding period of last year, Redseer forecast in its report titled ‘The Festival of Firsts’. “The online festive sale has always been an important indicator of India’s e-commerce growth story with the last year’s festive sale being the biggest so far,” Redseer observed in the report. New customers This year is well-primed to deliver huge sales owing to the new wave of customers and changed dynamics due to the COVID-19 pandemic that saw a new set of customers ready to buy online. Also, the category mix may look different from the previous years, Redseer added. The COVID-19-driven massive online adoption by the people in the villages would lead to an acceleration of this theme which would finally reach a tipping point of sorts, the consulting firm surmised. Also, the rise of new shopping models owing to the changing customer demographics, including video-based and WhatsApp-based shopping, would be a new addition to the festive landscape, according to Redseer.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||China’s Huawei reiterates commitment to India||Chinese telecommunications technology provider Huawei on Friday reiterated its commitment to the Indian market and stressed that it was here for the long haul. “Huawei has been a proud partner to India’s digital transformation over the last 20 years,” David Li, CEO, Huawei India, said while unveiling the firm’s campaign “As Committed as Ever - With India, For India” to mark 20 years of operations in the country. The campaign comes amid growing anti-China sentiment in India due to border tensions between the two neighbours. There is also uncertainty over whether India will allow Chinese players, including Huawei, to bid for supplying 5G networks. However, the Ministry of Electronics and IT informed Parliament there was no proposal to exclude Chinese players from 5G contracts. Pointing out Huawei’s presence in India was its largest overseas and most localised, it said the carrier, consumer and enterprise business groups were serving varied needs, from infrastructure to handsets.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Make tariff plans easy to understand, telcos told||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Friday issued revised rules for publication and advertisement of tariff plans by telcos to ensure transparency for subscribers. The regulator has directed telcos to publish service area wise, within 15 days, each tariff plan for postpaid and prepaid subscribers. Telcos will also have to transparently inform subscribers about upfront cost along with details like advance rentals, deposits, connection fee for postpaid services as well as top up, tariffs vouchers and others. It added that “clear, unambiguous and easy to understand” disclosure has to be made on the validity period of tariff plan and last date of bill payment. On tariff ads telcos should prominently highlight additional conditions and provide a link to the norms for each of the offering within the next 15 days, TRAI said.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||E-way bill generation in Aug. tops Rs. 13.85 lakh cr.||More than 4.87 crore e-way bills, valued at over Rs. 13.85 lakh crore, were generated by businesses and transporters in August, reflecting a pick up in economic activity, GSTN data show. Electronic way, or e-way bills, are required for inter-State movement of goods worth over Rs. 50,000. For intra-State movement, the limits vary from State to State. As per the GSTN data, 4.76 crore e-way bills, worth over Rs. 13.66 lakh crore, were generated in July. The number was 4.27 crore in June (worth Rs. 12.4 lakh crore), 2.51 crore in May (Rs. 8.98 lakh crore) and, 84.53 lakh in April (Rs. 3.90 lakh crore). In February, before the COVID-19 lockdowns, 5.63 crore e-way bills were generated, valued at Rs. 15.39 lakh crore. GSTN, which manages the technology backbone of GST, said businesses can now download e-way bill data for the past one-month from the e-way bill portal run by the National Informatics Centre (NIC).
19 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Angel Broking announces Rs. 600-cr. IPO||Angel Broking Ltd. has announced an initial public offering (IPO) of equity shares to raise Rs. 600 crore. While Rs. 300 crore would be raised through an offer-for-sale by selling shareholders, an additional Rs. 300 crore would be raised by the company through the fresh issue of shares. The IPO will open on September 22 and close on September 24. Anchor investors can bid from September 21. The price band of the offer has been fixed at Rs. 305 to Rs. 306 per equity share. Bids can be made for a minimum of 49 shares and in multiples thereof.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Standing crops hit by heavy rains’||Heavy rains in some parts of the country have affected standing crops including paddy, pulses, oilseeds, spices, fruits and vegetables, Parliament was informed on Friday. “There have been extreme weather events in the form of heavy rains in some parts of the country which affected the standing crops,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Tomar also shared the State-wise details of crops affected due to heavy rains. These include Andhra Pradesh, T.N., Karnataka and Kerala.
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||DHL Express announces price increase of 6.9%||DHL Express has announced a 6.9% increase in India prices, effective January 1. The surcharge for Overweight Pieces and Non-Stackable Pallets will be to Rs. 7,250 per piece and Rs. 15,000 per pallet, it said in a statement. Country Manager R.S. Subramanian said the price adjustments helped build the firm’s aviation and ground network, and improve facilities.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Apple to launch online store in India on Sept 23||Apple on Friday said it would unveil its online store in India on September 23, offering its full range of products to customers across the country for the first time, a move that will help the firm cash in on festive demand. In February, CEO Tim Cook had said Apple would launch its online store in India later this year, while its first physical retail store would open in the country in 2021.Reuters
19 September 2020||Mumbai,||Forex reserves down by USD 353 mn to USD 541.66 bn: RBI data||After touching a life-time high in the previous week, the country’s foreign exchange reserves declined by $353 million to $541.66 billion in the week ended September 11, according to Reserve Bank data. The fall in the reporting week was due to a decline in foreign currency assets, which decreased by $841 million to $497.5 billion.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. mulls reducing AI’s debt, delaying disinvestment||The Centre is considering reducing Air India’s debt further and delaying its disinvestment process in order to woo buyers, senior officials said on Friday. The debt of Air India as on March 31, 2019, was Rs. 58, 255 crore. Later in 2019, Rs. 29,464 crore of this debt was transferred from Air India to a government-owned special purpose vehicle called Air India Assets Holding Company Limited.pti
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Cricket’s oasis in the desert: Bio-secure IPL set to quench fans’ thirst||The desert sands in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) may not instantly offer cricketing symbolism in an Indian context. But prod your memory and two searing images emerge. The first, a heart-breaking one as Javed Miandad launched a match-winning last-ball six off Chetan Sharma in the 1986 Austral-Asia Cup final at Sharjah. The second, a delirious string of desert-storm nights as Sachin Tendulkar single-handedly stunned Australia with his two blazing hundreds at Sharjah while India seized the 1998 Coca-Cola Cup. Into this bouquet of remembrances, another chapter will be added as the Indian Premier League (IPL) commences at Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Zayed Stadium on Saturday night with defending champion Mumbai Indians taking on last year’s runner-up Chennai Super Kings (CSK). Originally slated to start on March 29 in India, the IPL had to be paused as the coronavirus pandemic swept across the globe. With the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) looking at an alternative window, a gap emerged when the ICC Twenty20 World Cup in Australia was postponed from its earlier stipulated October-November time-frame. UAE as the IPL host became inevitable as various Indian States are still emerging from lockdown. Meanwhile, the athlete has gingerly stepped onto the turf, fringed by empty stands, as social-distancing is the essential norm and bio-bubble the latest word in our lexicon. Sport has made a comeback although fans can sample it only on television. The IPL and UAE had a tango in the past, as the Emirates hosted a part of the tournament while India had its general elections in 2014. But much has changed ever since a virus incubated in the wet markets at Wuhan in China. The IPL officials and UAE authorities have done all they could so that pandemic-protocols are followed but a tournament stretching for 53 days, featuring eight teams, 60 matches and two other venues — Dubai and Sharjah — can test logistics. During the quarantine stage, CSK had two players testing positive for COVID-19 and other squads too may have their issues while the IPL marches towards its November 10 climax. Despite these apprehensions, with its congregation of overseas stars ranging from Kane Williamson to Steve Smith, the IPL remains a top-dollar event. And for Indian icons like Virat Kohli and Rohit Sharma, respectively leading Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) and Mumbai Indians, the next two months offer another platform to reveal their prodigious batting skills. For the nostalgically inclined, it is also time to savour M.S. Dhoni while he helms CSK. The former India captain had recently retired from international cricket. Besides the rivals facing off in the opening skirmish, the tournament offers another shot at hope for the remaining six that includes former champions Kolkata Knight Riders, Rajasthan Royals and Sunrisers Hyderabad as well as title-aspirants RCB, Kings XI Punjab and Delhi Capitals. Temperatures pushing 40 degree Celsius, the threat of a virus and the absence of an audience could stifle adrenaline but the players are happy to be back in the sporting realm, after a hiatus.
19 September 2020||Rome,||Halep, Djokovic advance; Bopanna-Shapovalov lose||Top-seeded Simona Halep improved to 7-0 in tennis’ restart with a 7-5, 6-4 win over Dayana Yastremska on Friday to reach the Italian Open quarterfinals, while men’s World number one Novak Djokovic was stretched by fellow Serb Filip Krajinovic before making the last eight. Meanwhile, the Indo-Canadian pairing of Rohan Bopanna and Denis Shapovalov came up short against the French duo of Jeremy Chardy and Fabrice Martin in the doubles quarterfinals, losing 4-6, 7-5, [10-7].  Important results: Men: Third round: Novak Djokovic bt Filip Krajinovic 7-6(7), 6-3; Matteo Berrettini bt Stefano Travaglia 7-6(5), 7-6(1); Casper Ruud bt Marin Cilic 6-2, 7-6(6); Denis Shapovalov bt Ugo Humbert 6-7(5), 6-1, 6-4; Grigor Dimitrov bt Jannik Sinner 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.   Second round: Lorenzo Musetti bt Kei Nishikori 6-3, 6-4; Dominik Koepfer bt Gael Monfils 6-2, 6-4; Humbert bt Fabio Fognini 7-5, 7-6(4); Hubert Hurkacz bt Andrey Rublev 7-6(6), 3-6, 6-2; Dusan Lajovic bt Milos Raonic 7-6(3), 4-6, 6-2.   Women: Third round: Simona Halep bt Dayana Yastremska 7-5, 6-4; Victoria Azarenka bt Darya Kasatkina 6-6, abandoned; Garbine Muguruza bt Johanna Konta 6-4, 6-1; Elise Mertens bt Danka Kovinic 6-4, 6-4; Karolina Pliskova bt Anna Blinkova 6-4, 6-3.   Second round: Azarenka bt Sofia Kenin 6-0, 6-0
19 September 2020||New York,||Consistent Thomas takes a one-stroke lead||Justin Thomas closed with a 25-foot birdie putt to seize a one-stroke lead after Thursday's first round of the 120th US Open, while three other Major winners lurked within two shots. Third-ranked Thomas, the 2017 PGA Championship winner, fired a five-under 65 at Winged Foot with a pack one back on 66, including Patrick Reed, the 2018 Masters winner who had a hole-in-one, 21-year-old American Matthew Wolff and Belgium's Thomas Pieters. Thomas, who fired the lowest US Open round ever at Winged Foot, began with a birdie, took a bogey at the par-3 third, answered with an eight-foot birdie at the par-4 sixth and then reeled off three consecutive birdies starting at the par-5 ninth before his impressive final putt. Reed aced the 165-yard par-3 seventh and ran off three birdies in four holes on the back nine to share the lead until Thomas’s last shot. Dustin Johnson and 15-time Major winner Tiger Woods each opened on 73. Johnson, who won the US PGA Tour Championship two weeks ago, managed only two birdies against a double bogey and three bogeys. Woods, chasing a fourth US Open title at age 44, grinded all day but closed bogey-double bogey for a 73. Woods birdied three in a row from the ninth through 11th holes but made three bogeys and a double in the last six holes.  Top scores: 65: Justin Thomas (USA); 66: Patrick Reed (USA), Matthew Wolff (USA), Thomas Pieters (Bel); 67: Louis Oosthuizen (RSA), Lee Westwood (Eng), Rory McIlroy (NIR).
19 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Mumbai Indians starts favourite against unsettled Chennai Super Kings||Mumbai Indians has traditionally been a slow-starter in the IPL, but on paper it will be the favourite against Chennai Super Kings in the opening game here. MI looks the most prepared and set team with a strong batting line-up in Rohit Sharma, Quinton de Kock, Suryakumar Yadav, Ishan Kishan, Hardik and Krunal Pandya and Kieron Pollard. Trent Boult and Nathan Coulter-Nile complete the team’s quota of foreign players. For CSK, the core has remained the same except for Suresh Raina (he performed poorly last year) who has pulled out citing personal reasons this year. But CSK has Shane Watson, Ambati Rayudu, Kedar Jadhav, Ravindra Jadeja and Dwayne Bravo, who have all won matches for the side from hopeless situations. Mitchell Santner, Lungi Ngidi, Sam Curran and Josh Hazlewood are the other foreign players who will be in the running for selection. Meanwhile, CSK coach Stephen Fleming said Dhoni’s sabbatical from the game has done him a world of good. Fleming asserted that the enigmatic skipper is “mentally engaged and determined” to encounter the challenges of a “tactically different” IPL. Fleming stressed that his team’s experience of winning big matches will come in handy during the next 53 days. When asked about Dhoni’s preparedness for the IPL, Fleming said, “it has been no different. He’s very fit and mentally, he’s been very engaged and determined.” “In some ways the break can work for the experienced and older players that we have. MS is fresh and ready to go,” Fleming said. Experience counts “Experienced players identify key times and that’s why they’ve done so well in their careers. They can turn games, absorb pressure or just sum out the situation. That’s what experience is about and that’s why we value it so high,” said Fleming.
19 September 2020||CHENNAI,||A shot in the arm for CSK||Cricketers who took part in the Carribean Premier League and the Australia-England limited-overs series will be eligible to take part in the CSK-MI clash on Saturday. CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan said on Friday that Dwayne Bravo, Imran Tahir and Mitchell Santner — who played in the CPL — were eligible for Saturday's game. Josh Hazlewood and Sam Curran could play too since they were coming from one 'bubble' to another. And had tested negative after landing here.
19 September 2020||DUBAI,||Stadiums out of bounds for media personnel||The 13th edition of the Indian Premier League will be devoid of any physical media presence due to the strict health safety protocols put in place in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the BCCI said on Friday. It has also been learnt that the franchises would not be required to conduct pre-match press conferences. However, there will be a mandatory virtual media conference after every game. Scribes currently registered with the BCCI will continue to receive press releases and regular updates before and after every match.
19 September 2020||CHAMPAGNOLE,||Andersen registers another win||Denmark’s Soren Kragh Andersen claimed his second audacious solo stage win of the Tour de France on Friday with a perfectly timed attack late in the 19th stage, an undulating 166.5-km ride from Bourg en Bresse to Champagnole. The Sunweb riderjumped away from a group of late breakaway riders to give his team their third stage win this year. Slovenian Luka Mezgec took second place on Friday, and Belgian Jasper Stuyven finished third, both 53 seconds behind, as Primoz Roglic retained the overall leader’s yellow jersey. Roglic leads second-placed and fellow Slovenian Tadej Pogacar by 57 seconds going into Saturday’s decisive individual time trial, which should see the Jumbo Visma rider secure his maiden title.
19 September 2020||Chennai,||Dhoni ties up with CSS||In a significant development, Sri Ramachandra Hospital’s (SRMC) Centre of Sports Science has inked a deal with M.S. Dhoni Cricket Academy of Aarka Sports Management for developing aspiring cricketers. It will be called the M.S. Dhoni-CSS High Performance Centre. Dr. S. Arumugam, Director, CSS, told The Hindu that the Dhoni-CSS centre would be inaugurated on Saturday (Sept. 19), the Founder’s day for SRMC. “Dhoni has a vision of producing Olympic champions for India and at some stage, he will turn the academy’s focus to Olympic disciplines too,” Dr. Arumugam said.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Anand Kripalu to take over as RCB Chairman||Anand Kripalu will take over as Chairman of IPL franchise Royal Challengers Bangalore, Diageo India announced on Friday. Kripalu, who will take up the role on Oct. 1, replaces Sanjeev Churiwala. The latter will move to Singapore to take up the position of Finance Director for APAC region. Anand is the MD and CEO of Diageo India, and assumes this role as an additional responsibility.
19 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Ramaswamy passes away||Veteran table tennis referee and administrator K. Ramaswamy passed away here. He was 72. Ramaswamy was associated with the sport for around 25 years. He served as a chief referee in ranking tournaments, and also as the treasurer of KTTA. He was the convenor of Karnataka Veterans TT Committee at the time of his passing.
19 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||HRC office-bearers||The following Directors/Stewards were elected at the 49th AGM of the Hyderabad Race Club on Friday. Ananth Kishen Rao, K. Bhupal Reddy, R. Rajesh and C.S. Suresh. At the subsequent meeting of the Board of Directors/Stewards, R. Surender Reddy was unanimously re-elected chairman of the Club.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna retains fifth spot; So goes into lead||P. Harikrishna had mixed luck on the final day of the rapid phase and retained his fifth spot, with two others, after nine rounds of the St. Louis rapid and blitz online chess on Friday. Harikrishna beat Jeffery Xiong, drew with Hikaru Nakamura before losing to Wesley So. The win put So one point ahead of Magnus Carlsen.  Standings (after nine rounds of rapid; two points for win, one for draw): 1. So (13 points), 2. Carlsen (12), 3-4. Nepomniachtchi, Grischuk (10) ; 5-7. Nakamura, Aronian, Harikrishna (9); 8. Xiong (7); 9. Perez (6), 10. Firouzja (5).
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna’s jnana mudra||The specific teaching of the Bhagavata Purana is to show that Bhakti and selfless devotion to the Lord is the highest destiny for the jivatma. This becomes most explicit in Krishna avatar through the life and teachings of Krishna, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Krishna is acclaimed as the Jagadguru for His exposition of the profound philosophy of the Upanishads in simple and direct manner to appeal even to the common man. To those who seek surrender at His feet, He is the wish-yielding Parijatha tree. But He not merely grants their wishes pertaining to worldly attainments but also leads them to the ultimate goal. The image of Krishna with whip in His hand which is used to drive the cows in Brindavan or the chariot for Arjuna during the Mahabharata war is seen as the jnana mudra or chin mudra by which He propels every jivatma to seek salvation from samsara. The flute He holds and the divine music He plays is also symbolic of His unique method to turn people towards the path of bhakti from their ignorance that ties them down to samsara. All His childhood leelas carry a deeper import. Right from His birth that is described with wonder by Suka, He assumes a variety of roles and also faces many challenges. By dealing with all these with great élan He shows mankind that one should learn to accept joy and sorrow with equanimity. His penchant for stealing butter indicates His special love for His devotees with pure mind and heart whom He wishes to possess. Just as butter does not associate with the butter milk in which it is placed, His devotees are steeped in Krishna Bhakti and do not get affected by samsara. Above all, He is very compassionate to all and gives moksha even to His enemies such as Putana, Aghasura, Sisupala, and so on.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 09:06 IST,||Sudoku - September 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Street food comes home||Among all that I miss in this never-ending pandemic is the food of Café Lota. I still remember my visit there. A friend had told us about the restaurant that had then just opened by the Crafts Museum at Pragati Maidan. I went there one evening and was fascinated by the menu – and the food. I’d had a chat with Rahul Dua, one of the men running the kitchen, and he told me how they had sourced recipes from various regions. But Dua left the café soon thereafter. And then, a couple of weeks ago, I got an elaborate menu from him. He has now started a delivery service called Bhawan. It includes an interesting street food component, with dishes from all corners of the country. I happily pored over the menu and zeroed in on a variety of dishes that I thought would make for a snacky lunch or dinner. We asked for a plate of gol gappas (nine with each plate, and your choice of filling and flavoured water), a plate of karela chaat, aloo dum dahi vada , Surti khawsa, keema varqi lukhmi and bhapa doi cheesecake. I paid a little less than Rs. 1,200 for this. When the food package arrived, I realised that Rahul had added some complimentary dishes — tasting samples of kurkurey bhindi chaat , palak patta chaat , chicken bharta and sweets. We had the chaats and lukhmi for dinner, the bharta — a concoction of shredded chicken cooked with masalas and eggs — with roti for breakfast the next morning, and the Surti khawsa for lunch. Every dish was lip smackingly good. We had asked for aloo Pindi channa filling and gondhoraj lime flavoured water for the gol gappa . The lemony water had a nice tangy taste and the gol gappas were large and crisp. Bhawan has on offer atta, suji, and ragi golgappas, with various kinds of flavoured water and filling. I then had the aloo dum dahi vada , an Odia special that I am greatly fond of, and thoroughly enjoyed the dish of rich and spicy aloo dum eaten with soft, yoghurt-doused dahi vadas . I had never eaten karela chaat before, and I thought the fried bitter gourd – and the thin and crispy okra – made for a delightful chaat , doused with the sweet-and-spicy yoghurt mix. The palak chaat , however, was a bit too thick and hard. It could have done with a thinner batter. Now let me tell you about the Surti khawsa. This is a popular street food dish of Surat, and I can understand why: It’s wholesome and filling. The dish consists of a fragrant coconut milk-based broth and rice noodles. We added some papad pieces to it and then topped it with garlic chutney. The flavours and textures — the sweetness of the coconut milk and the fierceness of the chutney, the crunchiness of the papad and the softness of the noodles — complemented one another. Rahul tells me that they had thought of opening a restaurant but dropped their plans because of the coronavirus lockdown. The delivery business is being run from Chhatarpur, and they supply everywhere in Delhi-NCR, except in Faridabad ( Bhawandelhi.com ; 8178539537 for orders). The menu includes samosas and kachoris with moong dal, onions or -- hold your breath -- bacon and cheddar. It has baked khichri , kathal biryani, bedmi puri and saag meat. There are all kinds of sweets — mawa jalebis with rabri , aamchoor laddoos , coconut passion fruit barfi and so on. My bhapa doi cheesecake, a creamy dish of sweetened and steamed hung curd, was really nice, but nothing really beats my late mother-in-law’s bhapa doi , steamed on a platter over a pot of boiling water. I think the dish I loved the most was the lukhmi — it had a delightfully crispy casing and a nicely spicy chicken keema filling. Bhawan is good news for those of us who’ve been missing the delights of roadside food but haven’t stepped out. We may have been banished from the streets, but I am happy that the streets are coming to us. The writer is a seasoned food critic
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A slight Modification||As a die-hard fan of our leader, I can’t say, surprising though it may seem, that I’m too happy with the recent developments in the southern town of Salem. I speak, of course, of the newly-introduced ‘ModiIdli’, the initiative of a fellow PM-admirer. I have my reasons. Foremost is the fact that it is a tad disrespectful to our leader. I think no one, not even our leader himself , refers to our leader by just his surname. The correct way to address him is, has been, and will always be Modi ji . So, I most humbly request the makers to change the name of theidlito ‘Modi ji Idli’. I know that this alteration somewhat spoils the mellifluous nature of the two rhyming, two-syllabled words ‘Mo-Di’ and ‘Id-li’ that sit so neatly together. But I have a solution for that. Add a ‘ ji’ to the ‘idli’ for balance. Mod ji Idli ji . You can’t deny it has a certain ring to it. Next, kindly standardise the spelling ofidli. In several of your posters and publicity material, the dish has been spelt ‘idly’. That is somewhat blasphemous if you ask me. Modi ji works 18 hours a day. What do you mean Modi Idly? Our leader is never idle. Thirdly, with some research, I have come across this alarming historical fact. According to two well-known food historians, theidli, far from being a South Indian culinary innovation (which is bad enough in itself) came to our ancient land either from Indonesia or from the Arab traders of yore. You see where I’m going with this? I don’t need to elaborate on Indonesia. But imagine if theidlicame from Arab traders. That means it would have come to Kerala first. Do we want to be associated with such a dish then? I think we should find a more pristine dish, a delicacy that has its origins right here, in our ancient, beautiful, all-knowing, Hindi-speaking land, if you ask me. Like, say,poha, for instance. Imagine Modi ji Poha ji . All over Tamil Nadu. Now that would be good. Except for a couple of tiny glitches. One is that the stubborn Tamils, somewhat lacking in good taste, may not take topoha. Two, ‘ poha ’ doesn’t exactly rhyme with our leader’s name. Fear not, I might have a solution for that, too. Just make idli -shapedpoha. And call it Modi ji Idli ji *. And as a footnote, add ‘*byidliwe meanpoha’ in fine print on all the publicity material. South Indians will be none the wiser. Lol! I hear that the makers of this dish have assured the public that they would be cooked with pure and clean water and that their unit would be making 1,800idlisevery six seconds. A couple of suggestions here. Use water from our sacred Ganga. Just imagine how that would go with our devoted public. As our river-linking is already happening on a war footing, I’m sure that wouldn’t be too difficult. Otherwise, we could have a bullet train introduced in TN exclusively to bring the required water. Secondly, instead of publicising it as 1,800idlisfor every six seconds, say you will be providing over 15 croreidlisper annum. See how impressive that sounds. Beats the raita out of the six lakh biryanis ordered on Swiggy last year. I see only one problem, though: Ms Kangana Ranaut. Kanganaji is the biggest fan of our leader. But she is currently playing Puratchi Thalaivi in an upcoming biopic. We need to get some clarification from her about who her vote goes to: ModiIdlior AmmaIdli? Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Girl power in Kodai||In early 2020, the only tailor Smriti Lamech could find near her cottage in Kodaikanal was a grocer who also had a sewing machine in one corner of his shop. She wanted to convert some unused fabric into cushion covers for the house she had temporarily moved into, to be closer to her pre-teen children in boarding school. Then Lamech, 41, chanced upon Prowess, a women’s self-help group (SHG) with 16 seamstresses and gave them her order. By the time she returned to collect it a couple of months later, the SHG was reopening after the nation-wide lockdown. The women mentioned how they’d barely received any new orders since before the pandemic struck. On their website’s homepage, Prowess introduces their team with a photograph of the women in shiny pattu saris who ‘produce a wide array of toys, puppets, furnishings and accessories, most of which are made with 100% cotton or silk fabrics’. That’s when it struck Lamech. This was as good an opportunity as any to do one of the things she had been meaning to try out — rag dolls, but of feminist icons. Her first set (out now) includes Indian-origin astronaut Kalpana Chawla, American poet and activist Maya Angelou, Indian educationist and social reformer Savitribai Phule, and Mexican painter Frida Kahlo. Nifty with fabric Of the memories she has of her childhood with an eclectic, fabric-collecting mother, Lamech has one that stands out. The family was travelling by road from Delhi to then-Madras, when they spotted a group of Lambani women on the highway. They pulled over and her mother went to speak to them. A few minutes later, the Lambanis were pulling out spare cholis (blouses) and other embroidered materials from their bags, as her mother took out cotton kurtas from her suitcase. They swapped the clothes and, a few moments later, cash was exchanged for a few pieces of their iconic silver jewellery. Her mother also ran one of the only boutiques in the 1990s in Allahabad, where they were based. So Lamech has always had an eye for spotting fabric of aesthetic value. (Though a journalist by training, she has been making outfits for her children, upcycled décor for her house in Gurugram, and knick knacks for friends.) Using this experience, and her working knowledge of Tamil, she began spending time with the women at Prowess in early May to come up with a set of four long-limbed rag dolls, under the initiative The Smritsonian. They have no detailed faces — no eyes or nose — but each carries one distinguishing feature of these women. Chawla comes in her NASA-orange spacesuit with a helmet and boots by a different crochet artist known to Lamech; Angelou has thick dark locks of hair and a removable turban; Phule has her trademark horizontal bindi ; and for Kahlo, it is her unibrow. Feminism for children Owing to Tamil Nadu’s state-wide ban on plastic, the dolls come snuggled in seersucker sleeping bags, along with a letter addressed to the receiver, introducing themselves in first person. “I always wanted feminist dolls for my daughter and son, not battery or plastic dolls,” says Lamech over a call from Kodaikanal, where she remains during the pandemic. “I did buy them a lot of Channapatna toys when they were growing up, but I also want my child to recognise a Kalpana Chawla or a Frida Kahlo at this age. My generation didn’t hear about them till we were in our teens — things are, of course, different now with the Internet — but these are women who deserved to be introduced to our lives much earlier,” she concludes.  The collection featuring masks, buntings and dolls is priced between Rs. 300 and Rs. 1,800. To order, call9873344651
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Hello, India Couture Week||Digital fashion weeks are becoming the new normal around the world, and India kickstarts its own today, with India Couture Week 2020. While he sounds excited to drive the first such attempt in the country, Fashion Design Council of India (FDCI) chief, Sunil Sethi, says they were “left with no option and it was the need of the hour”. Initial plans two months ago included computer-generated models, he reveals, till it became apparent that there was the possibility to go physical, as long as they observed Covid-19 safety norms. The showcase, streamed on FDCI’s website and official social media platforms, will be online-only, with 12 leading designers on board. Not too many rules It has seen designers putting together 10-12-minute-long videos, shot in various locations — in their own studio, farmhouse (JJ Valaya), or at an old heritage building (Rahul Mishra got his done at the secluded Tijara Fort Palace in Rajasthan). Sethi says the designers were also given the option of shooting at the 15,000 sq ft FDCI office, which was turned into a mini showing area, with fashion week-ready backdrop, lighting, backstage, etc. Suneet Varma, who is scheduled to show tonight, chose to go with that. “A lot of them wanted to do it their way and we were fine with it. Some were influenced more by how the Paris Fashion Week [in July] did it, and they wanted to experiment. I know one designer had taken a bus full of 50 people to shoot in a heritage hotel. Some had specialists flown in from different parts of the country, from videographers to stylists. To each his own,” says Sethi, adding that the rules this time primarily involved coronavirus safety measures and duration (“as the attention span on social media is not that much”). Budgets, he says, varied from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 40 lakh for designers, with some opting to work with eight models, while the count for others went up to 25. Is digital flat? As for the models themselves, some like Gaurav Gupta were keen on taking the unconventional route (see box) for his Love-themed show. Shooting over two days with 18 different models, he says “a lot of casting was involved to find beautiful stories and dive into the pulse of the new young India”. While digital fashion shows at Paris Fashion Week and elsewhere have come in for some flak with criticism that digital is flat, both in content and viewing, another popular ICW participant, JJ Valaya, is practical when he says, “The digital experience cannot replace a live show. Those 20-25 minutes of anything live has a different kind of energy. Perhaps we ask too much of the virtual fashion week by assuming we are going to get the same rush. We are not making art cinema, which takes two years to complete, with retakes and edits, and a story and message that leaves everybody thinking. Nor are we going to be nominated for an Oscar. This is simply a virtual representation of the latest couture line.” Echoing what several designers have been saying, he reminds viewers that the show is with relevance to Indian couture, where the focus is essentially bridal. As for archival pieces, Sethi is confident that “there will be a newness of design, with archival elements possibly in terms of silhouette or colour”. There will be a fair share of western gowns as well, thanks to designers like Amit Aggarwal, Gaurav Gupta, Shantanu & Nikhil and others. “We know people are gearing up for cocktail gowns, for functions in January, or even Diwali and New Year parties in Goa, or resorts near Chennai or Kochi,” concludes Sethi.  ICW is from September 18-23, at 8 pm and 9.30 pm on each day on FDCI’s website and social media handles
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Chasing butterflies||In March, we observe World Wildlife Day. Come July and the 29th is dedicated to India’s national animal, the tiger. We have exclusive days for birds, elephants and even trees, so why not the butterfly? It was this very thought that got naturalists, experts and wildlife enthusiasts together this lockdown to commemorate the first-ever Big Butterfly Month: India 2020. Co-ordinated by Goa-based Foundation for Environment Research and Conservation (FERC), the programme brings together over 30 organisations working in the field of biodiversity conservation in the country. To continue until September 20, the initiative has various activities such as online workshops, photography and videography contests, and a butterfly count. Here are a few highlights to keep track of: 1. Start counting  Toparticipate in the ongoing Big Butterfly Count Week (Sept 14-20), download one of three apps: iNaturalist, ifoundbutterflies and India Biodiversity Portal, and simply click and upload pictures of the winged creatures you spot in your backyard or on your morning walk. 2. One-day course Can’t identify that butterfly in your front yard? Sign up for this one-day certificate course by Coimbatore-based Act for Butterflies and the famed Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Trichy. With theoretical and field components, it will cover 100 species found in Tamil Nadu. Priced at Rs. 200 (digital certificate) and Rs. 300 (printed certificate and butterfly booklet). Details: aeonct.org or call 9843511233 3. Vote for India’s national butterfly This lockdown, several butterfly enthusiasts and researchers started the process of choosing India’s national butterfly. Seven species have been shortlisted: Krishna Peacock, Common Jezebel, Orange Oakleaf, Five-bar Swordtail, Common Nawab, Yellow Gorgon and Northern Jungle Queen. An online public poll is on until October 7. Details: National Butterfly Campaign on Facebook. Read the full story online at weekend.thehindu.com NA
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||punya.in||We’ve had the fast fashion virtual sales, luxury closets going online and support initiatives for India’s weaving communities. Now, homegrown initiatives by NGOs across the country are in the limelight with Rohan Garg and Anant Kapoor’s new e-store, Punya. Unlike platforms like iTokri (handmade artisanal products) and Shunya (recyclable stationery, tableware) that are limited to a particular genre, Punya features everything from masalas to handwoven stoles. What sets the platform apart from others is that all the products have been crafted by their NGO partners (who receive 95.5% of the sales proceeds), including Kilmora that supports makers in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region, GranMade, that employs elderly women who are out-of-work, and Naz Foundation that works on HIV/AIDS and sexual health. Launched in July, the neatly categorised e-store also features organic body and home care products, and edibles like Himalayan jams. Don’t miss the stationery section, with gold-plated bookmarks and notebooks with bright Madhubani covers. Garg, 23, explains how it started when they noticed people gift each other kilos of sweets (which eventually went to waste) every Diwali. Their Punya Box, launched in 2019, had sweets ideal for a family of four. “We partnered with six NGOs, and the money saved went to a charity of the donor’s choice,” says Lucknow-based Garg. Realising how professional marketing and after-sales support could help NGO-made products, they decided on an exclusive marketplace.  From Rs. 45 to Rs. 1,200.   Up next: New partnerships and, in a few months, hyperlocal virtual markets that will tie up with local NGOs in your city.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||handsondastkar.com||With bustling venues and platforms for the country’s crafts going silent during the pandemic, Dastkar’s Instagram handle has been eagerly tracked for updates on its new e-store: handsondastkar. When it finally did go live last weekend, the selection of handloom saris (woven, printed, embroidered, painted), fabric masks, Madhubani, Gond and other folk art, bags and home decor generated interest. In three days, the platform had 2,155 virtual visitors and billed orders worth Rs. 41,146, though founder Laila Tyabji promises “this is just the beginning”. In the past, they had decided against going virtual as ‘touch’ is integral to buying craft. “There was the question of how Dastkar, without resources or a warehouse, could undertake such a vast venture. So we concentrated on selling craft through bazaars, exhibitions and other platforms, including other e-portals. Some worked, others didn’t. The pandemic and ensuing lockdown made it clear that it was necessary for us to have our own marketing platform,” says Tyabji, who made the site’s first sale: a Madhubani sari. To the artisans, the online platform comes just in time. “It is interesting that folk art, which doesn’t necessarily sell very well at bazaars [difficult to display], does very well online as it photographs well,” says Tyabji, adding, “It is the exact opposite of a [offline] bazaar! There, people love to pick up little knick knacks and gift items, and only go for the more pricey things like saris later. Online, they feel it is not worth going through the hassle for smaller items.” As for the initial glitches, buyers will need to be forgiving. After all, the site was developed in-house, and sourcing clean-cut, e-commerce-ready images from craftspeople during a pandemic can’t be easy. For an outfit that has organised bazaars for 40 years, this is a whole new game. With the craftspeople’s stories going live, Tyabji hopes we understand that “craft is more than just a product and that handsondastkar.com will be more than just a marketing device”.  Rs. 550 - Rs. 41,000 at handsondastkar.com   Up next: More variety, with masks, Madhubani paintings, woven bed covers, kantha embroidered stoles, etc.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Instagram Freeze: On Wednesday, stars like Kim Kardashian West and Mark Ruffalo announced that they would protest Facebook's inaction against hate speech by freezing their Instagram accounts for 24 hours. This was done in concert with civil rights coalition Stop Hate for Profit, but drew flak for being a “publicity stunt” with no real meaning, much like #Blackout Tuesday.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Cheers to DB5||If you like Bond’s grand tourer, here is a drink to match. Bowmore Islay Single Malt Scotch Whisky and Aston Martin’s first collab is the Black Bowmore DB5 1964. The limited edition of 25 bottles — featuring a genuine DB5 piston — come in a handcrafted box with brass hardware and nickel plating to represent the car. Expect flavours of mango, passion fruit and acacia honey with coffee and tobacco smoke, and creme caramel on the nose from this 31-year-old whisky. At approximately Rs. 47.64 lakh. Details : bowmore.com
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||New singles in town||Ace DJ David Guetta has had a busy lockdown, with two Guinness World Records and now a collaboration with pop star Sia. The new single, 'Let’s Love', is a feel-good anthem and features Sia's signature vocals with Guetta's chart-topping beats. On YouTube. Indie artiste and designer behind SGBG Atelier, Surya Giri, has launched a new single, 'You are not alone', with Sid Sriram and Shilpa Rao. The first of six tracks slated to release in the coming months, it explores themes of resilience and new beginnings. On YouTube.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru’s book fest||The fourth edition of Neev Literature Festival for Children promises to be a year-long affair, thanks to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The online sessions, starting this week, will have Indian and international reading experts and psychologists talking about what happens to the human brain when we read, among other topics. Their Book Club — primarily for parents and educators — will begin with the bookReader, Come Home,by Maryanne Wolf. @neevliteraturefestival on Instagram.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||India’s New Parliament: The much-criticised move to build a new seat of power in New Delhi continues to gain momentum, with Tata Group being awarded the construction bid. At an estimated cost of Rs. 861.9 crore, it is set to be built in a timeline of 21 months. Let’s hope the spiking coronavirus cases, migrant worker crisis, and crashing economy will get some attention too.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Blossoms and Spike Lee||Maker of luxury writing instruments, Montblanc, has been busy this season. Three weeks after they launched their What Moves You, Makes You global campaign — featuring filmmaker Spike Lee, who incidentally writes all his scripts by hand — they rolled out the Meisterstück Maki-e Calligraphy Tribute to Kyoto Fine Craftsmanship Limited Edition 88. A kimono adorned with delicate blossoms is engraved into the handcrafted nib made of Au 750 solid gold. On pre-order at Montblanc boutiques.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Add Apple to cart||Starting September 23, users in India can shop for the full suite of Apple products on a dedicated online store, with free delivery within 24 to 72 hours. This long overdue move comes 33 years after the tech company first stepped into online retail. Expect packaging and counselling sessions, financing options, online support in English, and phone support in Hindi and English. Customisation options include Macs built with personalised configuration, engraving on iPad, Apple Pencil and Air Pods.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Saris plus vintage fashion||Amethyst brings Raw Mango to Chennai with 30% to 50% off on handwovenchanderiand Banarasi silk saris, petticoats inmashrusilks and blouses in brocades, silks and cotton. From Rs. 2,350. 11 am to 7.30 pm.7338899176. Sujala Newar of The Local Vintage in Mumbai has curated a collection of blouses, accessories, scarves and bags from family friend Gulnar Soli Bharucha's closet. These eclectic pieces from the 60s to the 90s, collected from her travels across the world, will be available via Instagram @shopthelocalvintage
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Armani sportswear alert||While the future of luxury fashion remains uncertain, sportswear is where all the action is right now. So this is the right time for EA7 Emporio Armani, Giorgio Armani’s sportswear brand, to open their first standalone store in India. There is e-commerce too, with Reliance Brands Limited. The technical sportswear line has Training, Water, Tennis, Club, Speed, Basket and Mountain categories, in the distinctive Armani style. At Select City Walk, New Delhi and AJIO.com.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Life after PUBG||“I remember going completely blank. I had no other source of income and my future looked very bleak.” Rishab ‘Encore’ Katoch, a 23-year-old Delhi-based gamer, was one of thousands who, 17 days ago, woke up to the news that the Indian government had banned PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG to the rest of us), along with 117 other Chinese apps, over privacy and security concerns. The multiplayer battle royale mobile game — a genre that blends survival and last-man-standing gameplay — was not only an arena for intense virtual matches, but also a revenue generator (players live stream their game via YouTube channels and Facebook watch parties). A professional gamer can earn anywhere between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 2 lakh a month. Once Katoch calmed down, however, and spoke to fellow gamers, he realised he could diversify his sources of income. As it turns out, those with well-established YouTube channels, where they played a larger selection of games such as Grand Theft Auto V (GTA 5) and survival shooter Garena Free Fire are better off after the PUBG ban. “I can’t concentrate on only one source of income; something like this can happen again,” says the engineering graduate. The impact of the ban on the gaming community has been swift and devastating (prior to the ban, PUBG had around 40 million monthly active users in India). Here’s one example: MegaStars, among the top seven professional teams in India that competes globally, has disbanded. Just a month ago, they were in talks to begin streaming on Nimo TV, a platform with a presence in South and Southeast Asia, and South America. But many are holding on to hope of a return. There’s news that Bluehole, a South Korean video game company, is taking control of publishing in India (which was earlier handled by Tencent Holdings, a Chinese tech conglomerate). There are also reports of PUBG Corporation signing agreements with an Indian gaming firm.  Before the ban  Gaming in India has moved from being a pastime to establishing itself as a robust industry. “Esports has been around for more than a decade. It is just of late that it has got mainstream attention,” says Lokesh Suji, Director, Esports Federation of India. In the 2018 Asian Games in Indonesia, Tirth Mehta won a bronze in the Hearthstone event, while Karan Manganani placed fourth in another event. But it was PUBG that brought esports to the masses. Mobile gaming is easily accessible and, thanks to operators cutting their costs, it has caught on in tier-2 and tier-3 cities too. Tournaments such as Mobile Lite Championship and Mobile Professional League see prize pools running into lakhs of rupees. Post lockdown has also witnessed an increase in participation — Gurugram-based Nodwin Gaming’s ESL India Premiership saw a 300% increase in registrations this year, as compared to 2019. “Investors like us, who started giving salaries and sponsoring devices for players, have seen a lot of ROI [return on investment],” says Lokesh Jain, co-founder of 8bit, an esports company and talent management agency for upcoming gamers. His first reaction to the ban was to encourage his gamers to find alternatives. While 8Bit rosters for games like Clash Royale (a real-time strategy game) and Free Fire remain unaffected, gamers have started trying other battle royale games such as Call of Duty Mobile (its download surged to 1.15 million after the ban, according to the Sportskeeda website).  The Indian narrative  Indian gaming companies such as Nazara Technologies, Octro, Dream 11, Hitwicket Games and Gamezop are upping the ante with new offerings. The most recent to join the block is Bengaluru-based nCore Games’ Fearless and United: Guards, or FAU-G. Announced a couple of weeks ago by Bollywood star Akshay Kumar, it will follow a storytelling mode, where gamers will learn about Indian soldiers and battles as they clear levels. “Call of Duty is based on the two World Wars. We wanted to build a game that Indians could have a strong emotional connect with,” says co-founder Vishal Gondal. The first edition, set to release sometime next month, will feature the Galwan Valley and multiplayer mode. Storytelling that draws on Indian mythology — such as 2018’s Asura, from Hyderabad-based Ogre Head Studio (the first Nintendo Switch game made in India, which fuses Hindu myth with combat play) — or even the recent border skirmishes (as inspiration for combat games) could be the future. But first, we need to encourage more game development. “The fact is that monetisation of games has remained poor until recently,” says Gaurav Agarwal, co-founder of Gurugram-based Gamezop, a multigame platform. “Ad revenues from Indian users is low and users do not spend to buy in-game goods.” But the scenario is changing, with real money gaming and mobile esports (a recent article onQuint, the news website, put game developers in India at 250, up from just 25 in 2010).  Looking at streaming  Streaming platforms and apps are also set to get bigger. “Casual games [like poker and chess] can easily turn into esports when played competitively,” says Parth Chadha, founder of nine-month-old EWar Games, another Bengaluru-based start-up. Currently, the EWar app — with games like Call of Duty and Clash Royale — is available in eight regional languages, including Hindi, Kannada, Telugu and Tamil. Gamers can also stream on it. Similarly, one-year-old Bengaluru-based Rheo offers a dedicated channel (Rheo Studio) for streaming. Co-founder Saksham Keshri says, “This is specifically for users to watch streamers and chat with them. If you want to stream, just log in, select your game and sync your mobile to our server.” India’s go-to platform? It is YouTube, though Amazon-owned Twitch calls the shots globally (the latter’s subscription plans aren’t popular since Indian gamers, largely, aren’t earning a sizeable income yet).  Train to be a pro  The Indian ecosystem, be it gaming, streaming, casting or content creation, has come a long way. It is also no longer a man’s den — what with names like Nutan Lele, Manasvi ‘Vivi’ Dalvi and Paridhi ‘Raven’ Khullar making news. But the times are tough. Despite plans to get the game back, players worry about modifications being made. “If PUBG comes back with a version only for India, it wouldn’t be a great idea,” says Anuj ‘Amaterasu’ Sharma, who started gaming in grade 10. In the 14-odd years he’s been playing, he has represented India in numerous global esports competitions, including the Esports World Convention held in Paris last year. “Every gamer’s dream is to represent their country. What’s the point in just playing among ourselves?” The need of the hour is acceptance, especially as a career option. In the West, professional video game tournaments fill 50,000-seat arenas and sponsorships run into millions. “Even at 22, you’ve already lost your prime time [for gaming],” says Sharma. “Children in China, Europe and the US get into gaming at 13 and 14.” Access to esports training academies (which we have none at the moment) is imperative. Nodwin Gaming is making a start. “We’re looking to work with key stakeholders such as teams, schools, colleges and governments to build academies,” says Akshat Rathee, co-founder, who hopes to have three academies set up in the next couple of years.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A home for all?||Apart from impacting the progress and sales of various verticals of the real estate sector, the pandemic has also highlighted the urgent need for affordable housing — to rent or purchase — across the country’s top cities where most migrant workers come to seek a living. The incumbent government’s ‘Housing for All by 2022’ initiative is inching closer to reality. RERA too has made considerable progress. However, Covid-19 savagely underscored the absence of affordable rental housing in major cities, resulting in a mass exodus of migrants with no income during the lockdown. The government shifted gears on its flagship scheme and included affordable rental housing in it. Migrant woes Getting the Cabinet’s nod recently, Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban)[PMAY (U)] is clearly an attempt to bridge the shortfall of affordable homes across Indian cities. A unique initiative, this scheme aims to give the urban poor access to proper affordable rental housing close to their workplaces and reduce dependence on slums, informal settlements and remote peri-urban areas. The ARHC scheme is to be implemented via two models: by utilising existing government-funded vacant homes by converting them into ARHCs under Public-Private Partnership and construction, operation and maintenance of ARHCs by private/ public entities on their own vacant land. To begin with, the government plans to use about one lakh unused housing units built under the JNNURM and the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) — the previous government’s urban upgrade and housing programmes — to provide rental housing. The monthly rentals for homes under ARHCs are likely to be fixed between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 3,000. To attract private participation, the government has also rolled out special incentives such as use permission, 50% additional FAR/FSI, concessional loans at priority sector lending rates and tax reliefs at par with affordable housing to develop ARHCs on their own available vacant land for 25 years. However, low yields may be a major deterrent for private participation. While funding for such projects would be at concessional rates, many developers who have bought land at steep prices in the cities earlier on may find the proposition unattractive. Will the government unleash further incentives? PMAY (U): steady progress Five years after the implementation of this ambitious scheme, PMAY (U) has made steady progress across states. As on date, a total of 1.06 crore homes have already been sanctioned in the country, of which 33% or approx. 35.18 lakh homes are completed while another 66.23 lakh units have been grounded for construction. A sharp 180% rise of project completions was seen between December 2018 and early August 2020 — from 12.58 lakh homes completed back in December 2018 to over 35.18 lakh homes as of August 2020. Of the total homes sanctioned, Andhra Pradesh has the highest number (20.16 lakh homes), followed by Uttar Pradesh with over 15.95 lakh homes and Maharashtra with over 12.34 lakh homes. In terms of completion, out of the total 35.18 lakh houses completed, Uttar Pradesh is top on the list with more than 5.34 lakh homes already completed, followed by Gujarat with 4.22 lakh homes and Maharashtra with 3.44 lakh homes. Monetary benefits Meanwhile, the RBI has taken steps that have, to some extent, eased the woes of the sector amid the COVID-19 pandemic. From repo rate cuts to loan moratoriums, and from an infusion of liquidity for NBFCs and HFCs to a one-year extension of the CLSS scheme up to March 2021, there has been considerable action. Most recently, the RBI opened up the window for restructuring loans to companies, individuals and MSME under mandated safeguards. This has also given something of a breather to the liquidity-strapped industry.  The writer is   Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Mining for trouble||I was diagnosed with asthma around five years ago. This was after two years of dealing with chronic cough and respiratory issues that a bunch of doctors failed to link to a cause. Several tests later, the reason circled back to my former organisation’s basement office: dingy, with unclean AC ducts and filters, and zero natural ventilation. The city’s rising pollution levels didn’t help either. Thanks to a health issue brought on by the surrounding built environment, like many others I too am at higher risk of contracting Covid-19 today. While I had the privilege of paying for the many doctor appointments and tests for my diagnosis, those belonging to vulnerable communities don’t have this easy access. So who comes to their rescue when pollution levels continue to rise across the country amidst a raging virus that attacks the respiratory system? As the lockdown eases across the country, air pollution levels are bound to go back to pre-Covid levels. We’re already seeing a spike in New Delhi and Gurugram and it’s only a matter of time before numbers from other cities are analysed. Vehicular emissions continue to be overlooked, polluting materials like coal are prioritised with tax exemptions and subsidies, industrial projects are approved without necessary environmental clearances… our environment is being ravaged in countless ways. The one grabbing eyeballs over the last few weeks is coal power, industries, and their disastrous impact on our surroundings. A recent report by non-profit Climate Risk Horizon highlights how coal-fired power plants play a significant role in India’s air pollution crisis and the unfolding climate emergency. It states: ‘The financial costs from air pollution in India are now well-documented — an estimated 5.4% of GDP. It is inevitable that all coal power plants will have to install pollution control technologies, or face growing litigation and political pressure in the coming years’. In addition, coal and non-coal mineral prospecting and solar photovoltaic projects do not need prior environmental clearance or permission in the Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 drafted by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF). After a lot of pressure from activists and courts, the ambitious National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was launched last year. It proposed a 20-30% reduction in air pollution by 2024. Initially criticised for its legal loopholes and selection of ‘non-attainment’ cities, NCAP has now failed to show any reduction in pollution levels in the one year since its launch. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman went on to allocate Rs. 4,400 crore for the NCAP in this year’s budget but apart from a show of numbers and jargon, nothing much is happening on-ground. Late last month, the National Green Tribunal slammed the MoEF over its NCAP report. A recent story in this newspaper mentions that under the NCAP, the target was to achieve norms in 10 years and reduce load to the extent of 35% in the first three years with further reductions later. The NGT pointed out that ‘pollution would remain unaddressed for 10 years which was too long a period of tolerating violations when clean air was Right to Life. Further, it was not clear what type of pollutants or all pollutants would be reduced’. The tribunal said the violation of air pollution levels resulting in a large number of deaths and diseases needed to be addressed expeditiously. What we need is strict implementation of policies and for officials to take the issue seriously. Industries must switch to natural gas from coal, but coal is cheaper as it has been placed under GST and under open general license to enable easy import. On the contrary, natural gas is heavily taxed. A report by the Centre for Science and Environment says: “Bring natural gas under GST to reduce the tax burden and to incentivise clean fuel over its dirty counterparts. Remove coal from OGL so that imports can be regulated and its use monitored.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched an auction for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining this year, has been criticised by the UN for subsidising fossil fuels and promoting coal auctions. Environmental impact aside, it doesn’t bode well for India’s energy footprint. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres recently said, “Clean energy and closing the energy access gap... are the ticket to growth and prosperity. Yet, here in India, subsidies for fossil fuels are still some seven times more than subsidies for clean energy. The coal business is going up in smoke. The advantages of India’s renewable energy resources are plain to see. They are low cost, protected from volatile commodities markets, and offer three times the job potential of fossil fuel power plants.” Need I say more?  A fortnightly column on environmental sustainability and urban issues
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A slight Modification||As a die-hard fan of our leader, I can’t say, surprising though it may seem, that I’m too happy with the recent developments in the southern town of Salem. I speak, of course, of the newly-introduced ‘ModiIdli’, the initiative of a fellow PM-admirer. I have my reasons. Foremost is the fact that it is a tad disrespectful to our leader. I think no one, not even our leader himself , refers to our leader by just his surname. The correct way to address him is, has been, and will always be Modi ji . So, I most humbly request the makers to change the name of theidlito ‘Modi ji Idli’. I know that this alteration somewhat spoils the mellifluous nature of the two rhyming, two-syllabled words ‘Mo-Di’ and ‘Id-li’ that sit so neatly together. But I have a solution for that. Add a ‘ ji’ to the ‘idli’ for balance. Mod ji Idli ji . You can’t deny it has a certain ring to it. Next, kindly standardise the spelling ofidli. In several of your posters and publicity material, the dish has been spelt ‘idly’. That is somewhat blasphemous if you ask me. Modi ji works 18 hours a day. What do you mean Modi Idly? Our leader is never idle. Thirdly, with some research, I have come across this alarming historical fact. According to two well-known food historians, theidli, far from being a South Indian culinary innovation (which is bad enough in itself) came to our ancient land either from Indonesia or from the Arab traders of yore. You see where I’m going with this? I don’t need to elaborate on Indonesia. But imagine if theidlicame from Arab traders. That means it would have come to Kerala first. Do we want to be associated with such a dish then? I think we should find a more pristine dish, a delicacy that has its origins right here, in our ancient, beautiful, all-knowing, Hindi-speaking land, if you ask me. Like, say,poha, for instance. Imagine Modi ji Poha ji . All over Tamil Nadu. Now that would be good. Except for a couple of tiny glitches. One is that the stubborn Tamils, somewhat lacking in good taste, may not take topoha. Two, ‘ poha ’ doesn’t exactly rhyme with our leader’s name. Fear not, I might have a solution for that, too. Just make idli -shapedpoha. And call it Modi ji Idli ji *. And as a footnote, add ‘*byidliwe meanpoha’ in fine print on all the publicity material. South Indians will be none the wiser. Lol! I hear that the makers of this dish have assured the public that they would be cooked with pure and clean water and that their unit would be making 1,800idlisevery six seconds. A couple of suggestions here. Use water from our sacred Ganga. Just imagine how that would go with our devoted public. As our river-linking is already happening on a war footing, I’m sure that wouldn’t be too difficult. Otherwise, we could have a bullet train introduced in TN exclusively to bring the required water. Secondly, instead of publicising it as 1,800idlisfor every six seconds, say you will be providing over 15 croreidlisper annum. See how impressive that sounds. Beats the raita out of the six lakh biryanis ordered on Swiggy last year. I see only one problem, though: Ms Kangana Ranaut. Kanganaji is the biggest fan of our leader. But she is currently playing Puratchi Thalaivi in an upcoming biopic. We need to get some clarification from her about who her vote goes to: ModiIdlior AmmaIdli? Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Chasing butterflies||In March, we observe World Wildlife Day. Come July and the 29th is dedicated to India’s national animal, the tiger. We have exclusive days for birds, elephants and even trees, so why not the butterfly? It was this very thought that got naturalists, experts and wildlife enthusiasts together this lockdown to commemorate the first-ever Big Butterfly Month: India 2020. Co-ordinated by Goa-based Foundation for Environment Research and Conservation (FERC), the programme brings together over 30 organisations working in the field of biodiversity conservation in the country. To continue until September 20, the initiative has various activities such as online workshops, photography and videography contests, and a butterfly count. Here are a few highlights to keep track of:  1. Start counting To participate in the ongoing Big Butterfly Count Week (Sept 14-20), download one of the three apps: iNaturalist, ifoundbutterflies and India Biodiversity Portal, create an account and simply click and upload pictures of the winged creatures you spot in your backyard or on your morning walk. 2. One-day course Can’t identify that butterfly in your front yard? Sign up for this one-day certificate course by Coimbatore-based Act for Butterflies and the famed Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Trichy. With theoretical and field components, it will cover 100 species found in Tamil Nadu. Priced at Rs. 200 (digital certificate) and Rs. 300 (printed certificate and butterfly booklet). Details: aeonct.org or call 9843511233. There’s also ‘Butterflies for Beginners’, from Sept 25 to Oct 30, by India’s Butterfly Man, Isaac Kehimkar. For queries, call 9820165525 or email info@inaturewatch.org 3. Vote for India’s national butterfly This lockdown, several butterfly enthusiasts and researchers started the process of choosing India’s national butterfly. Seven species have been shortlisted and an online public poll is on until October 7. Details: National Butterfly Campaign on Facebook. Read the full story online at weekend.thehindu.com
19 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Conspiracy to destroy farmers: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said farm legislations are being forced upon the nation as part of the ‘Destroy Farmers, Destroy Punjab’ conspiracy of the BJP-led NDA, of which the Akalis continue to be a part. “I don’t know what enmity the BJP and the Akalis have with Punjab and why they are out to destroy us,” said the Chief Minister, launching the Virual Kisan Mela of the Punjab Agriculture University, Ludhiana. ‘May lead to unrest’ Cautioning again that the legislations would lead to growing angst among the people in the border State, thus giving Pakistan the opportunity to stoke the fire, Captain Amarinder said the laws would undo the sacrifices made by Punjab and its farmers over 65 years to make India self-sufficient in food. Accusing the Akalis of playing their own political games in this entire affair, Capt. Amarinder said the “Badals” had failed to stand with the Punjab government on these Bills and even on the critical water issue. Taking a dig at Harsimrat Badal’s remarks of standing with her farmer brethren by resigning from the Union Cabinet, he asked why she forgot that the farmers were her brothers when the Centre brought in the ordinances. Claims rejected Rejecting the BJP and the SAD claims that Punjab was in the loop on the farm ordinances, the Chief Minister made it clear that the issue of any such ordinances or new laws on agriculture was never discussed at any of the meetings in which his government was represented at the high-power committee set up by the Centre on agricultural reforms.  (with PTI inputs)
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital’s virus tally stands at 2,38,828 with 4,127 new cases||The Capital recorded 4,127 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, with 30 deaths and 3,568 recoveries in the past 24 hours, according to a heath bulletin released by the Delhi government. The bulletin said that 61,037 tests were conducted in the past 24 hour. The death rate based on data from the past 10 days was 0.69%. The total positivity rate stands at 6.76% and the fatality rate at 2.05%. The total number of cases now stands at 2,38,828, out of which 2,01,671 patients have recovered. There are 32,250 active cases at present. The number of containment zones in Delhi has increased to 1,751 and there are 18,701 patients under home isolation. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that over 500 extra ICU beds are now available for COVID-19 patients following an order issued recently to several private hospitals to earmark designated percentage of such beds. “As per the Corona app, over 500 extra ICU beds are now available for COVID-19 patients,” he said. Mr. Jain said that numbers were rising as the government had increased testing and added that there will be a dip in figures soon. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal met representatives of gym associations where he was thanked for allowing gyms to open. Mr. Kejriwal appealed to all gym operators and the public to follow safety protocols. Gym owners, he said, should also ensure that all the SOPs issued by the Centre are properly followed.  L-G chairs meeting Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal also chaired a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to review the COVID-19 situation in the Capital with the CM; V K Paul, member, NITI Aayog; Randeep Guleria, AIIMS Director; Balram Bhargava, DG, ICMR, and other experts and senior officers of the Delhi government. Mr. Baijal advised officials and experts to jointly prepare a blueprint for re-strategising the containment zone policy to reduce positivity and mortality rate. He also emphasised on an aggressive publicity campaign, particularly in vernacular languages, to engage stakeholders. The L-G also interacted with DMs, DCPs and Municipal Commissioners and advised field officials to intensify surveillance, early detection, implementation of protocols for home isolation along with strict enforcement of protective and preventive measures to fight against the virus.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Girl power in Kodai||In early 2020, the only tailor Smriti Lamech could find near her cottage in Kodaikanal was a grocer who also had a sewing machine in one corner of his shop. She wanted to convert some unused fabric into cushion covers for the house she had temporarily moved into, to be closer to her pre-teen children in boarding school. Then Lamech, 41, chanced upon Prowess, a women’s self-help group (SHG) with 16 seamstresses and gave them her order. By the time she returned to collect it a couple of months later, the SHG was reopening after the nation-wide lockdown. The women mentioned how they’d barely received any new orders since before the pandemic struck. On their website’s homepage, Prowess introduces their team with a photograph of the women in shiny pattu saris who ‘produce a wide array of toys, puppets, furnishings and accessories, most of which are made with 100% cotton or silk fabrics’. That’s when it struck Lamech. This was as good an opportunity as any to do one of the things she had been meaning to try out — rag dolls, but of feminist icons. Her first set (out now) includes Indian-origin astronaut Kalpana Chawla, American poet and activist Maya Angelou, Indian educationist and social reformer Savitribai Phule, and Mexican painter Frida Kahlo. Nifty with fabric Of the memories she has of her childhood with an eclectic, fabric-collecting mother, Lamech has one that stands out. The family was travelling by road from Delhi to then-Madras, when they spotted a group of Lambani women on the highway. They pulled over and her mother went to speak to them. A few minutes later, the Lambanis were pulling out spare cholis (blouses) and other embroidered materials from their bags, as her mother took out cotton kurtas from her suitcase. They swapped the clothes and, a few moments later, cash was exchanged for a few pieces of their iconic silver jewellery. Her mother also ran one of the only boutiques in the 1990s in Allahabad, where they were based. So Lamech has always had an eye for spotting fabric of aesthetic value. Using this experience, and her working knowledge of Tamil, she began spending time with the women at Prowess in early May to come up with a set of four long-limbed rag dolls, under the initiative The Smritsonian. They have no detailed faces — no eyes or nose — but each carries one distinguishing feature of these women. Chawla comes in her NASA-orange spacesuit with a helmet and boots by a different crochet artist known to Lamech; Angelou has thick dark locks of hair and a removable turban; Phule has her trademark horizontal bindi ; and for Kahlo, it is her unibrow. Feminism for children Owing to Tamil Nadu’s state-wide ban on plastic, the dolls come snuggled in seersucker sleeping bags, along with a letter addressed to the receiver, introducing themselves in first person. “I always wanted feminist dolls for my daughter and son, not battery or plastic dolls,” says Lamech over a call from Kodaikanal, where she remains during the pandemic. “I did buy them a lot of Channapatna toys when they were growing up, but I also want my child to recognise a Kalpana Chawla or a Frida Kahlo at this age. My generation didn’t hear about them till we were in our teens — things are, of course, different now with the Internet — but these are women who deserved to be introduced to our lives much earlier,” she concludes.  The collection is priced between Rs. 300 and Rs. 1,800. To order, call9873344651
19 September 2020||guwahati,||Gorkhas laud Meghalaya CM for supporting Statehood||The Bharatiya Gorkha Parishad (BGP) has lauded Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma for supporting the demand for a separate Gorkhaland State. Mr. Sangma had on September 4 written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah saying the Gorkhas deserve their “Bas Bhoomi” (homeland) and their “just and legitimate demand” should be considered. “The BGP welcomes the support extended to the Gorkhaland demand by Mr. Sangma. In his letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, he has batted for a homeland of the Gorkhas and highlighted the contributions made by the Gorkhas in the nation-building process,” Assam-based BGP leader Nanda Kirati Dewan said. The BGP is the highest body of the Gorkhas in India. ‘Huge expectation’ “About 10.5 million Gorkhas will now have a huge expectation from the Meghalaya CM and his National People’s Party regarding our homeland demand,” Mr. Dewan said. Mr. Sangma’s letter to Mr. Shah read: “Sir, you are aware of the long-pending constitutional demand of the Gorkhas for a separate Gorkhaland state. The Gorkhas have made India their home for a very long period. The contributions of the Gorkhas towards India, their motherland, have been immeasurable and they have made supreme sacrifices in protecting this beloved country.” Stating that the Gorkhas too are rightful Indian citizens, who deserve their own identity and “Bas Bhoomi”, he requested the Union Home Minister to consider the demand and work out a political solution.
19 September 2020||Bhopal,||Bhopal college students connect COVID-19 patients with families||Days after a 72-year-old man contracted COVID-19 he was admitted to the intensive care unit of the Hamidia Hospital here, and intubated as his condition worsened. Separated by the disease with no link inside the ward, his son had just one wish: to see his father just once, tell him how much he loved him. He immediately dialled the Samvad COVID-19 helpline, being operated by a bunch of social sciences college students from a decrepit room inside the hospital compound, which set up a five-minute video call between them. Although his father died the next day, the man was grateful for having seen him in his last moments. Nine students of the Bhopal School of Social Sciences aided by Rachna Dhingra, who works for Bhopal gas tragedy survivors, are helping connect critical and moderate COVID-19 patients with their family members at the government-run hospital and updating them constantly about the status of their kin’s health. From August 28 to September 13, the helpline had received 296 calls with family members asking them about bed availability at hospitals as well as seeking clarification on medical prescriptions, and organised 28 video calls between patients and family members. “During video calls, we ask relatives to be only encouraging to the patients,” said Ayesha Anees Ahmed, 19, a volunteer who studies psychology “Often, relatives didn’t understand the medical jargon used by doctors and approached the helpline instead for clarifications,” explained Phil John Sam, 26, a student of social work.  To call the helpline, dial 0755-4004633.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sanjay Singh accuses U.P. govt. of filing sedition case against him||Aam Aadmi Party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on Friday accused the Yogi Adityanath-headed Uttar Pradesh government of filing a sedition case against him for exposing the incidents of corruption under his government. The Uttar Pradesh police had lodged an FIR against the AAP leader under various Sections of the IPC, including 501A (printing or engraving matter knowing it to be defamatory), 120 (a) (conspiracy) and IT Act, on September 2 at the Hazratganj police station for undertaking a survey, a senior State government official said. However, besides these Sections, a sedition charge under 124 (A) has also been included in the notice sent to Mr. Singh by the Lucknow police on Thursday. The notice, sent to Mr. Singh on his New Delhi address, charged him under IPC 124 A, 153 A (promoting enmity between classes), and 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) besides others mention. Independent probe Mr. Singh has written a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu demanding an independent probe into the matter. In the letter written in Hindi, Mr. Singh has alleged that the U.P. government has registered cases against him at 13 police stations to muzzle his voice. He said he was willing to go to jail in case he was found guilty of any of the charges levelled by the U.P. police. His letter has been endorsed by 37 Rajya Sabha MPs from 12 parties. The list includes recently estranged BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal, Congress, Samajwadi Party, Shiv Sena, DMK, NCP, TMC, RJD, TRS, TDP, CPI and CPI(M). Addressing a press conference, Mr. Singh said he has been slapped with charges of being an “anti-national” after he exposed the ongoing corruption and killing in the State. “In Uttar Pradesh, I raised my voice against injustice and crime. I raised my voice against the corona scandal. Hence, a case of sedition has been filed against me,” he said. DCP, Central Lucknow, Somen Barma said a case was registered against unknown persons and in the process of investigation Mr. Singh’s name surfaced, for which he was served a notice to explain his standpoint. “Only when evidence was collected, his name came to the fore,” said the officer when asked about Mr. Singh’s allegations. Asked if Mr. Singh could be arrested, he said it was “too premature to comment on that”.
19 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||U.P. govt. backtracks on detention centre move||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday night withdrew its decision to start a detention centre for foreigners illegally staying in India at the Ambedkar SC/ST hostel in Ghaziabad. Said to be the State’s first such facility, it was carved out of the hostel’s women’s wing. The centre, located on the Delhi-Meerut Highway in the Nandgram area of Ghaziabad, was expected to house 100-120 persons. The decision came after Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati described the move as “anti-Dalit”. In a tweet, she said this was another proof of the government’s anti-Dalit style of functioning. Ms Mayawati further said the move to turn the hostel, built during BSP rule, into a detention centre was “extremely sad and condemnable”. Ghaziabad District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey confirmed to local media that the government had taken back its decision and said if an alternative proposal was sought by the government, the district administration would suggest another option. However, on Friday, he didn’t respond to The Hindu’s messages. Official sources said the administration was waiting for the orders to come. Officials in the Lucknow secretariat also refused to comment on the issue. Rajesh Pandey, who took over as the district social welfare officer on Friday, after his predecessor met with an accident, said he came to know about the withdrawal from media reports. “I am yet to receive any official communication in this regard,” he said.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi Police registers case after NIC complains of suspected cyberattack||Delhi Police on Friday said it has registered a case on the complaint of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) about a suspected malware attack after one of its staffers faced difficulty in accessing his official email account on a computer. An email was sent to the official ID of an NIC staffer and when the receiver clicked on the link, it appeared that the malware had set in on that particular computer, a senior police officer said, and claimed that there is no loss of NIC data. An FIR was registered in the first week of September on the complaint of the NIC, following which Delhi Police investigated the matter and identified the source, he said. However, the police said they cannot disclose the source yet as they are proceeding further in their investigation.  The reports being carried in certain sections of the media about widespread cyber intrusion involving high offices are unsubstantiated and do not reflect the current stage of investigation, the police said in a statement. In a statement, Additional PRO of Delhi Police Anil Mittal said: “It was found by the NIC that there was an attempted breach by unidentified cyber actors — a kind of regular activity over cyberspace — which was, however, detected by its robust cybersecurity systems.”
19 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Shift to renewable energy mooted for Rajasthan||An effective transition from coal-based power to renewable energy, with an emphasis on infrastructural issues, has been recommended for Rajasthan by an expert report which has taken into account the factors such as aggregate commercial and technical losses, efficiency of network and resource mobilisation. The report titled “Transforming Rajasthan’s electricity sector: An opportunity to power a green recovery”, authored by the experts at the Institute of Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA), was released at a virtual event here on Thursday. The State government’s Energy Department has appointed a committee to address infrastructural issues plaguing the power sector. A discourse at the tri-junction of consumer, economic and environmental aspects has been promoted by the government to resolve the issues of quality, performance and energy security.  Model-based approach IEEFA’s research analyst Kashish Shah, highlighting the findings on Rajasthan’s power sector transition, recommended the adoption of a demand forecasting and energy modelling-based approach for meeting the additional demand through renewable energy sources and by “strategically retiring” the thermal assets. Ajitabh Sharma, Principal Secretary (Energy), said the renewable energy had become cheaper and its installed capacity was about 45% of the total power generation in the State, though it met only 14% of the current electricity demand.
19 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Allottees’ rights not subservient to bank’s: real estate body||Pronouncing judgment in a case pertaining to e-auction of a project by a creditor company, the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HARERA) has ruled that the rights of the allottees are not subservient to those of the bank. The order emphasised that in case of failure of the banks to ensure that the funds were applied for the purpose they were granted, banks cannot be allowed to supersede the rights of the allottees. The matter pertained to M/s Supertech Limited, who is neither the licensee nor a collaborator, approaching PNB Housing Finance Ltd. for a construction loan for the project ‘Supertech Hues’, which was duly advanced to M/s Supertech Limited with M/s Sarv Realtors Pvt. Ltd. as the confirming party by way of equitable mortgage of the project land measuring 33.33 acre by deposit of the title deeds along with receivables from the mortgaged properties. However, M/s Supertech Ltd. failed to repay the loans taken and hence became a defaulter. Consequent upon the said project was put for e-auction by the creditor company. Aggrieved allottee Deepak Chaudhary approached the Authority. The Authority on hearing the matter on urgent basis stayed the e-auction proceeding as prior written approval of the Authority and 2/3 allottees was not taken and any such transfer through e-auction would have jeopardised the interest of 950 allottees who have invested a total amount of Rs. 328.19 crore in the project. Chairman of HARERA Gurugram, K.K. Khandelwal, said a peculiar trend was noticed recently in the real estate sector that promoters mortgaged their project land/structure, as well as all receivables from the sold/unsold inventory to lending organisations/financial institutions/banks/creditors to get bank loans to fund the construction for developing projects. However, when these promoters failed to repay the loans, the financial institutions auctioned the residential or commercial properties that had been pledged with them to recover loans from borrowers by invoking the SARFAESI Act, 2002.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Let BJP run colleges if AAP govt. cannot’||If the Delhi government was unable to run colleges, it should leave it to the BJP, the party said here on Friday. The biggest failure of the Delhi government was non-payment of salaries to teachers, BJP Delhi chief Adesh Gupta said. “Due to this failure, the reputation of renowned DU is at stake,” Mr. Gupta alleged.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Scribe held in Official Secrets Act case||A freelance journalist was on Monday arrested in an Official Secrets Act case, the Delhi police said on Friday. A senior police officer said that accused Rajeev Sharma is a resident of Pitampura. He was found to be in possession of some classified documents related to Defence. An FIR was registered at Janakpuri. An investigation into the matter is in progress and further details will be shared in due course, the officer added. “He will be taken to places from where he procured the documents. We are going through his phone data and call records. The phone and pen drive seized from him have been sent for forensic examination,” added the officer. Mr. Sharma, who have worked with leading newspapers, was produced before a Magistrate on Tuesday. He was sent to police custody for six days.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||punya.in||We’ve had the fast fashion virtual sales, luxury closets going online and support initiatives for India’s weaving communities. Now, homegrown initiatives by NGOs across the country are in the limelight with Rohan Garg and Anant Kapoor’s new e-store, Punya. Unlike platforms like iTokri (handmade artisanal products) and Shunya (recyclable stationery, tableware) that are limited to a particular genre, Punya features everything from masalas to handwoven stoles. What sets the platform apart from others is that all the products have been crafted by their NGO partners (who receive 95.5% of the sales proceeds), including Kilmora that supports makers in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon region, GranMade, that employs elderly women who are out-of-work, and Naz Foundation that works on HIV/AIDS and sexual health. Launched in July, the neatly categorised e-store also features organic body and home care products, and edibles like Himalayan jams. Don’t miss the stationery section, with gold-plated bookmarks and notebooks with bright Madhubani covers. Garg, 23, explains how it started when they noticed people gift each other kilos of sweets (which eventually went to waste) every Diwali. Their Punya Box, launched in 2019, had sweets ideal for a family of four. “We partnered with six NGOs, and the money saved went to a charity of the donor’s choice,” says Lucknow-based Garg. Realising how professional marketing and after-sales support could help NGO-made products, they decided on an exclusive marketplace.  From Rs. 45 to Rs. 1,200.   Up next: New partnerships and, in a few months, hyperlocal virtual markets that will tie up with local NGOs in your city.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||handsondastkar.com||With bustling venues and platforms for the country’s crafts going silent during the pandemic, Dastkar’s Instagram handle has been eagerly tracked for updates on its new e-store: handsondastkar. When it finally did go live last weekend, the selection of handloom saris (woven, printed, embroidered, painted), fabric masks, Madhubani, Gond and other folk art, bags and home decor generated interest. In three days, the platform had 2,155 virtual visitors and billed orders worth Rs. 41,146, though founder Laila Tyabji promises “this is just the beginning”. In the past, they had decided against going virtual as ‘touch’ is integral to buying craft. “There was the question of how Dastkar, without resources or a warehouse, could undertake such a vast venture. So we concentrated on selling craft through bazaars, exhibitions and other platforms, including other e-portals. Some worked, others didn’t. The pandemic and ensuing lockdown made it clear that it was necessary for us to have our own marketing platform,” says Tyabji, who made the site’s first sale: a Madhubani sari. To the artisans, the online platform comes just in time. “It is interesting that folk art, which doesn’t necessarily sell very well at bazaars [difficult to display], does very well online as it photographs well,” says Tyabji, adding, “It is the exact opposite of a [offline] bazaar! There, people love to pick up little knick knacks and gift items, and only go for the more pricey things like saris later. Online, they feel it is not worth going through the hassle for smaller items.” As for the initial glitches, buyers will need to be forgiving. After all, the site was developed in-house, and sourcing clean-cut, e-commerce-ready images from craftspeople during a pandemic can’t be easy. For an outfit that has organised bazaars for 40 years, this is a whole new game. With the craftspeople’s stories going live, Tyabji hopes we understand that “craft is more than just a product and that handsondastkar.com will be more than just a marketing device”.  Rs. 550 - Rs. 41,000 at handsondastkar.com   Up next: More variety, with masks, Madhubani paintings, woven bed covers, kantha embroidered stoles, etc.
19 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||MPD-2041: DDA, housing societies to meet next week||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) will conduct an online meeting on September 23 with residents of group housing societies pertaining to the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi-2041. This will be the third such meeting that the urban body is holding as part of a series of discussions that it is conducting in the run-up to the MPD-2041. “As part of the process, a series of consultations are being carried out with various stakeholders and civil society groups to seek inputs from the people of Delhi that will help drive the agenda for the new master plan,” DDA officials said. Residents of group housing societies in Mayur Vihar, Vasant Kunj, Alaknanda, Paschim Vihar and other areas will be a part of the meeting. “The objective of this meeting is to understand the issues faced by residents living in group housing colonies and discuss possible planning solutions,” the urban body said.
19 September 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Books provided by civic bodies to Class IV students had a distorted map of India, the same maps issued by China and Pakistan, AAP’s Durgesh Pathak alleged on Friday. “Playing with India’s integrity and sovereignty” by the BJP-ruled civic bodies was a “shameful and unacceptable act” and the AAP demands immediate withdrawal of these books and all the BJP leaders and officials associated with this act should be booked for sedition, he said.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Instagram Freeze: On Wednesday, stars like Kim Kardashian West and Mark Ruffalo announced that they would protest Facebook's inaction against hate speech by freezing their Instagram accounts for 24 hours. This was done in concert with civil rights coalition Stop Hate for Profit, but drew flak for being a “publicity stunt” with no real meaning, much like #BlackoutTuesday.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Cheers to DB5||If you like Bond’s grand tourer, here is a drink to match. Bowmore Islay Single Malt Scotch Whisky and Aston Martin’s first collab is the Black Bowmore DB5 1964. The limited edition of 25 bottles — featuring a genuine DB5 piston — come in a handcrafted box with brass hardware and nickel plating to represent the car. Expect flavours of mango, passion fruit and acacia honey with coffee and tobacco smoke, and creme caramel on the nose from this 31-year-old whisky. At approximately Rs. 47.64 lakh. Details: Bowmore.com
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||New singles in town||Ace DJ David Guetta has had a busy lockdown, with two Guinness World Records and now a collaboration with pop star Sia. The new single, 'Let’s Love', is a feel-good anthem and features Sia's signature vocals with Guetta’s chart-topping beats. On YouTube. Indie artiste and designer behind SGBG Atelier, Surya Giri, has launched a new single, 'You are not alone', with Sid Sriram and Shilpa Rao. The first of six tracks slated to release in the coming months, it explores themes of resilience and new beginnings. On YouTube.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru’s book fest||The fourth edition of Neev Literature Festival for Children promises to be a year-long affair, thanks to the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. The online sessions, starting this week, will have Indian and international reading experts and psychologists talking about what happens to the human brain when we read, among other topics. Their Book Club — primarily for parents and educators — will begin with the bookReader, Come Home,by Maryanne Wolf. @neevliteraturefestival on Instagram.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||India’s New Parliament: The much-criticised move to build a new seat of power in New Delhi continues to gain momentum, with Tata Group being awarded the construction bid. At an estimated cost of Rs. 861.9 crore, it is set to be built in a timeline of 21 months. Let’s hope the spiking coronavirus cases, migrant worker crisis, and crashing economy will get some attention too.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Blossoms and Spike Lee||Maker of luxury writing instruments, Montblanc, has been busy this season. Three weeks after they launched their What Moves You, Makes You global campaign — featuring filmmaker Spike Lee, who incidentally writes all his scripts by hand — they rolled out the Meisterstück Maki-e Calligraphy Tribute to Kyoto Fine Craftsmanship Limited Edition 88. A kimono adorned with delicate blossoms is engraved into the handcrafted nib made of Au 750 solid gold. On pre-order at Montblanc boutiques.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Add Apple to cart||Starting September 23, users in India can shop for the full suite of Apple products on a dedicated online store, with free delivery within 24 to 72 hours. This long overdue move comes 33 years after the tech company first stepped into online retail. Expect packaging and counselling sessions, financing options, online support in English, and phone support in Hindi and English. Customisation options include Macs built with personalised configuration, engraving on iPad, Apple Pencil and Air Pods.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Saris plus vintage fashion||Amethyst brings Raw Mango to Chennai with 30% to 50% off on handwovenchanderiand Banarasi silk saris, petticoats inmashrusilks and blouses in brocades, silks and cotton. From Rs. 2,350. 11 am to 7.30 pm.7338899176. Sujala Newar of The Local Vintage in Mumbai has curated a collection of blouses, accessories, scarves and bags from family friend Gulnar Soli Bharucha's closet. These eclectic pieces from the 60s to the 90s, collected from her travels across the world, will be available via Instagram @shopthelocalvintage
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Armani sportswear alert||While the future of luxury fashion remains uncertain, sportswear is where all the action is right now. So this is the right time for EA7 Emporio Armani, Giorgio Armani’s sportswear brand, to open their first standalone store in India. There is e-commerce too, with Reliance Brands Limited. The technical sportswear line has Training, Water, Tennis, Club, Speed, Basket and Mountain categories, in the distinctive Armani style. At Select City Walk, New Delhi and AJIO.com.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Life after PUBG||“I remember going blank. I had no other source of income and my future looked very bleak.” Rishab ‘Encore’ Katoch, a 23-year-old Delhi-based gamer, was one of thousands who, 17 days ago, woke up to the news that the Indian government had banned PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG to the rest of us), along with 117 other Chinese apps, over privacy and security concerns. The multiplayer battle royale mobile game — a genre that blends survival and last-man-standing gameplay — was not only an arena for intense virtual matches, but also a revenue generator (players live stream their game via YouTube channels and Facebook watch parties). A professional gamer can earn anywhere between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 2 lakh a month. Once Katoch calmed down, however, and spoke to fellow gamers, he realised he could diversify his sources of income. As it turns out, those with well-established YouTube channels, where they played a larger selection of games such as Grand Theft Auto V (GTA 5) and survival shooter Garena Free Fire are better off after the PUBG ban. “I can’t concentrate on only one source of income; something like this can happen again,” says the engineering graduate. The impact of the ban on the gaming community has been swift and devastating (prior to the ban, PUBG had around 40 million monthly active users in India). Here’s one example: MegaStars, among the top seven professional teams in India that competes globally, has disbanded. Just a month ago, they were in talks to begin streaming on Nimo TV, a platform with a presence in South and Southeast Asia, and South America. But many are holding on to hope of a return. There’s news that Bluehole, a South Korean video game company, is taking control of publishing in India (which was earlier handled by Tencent Holdings, a Chinese tech conglomerate). There are also reports of PUBG Corporation signing agreements with an Indian gaming firm.  Before the ban  Gaming in India has moved from being a pastime to establishing itself as a robust industry. “Esports has been around for more than a decade. It is just of late that it has got mainstream attention,” says Lokesh Suji, Director, Esports Federation of India. In the 2018 Asian Games in Indonesia, Tirth Mehta won a bronze in the Hearthstone event, while Karan Manganani placed fourth in another event. But it was PUBG that brought esports to the masses. Mobile gaming is easily accessible and, thanks to operators cutting their costs, it has caught on in tier-2 and tier-3 cities too. Tournaments such as Mobile Lite Championship and Mobile Professional League see prize pools running into lakhs of rupees. Post lockdown has also witnessed an increase in participation — Gurugram-based Nodwin Gaming’s ESL India Premiership saw a 300% increase in registrations this year, as compared to 2019. “Investors like us, who started giving salaries and sponsoring devices for players, have seen a lot of ROI [return on investment],” says Lokesh Jain, co-founder of 8bit, an esports company and talent management agency for upcoming gamers. His first reaction to the ban was to encourage his gamers to find alternatives. While 8Bit rosters for games like Clash Royale (a real-time strategy game) and Free Fire remain unaffected, gamers have started trying other battle royale games such as Call of Duty Mobile (its download surged to 1.15 million after the ban, according to the Sportskeeda website).  The Indian narrative  Indian gaming companies such as Nazara Technologies, Octro, Dream 11, Hitwicket Games and Gamezop are upping the ante with new offerings. The most recent to join the block is Bengaluru-based nCore Games’ Fearless and United: Guards, or FAU-G. Announced a couple of weeks ago by Bollywood star Akshay Kumar, it will follow a storytelling mode, where gamers will learn about Indian soldiers and battles as they clear levels. “Call of Duty is based on the two World Wars. We wanted to build a game that Indians could have a strong emotional connect with,” says co-founder Vishal Gondal. The first edition, set to release sometime next month, will feature the Galwan Valley and multiplayer mode. Storytelling that draws on Indian mythology — such as 2018’s Asura, from Hyderabad-based Ogre Head Studio (the first Nintendo Switch game made in India, which fuses Hindu myth with combat play) — or even the recent border skirmishes (as inspiration for combat games) could be the future. But first, we need to encourage more game development. “The fact is that monetisation of games has remained poor until recently,” says Gaurav Agarwal, co-founder of Gurugram-based Gamezop, a multigame platform. “Ad revenues from Indian users is low and users do not spend to buy in-game goods.” But the scenario is changing, with real money gaming and mobile esports (a recent article onQuint, the news website, put game developers in India at 250, up from just 25 in 2010).  Looking at streaming  Streaming platforms and apps are also set to get bigger. “Casual games [like poker and chess] can easily turn into esports when played competitively,” says Parth Chadha, founder of nine-month-old EWar Games, another Bengaluru-based start-up. Currently, the EWar app — with games like Call of Duty and Clash Royale — is available in eight regional languages, including Hindi, Kannada, Telugu and Tamil. Gamers can also stream on it. Similarly, one-year-old Bengaluru-based Rheo offers a dedicated channel (Rheo Studio) for streaming. Co-founder Saksham Keshri says, “This is specifically for users to watch streamers and chat with them. If you want to stream, just log in, select your game and sync your mobile to our server.” India’s go-to platform? It is YouTube, though Amazon-owned Twitch calls the shots globally (the latter’s subscription plans aren’t popular since Indian gamers, largely, aren’t earning a sizeable income yet).  Train to be a pro  The Indian ecosystem, be it gaming, streaming, casting or content creation, has come a long way. It is also no longer a man’s den — what with names like Nutan Lele, Manasvi ‘Vivi’ Dalvi and Paridhi ‘Raven’ Khullar making news. But the times are tough. Despite plans to get the game back, players worry about modifications being made. “If PUBG comes back with a version only for India, it wouldn’t be a great idea,” says Anuj ‘Amaterasu’ Sharma, who started gaming in grade 10. In the 14-odd years he’s been playing, he has represented India in numerous global esports competitions, including the Esports World Convention held in Paris last year. “Every gamer’s dream is to represent their country. What’s the point in just playing among ourselves?” The need of the hour is acceptance, especially as a career option. In the West, professional video game tournaments fill 50,000-seat arenas and sponsorships run into millions. “Even at 22, you’ve already lost your prime time [for gaming],” says Sharma. “Children in China, Europe and the US get into gaming at 13 and 14.” Access to esports training academies (which we have none at the moment) is imperative. Nodwin Gaming is making a start. “We’re looking to work with key stakeholders such as teams, schools, colleges and governments to build academies,” says Akshat Rathee, co-founder, who hopes to have three academies set up in the next couple of years.
19 September 2020||September 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Life after PUBG||“I remember going completely blank. I had no other source of income and my future looked very bleak,” says Rishab ‘Encore’ Katoch, a 23-year-old Delhi-based gamer, was one of thousands who, 17 days ago, woke up to the news that the Indian government had banned PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds (PUBG to the rest of us), along with 117 other Chinese apps, over privacy and security concerns. The multiplayer battle royale mobile game — a genre that blends survival and last-man-standing gameplay — was not only an arena for intense virtual matches, but also a revenue generator (players live stream their game via YouTube channels and Facebook watch parties). A professional gamer can earn anywhere between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 2 lakh a month. Once Katoch calmed down, however, and spoke to fellow gamers, he realised he could diversify his sources of income. As it turns out, those with well-established YouTube channels, where they played a larger selection of games such as Grand Theft Auto V (GTA 5) and survival shooter Garena Free Fire are better off after the PUBG ban. “I can’t concentrate on only one source of income; something like this can happen again,” says the engineering graduate. The impact of the ban on the gaming community has been swift and devastating (prior to the ban, PUBG had around 40 million monthly active users in India). Here’s one example: MegaStars, among the top seven professional teams in India that competes globally, has disbanded. Just a month ago, they were in talks to begin streaming on Nimo TV, a platform with a presence in South and Southeast Asia, and South America. But many are holding on to hope of a return. There’s news that Bluehole, a South Korean video game company, is taking control of publishing in India (which was earlier handled by Tencent Holdings, a Chinese tech conglomerate). There are also reports of PUBG Corporation signing agreements with an Indian gaming firm. Before the ban Gaming in India has moved from being a pastime to establishing itself as a robust industry. “E-sports has been around for more than a decade. It is just of late that it has got mainstream attention,” says Lokesh Suji, Director, Esports Federation of India. In the 2018 Asian Games in Indonesia, Tirth Mehta won a bronze in the Hearthstone event, while Karan Manganani placed fourth in another event. But it was PUBG that brought e-sports to the masses. Mobile gaming is easily accessible and, thanks to operators cutting their costs, it has caught on in tier-2 and tier-3 cities too. Tournaments such as Mobile Lite Championship and Mobile Professional League see prize pools running into lakhs of rupees. Post-lockdown has witnessed an increase in participation — Gurugram-based Nodwin Gaming’s ESL India Premiership saw a 300% increase in registrations this year, as compared to 2019. “Investors like us, who started giving salaries and sponsoring devices for players, have seen a lot of ROI [return on investment],” says Lokesh Jain, co-founder of 8bit, an e-sports company and talent management agency for upcoming gamers. His first reaction to the ban was to encourage his gamers to find alternatives. While 8Bit rosters for games like Clash Royale (a real-time strategy game) and Free Fire remain unaffected, gamers have started trying other battle royale games such as Call of Duty Mobile (its download surged to 1.15 million after the ban, according to the Sportskeeda website).  The Indian narrative  Indian gaming companies such as Nazara Technologies, Octro, Dream 11, Hitwicket Games, and Gamezop are upping the ante with new offerings. The most recent to join the block is Bengaluru-based nCore Games’s Fearless and United: Guards, or FAU-G. Announced a couple of weeks ago by Bollywood star Akshay Kumar, it will follow a storytelling mode, where gamers will learn about Indian soldiers and battles as they clear levels. “Call of Duty is based on the two World Wars. We wanted to build a game that Indians could have a strong emotional connect with,” says co-founder Vishal Gondal. The first edition, which is set to release sometime next month, will feature the Galwan Valley in Ladakh and multiplayer mode. Storytelling that draws on Indian mythology — such as 2018’s Asura, from Hyderabad-based Ogre Head Studio (the first Nintendo Switch game made in India, which fuses Hindu myth with combat play) — or even the recent border skirmishes (as inspiration for combat games) could be the future. But first, we need to encourage more game development. “The fact is that monetisation of games has remained poor until recently,” says Gaurav Agarwal, co-founder of Gurugram-based Gamezop, a multigame platform. “Ad revenues from Indian users is low and users do not spend to buy in-game goods.” But the scenario is changing, with real money gaming and mobile e-sports (a recent article onThe Quint, the news website, put game developers in India at 250, up from just 25 in 2010).  Looking at streaming  Streaming platforms and apps are also set to get bigger. “Casual games [like poker and chess] can easily turn into e-sports when played competitively,” says Parth Chadha, founder of nine-month-old EWar Games, another Bengaluru-based startup. Currently, the EWar app — with games like Call of Duty and Clash Royale — is available in eight regional languages, including Hindi, Kannada, Telugu and Tamil. Gamers can also stream on it. Similarly, one-year-old Bengaluru-based Rheo offers a dedicated channel (Rheo Studio) for streaming. Co-founder Saksham Keshri says, “This is specifically for users to watch streamers and chat with them. If you want to stream, just log in, select your game and sync your mobile to our server.” India’s go-to platform? It is YouTube, though Amazon-owned Twitch calls the shots globally (the latter’s subscription plans aren’t popular since Indian gamers aren’t earning a sizeable income yet).  Train to be a pro  The Indian ecosystem, be it gaming, streaming, casting or content creation, has come a long way. It is also no longer a man’s den — with names like Nutan Lele, Manasvi ‘Vivi’ Dalvi and Paridhi ‘Raven’ Khullar making news. But the times are tough. Despite plans to get the game back, players worry about modifications being made. “If PUBG comes back with a version only for India, it wouldn’t be a great idea,” says Anuj ‘Amaterasu’ Sharma, who started gaming in grade 10. In the 14-odd years he’s been playing, he has represented India in numerous global e-sports competitions, including the Esports World Convention held in Paris last year. “Every gamer’s dream is to represent their country. What’s the point in just playing among ourselves?” The need of the hour is acceptance, especially as a career option. In the West, professional video game tournaments fill 50,000-seat arenas and sponsorships run into millions. “Even at 22, you’ve already lost your prime time [for gaming],” says Sharma. “Children in China, Europe and the U.S. get into gaming at 13 and 14.” Access to e-sports training academies (which we have none at the moment) is imperative. Nodwin Gaming is making a start. “We’re looking to work with key stakeholders such as teams, schools, colleges and governments to build academies,” says Akshat Rathee, co-founder, who hopes to have three academies set up in the next couple of years.
