19 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan Congress claims majority, asks rebels to return||Despite the political crisis in Rajasthan showing no signs of abating, the ruling Congress on Saturday claimed that it had a “comfortable majority” in the State Assembly and turned up the heat on dissidents to return to the party fold. Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra, who replaced Sachin Pilot, said the rebel MLAs, who had fallen into the trap of the BJP, would soon realise their mistake. “If they come back to the party fold, we will accept them with dignity... We have full sympathy for them.” Earlier in the day, the Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau registered a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, based on audio tapes allegedly revealing efforts at luring lawmakers with money. The FIR named rebel Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma as the one making the deals. This follows the two FIRs lodged by the Special Operations Group of the State police.
19 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Pandemic leaves Uttarakhand’s pilgrimage industry gasping||With the governments of Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana suspending the annual Kanwar Yatra this year, Shravan (July) is turning out to be a dry month for those involved in the pilgrimage and religious tourism industry. Under normal circumstances, crores of devotees visit the pilgrimage city of Haridwar through the month to carry back with them waters from the Ganga, which is then offered at Shiva temples across western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan. Mahant Narayan Giri, chief priest of the Doodheshwar temple in Ghaziabad, said the holy month used to bring donations and business worth Rs. 6 lakh to Rs. 7 lakh that sustained temple staff through the year. “Now, with the temples shut, donations have reduced to almost nil. Around 200 people, including priests and students, used to stay on the temple premises before the lockdown. That number has come down to 50. This is apart from the ancillary businesses that thrived on the arrival of devotees,” the Mahant said. Social activist Prem Bahukhandi, chairman of Friends of Himalayas, said that though the Kanwar Yatra was not seen as a great revenue generator in Uttarakhand, it did bring business worth around Rs. 30 crore-Rs. 35 crore as two to three crore pilgrims reached Haridwar during the month. “It [the yatra] is a temporary job creator for millions. It’s as if the father has a grocery shop, the unemployed son would set up a table outside and sell flowers or corn. Many also made money by selling ganja (hemp),” Mr. Bahukandi said. Not just Hindus, he said, but Muslim families too were supported by the pilgrimage as many in the Jwalapur area in Haridwar were involved in making the kanwars that the devotees carry on their shoulders. Chain reaction The president of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Uttarakhand, Sandeep Sahni, likened religious tourism to a chain. “If one link of the chain is affected, the others feel the pinch too. From the camps set up by the local Kanwar samitis (organisation) to the temporary dhabas to feed the thousands of devotees, the Yatra is crucial for the lowest segment of the tourism business in Haridwar and it has completely collapsed this year,” Mr. Sahni said. The faithful are finding ways to worship their gods during the pandemic. Mahant Giri said this year on the occasion of Shivaratri, Ganga water would be drawn from the Upper Ganga Canal in Muradnagar, popularly called Chhota Haridwar. “The municipal corporation has promised help,” he said.
19 July 2020||Mangaluru,||Eminent scholar U. P. Upadhyaya passes away near Udupi||Scholar and editor-in-chief of the monumental linguistic work, the Tulu Lexicon, Uliyar Padmanabha Upadhyaya passed away near Udupi on Friday night. He was 88, and is survived by a son and a daughter. Sources said that he breathed his last at a hospital in Manipal at 11.30 p.m. on Friday. His wife Susheela, also a Tulu scholar and who had compiled the lexicon with him, passed away in 2014. Mr. Upadhyaya was born in a priestly scholar family at Uliyar in Majur village near Kaup in Udupi district on April 10, 1932. His father, Sitaram Upadhyaya, was a reputed scholar in the court of the Maharaja of Travancore. The Tulu Lexicon, published by the Rashtrakavi Govinda Pai Samshodhana Kendra at Udupi, had six volumes and was a major contribution to linguistics by the couple. Its first volume was published in 1988 and the last in 1997. Playwright K. Mahalinga Bhat, Associate Professor in Kannada, St. Aloysius Evening College, Mangaluru, told The Hindu that the Tulu Lexicon project was a major work among Indian languages. The couple had followed the dictionary science and methodology in compiling it and it is of an international standard. Research in folklore The Upadhyayas also did significant research in linguistics and folklore and produced a number of books — some of them jointly, some individually, and some in collaboration with others, he said. Critic Muralidhar Upadhya Hiriyadkka said that in addition to Tulu, the couple had made significant contribution to folklore research. The Tulu Lexicon, with more than 3,000 pages, is the product of 18 years of hard work, he said. The lexicon gives meanings to various words and terms in three languages: Tulu, English, and Kannada. In addition, it also mentions the etymology and cultural explanations of words, along with comparable ones in other Dravidian languages and Sanskrit. He had a good command over Hindi, Kannada, Tulu, Malayalam, Tamil, English, French, and Olof, the language of Senegal in Africa.
19 July 2020||Kolkata,||‘COVID-19 situation in control’||The West Bengal government on Saturday urged people not to panic over the spread of COVID-19 and assured them that the situation is under control. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said there are no plans to introduce a lockdown in the State, but strict restrictions will be enforced in containment zones. He said, “We are always saying people should not panic but probably due to lack of information or misinformation, people are starting to panic. The situation is not out of control. The situation is deteriorating everywhere, not only in West Bengal.” Mr. Sinha said the case fatality rate has dropped to 2.7% and is close to the national average of 2.5%. He said of the 14,709 active cases, 72% patients are asymptomatic, 8.5% are moderate and 4.5% are serious. Mr. Sinha said, “Due to the improvement in health infrastructure, only 4.5% are serious. This is the figure that needs to be highlighted.” He said the cases in the State are likely to increase but the government is prepared to tackle the situation. The government also announced a helpline through which people in home isolation can seek opinions and suggestions. Later in the day, the State’s Home Department took to social media and also assured people that there was no need of panic. “Only 662 patients are in the serious category, while 1,250 are moderate. That means only 1,912 patients need to be in hospital. Rest 12,796 are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic,” the department said and added that the State’s testing rate is above the World Health Organization’s threshold.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,||OPD consultation, surgeries to get costlier in pvt. hospitals||A visit to a private hospital, either for a surgical procedure or for an out-patient consultation, will be more expensive for people seeking treatment for non COVID-19 related ailments. Private hospitals in the city are planning to introduce a new “service charge” to recover the cost for providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to staff and for putting in place a slew of other precautionary measures in light of a surge in COVID-19 cases. This surcharge is likely to increase the total bill by 10%. R. Ravindra, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), said that most of the 326 private hospitals in the city will levy this surcharge in the coming weeks. “The rates to treat COVID-19 patients are fixed and all costs are included. But for non-COVID patients, who come for any procedure or for out-patient services, the cost will increase,” he said. Some hospitals have already started billing the extra 10% charge, and most others will implement it in the coming weeks. Hospital managements that The Hindu spoke to said that they tried not to pass on the burden to patients, but admitted that it was becoming increasingly uneconomical as they have to procure PPE, face shields, masks, gloves, and sanitisers to ensure that both their staff and patients do not contract the virus in the hospital. Different approach A few hospitals, like HOSMAT, are not planning to add the extra charge, but instead are asking patients to provide the necessary PPE kits that they require. Ajit Benedict Royan, medical director, HOSMAT Hospital, said that they are asking the patients who have to undergo the surgeries to procure PPEs for their staff from their pharmacy. “We ask the patient's family to buy PPEs from the pharmacy in the hospital. A maximum of three PPEs have to be procured for each surgery,” he said. Another reason for the surcharge is that people are not going to hospitals unless absolutely necessary or are delaying medical treatment. The managing director of another private hospital in Bengaluru said that the patient flow in the hospital is still 50% lower than what it was before the COVID-19 pandemic in March. “It has become extremely difficult to run the hospitals and we are struggling to meet our recurring costs and pay salaries to our employees. We have no other option other than including this surcharge,” he said. Patients, particularly those who do not have insurance, say that even a 10% increase will be steep. “I was able to get insurance coverage for my father who is over 65 years. Even a small escalation in cost will affect middle-class families like us dramatically,” said a 40-year-old software engineer.  The rates to treat COVID-19 patients are fixed and all costs are included. But for non-COVID patients, who come for any procedure or for out-patient services, the cost will increase. R. Ravindra, President of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association
19 July 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai’s recovery rate 7% more than national average||At 70%, Mumbai’s COVID-19 recovery rate is 7% more than the national average and 15% higher than that of Maharashtra (55.62%), official data has revealed. There were 3,42,756 active cases in the country till Friday and the number of recovered patients was 6.35 lakh, which is 63% of the reported cases, the Press Information Bureau said. According to the Maharashtra Medical Education and Drugs Department, there are 24,307 active cases in Mumbai, while 67,830 patients have been discharged. The recovery rate in Mumbai stood at 50% in mid-June, when the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched Mission Zero under its Rapid Action Plan to contain the virus. The rate improved to 57% on July 1 and 70% on July 15.  ‘No religious gatherings’ Ahead of Eid and Ganesh Chaturthi, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday reiterated that religious, social and political gatherings will remain prohibited in view of COVID-19. “Care should be taken to ensure that new containment zones are not created,” he said.  The Chief Minister also asked officials to appoint auditors at COVID-19 hospitals to ensure that patients are not fleeced. He also told them to monitor the implementation of the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Aarogya scheme and availability of beds in hospitals. “At present, 540 patients are on ventilator support in the State,” he said, adding that every district will now have a nodal testing officer.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,||10 firms evince interest in WTE plant at Brahmapuram||Ten companies have participated in the pre-bid meeting for the centralised waste-to-energy plant (WTE) of 300 tonnes per day capacity to be implemented under the public-private-partnership in Brahmapuram. The meeting was organised by the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) through video conferencing on Thursday in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. The companies that attended the pre-bid meeting included AICA Energy Pvt Ltd; Tholani Clean Energy Pvt. Ltd; Blue Planet Environmental Solutions India Pvt Ltd; BELL Infrastructure Ltd; Zonta Infra tech Pvt Ltd; Organic Recycling Systems Pvt Ltd; Excel Cemfuel Ltd; PBK Associates; New Age Environment Solutions Pvt Ltd; and Zigma Global Environ Solutions Pvt Ltd, according to people close to the development. The queries of the stakeholders were answered during the online meeting. They were told to send the questions through mail before the pre-bid meeting. As per the present schedule, the tender documents including the technical and financial bids have to be submitted before August 4. But the deadline may be extended in view of the various logistical and other hurdles being faced by the prospective bidders amidst the pandemic crisis, said officials. LOI in 8 weeks The KSIDC plans to issue the letter of intent (LOI) within eight weeks from opening of the financial proposal. The LOI can be issued by the end of this year, they said. The government agency had already executed the agreement for the waste-to-energy plant coming up at Kozhikode. The LOIs have been issued for similar projects to be set up at Kannur, Palakkad, and Kollam.  The Hindu had reported on Friday that the firm to be chosen for the execution of the centralised waste-to-energy plant at 20 acres in Brahmapuram will enjoy the rights to mortgage the leasehold rights on the 20-acres at Brahmapuram for raising funds for the project. The Secretary, Kochi Corporation, has been asked to hand over the 20 acres to the KSIDC on a lease basis. The government agency will sub-lease the land to the firm for 27 years, with permission to mortgage the leasehold rights on the land for raising funds for the project only. The plant will be set up based on the Design-Build-Finance-Operate-Transfer mode for the Ernakulam cluster of local bodies. The cluster includes Kochi Corporation and the municipaliteis of Thrikkakara, Thripunithura, Kalamassery, Eloor, Maradu, Aluva, Perumbavoor, Angamaly, North Paravur, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam, Piravom, and Koothattukulam.
19 July 2020||KALABURAGI,||Water released from Sonna barrage after heavy inflow||Water was released at the rate of around 4,000 cusecs on Saturday from the Sonna barrage built across the Bhima at Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi district, as the barrage was receiving heavy inflow after the Bhima catchment area in Karnataka and Maharashtra received good rainfall. Ashok R. Kalal, executive engineer of Bhima Lift Irrigation Project, said the barrage was receiving water at the rate of 4,000 cusecs and the same amount was released into the river as a precaution. He also cautioned people along the river course against approaching it or letting their cattle into the river. The barrage held around 2.74 tmcft of water on Saturday, as against its capacity of 3.16 tmcft. The water level was a little higher than that recorded on the same day last year, and was equal to what was recorded in the second week of August last year.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||In record spike, State reports 52 deaths, 3,963 cases||In an alarming rise in the number of COVID-19 cases, the State has reported 3,963 fresh positive cases and 52 deaths in the past 24 hours as of Saturday morning. Both the single-day tally and deaths are the highest spikes so far. The tally has gone up to 44,609 and the death toll climbed to 586. The number of active patients increased to 22,260, and with 1,465 new discharges, the number of recoveries too went up to 21,763. However, the recovery rate came down to 48.7%. 16.6% positivity rate The positivity rate of the tests conducted in the past day is at 16.6% which is the highest among daily positivity rates so far. The overall positivity rate is at 3.47%, according to the Health Department's bulletin. In the past day 23,872 samples were tested and so far 12,84,384 lakh samples were tested. The tests per million ratio is 24,052. New deaths were reported in 11 districts, and East Godavari alone reported 12 deaths in a single day. Eight deaths each occurred in Guntur and Krishna, and Anantapur saw seven deaths. West Godavari reported five, Prakasam reported four, Nellore reported three and Visakhapatnam reported two deaths. Chittoor, Kadapa and Vizianagaram reported one death each. Mortality rate is at 1.31%. Meanwhile, East Godavari district has turned into a hotspot with a rapid increase in the number of cases. In the past day, it reported a whopping 994 new cases and in the past three days, East Godavari reported 2,137 new cases. Further, the new cases were reported in Kurnool (550), West Godavari (407), Chittoor (343), Nellore (278), Prakasam (266), Anantapur (220), Guntur (214), Srikakulam (182), Kadapa (145), Krishna (130), Vizianagaram (118) and Visakhapatnam (116). For the first time,all the new cases are of locals and no imported cases were reported.
19 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||593 new cases, local transmission unabated||Local transmission of COVID-19 now accounts for over 60% of the total cases reported in the State, with a significant increase in the number of cases for which authorities have not been able to establish an epidemiological link. New patient clusters are being reported from coastal as well as urban areas in most districts. The State reported 593 new cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case burden to 11,659. While there was a marginal reduction in the total number of new cases reported on Saturday, the proportion of cases occurring through local transmission remained unchanged, with 385 out of the 593 cases being reported from the community. No epidemiological link has been found in 36 cases. These cases include 19 health-care workers in various districts. Two more deaths Two deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram district, taking the death toll in the State to 40. 204 recoveries The number of recoveries was 204. Of the 11,659 cases reported so far, the number of recoveries have been 5,201. The number of active cases in hospitals in various districts is 6,841. Thiruvananthapuram, with 173 new cases, again accounted for the maximum number of fresh cases on Saturday. Of these, 157 were local transmission cases. More areas in the State have been designated as hotspots, with local transmission going up and clusters forming in all districts. The number of hotspots now is 299. More treatment centres Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Health and Local Self-Government Departments and the district disaster management authorities were engaged in setting up more COVID first-line treatment centres to handle the huge volume of patients who seem to be asymptomatic. The authorities were attempting to do intensive testing in containment zones and trying to pinpoint the cause of local transmission in the community clusters so that disease containment could be limited within the clusters. Mr. Vijayan said all police stations would have at least one oxygen cylinder in stock which could be mobilised in emergency situation.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai becomes first city to test five lakh residents for COVID-19||The Greater Chennai Corporation has conducted 5 lakh RT-PCR tests for COVID-19, making the city the first in the country to achieve the feat. Launching a motorcycle rally to create awareness of the disease from Ripon Buildings on Saturday, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the State government had spent Rs. 200 crore on testing residents in the city’s 15 zones. A total of Rs. 400 crore had so far been spent on containment measures. “Our aim is to reduce the positivity rate to 5% this month. The positivity rate has come down from 37% to 12%. Before the lockdown, 1,400 people out of 4,000 tested positive. Now, it is 1,200 out of 13,000,” he said. The number of residents being tested has touched 13,000 per day. Stressing the need for immediate care after a positive test, he said the Corporation had taken steps to reduce patient turnaround time from 6 hours to 3 hours, asking sanitary inspectors to take them for further examination immediately after the test data was received. “We have developed a portal to facilitate screening of patients before making a decision on home isolation, tertiary care or care centres. Over 350 doctors are at work to screen patients,” he said. Zones like Royapuram, once a hotspot, have registered a case doubling time of three-and-a-half months. The city’s case doubling time was 47 days, as against 21 days for the country, he said. As many as 20,000 beds had been readied in the city. “As many as 5 lakh residents who tested positive have been released from quarantine. A total of 8.5 lakh people have so far been quarantined. Over 11 lakh have participated in 18,000 fever camps and 60,000 have tested positive. Over 80% of the patients have been treated,” he said.
19 July 2020||Kolkata,||Mobile app KURMA helps save turtles in India||On May 23, 2020, World Turtle Day, a number of conservation agencies launched a citizen science initiative, a mobile-based application called KURMA, aimed at turtle conservation. The application, developed by the Indian Turtle Conservation Action Network (ITCAN) in collaboration with the Turtle Survival Alliance-India and Wildlife Conservation Society-India, not only provides users a database to identify a species but also provides the location of the nearest rescue centre for turtles across the country. “The KURMA App is free to download. It serves as a digital database, with a built-in digital field guide covering 29 species of freshwater turtles and tortoises of India, and information on turtle identification, distribution, vernacular names, and threats,” Shailendra Singh, director of Turtle Survival Alliance-India, said. Tortoise and freshwater turtles are among the most trafficked in the country. Report A report released in 2019 by TRAFFIC, an international wildlife trade monitoring organisation, showed that at least 200 tortoises and freshwater turtles fall prey to illicit poaching and smuggling every week, or 11,000 each year, adding up to over 1,11,130 turtles poached or smuggled between September 2009 and September 2019. One of the major challenges for freshwater turtle conservation in the country is that wildlife crime prevention agencies are not sufficiently equipped to know how to distinguish one species from the other, or their protection status in accordance with CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species) and the Wildlife Protection Act. “Suppose turtles are recovered at Kolkata Airport, then KURMA will help you reach five places in Kolkata that one can approach for help. Different rescue centres are also registered on the app, and also a number of experts who can provide more information on the species,” Mr. Singh said. Assistance facilities Within only a few weeks, 90 assistance facilities have been registered on the app. If anyone reports a turtle from any part of the country using KURMA, he or she receives advice about the species and its conservation. The organisations that have developed the app said it was generating a good response.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||L-G gives CM a week to decide on Delhi Police lawyers for riots cases||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, asking him to take a decision within a week regarding Delhi Police’s proposal to appoint six senior advocates to argue on its behalf in north-east Delhi riots and anti-CAA protest cases. Mr. Baijal wrote that acting Home Minister Manish Sisodia did not agree to Delhi Police’s proposal despite the force providing detailed justifications for it. According to sources, a meeting between Mr. Baijal and Mr. Sisodia through videoconference took place on Friday but the matter could not be resolved. AAP objected to the “constant intervention” of the L-G in the appointment of special public prosecutors in cases pertaining to riots. The L-G was quoted as having requested Mr. Kejriwal to refer the matter to the Council of Ministers and take a decision “expeditiously, preferably within a week”. According to sources, the L-G was expected to have the final word on the issue if the Cabinet did not agree to the request. Mr. Baijal can invoke his special powers under the provisions of Article 239AA (4) of the Constitution. The first confrontation between the AAP government and the L-G over the appointment of 11 special public prosecutors in riots cases happened in June. When the government rejected the police’s request, the L-G had invoked his special powers.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||More than 1 lakh recoveries in Delhi||A total of 1,475 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,21,582, said a Delhi government health bulletin. Also, 26 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 3,597. Of the total cases, 1,01,274 people have recovered and 16,711 cases are active. Since June 23, when the new virus cases almost touched 4,000, the number of new cases has been dropping and it has been less than 2,000 for the last eight days.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Anil Kumar transferred; Manjunath Prasad is new BBMP Commissioner||Amidst the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city, the State government on Saturday transferred B.H. Anil Kumar, who held the post of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner. He was replaced by the Principal Secretary of the Revenue Department, N. Manjunath Prasad. Mr. Prasad, a notification said, has also been placed under concurrent charge as Principal Secretary [Disaster Management, Bhoomi and UPOR], Revenue Department. According to sources, Revenue Minister R. Ashok is said to have influenced the appointment of Mr. Prasad as BBMP Commissioner. Incidentally, he is one of the longest serving Commissioners, having served over three years, and preceded Mr. Anil Kumar. Meets officials Mr. Prasad, who took charge on Saturday evening, met senior civic officials to understand the issues, particularly where the BBMP was going wrong in managing the pandemic, and visited the BBMP war room. He told The Hindu that getting laboratories to collect the complete contact details of those getting tested for COVID-19, effective management at the divisional level, and utilising the war room data analysis for better decision making were the priority at the moment. “I will be visiting the zones on Sunday to oversee activities taken up there,” he said. Rumours of a change of guard at the BBMP had been doing the rounds over the past few days. This was after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa openly expressed unhappiness over the increase in cases in Bengaluru and the civic body’s lack of preparedness to tackle it. While Mr. Yediyurappa has made statements against the possible extension of the lockdown, Mr. Anil Kumar, as well as Mayor M. Goutham Kumar, had contradicted him by stating that the lockdown should be extended by another week to break the chain. The State government also faced embarrassment due to Mr. Anil Kumar’s claims before the High Court of Karnataka on the management of containment zones. The government recently appointed G. Kumar Naik, Principal Secretary, Department of Social Welfare, to ensure the standard operating procedures (SOPs) are properly implemented in the city, especially in containment zones. The recent controversy of renting out cots, beds and other infrastructure required in the COVID Care Centres (CCC), especially at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC), also seems to have played a part in the government’s decision. That apart, several complaints have been filed against Mr. Anil Kumar with the Anti-Corruption Bureau. However, no FIRs have been filed as yet. Mr. Anil Kumar has now been posted as Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Public Enterprises. V. Rashmi Mahesh has been posted as Secretary, Department of Kannada and Culture, the notification added.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. mulls Australia’s entry into Malabar drill||A key meeting of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Friday discussed the issue of inviting Australia for the trilateral Malabar naval exercise with Japan and the United States. However, a final decision has not been taken yet, two defence sources said. “The issue was discussed and an understanding has been reached but no final decision has been taken yet,” a defence source told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. There is increasing consensus at the official level that Australia should join the naval war games. The final decision has been delayed in view of the ongoing standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it is learnt. The final decision is likely before the exercise, which could take place towards the end of this year. The naval exercise has been delayed this year due to the COVID-19 outbreak.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||6 succumb, 1, 284 test positive||The number of COVID cases reported in Telangana on Saturday stood at 1,284, marginally lower than the day before. The total number of cases recorded in the State rose to 43,780. Six people succumbed to the virus. GHMC limits continued to record the highest number of cases with 667. The figure marked a dip in the number of cases here as there were 806 cases on July 17. Meanwhile, 86 cases were reported in Sangareddy district, followed by 68 in Rangareddy district.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Source of worry||
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. mulls Australia’s entry into Malabar drill||A key meeting of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) on Friday discussed the issue of inviting Australia for the trilateral Malabar naval exercise with Japan and the United States. However, a final decision has not been taken yet, two defence sources said. “The issue was discussed and an understanding has been reached but no final decision has been taken yet,” a defence source told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. There is increasing consensus at the official level that Australia should join the naval war games. The final decision has been delayed in view of the ongoing standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it has been learnt. The final decision is likely before the exercise that could take place end of this year. It has been delayed this year due to the COVID-19 outbreak.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Loyal worker of BJP: Raje||Putting to rest speculation about her support to Congress MLAs of the Gehlot camp, BJP leader and former Rajasthan CM Vasundhara Raje said she had been a “loyal worker” of the party for three decades, and she stood with the BJP.page 7
19 July 2020||Lucknow,||Ram temple trust invites PM to start project||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust has sent an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to lay the foundation stone of the temple and suggested two dates — July 29 and August 5.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man booked for opening gym, 10 others fined||The owner of a gymnasium in Shahdara was booked under Section 188 of IPC and 10 others were fined for opening the gym in violation of orders.
19 July 2020||Mumbai,||State tally crosses 3 lakh with 8,348 new cases||The COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra crossed the three lakh mark on Saturday, with the addition of 8,348 cases. The State recorded 144 more deaths, including 86 fatalities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, to raise its toll to 11,596. Mumbai reported 1,186 new cases, pushing its case load to 1,00,350, while its toll rose by 65. The State’s recovery rate stands at 55.05%, while its case fatality rate is 3.85%.
19 July 2020||Kolkata,||State tally crosses 40,000 with highest surge yet||For the first time, West Bengal recorded over 2,000 new COVID-19 cases in a single day, taking its tally to 40,209 on Saturday. With its highest spike of 2,198 cases, the number of active cases has increased to 15,594. The State also recorded 27 more deaths, pushing its toll to 1,076. Twelve deaths were recorded in Kolkata, and four each in Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,||CM fiat to hospitals on bed allocation||As private medical institutions continue to dilly-dally on allocation of beds for COVID-19 patients, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday directed them to provide 50% of the beds as promised from Sunday. Mr. Yediyurappa told them to cooperate with the government as there is a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru.
19 July 2020||Chennai,||4,807 COVID-19 cases, 88 deaths in Tamil Nadu||It was yet another high for Tamil Nadu, as it reported 4,807 new cases of COVID-19 and 88 deaths on Saturday. The fatalities included 46 persons who died on July 17. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,219 cases, while the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu reported over 300 cases each. The new infections took the State’s tally to 1,65,714.
19 July 2020||JAIPUR,||I am with BJP and its ideology, says Vasundhara||Putting at rest speculation about her support to Congress MLAs of the Ashok Gehlot camp, senior BJP leader and former Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje on Saturday said she had been serving as a “loyal worker” of the party for three decades, and she stood with the BJP and its ideology. Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal, convener of the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party whose three MLAs support the Opposition BJP in the State Assembly, had recently alleged that Ms. Raje had thrown her lot with the Congress MLAs owing allegiance to Mr. Gehlot. Raje takes to Twitter Ms. Raje said, in a Twitter post, that some people were trying to spread confusion on political developments in the State without ascertaining facts. “I have been serving the public for the last three decades, and I stand with the party and its ideology,” she said. Mr. Beniwal had alleged that Ms. Raje was trying to save the “minority government” of Mr. Gehlot and had even called up Congress MLAs, who were close to her, asking them to support the beleaguered Chief Minister. The 67-year-old two-time Chief Minister broke her silence earlier in the day on the political turmoil, following Congress leader Sachin Pilot’s rebellion. Ms. Raje said it was unfortunate that the people in the State were paying for the discord within the Congress. ‘Shifting blame’ “The Congress is trying to shift the blame on the BJP and the party's leadership,” Ms. Raje tweeted, adding there was no point in trying to drag the BJP and its leaders’ names through the mud. While asking the ruling Congress to pay attention to people’s issues, she listed the difficulties being faced by the common people. “At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has claimed more than 500 lives and positive cases are close to 28,000... locusts are attacking farmers’ fields… crimes against women are at an all-time high… when there is a problem of electricity across the State... And I’m only naming a few of the problems faced by people.”
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 guidelines for gated homes||The Union Health Ministry has issued a COVID-19 advisory for gated residential complexes, asking them to make provisions for hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) at entry points and in work areas. The advisory says thermal screening of visitors/staff should be carried out at entry points and only asymptomatic individuals allowed to enter the premises. Vendors, household help, car cleaners, delivery personnel, etc. will also undergo such screening daily. Physical distancing of at least six feet should be followed as far as feasible at all locations at all times in all common areas, including parks, corridors, lift lobbies, gyms, clubs, etc. All those above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 should be told to stay only at home, it notes. Other COVID-19 management measures include mandatory use of face covers/masks and frequent hand washing with soap (for at least 40-60 seconds) even when hands are not visibly dirty, use of alcohol-based hand sanitisers (for at least 20 seconds) wherever feasible, strict observance of respiratory etiquettes such as covering the mouth and the nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow, and proper disposal of used tissues. “Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest to state and district helpline. Spitting shall be strictly prohibited,” the advisory says. It emphasises adopting simple preventive measures, early reporting of symptoms and informing the community about the myths and stigma that patients, healthcare and other front line workers often encounter. If a gated complex is declared as a containment zone, the resident welfare association (RWA) will cooperate with the local health authorities in carrying out various activities as stipulated in the containment plan. The Ministry says small COVID-19 care facilities can be set up in gated residential complexes with the resources of RWAs/residential societies/NGOs for the management of suspect/asymptomatic/pre-symptomatic/very mild cases. This facility is not meant for elderly patients, children (<10 years), pregnant/lactating women, patients with co-morbidities (diabetes, hypertension, heart, kidney and chronic respiratory diseases, cancer and other immune-compromised states), who shall be admitted to the appropriate COVID Care Health Facility. Required standards These facilities shall be made operational only if the required guidelines and standards are met and shall be continued as per the direction issued by the local health authorities. Measures to be taken on occurrence of case(s) include that the RWA shall encourage residents to self-report symptoms and facilitate their testing, isolation and quarantine of contacts. Counselling, guidance and support to COVID-19-affected individuals and families will be provided. Special attention is required in such households, which have no family member to take care of the dependents.
19 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka logs 93 deaths, 4,537 more test positive||In a big rise in incidence, Andhra Pradesh reported 3,963 fresh COVID-19 cases and 52 deaths on Saturday, during a 24-hour period. Both single-day tally and deaths were at a new high. Local transmission in Kerala accounted for over 60% of the total cases, with a significant rise in cases that had no clear epidemiological link. New patient clusters were reported from most districts in coastal areas as well as urban areas. Kerala reported 593 new cases, taking cumulative cases to 11,659. While there was a marginal drop in new cases on Saturday, the proportion occurring through local transmission remained unchanged, with 385 out of the 593 reported from the community. No epidemiological link was found in 36 local transmission cases. These included 19 health workers. Two deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram district, taking the toll in the State to 40. The number of recoveries on Saturday was 204. Of the 11,659 cases reported so far, recoveries stood at 5,201. Active cases in hospitals totalled 6,841. Thiruvananthapuram, with 173 new cases, again accounted for the maximum incidence. Of this, 157 were linked to local transmission  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Health, LSG departments and the district disaster management authorities were setting up more COVID-19 first line treatment centres to handle the huge volume of patients who seemed to be asymptomatic. As Andhra Pradesh reported high rise in fresh cases and deaths, the State tally rose to 44,609 and the toll to 586. The number of active patients was 22,260 and with 1,465 new discharges, recoveries went up to 21,763. However, the recovery rate was down to 48.7%. The positivity rate for tests conducted in the past day was 16.6%, the highest for daily positivity. The overall positivity rate was 3.47%, the Health Department said. In the past day 23,872 samples were tested and 12,84,384 lakh samples overall, attaining a tests per million ratio of 24,052. New deaths were reported in 11 districts and East Godavari reported 12 in a single day. Eight deaths each occurred in Guntur and Krishna and Anantapur recorded seven deaths. West Godavari reported five, Prakasam four, Nellore three and Visakhapatnam two deaths. Chittoor, Kadapa and Vizianagaram had one death each. East Godavari district turned into a hotspot and reported 994 new cases. It was yet another new high for Tamil Nadu as it reported 4,807 new COVID-19 cases and 88 deaths on Saturday. The fatalities included 46 persons who died on July 17. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,219, while neighbouring Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu had more than 300 cases each. The new coronavirus infections took the State’s overall tally to 1,65,714.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP demands CBI probe into ‘phone tapping’||The BJP on Saturday demanded a CBI probe into all aspects of the alleged phone tapping in Rajasthan a day after the State government lodged a case against Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on charges of trying to destabilise the Ashok Gehlot government by attempting to buy MLAs. At a press conference, party spokesperson Sambit Patra said the events unfolding in Rajasthan were a mix of “conspiracy, lies and illegalities” by the Congress government in the State. “We heard yesterday through the Chief Minister’s own words that he hadn’t spoken to his deputy [Sachin Pilot] in 18 months. It points to a clear situation of a cold war at the heart of the Congress government in Rajasthan,” he said. ‘Authorisation needed’  “Phone tapping can only be done by authorised agencies as per due process of law and subject to approved safe-guards and SOPs. Each case is also reviewed by a committee chaired by a Cabinet Secretary in case of Central and State Secretary in case of a State government,” he said. “...Was phone tapping done? ....Secondly, is it not a sensitive and legal issue, if phone tapping has been done? Assuming that you've tapped phones, was the SOP followed? Did the Congress government in Rajasthan use unconstitutional ways to save themselves when they found themselves cornered? And finally is the phone of any person who is related to politics being tapped?“ asked Mr. Patra.
19 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Used PPEs wash up in Assam floods||Adding to the worries of authorities, floodwaters in Assam have spread discarded medical waste from hospitals and COVID Care Centres, raising fears of infection among people in inundated areas. Three more people drowned on Saturday, taking the rain-related toll to 105. While 79 persons have drowned or were washed away, 26 died in landslides. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) have voiced concern over reports of discarded personal protection equipment kits, masks, blood pouches, syringes and other hospital wastes amid floodwaters in some parts of the State. Locals in Chandrapur near Guwahati had complained to the authorities about such discarded wastes flowing into their compounds. Officials said a private firm had been assigned to collect and destroy such wastes but had dumped it in the open instead. “We have asked the Deputy Commissioner concerned to take action immediately,” said M.S. Manivannan, Chief Executive Officer of Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). The flood situation, meanwhile, improved with 12.16 lakh people returning to their homes overnight. The number of affected people has now come down to 27.64 lakh. Likewise, the number of people in 290 relief camps came down by 1,848 to 47,465. “Two people drowned Barpeta district and another in South Salmara district. Three more deaths were reported from other districts, but they were not related to the floods,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. Western Assam’s Dhubri district continued to be the worst-affected district with 4.69 lakh people in makeshift camps of their own arrangement. Goalpara had 4.49 lakh affected people at the last count followed by Barpeta (3.55 lakh), Morigaon (3.52 lakh) and South Salmara (2.25 lakh). The water level in the 1,055 sq km Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve has also subsided. Officials said 85% of the park was still under water, with 59 of the 223 anti-poaching camps inundated. The flood has so far claimed 96 animals; seven one-horned rhinos and two Asiatic water buffaloes were among 39 animals that drowned. Most of the animals killed were hog deer, 15 of which were hit by vehicles while trying to cross a highway on the southern edge of the park to escape to the hills beyond. The State has faced two waves of floods since May 22 affecting more than 53.5 lakh people across 30 of 33 districts. Meanwhile, as of 11.55 p.m. on July 17, Assam had 21,864 COVID-19 positive cases, of which 51 resulted in deaths and three people migrated to other States. There were 7,705 active cases at the last count, with almost 65% infected people having recovered and discharged.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||6 succumb, 1, 284 test positive in TS||Sixty-two cases were reported in Medchal district and 58 cases in Karimnagar district. As many as six deaths were reported on Saturday, bringing the total number of COVID fatalities to 409. Meanwhile, 1,902 people were discharged, taking the total number of discharged/recovered to 30,607. The number of samples tested on Saturday stood at 14,883 taking the total number to 2,52,700. The cumulative sample positivity rate is 17%, the bulletin said. Further, 4,945 tests per million were conducted. There are 16 government testing facilities and 23 private ones. Further, as many as 61 government hospitals and 57 private hospitals have been earmarked for COVID-19 patients. 12 of family test positive Meanwhile in Sangareddy, 12 members of a family tested positive in Ameenpur mandal headquarters on Saturday. According to sources, one person of the family was down with fever and sore throat for the past four days. When tested, 12 out of 14 members of the family tested positive. Commissioner Ms.Sujatha rushed to the colony and sodium hypochlorite sanitiser was spread across the area.
19 July 2020||Srinagar,||Rajnath Singh visits forward posts along LoC in Kupwara||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday visited forward posts along the Line of Control (LoC) in north Kashmir's Kupwara, on the second day of his visit to the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. An official said Mr. Singh visited Kupwara’s forward posts and interacted with Army officials, who briefed him about the counter-infiltration grid. “I visited a forward post near the LoC in Kupwara and interacted with the soldiers deployed there. We are extremely proud of these brave and courageous soldiers, who are defending our country in every situation,” Mr. Singh tweeted after the visit. Mr. Singh’s visit comes amid the growing number of ceasefire violations along the LoC by Pakistan and infiltration bids from across the LoC. At a high-level meeting in Srinagar on Friday, the Minister reportedly stressed on stepping up vigil along the LoC and directed the Army to respond to any provocation effectively. Visits Amarnath cave Earlier in the day, Mr. Singh visited the holy cave of Amarnath and offered prayers. “Feeling extremely blessed after praying at the Shri Amarnathji Holy Cave in Jammu and Kashmir,” he tweeted. An official said the Minister stayed for around an hour at the cave shrine. Mr. Singh was accompanied by Chief of the Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat, besides other senior Army officials.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP has openly admitted to murdering democracy: Cong.||Hours after the BJP demanded a CBI enquiry into the alleged phone tapping of Rajasthan legislators, the Congress said the BJP had admitted, in front of the entire nation, of its role in the ‘conspiracy’ to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a press conference that BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had openly admitted to his party’s part in “murdering democracy” in Rajasthan. “Their only grievance is that when they were murdering democracy why were they getting recorded,” Mr. Khera said. The party evaded questions on the alleged phone tapping.  He said that for the first time in history, the Haryana police actively blocked their Rajasthan police counterparts and allowed the MLAs to escape. “The BJP openly misused official machinery of the Manohar Lal Khattar government to thwart an ongoing investigation” he said. He said rebel leader Sachin Pilot and the MLAs supporting him might be taken to Karnataka from Manesar. Reacting to BSP president Mayawati’s tweets recommending President’s rule in the State, Mr. Khera said, “I don’t think we should discuss and comment on the helplessness of a leader; she has her own reasons, fears, compulsions that force her to come out with comments that help the BJP.”
19 July 2020||Kozhikode,||Medical experts oppose COVID-19 Ayurveda trials||Medical experts and public health activists have objected to the ongoing clinical trials and claims made by a section of AYUSH practitioners on developing a medicine for COVID-19, pointing out that they violate government norms. Doctors such as S.P. Kalantri of Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Sevagram, Maharashtra and Mumbai-based surgeon Sanjay Nagral have written to the Medical Council of India (MCI) against the conduct of clinical trials by a hospital in Jaipur for the drug ‘Coronil,’ manufactured by Patanjali Ayurveda. Public health activist K.V. Babu has approached the Union Ministry of AYUSH against the clinical trials of ZingiVir-H, a drug by Kerala-based Pankajakasturi Herbals India Pvt. Ltd. The letter to MCI said that ‘Coronil’ had been advertised as a cure for COVID-19. “Our primary concern is the scientific basis of the risk-benefit analysis conducted by the Principal Investigator and the Institutional Ethics Committee before permission was granted to conduct clinical trial to evaluate ‘Coronil’ for treatment of mild and moderate patients with COVID-19,” they said. Airing concerns “It is a matter of concern that the ethics committee approved the protocol for the study without evaluation of proposed dosage and review of toxicology data in animal models. Representations made by the manufacturer to the AYUSH Ministry make no reference to how the dosage was arrived at. There is no mention of any animal models that were used to compute the adverse effect levels for the dosage regimen. The failure of the committee to conduct a rigorous risk-benefit exercise before authorising the clinical study triggers a number of other violations of good clinical practice,” they claimed. On the clinical trials by Pankajakasthuri, Dr. Babu, an ophthalmologist, pointed out the advertising of AYUSH drugs violated Section 7 of the Drugs and Magic Remedies Act, 1954, and Sections 33(I) & 33(J)) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940. The study was yet to be completed and peer reviewed. He pointed out that those undergoing the trials are aged between 18 and 60 and it is an adjunct therapy, not a standalone one.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Students with disabilities struggle with online classes||A majority of students with disabilities, in response to a survey, have said that online learning was proving to be a big hurdle to them. About 56.5% of students with disabilities said they were “struggling, yet attending classes” irregularly, while around 77% of students said they would not be able to cope and would fall behind in learning due to their inability to access distance learning methods. The report, titled ‘Digital education in India: Will students with disabilities miss the bus?’, was released on Saturday. Two surveys were conducted by Swabhiman — a community-based organisation, and the disability legislation unit of eastern India of the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People. As many as 90% of the respondents were from Odisha, and the remaining 10% from Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Puducherry, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The sample size included 2,178 students from classes I to XII, 1,041 parents, 303 teachers and 105 adults with disabilities. The disability categories included orthopaedic impairment, visual impairment, speech and hearing impairment, intellectual challenges and multiple disorders. The report said parents of 90% of the students with disabilities said teachers were not giving them attention, while 86% said they did not know how to use technology. A large proportion of teachers (81%) said they did not have accessible educational material, suitable for online learning. The teachers also reported that 64% of students did not have smartphones or computers at home. The surveys also found that 67% of students expressed the need for laptops, smartphones or tablets for educational purposes, while 77% asked for study material in formats suitable for children with disabilities. Around 74% of them said they needed data/Wifi support and 61% expressed a need for scribes, readers and attendants. No sign language interpreters were present in the webinars, said 44% of the students. The report has recommended material in alternative formats, while recognising that all children with disabilities cannot be clubbed into one group as they are persons with different needs.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Top consultancies under the scanner||Leading firms that have bagged consultancy for infrastructure, mobility and development initiatives in the State are likely to come under scanner in the wake of the controversy over the awarding of consultancies for the e-mobility and Space Park projects. Close on the heels of the steps initiated to terminate PricewaterhouseCoopers Private Limited (PwCPL) from the consultancy service for the proposed Space Park, the government is learnt to be planning to end the services of the firm for the e-mobility project. The PwCPL has been tasked with preparing a Detailed Project Report on electric vehicle manufacturing as part of a Rs. 4,500-crore e-mobility project to put one million electric vehicles on the road by 2022. Official sources said the agreement is yet to be inked with the government as the firm had not returned the pact for vetting. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that he was not “aware of the move to remove the consultancy firm from the e-mobilty project.” Notice served The Kerala State IT Infrastructure Ltd (KSITL), entrusted with the Space Park, has served a notice on PwCPL, which is the first step of contract termination. Swapna Suresh, second accused in a gold smuggling case, was appointed as operations manager for the project through PwCPL. Although PwCPL sub-contracted her from Vision Technologies, the government is of the view of that onus of recruiting was on the PwCPL. With a controversy brewing over her recruitment and inadequate educational qualification, the government is thinking of showing the door to PwCPL. The awarding of consultancies will be scrutinised in the wake of allegations of lack of transparency and undue haste. The other version However, some experts said that if leading consultancy firms are kept out, government institutions would not be able to draw upon the expertise and human resource of these firms and to utilise their ability to reach out to international agencies and research institutions. They cited the case of KPMG, an international consultancy entrusted with assisting the State government in the Rebuild Kerala Initiative after two successive floods, that played a major role in the State getting $450 million from multilateral and bilateral funding agencies.
19 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||PSO to UAE consulate official on NIA radar||The probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the national security implications of the case relating to the smuggling of gold via air cargo shipments addressed to the UAE consulate here appeared to be edging closer to at least two State police officers on Saturday. By some accounts, the NIA has evinced interest in a policeman who worked on deputation as a personal security officer (PSO) to a top consulate official. The officer had surrendered his official sidearm after the diplomat left for the UAE. He later went missing and the police found him hiding in an abandoned plot near his house. They found his conduct erratic and have recorded his statement. They have also verified his phone contacts and singled out a colleague of his who had worked in the emigration for questioning. The Customs has also evinced interest in the former PSO because he had worked in the consulate alongside P.S. Sarith and Swapna Suresh, the first and second accused in the smuggling case respectively. Meanwhile, the NIA escorted Swapna and Sandeep Nair, another accused in the case, to the capital. The NIA agents took them to several premises, including a highrise in which former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan M. Sivasankar, held a rented apartment. The Customs had inspected the place earlier on the suspicion that the accused could have used another apartment on the same floor to open shipments containing contraband gold. The NIA’s presence here triggered speculations that the agency might question Mr. Sivasankar, who had alleged association with the alleged smugglers. An inquiry by a committee headed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta had found that Mr Sivasankar had “made a reference to appoint a person (Swapna)”, working at the time as secretary to the Consul General, UAE, as operations manager, Space Park. The committee had also pointed out that “such association and frequent contacts with a foreign consulate official” violated the All India Service Conduct Rules, 1968. It said it had recommended Mr. Sivasankar’s suspension from service “in view of the wider ramifications of this case”.  Three arrested Special Correspondent writes from Kochi: The Customs on Saturday recorded the arrest of three more persons in connection with the gold smuggling case. They were Jifsal of Vattakinar, Kozhikode; Abdu P.T. of Kozhichena, Malappuram; and Muhammed Abdu Shameem of Koduvally, Kozhikode. The accused were suspected to have close links with K.T. Rameez, a Malappuram-based businessman who was arrested in connection with the case, and Jalal, a native of Muvattupuzha in Ernakulam who was held on Tuesday.
19 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||‘Maoists’ Telangana plans will be foiled’||The sinister designs of Maoists to make a re-entry into the State from Chhattisgarh to carry out disruptive activities and hamper its development will be foiled with firm resolve, said Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy on Saturday. “The State is marching on the path of progress amid a peaceful atmosphere devoid of Maoist activities,” he noted, saying that the CPI (Maoist) State committee leaders based in Chhattisgarh were making desperate attempts to vitiate the peaceful atmosphere in the State with a nefarious game plan. The DGP held a high-level review meeting with police officials of the district and also neighbouring Mahabubabad district on anti-Maoist operations in Manuguru town late on Saturday afternoon. The top cop’s visit to Manuguru assumed significance in the aftermath of Wednesday’s encounter, in which Maoists and police exchanged fire, resulting in injury to a special police party constable at Mallepallithogu forest area in Karakagudem mandal of Manuguru sub-division. Operational strategies to contain the renewed attempts by Maoists to gain foothold in the Agency areas of the district, considered erstwhile strongholds of Naxal groups, strengthening of intelligence gathering and sharing besides other counter-insurgency action plans, reportedly figured in the deliberations of the meeting, sources said. Talking to mediapersons in Manuguru before leaving for Hyderabad in a chopper, winding up his day-long tour of two Agency mandals, Mr.Reddy slammed the Maoists terming them ‘anti-development forces’. “They are instigating innocent tribals to indulge in violence to further their nefarious designs,” he charged, alleging that the rebels were trying to exploit gullible tribal people by propagating their ‘rusted ideology’ for their selfish ends. “They are conspiring to extort money from contractors, businessmen, doctors, engineers and other professionals by sending threatening letters. Their evil designs and disruptive moves will be thwarted with steely resolve,” he said. Earlier, the DGP reviewed the anti-Maoist operations with the police of Jayashankar-Bhupalpally and Mulugu districts at Venkatapuram police station in the neighbouring district. Speaking to journalists, he alleged that the Maoist leaders were making innocent Adivasis scapegoats to further their own interests. “People should be wary of such sinister tactics and keep at bay the scourge of violence,” he said.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Resort politics is now a de rigueur feature of Indian political life||With rebel Congress MLAs owing loyalty to former Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan Sachin Pilot holed up in a resort in Haryana (with an imminent move to another in Karnataka, sources say), resort politics seems to have become a de rigueur feature of Indian political life. The sight of the MLAs being herded and sequestered into various five-star (and lesser star) resorts is becoming unfortunately all too familiar. Pictures of MLAs trying out the gym in these places or watching movies together surface from time to time to assure constituents and family that they are well, but what actually happens when a group of MLAs are bunched together? In his book on the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra, titledCheckmate: How the BJP Won and Lost Maharashtra(Penguin, 2020), Sudhir Suryawanshi goes into major details on just how the Congress MLAs, sequestered (ironically in Jaipur) spent their time. Apart from a daily roll call, the MLAs were everyday asked about their political stance by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) observer staying with them. Soon enough, writes Mr. Suryawanshi, MLAs broke into various “clubs within clubs”, as he calls it. For example, industrialists and well-off persons like Amit Deshmukh, Rohidas Daji Patil from Dhule, Ruturaj Patil and Vishwajeet Kadam hung around each other and discussed matters that interested them while another group was of the 16 MLAs elected from Vidarbha, who kept to themselves. There were, of course, discerning drinkers who, too, kept to each other. Many missed home food and raised protests, like MLA Hemant Khoskar who had a hankering forPitala(also calledJhunkain Marathi) and with the right YouTube video got a five-star chef in Jaipur to prepare it for him. Community living The community living is never voluntary and is enforced when poaching of MLAs is feared. Even those not in danger of being poached are often herded with those of whom floor crossing is feared, just to keep theesprit de corpsalive. When Congress MLAs from Karnataka got into a bus right after the Assembly elections of 2018, a senior Congressman, who had been a Minister in the Siddaramaiah government, also had to go along “just to ensure there was no discrimination in terms of perception”. “I was told I had to go as my not going would send the message that I was somehow more trustworthy and others were not,” he said.  Keeping the MLAs together is a combination of salubrious resorts in States with a friendly government, communication and daily psy ops against attempts by other parties to raid your numbers. Parties have geared up suitably, it seems.
19 July 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra cases go past 3-lakh mark||The COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra crossed the 3-lakh mark on Saturday with the addition of 8,348 cases while the death toll increased by 144, including 86 fatalities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, to 11,596, the Health department said. The number of cases now stands at 3,00,937 while the tally of active cases has reached 1,26,926. The discharge of 5,306 patients in the day took the count to 1,65,663, an official statement said. The number of people tested so far stood at 15,22,564. Mortality rate Maharashtra’s recovery rate now stands at 55.05% while the mortality rate is 3.85%. Mumbai crossed the one-lakh mark with the addition of 1,186 cases in the day. The number of the cases in the city now stands at 1,00,350 while the toll rose by 65, it said. Pune city overtook Mumbai by reporting 1,589 cases while neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad township saw 642 cases. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the number of cases in the Kalyan-Dombivali belt mounted by 518 to 17,640 while the number in Thane has reached 16,894. The MMR region now has 1,96,046 cases. With 86 fatalities, the toll has reached 8,071, it said. In other parts of the State, the tally of cases rose by 228 in Nashik and 214 in Aurangabad. Outside the municipal corporation limits, Kolhapur district has 227 cases, Solapur district 151, Pune district 307 and Jalgaon district 182.
19 July 2020||Kochi,||Vatican tells Bishops to report to police abuse of minors by clerics||Pope Francis has told bishops across the world to report sexual abuse of minors by clerics to the local police and not to ignore even anonymous or doubtful claims. In its July 16 vademecum (handbook or guide), the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith of the Catholic Church said: “Even in cases where there is no explicit legal obligation to do so, the ecclesiastical authorities should make a report to the competent civil authorities if this is considered necessary to protect the person involved or other minors from the danger of further criminal acts.” The guideline is meant to help dioceses, institutes of consecrated life and societies of apostolic life, episcopal conferences, and other ecclesiastical establishments and institutions “to better understand and implement the requirements of justice regarding a delictum gravius (grave wrong) that constitutes for the whole Church a profound and painful wound that cries out for healing”, the Vademecum said. However, this is a guideline and not part of the Canon law. “While not issuing new norms or altering current canonical legislation, this manual seeks to clarify the various stages of the procedures involved. Its use is to be encouraged, since a standardised praxis will contribute to a better administration of justice.” “We are studying the document, which will be translated into Malayalam too for its wider study and discussions,” said Fr. Varghese Vallikkatt, deputy secretary general of the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC), the apex body of the hierarchy in Kerala. He said the document would be discussed thoroughly and its recommendations implemented. The Syro-Malabar Church had already constituted ‘safe environment’ committees across its dioceses to prevent and, if needed, to investigate any sexual abuse, he pointed out. The laity has always demanded such transparency, but bishops, priests, and sometimes even nuns have combined to hide the truth from the civil authorities and the public, said Riju Kanjukkaran, a member of Ernakulam-Angamaly diocese and a vocal advocate for reforms in the Syro-Malabar Church. Sister Anupama, who joined a public protest in September 2018 demanding the arrest of Bishop Franco Mulakkal of the Jalandhar diocese of the Catholic Church for alleged sexual offences, expressed hope that Pope Francis’s call would be heeded by the Church hierarchy. Pope Francis has a great human face but wait and watch if bishops will follow his directions, said Sister Lucy Kalapurakkal, who was among those publicly seeking the arrest of Bishop Mulakkal.
19 July 2020||Srinagar,||Three militants killed in Shopian operation||Three militants were killed in an operation by security forces in south Kashmir's Shopian on Saturday. “Three militants have been killed in the operation and their bodies were recovered from a cowshed where they were hiding,” a police official said. A gunfight erupted in Amshipora on Saturday when security forces launched an operation based on a tip-off about the presence of militants in the area. 3 of family killed In a separate incident, three civilians, all from one family, were killed in Pakistan Army's firing and shelling along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Pir Panjal Valley's Poonch on Friday. Police identified the victims as Mohammad Rafiq, 58, his wife Rafia Bi, 50, and son Irfan, 15, from Karmara village near the LoC. “A mortar shell landed on the house and all the three died on the spot. One injured was evacuated to hospital,” said the police.
19 July 2020||Lucknow,||Ram temple trust invites PM to start project||The Ram Mandir in Ayodhya would be constructed in about three years once the drawing of the structure is ready and funds for it collected, Champat Rai, general secretary of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, said on Saturday. The trust has sent an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for laying the foundation stone of the temple, and even suggested two dates — July 29 and August 5, said Mr. Rai. “But the final decision would be taken by the PMO,” Mr. Rai said, after a meeting of the trust in Ayodhya. Mr. Rai said that the construction of the temple would not take more than 3.5 years once the situation becomes normal and the funds are collected. He announced that Sompura Marble Industries, a firm from Gujarat, would provide the stones for the temple, like it had been doing since the 1990s. As for the cost of construction, Mr. Rai said it would all depend on what the “society gives [donates].” Larsen & Toubro, the firm which will oversee the construction, was collecting samples for soil testing, said Mr. Rai. A drawing of the foundation of the temple would be made on the basis of the strength of the soil at a depth of 60 metres, he added.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. sends notice to Twitter after recent hacking||India’s cybersecurity nodal agency CERT-In has issued a notice to Twitter asking the micro-blogging platform for full details of the recent global hack targeting high-profile users, as it sought complete information on the number of Indian users affected as well as the impact on data. A source said that CERT-In has asked Twitter for information on the number of users from India who have visited the malicious tweets and links, and whether the affected users have been informed by the platform about unauthorised access to their Twitter accounts. The government has also demanded information of the vulnerability exploited by the attackers and the modus operandi of the attack. It also sought details of the remedial actions taken by Twitter to mitigate the impact of the hacking incident. Twitter was not immediately available for comments. Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) swung into action after reports of hackers gaining access to Twitter’s systems to hack accounts of many global corporate leaders, politicians, celebrities and businesses. Cyberattackers had hacked into the Twitter accounts of global high profile users — including former U.S. President Barack Obama and Democratic presidential front-runner Joe Biden — on Wednesday in a purported Bitcoin scam.
19 July 2020||MYSURU,||Rich tributes paid to Jayachamaraja Wadiyar||Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu paid rich tributes to the last Maharaja of Mysore the late Jayachamaraja Wadiyar at a virtual event held to mark his birth centenary on Saturday. Mr. Naidu, who began his address in Kannada, said that in remembering Wadiyar and celebrating his birth centenary, one was also celebrating the timeless Indian values of unity in diversity and the spirit of democracy. The event, which was livestreamed, was the last in a series conducted by Pramoda Devi Wadiyar and HHSNW Foundation during the year.  ‘Perfect blend’ Describing Wadiyar as a perfect blend of traditional Indian values and modern Western civilisation, Mr. Naidu said the last Maharaja was a remarkable ruler and an able administrator besides a strong proponent of industrialisation. He helped establish HAL and National Tuberculosis Institute in Bengaluru, and the Central Food Technological Research Institute in Mysuru, among others. He was the first among the princes to readily accept the Instrument of Accession and the recommendations of the Constituent Assembly, which speaks of his nationalistic vision, Mr. Naidu added. Karan Singh of the former royal family of Jammu and Kashmir said Wadiyar was a shining example of what an ideal ruler should be and recalled his interest in philosophy and Western music and contribution to Carnatic music. He also touched upon the contribution of Wadiyar to the field of environment and conservation. Karan Singh said as the first president of the Vishwa Hindu Parsihad, Wadiyar espoused the all-inclusive traditions and nature of Vedanta as against the divisive culture that was being propagated today.  Jairam Ramesh, Congress leader and MP, said the transition from princely rule to that of democratic and independent India was smooth in case of Mysore and it was a tribute to Wadiyar and the systems that he and other members of the dynasty had established. “But as a patron of VHP, he anchored the ancient Sanskrit notion of Vasudaiva Kutumbakam . His view and vision of Hindu heritage and philosophy was one that was all encompassing and not exclusive,” he said. Based on his reading of correspondence between Nehru and Wadiyar, Mr. Ramesh said it is evident that both had warmth and respect for each other. What emerges from a study of Wadiyar is that his public personae was not due to the legacy he inherited but by the strength of his own achievement, he added.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajasthan Congress claims majority||ACB Director-General Alok Tripathi said the audio clips would be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory for testing. Separately, a Judicial Magistrate’s court remanded Sanjay Jain, alleged to be a middleman in the efforts to lure MLAs, to the SOG’s custody for four days. The SOG had arrested him on Friday on the basis of his purported voice appearing in the tapes. Meanwhile in Delhi, the BJP sought an inquiry into alleged illegal phone tapping that resulted in the audio tapes, which have been touted by the Congress as an admission of the BJP’s involvement in horse-trading. The Gehlot government also won back the support of the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP), which has two members in the Assembly. A delegation of BTP leaders handed over a letter of support to the Chief Minister. The BTP had earlier issued a whip to its two MLAs to remain neutral in case of a floor test. The Congress had claimed the support of 109 MLAs in the House of 200. The party said it had saved its numbers by remaining alert during last month’s Rajya Sabha elections, when the BJP had shaped its strategy to topple the government. A senior Congress functionary in Delhi said Mr. Pilot was welcome in the party, but a leader in the Pilot camp said the actions of party leaders indicated the opposite.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID hits Uttarakhand pilgrimage industry||With even priests now wearing PPE kits while performing the temple rituals, Mahant Giri suggested a new normal where faith meets science. “I have been telling devotees that they have to give this year to the coronavirus. Pray at home.” Lovedeep Singh, a pharma company executive posted in Haridwar, said it was only people dressed in saffron, as Kanwariyas, and walking to the temples were being stopped at the border of the States. “I hail from Bulandshahr and many of my relatives and friends come every year to fetch the Ganga water. This Shivratri, I can take the holy water to them,” he said. Palpable fear Mr. Bahukhandi, was part of a study on the impact of the 2013 Kedarnath floods on devotees, said, “Most of the devotees I spoke to at that time had said pralaya (the myth of a great flood) and Lord Shiva are connected and hence were able to come to terms with the disaster. But, this time, there is a palpable sense of fear.” This, he said, was reflected in the very small number of people from Uttarakhand who joined the Char Dham Yatra though the authorities opened it for the State’s residents. The fear of the lockdown regulations have also been used to overcharge the faithful, including those who come to the Ganga to immerse the ashes of their kin. “After much bargaining, the boatman charged us Rs. 1,000 to take us to the mainstream even as the police were making an announcement that people should clear the ghats,” said Pushpendra Kumar, who immersed his father’s ashes at Garh Mukteshwar in Hapur district in western U.P., which has always been an alternative site to Haridwar, and has gained more traction with strict travel restrictions. On the socio-political fallout of the fear due to the pandemic, the Mahant said he had spoken to U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and he had promised aid to temples. “Mahantji has said temples should not be crowded during the Shravan month.” Govt. support “Government support has come but we need more to find our feet,” said Mr. Sahni. He said early estimates suggest, COVID-19 has resulted in a loss of around Rs. 200-250 crore to the hotel and restaurant industry in Uttarakhand where tourism contributes around 30% of the State’s GDP. He demanded special packages for those who have recovered from COVID-19 and removal of State GST on tourism-related activities. Poonam Chand, Joint Director, Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board, said the suspension of the Kanwar Yatra was not much of a dampener as the yatris drew more than they pumped into the Uttarakhand economy. “But, overall the pilgrimage tourism has suffered,” she said. Till July 16, she said, only 8,280 people had undertaken the Char Dham Yatra. “We are in discussion with all the stakeholders. In Unlock 2, we have allowed tourists who have a COVID-19 negative report, taken in the last 72 hours, to enter the State. Those who don’t have a test report could also enter, but they should have a seven-day booking at a hotel and should not venture out during that period,” Ms. Chand said. With the Haridwar Kumbh Mela just six months away, stakeholders in the religious pilgrimage industry are hoping that the virus would be annihilated by then, allowing normal arrival of devotees to the religious sites.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. mulls Australia’s entry into Malabar drill||There is increasing consensus at the official level that Australia should join the naval war games. The final decision has been delayed in view of the ongoing standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it is learnt. The final decision is likely before the exercise, which could take place towards the end of this year. The naval exercise has been delayed this year due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The decision, if taken, will bring all Quad countries together as part of the annual war games and also mark a major shift for India’s Indo-Pacific plans. As reported by The Hindu on June 3, after years of reluctance due to Beijing’s sensitivities, India said it was open to Australia’s inclusion in Malabar, which began as a bilateral exercise between India and the U.S. in 1992 and was expanded into a trilateral format with the inclusion of Japan in 2015. The exercise has also grown in scope and complexity over the years further boosted by India signing three of the four foundational agreements with the U.S. and increasing defence procurements from the U.S., increasing interoperability. Japan and the U.S. have been pressing India for Australia’s inclusion in Malabar. Australia first requested for observer status in the trilateral exercise in April 2017.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘India will pay a heavy price for Centre’s cowardly actions’||A day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s assertion that “no country in the world can touch or occupy even an inch of India’s territory”, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said India will have to pay a “huge price” because of the government’s “cowardly actions”. He equated the government of India to former U.K. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain, who let Nazi dictator Adolf Hitler have his way in the run-up to the Second World War. Earlier, Congress leader P. Chidambaram tweeted that Mr. Singh’s statement was just rhetoric, considering that the Chinese troops were still 1.5 km inside the Indian side of the LAC, as per the assessment of the security agencies.
19 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Nepali-speaking man in video is Indian: police||A Nepali-speaking man who was allegedly tonsured and forced to chant anti-Nepal slogans in a video made by members of a fringe group in Varanasi has turned out to be an Indian national, who was paid Rs. 1,000 to play the part, police said on Saturday. The police have so far arrested six persons in relation with the FIR lodged at Bhelupur under several Sections of the IPC including Sections 295,153A and 120, and Section 67 of the IT Act. Registered voter A day after the video of the incident, in which an unidentified Nepali speaking man with a mask was forced to raise slogans against Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Oli and chant “ Jai Shri Ram ”, Varanasi police said he was a local and was known to the people who shot the video. Senior Superintendent of Police Varanasi Amit Pathak said the said person was born in Varanasi, was its registered voter and even held an Aadhaar card. Received money The man lived in the government quarters of the Jal Sansthan, where his brother is currently employed and his parents had retired from, the officer added. “He was known to those people who made the objectionable video,” said Mr. Pathak, adding that the man received Rs. 1,000 for his part. In a statement, police said that the man did not have any memory of his ancestors living in Nepal. On July 16, Rajesh Rajbhar and Jai Ganesh, two of the accused persons, met the man and invited him to the ghat for a “programme” involving shaving off [his] hair and told him he would be paid Rs. 1,000, police said.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. opens up NDRF for individual donations||The Centre has applied an unused provision in the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to allow any person or institution to contribute to the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) for the purpose of disaster management. On Saturday, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said it has “laid out the modalities for receipt of contributions/grants from any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management” in the NDRF as per Section 46(1)(b) of the DM Act, 2005. The section pertaining to NDRF says “any grants that may be made by any person or institution for the purpose of disaster management”. The Ministry said that contributions can be made online or through physical instruments drawn in favour of “PAO (Secretariat), MHA” at New Delhi. The Ministry had invoked the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for the first time in March this year in the wake of COVID-19. The pandemic was notified as a “disaster,” paving the way for the States to utilise the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) for treatment of patients and other logistics such as quarantine centres, setting up laboratories among other things. The other notified disasters are cyclone, drought, earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, hailstorm, landslide, avalanche, cloudburst, pest attack, frost and cold waves. The NDRF, maintained under the accounting head of the Union Finance Ministry, has been allocated Rs. 22,070 crore in the financial year 2020-21, up from Rs. 17,210 crore in the 2019-20 fiscal. Supplements SDRF As per Section 46 of the DM Act, the “NDRF supplements the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) in case of a disaster of severe nature, provided adequate funds are not available in the SDRF”. The States have to submit utilisation certificates, pending which no future allocation is made.
19 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Earthmover was needed at Dubey’s house: U.P.||An earthmover was used to carry out a search operation in slain history-sheeter Vikas Dubey’s house in Bikru village of Kanpur as the building had become “insecure” in the process of excavating arms and weapons from its walls, the Uttar Pradesh government has said. Dubey’s house was demolished by the Kanpur administration a day after he and his associates shot dead eight policemen in an ambush. In an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court, the State government justified the use of the earthmover in the recovery process due to safety concerns. Upon receiving inputs about “deadly weapons” being kept inside “hollow chambers” inside the roof and ceiling of the house, the police team raided Dubey’s house on July 4. The police found a large number of weapons, cartridges, bombs and explosives, embedded inside the walls, floors, and gaps in the ceiling plastered with light mud, the government said. In the process of excavating the weapons and explosives from the hollow walls of the house, the load bearing capacity of the walls had reduced, the government said. The building became insecure for further recovery. “Hence, a JCB machine [earthmover] was used for further recovery. In the process of recovery, some part of the building collapsed,” said the State. The Uttar Pradesh government also said Dubey had fired nine bullets at the police team before being killed on July 10 while trying to flee from custody.
19 July 2020||MEDAK,||Agitated villagers tie up power officials||In a shocking incident, villagers of Muslapur in Alladurg mandal on Saturday tied up electricity department officials to a pole when the latter came there to collect money, demanding a solution to power related issues in the village. According to sources, the incident took place when lineman Navaz and bill collectors Esaiah and Rav came to the village. Alleging that due to erratic power supply, valuable gadgets like fridge and TV were getting damaged, they took this action. The villagers demanded the appointment of a helper to address their problems. Later, when police and power department officials intervened and promised to offer a permanent solution, the villagers released the officials.
19 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal sees 2,198 cases in a day||The daily number of COVID-19 infections in West Bengal crossed the 2,000 mark on Saturday with a highest single day spike of 2,198 cases. The total number of infections in the State rose to 40,209 and the active cases increased to 15,594. The State recorded 27 more deaths, taking the number to 1,076. Twelve deaths were recorded in Kolkata, followed by four in Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts. The State has tested about 13,465 samples in the past 24 hours and the bed occupancy rate in the State has increased to 34.17%. The number of containment zones in the State has increased to 734. Meanwhile, Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee urged the youth in the State to come forward and help the poor who are struggling during the pandemic. The Trinamool MP has started a campaign to bring together ‘Yuva Yodha’ (youth warriors) to help people in the State.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||India lodges strong protest||India on Saturday summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission and lodged a strong protest after three civilians, including a child, were killed in firing by Pakistan forces on the night of July 17 in the Krishna Ghati sector in Jammu and Kashmir. “India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistan forces. This year alone, 21 Indians have been killed and 94 injured in over 2,711 unprovoked ceasefire violations,” an official statement said.
19 July 2020||MYSURU,||Water from KRS, Kabini to canals from July 28||Farmers in Krishnaraja Sagar ( in picture ) and Kabini command area can rejoice as the Irrigation Consultative Committee has decided to release water to canals from July 28. This was decided at the committee’s meeting on Saturday. The meeting resolved to release water to help irrigate the standing crops and to fill up the tanks in the downstream area as the inflow to both KRS and the Kabini reservoirs was steady.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,||CM directs pvt. medical college hospitals to allocate 50% beds starting today||As private medical institutions continue to dilly-dally on allocation of beds for COVID-19 patients, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday held another round of talks with managements of private medical college hospitals and sternly directed them to provide 50% of the beds as promised from Sunday. Mr. Yediyurappa told private medical college hospitals to cooperate with the government as there is a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru. This is the third meeting chaired by the Chief Minister in the last two weeks on allocation of beds in private hospitals. Denied treatment It has come to the notice of the government that some institutes have been denying treatment for COVID-19 as well as non-COVID-19 patients, said Mr. Yediyurappa, expressing concerns over media reports of the death of several people as they had been denied timely treatment by private hospitals. He said that Bengaluru should continue to lead the country as a role model in COVID-19 management. During the previous meeting, private medical colleges had agreed to providing around 4,500 beds, which would make the total beds available in government and private medical colleges to around 6,500. The Chief Minister expressed dismay over some colleges not providing the number of beds as promised even now and also about certain lacunae, which were noticed by Ministers during their visit. “During this emergency situation, we should respond with humanity. COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients shall not be denied treatment and the balance in the healthcare system should be maintained,” he said. The Chief Minister directed them to set aside 50% of the beds from Sunday as there was an acute increase in the number of COVID-19 cases reported in Bengaluru. He assured them of all support, including providing doctors and nurses, if need be. Nodal officers have already been appointed to monitor the availability of beds in these medical colleges. Notice to college It was decided that notice would be issued to Vaidehi Medical College for the management’s failure to attend the meeting chaired by the Chief Minister.  During this emergency situation, we should respond with humanity. COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients shall not be denied treatment and the balance in the healthcare system should be maintained.B.S. YediyurappaChief Minister
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC permits schools, colleges to collect 40% of fees by Aug. 31||Observing that there was great uncertainty over when the threat of COVID-19 would subside and pave way for the reopening of schools and colleges, the Madras High Court on Friday permitted all self-financing educational institutions in the State to collect 40% of the fee for now, and ordered that it should be remitted on or before August 31. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh clarified that 40% of the fee fixed for the academic year 2019-20 could be collected as advance fee for the academic year 2020-21, since it was reported to him that the Private Schools Fee Determination Committee, headed by a retired High Court judge, was yet to fix the fee for the years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23. Fee determination panel When it was also brought to the notice of the judge that several schools in the State were to yet to collect fee arrears, running to several lakh rupees, for the academic year 2019-20, the judge ordered that those arrears should be paid in full, on or before September 30. Students who had already paid the entire fees, including arrears, could not claim any refund, he said. As far as the rest of the 60% of fee for the academic year 2020-21 was concerned, the judge said that 35% could be collected within two months after the institutions reopen and commence physical classes. He further ordered that fee determination committees for schools and colleges should fix the fee for the next three years, within eight months from August. The balance fees for the current academic year could be collected after such determination, he said, and made it clear that the directions issued to the committees would not, in any way, prejudice the rights of educational institutions which had already moved the Supreme Court and the High Court challenging the jurisdiction of such committees to fix fee for private institutions. Stating that the interim arrangement for collection of 40% of fees was being made in the interests of teachers who had to be paid salaries and parents who might not be able to pay more, Justice Venkatesh ordered that teachers of unaided private educational institutions should not insist upon annual salary increments or other perks until normalcy is restored. Free notebooks He directed the State government to consider a request made by some self-financing schools to provide books and notebooks, for free, to children who could not afford them. “For this, the Sate government can get the particulars of students who are in dire straits from the respective schools, and this can also be confined to those students. “This direction is issued purely in the interest of students who should not be deprived of education due to their inability to purchase textbooks and notebooks. This court is confident that the State government will come up with a positive response in this regard,” the judge said, and adjourned a batch of cases filed by the private institutions to October 5. The cases were filed challenging a government order issued in April restraining all private schools and colleges from forcibly collecting fees during the lockdown. After the court insisted upon balancing the interests of teachers who were dependant on salary as well as the parents, the government reconsidered its decision. Advocate General Vijay Narayan on Friday informed the court that it had been decided to permit private schools to collect 25% of fees at present, 25% within two weeks after the commencement of physical classes, 25% three months after the schools reopen and the rest after the determination of fee for the current academic year by the committee concerned. However, senior counsel K.M. Vijayan, Fr. Xavier Arulraj, R. Silambanan and advocates E. Vijay Anand and R. Sankaran vehemently objected to such a measure and insisted that they should be allowed to collect 50% of fees immediately and 25% after the commencement of physical classes. They said that educational institutions were fully dependant on the fees for paying salaries to staff.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New high as State records 4,807 cases||It was yet another high for Tamil Nadu as it reported 4,807 new cases of COVID-19 and 88 deaths on Saturday. The fatalities included 46 persons who died on July 17 alone. Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,219 infections, while neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu had over 300 cases each. The new infections took the State’s tally to 1,65,714*. Of this, 49,452 persons are under treatment, while the total number of persons discharged after treatment climbed to 1,13,856, with 3,049 more persons walking out of hospitals across the State.  Fatalities in State However, the State’s toll rose to 2,403. The number of deaths reported in the Health Department’s daily bulletin takes into account deaths that have occurred over three or four days. Of the 88 deaths (64 in government and 24 in private hospitals) reported on Saturday, 18 persons died on July 16, 46 on July 17 and 12 on Saturday. As per Friday’s bulletin, a total of 54 persons died on July 16. This took the total number of fatalities on July 16 to 72. The death of two persons that had occurred during the first week of the month in Madurai were also recorded in today’s bulletin. Chennai accounted for 31 deaths, while nine occurred in Madurai. Seven persons died in Tiruvallur and five in Kancheepuram. A 29-year-old woman with systemic hypertension was admitted to the Mohan Kumaramangalam Government Medical College Hospital, Salem, on July 15. She died on July 17 due to respiratory failure, COVID-19 pneumonia and postpartum cortical venous thrombosis. A 31-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever, loose stools and breathing difficulty. He had no co-morbidities. He died on July 17 due to acute respiratory failure and COVID-19. Three persons were declared brought dead. This included a 57-year-old woman and a 58-year-old woman who were brought to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. Their samples returned positive for COVID-19. Chennai, along with seven northern districts, reported 50% of the new cases. Tiruvallur saw 370 cases, while Chengalpattu reported 323. The number of new cases in other northern districts were: Vellore 191, Ranipet 109, Kancheepuram 97, Villupuram 95, and Kallakurichi 77. There were 185 cases in Madurai, 179 in Virudhunagar, 170 in Sivagangai, 160 in Thoothukudi, 155 in Tirunelveli, 144 each in Kanyakumari and Theni, 104 in Dindigul and 91 in Tenkasi. The surge in cases continued in Thanjavur, with 181 persons testing positive. Tiruchi reported 124 cases, while Coimbatore had 118. With the new cases, Madurai’s tally surpassed the 8,000-mark. Apart from this, 76 persons who returned from abroad and other States tested positive for the infection in the State. This included 26 persons from Karnataka. A total of 48,195 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 18,79,499 samples and 18,04,177 individuals have been tested in the State. New testing facilities Two more testing facilities — the Government Headquarters Hospital in Tenkasi and Genelab Biotechnologies Pvt Ltd in Kilpauk, Chennai — were approved for testing. Presently, there are 56 testing facilities in the government sector and 55 in private.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People ignore rules, crowd Kasimedu fishing harbour||With the public and retailers breaking barricades and entering the Kasimedu fishing harbour early on Saturday, the wharf saw huge crowds from 5 a.m. to about 8 a.m. A total of 67 mechanised boats brought in 120 tonnes of fish, which were sold off by noon. “There are seven official entry/exit points to the harbour, and another seven that are illegal. They were closed. However, the sealed entrances were opened overnight and people rushed in even before 6 a.m., which was the allotted time of sale,” a source from the Fisheries Department said. “Since it was a day ahead of the complete lockdown, a large number of individuals came to purchase fish. Though only 98 wholesalers had obtained passes for entry, about 300 came in small vehicles. They did not have passes and were initially stopped but later let inside in batches. On Friday, we had 40 boats but only 80 wholesalers and it went smoothly,” another official explained. M.D. Dayalan of the Indian Fishermen Association called for better regulation of entry points at the harbour. ‘Longstanding issue’ “There have always been security issues at the harbour, including burning of boats. The compound wall must be completely rebuilt and security personnel appointed. The facility is with the Port Trust, it needs to be under the control of the Fisheries Department for better management,” he said. A senior police officer said they cordoned off the entire area and barricaded the way to the auction centre. “We have taken all-out efforts to ensure vendors wear masks and maintain personal hygiene. Wholesalers were allowed to enter only after verifying their identity cards and ensuring that norms are followed.” On Saturday a meeting between senior officials of the Fisheries Department, the Greater Chennai Corporation and the police was held to ensure proper crowd management. Lighting was improved, CCTV cameras were repaired and 150 police personnel, fisheries staff and men from the Marine Enforcement Wing were deployed for crowd control.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE Minister assures action against ‘Karuppar Kootam’||Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Minister Sevur S. Ramachandran on Saturday said that legal action would be taken against the YouTube channel ‘Karuppar Kootam’ for denigrating Kandha Shasti Kavasam . In a statement, he said the hymn was penned by Bala Thevarayaswami and it echoed in every household as an appeal to Tamil God Murugan to fulfil their requests. “Devotees of Murugan render the song as kavasa (protecting shield) for all parts of the human body. Interpretation of the song in a denigrating manner is highly condemnable,” Mr. Ramachandran said. Earlier, the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of the Chennai city police sealed the office premises of ‘Karuppar Kootam’, a Tamil YouTube channel run by Periyarist activists, which released an allegedly derogatory video on Kandha Sashti Kavasam . The action comesclose on the heels of the arrestof its two prominent members. Investigation on A senior police officer said, “As per Section 165 of the Criminal Procedure Code, we conducted a search on the office premises on Boag Road, T. Nagar, and recovered certain materials. The premises were sealed. Further investigations are on.”  Kandha Sashti Kavasam is a Hindu devotional song composed on Lord Muruga in 1820. Recently, the channel, propagating atheist views, had uploaded a clip titled ‘Kandha Shasti Kavasam-Kathakalatchebam’, which contained abusive and insulting language against Hindu gods. The office-bearers of the State BJP had lodged a complaint with city Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Monday. Following the complaint, the cyber crime wing of the CCB booked a case against the group under Sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153 A(1)(a) (promoting enmity between different groups), 295(A) (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings), 505(1)(b) (whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code. A special team of police personnel, led by Additional Deputy Commissioner Saravanakumar and Assistant Commissioner of Police S. Prabakaran, arrested Surendran alias Nathigan, a prominent anchor of ‘Karuppar Kootam’ in Ariyankuppam, Puducherry on Thursday. The team had also arrested M. Senthilvasan in Velachery on Wednesday for allegedly uploading the video. Both were remanded in judicial custody.  The hymn was penned by Bala Thevarayaswami and it echoed in every household... Interpretation of the song in a denigrating manner is highly condemnable
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite high testing, uneven spread a concern||Tamil Nadu has increased the number of RT-PCR tests performed for COVID-19 with more than 47,000 persons now being tested daily. This is a significant increase from the roughly 40,000 tests in the second week of July. Tamil Nadu overtook Maharashtra in the total number of tests a few weeks ago, and now leads the country. This has been aided by the ramping up of capacity, with the State now having 111 laboratories approved by the ICMR to perform RT-PCR tests. However, the number appears to be concentrated in Chennai, which accounts for roughly 25% of the tests daily. With the State not releasing district-wise testing figures, it is unclear how equally spread they are. For instance, of the 47,539 persons tested on Friday, 12,259 were from Chennai. The other 36 districts accounted for an average of 980 tests each.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police issue advisory on today’s complete lockdown||The police have issued an advisory to residents on the complete lockdown to be implemented from Saturday midnight till Monday morning. It said in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the State government had announced the complete lockdown. Residents were requested to avoid venturing out unnecessarily or gather on streets without personal distancing. Vehicles will not be allowed on roads, exceptions include those meant for milk distribution, healthcare, emergency services and funerals. Private vehicles meant for medical emergencies are also exempted. Other vehicles will be seized under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. For this purpose, 193 traffic checkposts have been established all over the city. This regulation will be followed on all Sundays till the end of this month. For any queries, the traffic control room may be contacted on 044-23452330, 044-23452362 and 9003130103.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur police to use street plays to create awareness||The police have come up with a novel initiative to create awareness about COVID-19 in Gummidipoondi. The Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), along with a team of volunteers, will be staging street plays from Monday. “Till now, we used pamphlets, made announcements via autorickshaws and through public address systems and have tried other means to raise awareness about the pandemic and safety measures that residents should take. Art can simplify the message and get people to understand better. Hence, we decided to use the medium of street plays,” said D. Ramesh, DSP, Gummidipoondi. Mr. Ramesh has constituted a team of volunteers, from different walks of life, including professors and members of NGOs. They have been helping him distribute food and dry rations among people during the lockdown. “One of the volunteers, D. Sherin, founder of Velicham Kalvi Iyakkam, wrote the script. There are eight characters in the 10-minute play that highlights the dangers of COVID-19. A policeman will also be part of the cast,” he said. Youngsters involved Ms. Sherin said that youngsters, all students, from Sozhiambakkam village in Gummidipoondi, would play the main characters. “We will be holding the play at five spots in Gummidipoondi — Ganapathy theatre, Rettamedu, Kavarapettai, Madharpakkam and Sunnambukulam,” she said. There are also plans to stage the play in factories in the locality. “A large number of people work in these industrial units. However, we have to get permission for this,” said a police officer.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin calls for black flag protest against power bills||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday called upon his partymen and the general public to hoist black flags at their houses on July 21, condemning the irregularities in electricity meter readings made during the COVID-19 lockdown. The protest was to condemn the AIADMK government’s failure in offering a concession in electricity tariff during the pandemic, he said. He wondered what prevented the AIADMK government from providing relief to the people when it had argued before the Madras High Court that opening Tasmac liquor outlets was a policy decision. Opening of liquor shops “It even went to the Supreme Court against the order of the High Court [closing the liquor shops]. Does it have any policy decision on the issue of electricity tariff?” he asked. Mr. Stalin alleged that the failure of the State government to control the spread of COVID-19 had not only infected over 1.5 lakh people, but had also destroyed the State’s economy. “The government’s half-baked decisions like the opening of Tasmac liquor shops, imposing of lockdowns within the lockdown and lockdowns with relaxations have affected all sections of society,” Mr. Stalin said.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu relaxes rule for solar-powered pump scheme||The Tamil Nadu government has done away with the stipulation that farmers withdraw their applications for free power connections if they want to get covered under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Evem Utthan Mahabhiyan (PM-KUSUM), a Central government scheme for installation of solar pump with a 70% subsidy. The decision has been taken as the State is keen on promoting solar-powered pumps in a big way among farmers, according to a senior official of the Agriculture Department. For Tamil Nadu, the Centre has set a target of installation of 17,000 standalone solar pumps and 20,000 grid-connected solar pumps. The first component is being handled by the Agricultural Engineering Department and the second by the Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency (TEDA), along with the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco). The target will have to be met by March 2022. As and when the agriculturists get the free power connections, the solar-powered pumps can even be made grid-connected, and they will feed electricity into the State grid. For this, the farmers will be “suitably compensated,” says the official. Under the earlier scheme of subsidised solar-powered pumps, which was supported by the Central and State governments, those opting for the solar-powered pumps should withdraw their applications for the conventional scheme of free power. Under this scheme, 4,826 solar pumps were installed. Farmers’ leaders had represented to the State government that the rule be dispensed with, so that more farmers would take to solar-powered pumps. Under the PM-KUSUM, which is being implemented on a “first come, first served” basis, a farmer gets a total subsidy of 70% of the cost of a pump. Of this, the State’s share is 40% and that of the Union Ministry of New and Renewable Energy 30%. The balance 30% has to be borne by the beneficiary. For example, on an average, a 7.5-horsepower-capacity pump (using Alternating Current or Direct Current) costs around Rs. 3,33,000. As the State and Central subsidy will account for 70% of the cost, a beneficiary will have to spend Rs. 1,00,000. Nine suppliers have been chosen for the State. Asked how beneficiaries will be able to raise their contribution, the official says the farmers are being encouraged to have Kisan Credit Cards for availing themselves of collateral-free loans of up to Rs. 1.6 lakh each. This year, initially, the authorities have planned to have 1,085 pumps installed, for which the Central government has released Rs. 11.28 crore and the State Rs. 14.95 crore. Of the total number of pumps, 511 are earmarked for the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes, says the official, adding that applicants should have assured sources of irrigation. During 2020-21, the plan is to cover 6,000 solar pumps, and Rs. 138.73 crore has been set aside by the State and Central governments towards subsidy. Under the second component, 20,000 beneficiaries are being identified from among the existing connections with a load of 7.5 horsepower. As this has to be implemented through net metering, a petition has been filed with the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission for fixation of tariff, an official at the Tangedco says.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirunavukkarasar joins issue with Gurumurthy||Former TNCC president Su. Thirunavukkarasar has joined issue with Thuglak editor S. Gurumurthy over his allegations that a scam was brewing in the TNCC Charitable Trust. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar, who is the immediate past president of the TNCC, and was the most recent ex-officio chairman of the Trust, told The Hindu on Saturday that no funds or documents had been diverted from the Trust to anyone. “Not even a single paise has been diverted,” he said. “Mr. Gurumurthy's claim that Kanishka Singh from (Congress leader) Rahul Gandhi’s office has taken over the documents is blatantly false. They have no control over the Trust. Only the trustees administer the body for providing educational and medical grants and sometimes solatium to those affected by various crimes or loss of lives,” he said. Mr. Thirunavukkarasar said that senior party leader Motilal Vohra had been appointed by the executive committee of the party and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi had no role in it. “The AICC cannot dictate terms to the Trust. The Trust was formed by Kamarajar to help socially disadvantaged people,” he said. Contending that Mr. Gurumurthy was a known associate of the BJP, he said the former was trying to sow doubts in people’s minds, with the election season approaching.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law graduate convinces varsity to include mother’s name in degree certificate||The prime purpose behind studying law is to be aware of the edicts that govern us and to be able to fight for a cause. Samrita Shankar, a 22-year-old law graduate from Chennai, achieved it even before getting herself enrolled with the Bar Council. What’s touching is that the first battle won by her, on completion of the law course, is a tribute to motherhood. She succeeded in convincing her alma mater, a private university, to issue a revised provisional degree certificate carrying her mother’s name alongside her father’s. In an e-mail penned to the head of her law school, Ms. Shankar wrote: “Both my parents (Sowmya Shankar and Shankar Narasimhan) have equally contributed to my education and in successfully completing my law degree. To be able to study in a prestigious and well-known university is no simple feat.” “My parents wanted me to get the best possible education and have therefore made many sacrifices to ensure that I am able to continue and successfully complete my law degree. They have always been supportive of all educational and co-curricular endeavours that have contributed to a joyous and enriching college experience. Hence, they both equally deserve to see their names on my degree certificate and other related documents.” She also backed her plea with the legal position by pointing out that University Grants Commission (UGC) norms permit printing names of all three — the student, father and mother — in academic testimonials. The norm was introduced in 1998 and reiterated in 2014. She said other students may be given the similar option. “In today’s world, mothers are equally working hard and contributing financially and otherwise towards their children’s development and education. Therefore, continuing with an anachronistic practice, such as only including the father’s name in educational certificates, is not only a step back in achieving gender equality but also disrespectful to single/unwed/divorced mothers and their children,” Ms. Shankar said. It was her contention that the students should be given the option of including either the name of the father or the mother or of both in their academic testimonials. “We live in an era where such situations are not only likely to happen but are indeed very much happening. Therefore, it is the duty of the universities to adapt to this reality and ensure that it is reflected in all academic procedures,” her mail to the law school read. Elated over the institute having responded promptly, she said it took just days for it to re-issue her provisional degree certificate with her mother’s name too on the document.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Port forms committee to investigate cooking oil leak||Chennai Port has constituted a committee to investigate cooking oil leak from a pipeline on its premiseson Thursday. Officials said the oil did not spill into the sea. The leak was detected by8.45 p.m.near New Pump House Road in a covered trench that crosses the road. The 12-inch pipeline belongs to a private company that had received the oil from Ukraine. The leak happened even as a vessel discharged sunflower oil into the company’s storage terminal. Since the pipeline was laid in the trench, the leak came to light only after oil started flowing on the concrete road, which was cleaned by company employees. The port’s Fire Service personnel, officials and company staff members cordoned off the site. ‘Operations unaffected’ No port operations were affected, an official said, and added that as soon as the leak was found, the pumping of oil from the vessel was stopped. “The committee will suggest corrective and preventive measures to avoid such incidents,” the official said. Company sources confirmed the leak and said vehicles frequently riding over the pipeline had caused the damage. Steps were being taken to repair the pipeline, sources said. Three years ago, nearly 251 tonnes of oil spilled at Ennore after two ships collided at the port. Over 2,000 people were deployed for cleaning operations. The spill affected aquatic life and fishing in the area for a few months.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A look at Inter-generational housing projects||The social bias against elderly people moving into senior living facilities might be slowly eroding. This was among the several points brought out in a webinar organised by The Hindu Property Plus and Ashiana Housing Limited on July 18. Titled ‘Senior Living Community — Positives in Today’s Pandemic Scenario’, the webinar panellists included Dr. U. Gauthamadas, geriatric neuro psychiatrist; Harish Nair, executive director and head consulting, India CBRE; Prashant Thakur, director and head — Research, Anarock Property Consultants and Ankur Gupta, joint managing director, Ashiana Housing Limited and chairman of the Association of Senior Living of India. The webinar was moderated by Vaishna Roy of The Hindu . “We have seen a rising interest for senior housing in the last two years but during the lockdown, as people found themselves without household help, transportation, etc., we saw an increase in demand,” Mr. Gupta said. Mr. Nair said the pandemic had pushed families to overcome the strong traditional bias against aged parents choosing to live independently despite having well-settled children. Dr. Gauthamadas cautioned against isolating senior citizens, pointing to Indians prioritising socialisation over personal space. A key point of discussion was the need for inter-generational communities rather than standalone facilities. “Depression, not dementia, is a key healthcare issue among the elderly,” Dr. Gauthamadas said, adding that, “Depression can be easily treated with medication and interactive activity, which is why such integrated spaces are a must.” On the other hand, many seniors prefer to interact with their own age group and want like-minded communities, said Mr. Gupta. Their focus is on safety, health, comfort and activities. Developments can merge regular, senior living, semi-assisted and fully assisted living, Mr. Thakur said. The segment is still nascent but as millennials begin to make their retirement plans, they will take into account personal space, healthcare and activities. Over time, the sector would have to respond with “built to suit” and customised models. Responding to a question on whether senior communities can come up inside the city with 700-800 sqft units, Mr. Gupta said his company was focused on large, suburban developments but one could expect others to soon look at this space.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Doctors passing out from ESIC colleges can’t be forced to serve’||A single judge of the Madras High Court has taken a view that MBBS students admitted under the State government quota in Employees State Insurance Corporation-run-medical colleges cannot be forced to give undertakings that they would serve the corporation for five years after completion of the course or pay Rs. 7.5 lakh with 15% interest per annum. Justice R. Subramanian, however, referred the issue to a larger Bench since another single judge of the court had taken a contrary view on the same subject in a case filed by another student last year. The judge directed the High Court Registry to place the case papers before Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue. The orders were passed on a batch of writ petitions from 13 doctors who were allotted MBBS seats under the State quota in ESIC Medical College at K.K. Nagar in 2013-14. During admission, the petitioners and their parents/guardians were reportedly forced to sign bonds agreeing to serve ESIC institutions across the country for five years after the completion of the course. Claiming that they had no choice but to sign the bonds despite having been allotted to the ESIC college on merit, the petitioners challenged the appointment orders issued to them for serving in hospitals run by the corporation in different parts of the country. They urged the court to forbear the corporation from enforcing the bonds executed seven years ago. Petitioners’ counsel S. Haja Mohideen Gisthi brought it to the notice of the court that only postgraduate students were required to sign such bonds, that too for a period of two years, by some State governments. No other institution in the country insists upon undergraduate students to sign bonds, thereby jeopardising the chances of the doctors to pursue higher education. Advocate V.P. Raman, representing the Medical Council of India, supported the case of the petitioners and said that ESIC, despite being a self-financing institution, had no right to demand bonds from students.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to create video lessons for students||The School Education Department has called for teachers across the State to be identified and involved in the process of making video lessons for students from Classes 1 to 9. Director of School Education S. Kannappan said that the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) had allotted subjects that each district would be in-charge of. “The District Institute of Educational Training (DIET) faculty in the district will coordinate with the teachers, who have been identified, and create content that will then be sent to Kalvi TV for telecast,” he said. A detailed circular about the districts and the subjects which have been allotted to them has been sent to all chief educational officers (CEOs). Last week, Kalvi TV started broadcasting televised lessons for students as well as special sessions for those preparing for competitive exams like NEET. Focus on Classes 1-9 The focus is now on creating more content for students from Classes 1-9. The Department has instructed CEOs and DIET principals to work in coordination with schools in their districts to help identify teachers. “To ensure that there is no travel involved, we are making arrangements for the video lessons to be shot in schools in districts where the teachers are from,” an official added.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ayurveda can help build immunity against infections’||Ayurveda can help build immunity against COVID-19 and other infectious diseases, experts said on Saturday. Speaking as part of the “Wellness Series” webinars organised by The Hindu , P.N. Madhu, assistant professor, Department of Roga Nidanam, Government Ayurveda College, said with a majority of COVID-19 patients in India being asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, experts in the country had turned to Indian systems of medicines in tackling the pandemic. “Ayurveda focuses on a holistic approach to health, of which building immunity is a crucial part,” Dr. Madhu said. He said that the concept of vyaadi ksamatva in Ayurveda dealt with the capacity of the body to build immunity and fight infections. Different approach Nishant Narayan, senior physician, Arya Vaidya Shala, Kottakal, stressed on the need for practising a healthy lifestyle with regular exercise and consumption of wholesome food. He highlighted how Ayurveda did not follow a one-size-fits-all approach as the prescriptions by the practitioners varied based on each individual’s body. Vinod R. Varier, associate professor, Department of Kaya Chikitsa, Vaidyaratnam P.S. Varier Ayurveda College, spoke on how the Kerala government had adopted Ayurveda as an important tool in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic early on with a number of programmes focusing on preventive aspects. “We had a good experience in tackling the Nipah virus. However, we lacked documentation. This time, we are documenting all the strategies we are following and the outcomes too,” he said.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||View bill details online||After receiving several queries and complaints from domestic consumers and drawing flak on social media about the lack of details regarding bill calculation and the deduction of previous month cycle (PMC) payments made during the lockdown from April to June, Tangedco has made arrangements for domestic consumers to view their account summaries online. In a press release, Tangedco said that full account summaries of domestic consumers could be viewed either on the Tangedco website— http://tneb.tnebnet.org/newlt/menu3solar1.html— or on the organisation’s online bill payment site— https://www.tnebnet.org/awp/login. Domestic consumers, by providing their particular consumer number, can view the units consumed, total payment and also the net payment on the two websites.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NFDC takes its courses online||The National Film Development Corporation (NDFC) has converted its in-house courses completely online. While non-linear digital editing course is under way and a 10-day digital intermediate colouring course will begin on July 27, D. Ramakrishnan, deputy general manager, NFDC, said: “We will also offer courses on visual effects, advanced DI colour grading, digital film restoration, digital photography, script writing and film appreciation in the coming days completely online.” Mr. Ramakrishnan said that NFDC would continue its online offerings even after the lockdown.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light showers likely in city||Thunderstorm activity is set to gather pace, particularly in the interior parts of Tamil Nadu, in the next two days. Chennai has a chance of getting light showers in some areas, according to the Meteorological Department. Officials said the interior districts and south coastal districts are likely to experience light to moderate rain on Sunday. The rainfall may be heavy and accompanied by thunder and lightning in one or two places in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Madurai, Theni, Salem and Dharmapuri, they said. During the 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. Saturday, Devala in the Nilgiris recorded the maximum rainfall of 10 cm. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said there would be light to moderate rain for the next few days due to wind convergence. Chennai would experience light showers for two days, and the day temperature is likely to be around 32 degrees Celsius.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vasan, TTV seek action||Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan on Saturday called for immediate action against those behind the YouTube channel ‘Karuppar Koottam’ for making derogatory comments against Lord Muruga, and also those involved in defacing statues of leaders. In a statement, he said that making derogatory comments against Kandha Sashti Kavasam amounts to insulting the devotees of Lord Muruga and is condemnable. To prevent vandalism of statues of leaders, those who are involved in such acts should be severely punished, he said. AMMK general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran deplored efforts by a group, seeking to denigrate Kanda Sashti Kavasam . “This cannot be justified in any way,” Mr. Dhinakaran said in a statement. He called upon the AIADMK government to come down heavily on those who offended religious sentiments of people and defaced statues of leaders.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||19 nabbed for smuggling ganja||The police arrested 19 persons for smuggling ganja and 174.5kg of contraband were seized from them in a series of raids over the last 12 days. Following instructions from Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal to nab smugglers, ganja sellers and drug peddlers, special teams were constituted. “During intensified vigil and raids from July 6 till Saturday, seven cases were booked against those who indulged in drug trafficking and 19 accused were arrested and 174.5 kg of ganja was seized. Cars, two-wheelers and autos were seized from them,” a release from the police said. Ganja weighing 94 kg was seized in Washermenpet and five suspects, including Nagarajan alias ‘Pambu’ Nagarajan, Chinnadurai and Ravichandran, alias ‘Powder’ Ravi, were arrested. In Red Hills, 52 kg of ganja was seized from suspects, said the police.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor condoles death of mathematician||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Saturday condoled the death of C.S. Seshadri, eminent Indian mathematician and founder and director-emeritus of the Chennai Mathematical Institute. In his message, the Governor said Seshadri was known for his brilliant work in algebraic geometry which people would remember for ages. He was honoured with a Padma Bhushan, the third-highest civilian award in the country. His demise was an irreparable loss to the people of the country, he said.
19 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Miscreants burn tyres in front of three temples in Coimbatore||Unidentified persons set fire to old tyres and junk in front of three temples in Coimbatore late on Friday, causing minor damage and triggering agitations from pro-Hindu organisations. The vandalism was reported in front of Mahaliamman temple on NH Road at Five Corner junction, at the Vinayagar temple in front of Coimbatore railway station and at another Vinayagar temple in Nallampalayam. In all the incidents, miscreants set ablaze tyres and clothes in front of the temples, causing minor damage. Trident found bent A trident in front of the Mahaliamman temple was found bent, and the remains of burnt tyres were also found on its premises. Surveillance camera Visuals from a surveillance camera close to Mahaliamman temple showed a man collecting old tyres in front of a nearby puncture shop, and setting them ablaze in front of the temple. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Coimbatore city police, said that investigations were under way to trace the miscreants who attempted to vandalise the temples at Five Corner junction and the one in front of the railway station. Rural police The Coimbatore rural police are investigating the vandalism attempt reported in front of the temple at Nallampapalaym. On Friday, a statue of Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar E.V. Ramasamy at Sundarapauram in Coimbatorewas found splashed with a saffron-coloured liquid. A member of Bharat Sena, a fringe right wing organisation, surrendered before the police claiming responsibility for the incident.
19 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Teenage girl stabbed to death by youth near Coimbatore||An 18-year-old girl from Perur near Coimbatore who was stabbed by a youth late on Friday, succumbed to injuries on Saturday. The accused allegedly had a strained relationship with the girl, S. Aiswarya, a resident of M.R Garden in Arumugagoundanur near Perur. Aiswarya’s father Sakthivel, also suffered stab injuries while attempting to save her. His condition is stable according to authorities of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Police said Aiswarya was stabbed by C. Ratheesh (20) who also hails from the same locality around 8.30 p.m. on Friday. A first-year B.Com student of a college in Perur, Aiswarya was in a relationship with Ratheesh according to the police. The police said that the boy and the girl belonged to different castes and the latter’s parents warned her to sever the relationship. The girl was not talking to Ratheesh since March, said the police. On Friday, Ratheesh came to her house and asked her why she was not talking to him. During the course of the argument, Ratheesh allegedly stabbed Aiswarya on her chest and abdomen. He also stabbed her father, who suffered cuts in both hands. The father and daughter were admitted to the CMCH. The police said that Aiswarya’s condition deteriorated on Saturday morning and she succumbed to the wounds. The Perur police are on the look out for Ratheesh.
19 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coronavirus | T.K. Market closed for a week, to reopen on July 27||Coimbatore Corporation has shut down the T.K. Market after a daily wager working there tested positive on Friday night. The civic body shut down the market on Saturday afternoon after asking the traders to wind up business early. As a part of the shut down, the civic body had also asked grocers, who have their shops east of the Then Vadal Street, to close down. On Friday, a worker attached to a banana leaf shop went to a private hospital complaining of chest pain. He later died at the hospital. When the hospital lifted sample to test for COVID-19, the result returned positive, the Corporation sources said. On Monday or Tuesday, the Corporation would conduct a fever clinic at the Market. The Friday’s decision to shut down the Market would keep away around 250 traders from business for a week and the civic body had permitted them to resume business on July 27, the sources added. M. Rajendran, president of the TK Market vegetable traders' association, said there are reports that two persons related to the market had tested positive. A 68-year-old man, who is a vegetable trader, died on Friday and it was found that he was COVID-19 positive. Another person, who was selling banana leaves at Sundarapuram too, had tested positive on Friday. There are about 700 traders - vegetables and grocery - at the market and nearly 500 people who are either unorganised sector workers or labourers at the shops. “We have appealed to the Corporation to test everyone for COVID-19. This market has more number of traders compared to others in the city and we may be asked to make changes to the way of functioning to ensure all the precautions are adopted stringently. We will abide by those,” he said.
19 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Rituals not allowed in temples on July 20||Officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department said that rituals for ancestors will not be allowed in any temples on July 20 on account of Aadi Amavasai as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. Perur Patteeswarar Temple, which witnesses nearly 1 lakh devotees each year on the occasion of Aadi Amavasai , announced that rituals for ancestors will not be allowed this year to avoid excess crowds. Similarly, other prominent temples, including Vanabadrakaliamman Temple at Thekkampatti and Amanalingeswarar Temple in Udumalpet will also not allow devotees to conduct rituals, HR&CE officials said. Rural areas While temples in rural areas will be open on Monday, the devotees cannot bring flowers, fruits, coconuts or any item intended for the rituals. The existing restrictions will continue for the rural temples, officials noted. Meanwhile, on Saturday, HR&CE Commissioner K. Phanindra Reddy issued a set of guidelines to all temples in the State which said that temple festivals can be conducted on temple premises, provided that the events comply with all COVID-19 precautionary measures. However, devotees and donors will be not allowed to participate. The festivals can also be live streamed online for the devotees, the guidelines said. No decisions for live streaming has been finalised for the temples in Coimbatore Zone as of Saturday, the HR&CE officials said.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  Officials of HR and CE Department said public are will not allowed to perform rituals at Sangameswarar Temple at Bhavani Kooduthurai and also at Magudeswarar temple at Kodumudi too on July 20.
19 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani to stage demonstrations||Condemning the alleged vandalism of three temples in Coimbatore, Hindu Munnani will stage demonstrations across the districts of Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris on Monday, said State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam here on Saturday. At a press conference after visiting the temples, he alleged that this act was part of a conspiracy to instigate communal riot in Coimbatore. The demonstrations would comply with the COVID-19 precautionary directions of the government, he said. Mr. Subramaniam said all politicians must condemn this alleged vandalism and that the Intelligence Section officials must monitor efficiently to avoid such incidents in future.
19 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Teenage girl stabbed to death by youth||An 18-year-old girl from Perur near Coimbatore who was stabbed by a youth late on Friday, succumbed to injuries on Saturday. The accused allegedly had a strained relationship with the girl, S. Aiswarya, a resident of M.R Garden in Arumugagoundanur near Perur. Aiswarya’s father Sakthivel, also suffered stab injuries while attempting to save her. His condition is stable according to authorities of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). Police said Aiswarya was stabbed by C. Ratheesh (20) who also hails from the same locality around 8.30 p.m. on Friday. A first-year B.Com student of a college in Perur, Aiswarya was in a relationship with Ratheesh according to the police. The police said that the boy and the girl belonged to different castes and the latter’s parents warned her to sever the relationship. The girl was not talking to Ratheesh since March, said the police. On Friday, Ratheesh came to her house and asked her why she was not talking to him. During the course of the argument, Ratheesh allegedly stabbed Aiswarya on her chest and abdomen. He also stabbed her father, who suffered cuts in both hands. The father and daughter were admitted to the CMCH. The police said that Aiswarya’s condition deteriorated on Saturday morning and she succumbed to the wounds. The Perur police are on the lookout for Ratheesh.
19 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Miscreants burn tyres in front of three temples in Coimbatore||Unidentified persons set fire to old tyres and junk in front of three temples in Coimbatore late on Friday, causing minor damage and triggering agitations from pro-Hindu organisations. The vandalism was reported in front of Mahaliamman temple at Five Corner junction, at the Vinayagar temple in front of Coimbatore railway station and another Vinayagar temple in Nallampalayam. In all the incidents, miscreants set ablaze tyres and clothes in front of the temples, causing minor damage. A trident in front of the Mahaliamman temple was found bent, and the remains of burnt tyres were also found on its premises. Visuals from a surveillance camera close to Mahaliamman temple showed a man collecting old tyres from a nearby puncture shop, and setting them ablaze in front of the temple. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Coimbatore city police, said that investigations were under way to trace the miscreants. The Coimbatore rural police are investigating the vandalism attempt reported in front of the temple at Nallampapalaym.
19 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Seven areas declared as clusters||Coimbatore Corporation has on Saturday identified seven areas as cluster areas as they had three or more positive persons. According to sources, the civic body had identified Kandhasamy Layout – three cases, Indira Nagar – four cases, Prabhu Nagar – three cases, K.C. Thottam - five cases, Samy Iyer New Street – four cases, Om Sakthi Nagar – three cases and M.S. Garden three cases to initiate intensive measures to control the spread of COVID-19. Sanitary teams were in place to spray disinfectants at regular intervals and medical teams deployed to conduct fever clinics, the sources said. The Corporation had imposed Rs. 8,200 as fine for not wearing mask. Late on Friday night, the Corporation officials in Central Zone sealed a gold smithy after they found it functioning illegally, in violation of the lockdown orders.
19 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in elephant attack||An unidentified man was killed in the attack of a wild elephant near Pooluvapatti in Coimbatore district on Friday. Forest officials said the man aged around 40 was attacked by a tusker in a private land near Kallar bridge around 8.30 p.m. on Friday. The place was located around one km away from the boundaries of Poondi central beat of Pooluvapatti forest range. The deceased had a large wound on his back caused by the tusk of the male elephant. The Forest Department informed the Alandurai police and the body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The police were yet to trace the identity of the deceased.
19 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Differently-abled penalised||Complaining that drinking water supply to the house of a differently-abled woman in the district has been disconnected, the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) district president P. Selvanayagam urged the police to arrest an AIADMK functionary immediately. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, association members said that Amudhavalli of Athur union, a differently-abled woman, had lodged a complaint with the Block Development Officer about non-allocation of works to differently abled persons under the MGNREGA scheme. The members suspect that an AIADMK functionary, whose wife is an elected representative in the panchayat, would have had a hand in cutting the water supply to Amudhavalli’s house. Since, differently abled persons refused to part with any commission to the politicians, they were neglected, the members said. They have lodged a complaint with the police. Collector M. Vijayalakshmi assured to look into the petition and take action, the office-bearers said.
19 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Unable to get trips, call taxi owner sells tapioca in his vehicle||With call taxis unable to get trips due to COVID-19 pandemic in the past four months, a taxi owner S. Senthil Kumar along with his wife S. Vigneswari started selling tapioca in their vehicle to earn their for livelihood. The couple from Municipal Colony in the city covers one area everyday selling tapioca for Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 a kg in the past few weeks. “The idea of selling tapioca in a car is not financially viable. But we are left with no other option as there is no source of income”, said Mr. Senthil Kumar, who pointed out that the vehicle was lying idle for over three months. “We also slice it and make it ready for making chips if consumers want”, said Vigneswari. “There is no income and we cannot invest in business. Hence, we decided to utilise the vehicle and sell tapioca”, she said. “There is not much profit, but we are happy as we are able to meet the food needs of the family everyday”, the couple added and expressed confidence that the situation will turn normal soon.
19 July 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Girl’s parents allege murder, FIR gives suspected suicide angle||A First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Hosur Town Police Station seeking to give a ‘suicide angle’ to the death of a 19-year-old married woman has triggered a controversy as the girl’s parents had alleged that she was killed for dowry.  The victim Rajeshwari had married Ganesh (21) of Kadavul Nagar against her family’s wishes. She had a seven-month old baby. Her father Kannan had, in his complaint, said that on July 15 he had received a call from Ganesh saying his daughter was dead. Later, he learnt that Rajeshwari had ran out of her home on the street for help and neighbours found that she was fighting for help. According to Kannan’s complaint, her mother-in-law Vasantha had prevented neighbours from helping. Alleging that Rajeshwari was abused for dowry by Ganesan and Vasantha, he suspected that his daughter was poisoned. He alleged that she would often call up her parents on the abuse and her family had parted with dowry as and when demands were made on them. In his complaint, he sought action against Ganesan and his parents. However, the police registered a FIR under Section 174 CrPc. The FIR referred to suspected “suicide” by the victim. According to the FIR signed by the Sub Inspector of Police C.Suresh, Rajeshwari was heart-broken over her husband’s extra-marital affair and hence consumed pesticide. A fact-finding team by the Democratic Youth Federation of India said that eyewitnesses in the neighbourhood had claimed that the victim was beaten and poisoned. Amid the accusations, the FIR registered by the police has been contested.  The Hindu contacted the office of the Deputy Superintendent of Police. While DSP Murali was on leave, his office staff said he would inquire into the case on Monday. In the meantime, an inquiry is being conducted by the Hosur RDO.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 cases stabilising in Madurai’||COVID-19 cases in Madurai district are stabilising and further work needs to be done to achieve a declining trend, said District Monitoring Officer for COVID-19 B. Chandra Mohan. Speaking to The Hindu , he said with the relaxation of lockdown norms, fever surveillance would be intensified and healthcare facilities would be monitored to ramp up the capacity. “With relaxation of norms, there will be more public movement. We are trying to convert the awareness of mask use, frequent hand wash and practising social distancing to create a behavioural change. Commissioner of Police, Madurai City, and Superintendent of Police, Madurai Rural, are coming up with a plan for stricter enforcement of safety precautions,” he said, He said all private hospitals have been instructed to resume operations to treat COVID-19 patients as well as those with other ailments. “It was found that around 120 private hospitals were shut. Some were treating asymptomatic or mild symptomatic patients but declining service to those with severe symptoms. Some were collecting higher charges. We have shared the protocol for home isolation and asked them to adopt it extensively,” he said. When asked about death rate, Dr. Chandra Mohan said that it was incorrect to say that death rate in Madurai is higher than in Chennai. “The fatality rate in Madurai is 1.5 to 1.7 whereas in Chennai it is 1.4 to 1.5. The marginal increase can be attributed to delayed referral of cases from nearby districts,” he said. At similar points in the epidemic curve, death rate in Madurai and Chennai is nearly the same. He said the intensified lockdown implemented in parts of the district helped to bring the positivity rate from as high as 16% to 7% to 8% now. Door-to-door surveillance, identification of symptomatic persons, aggressive testing and isolation of cases have helped in identifying cases early on. “Initially, on an average 1,500 tests were taken and now around 4,500 to 5,000 tests are taken everyday,” he said. The complete lockdown helped in improving healthcare facilities. The number of beds available at COVID care centres were increased from 2,045 to 4,000. A total of 450 beds were prepared for health centres. Beds at Government Rajaji Hospital were increased to 1,461 to treat severe and moderate cases. “It was found that more patients required oxygen support and the number of beds with oxygen supply at GRH was nearly doubled to 612. Oxygen supply will be given to 400 additional beds at GRH within the next 10 days,” he said. Out of a total of 250 beds at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur, there are 50 beds with oxygen supply. It would be increased to 200, he added.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district sees a dip in number of positive cases||Madurai district saw a dip in the number of cases as 185 patients tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. This comes after eight days of recording more than 200 cases since July 10. The tally of cases reached 8,044. A total of 81 people were discharged taking the total number of discharged persons to 4,758. There are 3,139 active cases as on date. The district slipped to third position among all districts in Tamil Nadu in terms of active cases as Tiruvallur district overtook Madurai by 127 cases. There were nine deaths reported. Apart from those who succumbed to COVID-19 in Madurai, deaths from patients belonging to Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar districts were also recorded here. Theni A total of 144 fresh cases were reported in the district, taking the tally to 2,374. There were 80 men, 55 women and nine children from Andipatti (4), Bodinayakkanur (12), Cumbum (27), Periakulam (45), Theni Town (24), Uthamapalayam (22) and among others. There were 110 people discharged from the hospital. A total of 690 samples were taken today. Health officials said that there were four deaths reported from PC Patti, Aranmanaipudur, Theni and Periakulam respectively. Dindigul The district recorded 107 cases taking the total positive cases to 1,463. The State medical bulletin showed that there were 27 discharges and 690 active cases in the hospital. There were 19 deaths in the district. Natham continued to contribute more positive patients followed by Dindigul Corporation limits and Batlagundu Town. Ramanathapuram The district had 67 cases taking the total active cases to 2,316. There were 14 discharges from the hospital. As the officials claimed that intensified testing had resulted in a rise in the number of patients, the number of deaths in the district stood at 47 so far. There were 871 active cases, the State medical bulletin said. Sivaganga On a single day, 178 new cases were reported in the district which took the total positive cases to 1,438 from 1,260. The State medical bulletin said that there were 17 discharges from the hospital. The district had 24 deaths and active cases stood at 768. The officials said that Manamadurai, Sivaganga Town, Karaikudi Town and Singampunari had steady patients coming in.  Virudhunagar With two more deaths reported on Saturday, Virudhunagar district has so far recorded 26 COVID-19 deaths. A 53-year-old man and a 70-year-old man with diabetes mellitus and other comorbidities died at different hospitals on Friday, according to the State media bulletin. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases in the district also increased by 179, taking the total number of positive cases to 3,127. With 154 patients getting discharged on Saturday (total number of discharge till date 1,219), the number of active cases stood at 1, 882.  Tirunelveli As many as 560 fresh cases were recorded from Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Kanniyakumari and Tenkasi districts on Saturday. Of this, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts recorded 161 infections each and almost all of them were indigenous cases. While Thoothukudi district has 1,886 active cases against the tally of 3,290 COVID-19 positive cases, Tirunelveli has 1,345 active cases and 2,504 total infections. Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts have witnessed 23 and 11 COVID-19-related deaths respectively. In Kanniyakumari district, 146 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Saturday which took the tally to 2,187 and the active cases to 1,465. The district also witnessed the death of a COVID-19 patient on Saturday. Tenkasi, after a lull, had 91 new cases on Saturday to jack up the tally to 1,019 and the active cases to 680. While Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli districts have crossed the 2,000 mark already, Thoothukudi surpassed the 3,000 mark even as fresh cases were being reported in the coastal district.
19 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Infrastructure in testing labs will be stepped up: Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that 15,000 doctors, staff nurses and data entry workers had been appointed exclusively for COVID-19 treatment across the State, particularly in microbiology labs, to ensure that testing records were processed quickly. He was speaking after inspecting COVID-19 facilities in Madurai district, including fever camps and the Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur, on Saturday. Along with Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar and District Collector T.G. Vinay, the Minister conducted a review meeting with doctors, Health Department staff and Corporation officials, regarding arrangements in the district. Speaking to the media, the Minister said the State government had provided Rs. 15 lakh to heads of microbiology labs across the State to strengthen testing infrastructure. He said testing facilities would be ramped up in the city as thousands of tests were being conducted every day. Machines for automatic RNA extraction had also been ordered for the State, he said. Identification of vulnerable groups had helped prevent those with co-morbidities from having to physically come to hospitals to take medication. For those with diabetes, hypertension, AIDS and tuberculosis, medication was sent to their houses if they were enrolled in the government database, he said. Care was being provided to those with co-morbidities to specifically ensure that mortality rates were under in check, he added. Private healthcare On treatment in private hospitals, the Minister said action would be taken against establishments charging more than the cap fixed by the government. A team had been formed to look into the matter, he said. “Tamil Nadu is providing exceptional care for antenatal mothers and newborns. In Madurai, there are at least 40 mothers who are being treated for COVID-19. Almost all of them have been discharged without any issues. Newborns, too, are being treated with utmost care,” he said. He added that health workers and others in allied government departments were working hard to contain the spread of COVID-19. “The review meeting, which went on for over an hour, is proof of the work being done,” he said.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea to quash final report||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the petition filed by a policeman from Ramanathapuram district who sought to quash a report against him. He was held responsible for a missing pistol and six bullets. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Rajkumar who along with another policeman Balaian were held responsible for the missing objects. The petitioner sought to quash the report against him. He said that in 2012, he had taken the pistol and six bullets for security purposes, for a routine vehicle check in Thondi. The objects were returned and entries were made in the registers, he said. However, on inspection this was found to be false and department proceedings were initiated against them. Subsequently the charges against them were proved and were punished with postponement of increment. Justice B. Pugalendhi dismissed the petition with a liberty to the petitioner to raise the grounds in the petition before the trial court. The trial court shall proceed with the trail and take a decision independently, the court said.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway may surrender vacant posts||The Southern Railway General Manager, John Thomas, has instructed Principal Heads of Departments, Divisional Railway Managers, Chief Workshop Managers to identify 50% of the vacant posts in non-safety categories in the zone and to surrender these immediately. In a communication issued on July 16, Mr. John Thomas, has asked the officials to submit their action plan indicating the department-wise and category-wise number of posts to be surrendered as per the Railway Board’s instruction. “The numbers may be furnished by July 24 to Principal Chief Personnel Officer to consolidate and reply to Railway Board,” the communication read. The memoranda for surrender for the identified posts should reach the PCPO by July 31, failing which the posts would be identified and surrendered suo-motto by headquarters in consultation with PHODs concerned, he further said. According to official sources, Southern Railway headquarters has more than one-third of its sanctioned posts or 2,509 posts vacant in 11 departments like accounts, administration, civil, mechanical, commercial, signal and telecommunication, electrical, medical and personnel department. “Out of 7,211 sanctioned posts, 2,509 posts are lying vacant in the zonal office. Similarly, another 4,683 posts were lying vacant as on July 1, in the six divisions, workshops and other units,” the official said. With 7,192 posts lying vacant across Southern Railway, the threat is that at least 3,500 posts would be surrendered. “This will lead to more work burden on the employees and thereby the quality of work will suffer,” said Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union divisional secretary, R. Sankaranarayanan. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised to provide two crore jobs every year, Railway Board’s proposal to abolish vacancies in Railways was just opposite to it, he contended. Southern Railway Mazdoor Union on Friday staged a demonstration across the zone appealing to the Centre to give up its anti-people policy.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||TASMAC workers seek relief||A section of workers from TASMAC outlets in Madurai district came to the Collectorate on Saturday and sought compensation from the State Government for employees who have succumbed to COVID-19. C. Ukkirapandi, a TASMAC employee, said that his colleague C. Velmurugan who worked at a TASMAC shop in Chittampatti had died due to COVID-19 earlier this month. “Although we are given masks, sanitisers and gloves, we deal with at least 1,000 people everyday. Though the government has enforced social distancing, crowds in front of TASMAC outlets become unregulated. We, as employees, cannot identify who has COVID-19. The government must provide us additional protection and ensure personal distancing outside our shops,” he said. He added that Velmurugan’s family must be given Rs. 50 lakh compensation and a job for any member in their household. He said that swab samples must be taken of all TASMAC employees regularly to see whether they have contracted the virus. “Many of our counterparts in other districts have been affected by the virus. I hope the government understands our plight. Apart from work pressure we face, we now have to protect ourselves from this invisible virus too,” he added.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court orders DVAC probe||Taking a serious view of irregularities in the administration of an educational society in Ramanathapuram district, that also involved senior police personnel, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered a probe by the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) into the allegations. The court took cognisance of the fact that the VOC Matriculation Educational Society in Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram district, was embroiled in a conflict over its administration. The senior police personnel involved had conducted a biased investigation and received illegal gratification to favour a particular group to take over the administration of the society. Ordering a DVAC probe into the case, Justice B. Pugalendhi observed that the educational societies were formed with a noble objective for providing education to the needy and downtrodden. No irregularities or malpractices in the name of running such institutions can be allowed to take place, the court said. If the infighting to run the administration in the educational society stooped to the level of bribing police officers, it has to be investigated thoroughly and such persons should not be allowed to run such institutions, the court said. The court directed the investigation in the case to be completed within a period of six months.
19 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals increase bed capacity||Demand for beds in private hospitals continues to rise in Madurai district as bed occupancy rises to 69% on Saturday from 44% in June end. According to data made available by the State Health department, there are a total of 808 beds available in Madurai district across 15 hospitals. Currently, a total of 556 beds are in use. As of June 27, there were 400 beds and 179 occupied in 11 private hospitals. In anticipation of rising cases, a few large private hospitals are increasing their bed capacity by providing treatment both within the hospital and outside it. For patients with mild and moderate symptoms, hospitals like Apollo and Meenakshi Mission have created COVID-19 care centres (CCC) that have 24-hour monitoring. Chief Operating Officer, Apollo Hospital, Rohini Sridhar, says that the 74 beds allocated for COVID-19 treatment in the hospital are all occupied. However, the hospital has made provisions to create a CCC at a hotel 500 metre from their campus that has doctors monitoring patients round the clock. She adds that the hospital was providing monitored home isolation to those who can afford to stay at home. “For others, the CCC can be used. The facility comes in handy as a step up and step down treatment centre. In case a patient at the CCC requires urgent treatment due to worsening symptoms, they can be shifted to the hospital. Those at the hospital whose health has improved but still need to be under observation can be shifted to the CCC as well,” she says. General Manager, Operations, Meenakshi Mission Hospital, J. Adel says that apart from the facility at their hospital near Mattuthavani, around 60 patients with mild and moderate symptoms are being treated at the Meenakshi Nursing College at Kottakudi. “We have around 131 beds because we have leased out space from two other private hospitals and are admitting patients there too,” he said. Apart from this, the hospital was providing separate monitored home isolation, he says. Senior General Manager, Devadoss Hospital, A. K. Sivakumar, says that although they were in the process of increasing their bed capacity from 33 to 53, they too have tied up with a hotel located close to the hospital for quarantining their staff. “Apart from creating beds with oxygen facilities and converting wards, we are looking at the well-being of our staff. They need to be quarantined in a safe facility outside the hospital,” he said. Management Representative, Vadamalayan Hospital, V. Karthik, said that although the 54 beds utilized for COVID-19 treatment were all in use, they have a total of 15 beds separately set aside for COVID-19 suspected patients. Head, Critical Care Unit, Velammal Hospital, S. Vijay Anand, says that they were not planning to increase the number of beds at the hospital because the load was currently being shared by smaller hospitals in the district who have opened up their facilities for COVID-19 treatment. “We have 200 beds out of which 119 are occupied. In the last week, many hospitals have opened their gates for COVID-19 treatment too. The burden is now being shared,” he said.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Triage centres to check severity of COVID-19 infection||Three triage centres, set up in mobile vehicles, will be used to grade the severity of COVID-19 infection for positive persons and accordingly decide the type of health facility where they need to get treated. Madurai City Health Officer (CHO) P. Kumaraguruparan said that all the three mobile vehicles have been equipped to take x-ray imaging to help the medical officers understand the severity of infection in the lungs. ‘Pulse oximeters will also be used to determine the oxygen levels in the blood,’ he said. Based on it, patients will be categorised as mild/ moderate/ severe cases and accordingly they will be treated at COVID Care Centres, home isolation, COVID health centres or Government Rajaji Hospital. The CHO said that the vehicles would be stationed at ESI Hospital in Balarangapuram, Velliveethiyar Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School and Corporation Middle School in Krishnapuram Colony. ‘Two ambulances would be present near each centre to ferry patients to health facilities,’ he added. A health official said till now doctors were assessing patients based on symptoms. ‘But there are possibilities that in an asymptomatic person the infection could get severe and would require hospitalisation. So, these x-ray imaging would help doctors understand the severity of infection early on,’ said the official.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sattankulam custodial death: SHRC holds enquiry||An official from the State Human Rights Commission conducted enquiry with the arrested Sattankulam police station personnel at the central prison here on Saturday in connection with the custodial death of trader P. Jayaraj, and his son Benicks. Deputy Superintendent of Police, C.T. Kumar, enquired the suspended Sattankulam Inspector of Police, Sridhar, Sub-Inspectors of Police, Raghu Ganesh and Balakrishnan and other police personnel. Mr. Kumar, who came to the Central Prison at around 10.30 a.m. held enquiry for two hours. After coming out, he said that he had got statements from all the 10 police personnel. He would submit his report within two days. Mr. Kumar has already conducted similar enquiry at the Sattankulam police station, with the staff of Kovilpatti sub-jail and medical officers in Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Healthy snacks given to school students help them a lot||N.S.S.B Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, which was the only corporation school in the city to secure 100% pass percentage in Class 12 in State Board examinations this year, has demonstrated how community participation has aided in the success of the school. Headmistress P. Meenakshi says that apart from ‘sundal’ supplied by Madurai Corporation, many volunteers and Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan arranged snacks for students before evening special class. A total of 83 students appeared for Class 12 examinations and passed with flying colours. Since the end of half-yearly examinations, evening class were held for around 350 students of Classes 10, 11 and 12 from 4.30 p.m. and to 6.30 p.m.  “We thought that it would be nice if there were more variety of snacks for students in the evening so we asked help from other people too,” she says. “School teachers sponsored dry ration including rice on special occasions. Residents near the school made several contributions. When we approached the MP, he arranged for supplying sundal, biscuits and sprouts through Rotary Club of Madurai Midtown,” she says. All these contributions ensured that students were given kichadi, curd rice at least once a week, apart from sundal and biscuits as snacks, the Headmistress said. “Since students were well fed, they could concentrate on their studies during the special classes,” she adds. The MP said that apart from this school, evening snacks were arranged for Kasturiba Gandhi Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School and Bharathidasanar Corporation Higher Secondary School through the Rotary Club of Madurai MidTown.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Need to fix minimum wages for young advocates||The need to fix a fair living wage or a minimum wage for junior advocates was recommended at the release event of a report on the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown on advocates. The research was carried out by the Madurai-based Lawyers Fraternity Tamil Nadu and the Bengaluru-based Indian Social Institute. Launching the report titled ‘Corona unlocks: the vulnerabilities of advocates,’ via video conferencing, former Madras High Court Judge D. Hariparanthaman said that advocates faced financial vulnerability during the lockdown. He said that this called for fixing a stipend for young lawyers as they need to stabilise. Senior Advocate Sudha Ramalingam pointed out the need to fix a minimum wage for young advocates. Not only the government but also senior advocates must reach out to their juniors. Apart from this, the advocates must also be provided with medical insurance, she said. The report looked at four major objectives: the financial vulnerability of advocates during the COVID-19 lockdown, impact of the lockdown on the advocates, efficacy of using technology and recommendations to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, the State government and the advocates fraternity to reach out to the needy advocates. The need to implement a stipend scheme to address these issues was recommended. If such a scheme was in place financial stress of young advocates can be substantially reduced, the study said. However, proper steps must be taken to ensure that only genuine advocates who were practising regularly were benefited by the scheme. Further, the report states the need to create a corpus or emergency fund to aid advocates during the times of emergency. With advocates finding it difficult to get bank loans, a cooperative bank or thrift society in all bar associations can be created so that advocates can avail loans, the report said. Most of the offices do not have the practice of paying monthly salaries to juniors. This must change, the study recommended. The State and the advocate fraternity must wake up to the hard realities and explore ways and means to safeguard and protect the dignity of the profession, the report said.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC directs State to file counter on PIL||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to file a counter in a public interest litigation petition that complained of illegal extraction of groundwater in Rameswaram. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State to file a counter on the steps taken to prevent illegal extraction of groundwater and a time frame to bring out a legislation in this regard. The petitioner, J. John Amalraj, Secretary of the Ramanathapuram District Consumer Right Protection Association, complained that illegal water plants were functioning in Rameswaram and this resulted in depletion of water resources. As per the information received under the Right to Information Act, only four persons were permitted to extract groundwater and sell them for commercial purpose in Rameswaram. However, illegal extraction of groundwater was taking place. He pointed out that the Tamil Nadu Ground Water (Development and Management) Act , 2003 which was the only legislation regulating the extraction of groundwater was repealed in 2013, with an object to bring out a better legislation. But even after seven years, no proposals have been made to bring out legislation for regulation of groundwater. He sought a direction to the State to take action against illegal extraction of groundwater.
19 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments: HC seeks status report||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to file a status report in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to remove encroachments in a waterbody in Thanjavur district. The petitioner, M. Krishnamoorthy of Budalur in Thanjavur district, complained of encroachments in the Ayyanar eri in Maraneri village, Budalur. He said that the eri was the main source of water in the village and sought the removal of encroachments. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the authorities to inspect the waterbody and submit a status report on the steps taken to restore it.
19 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Over 9,000 violation cases registered in Namakkal||Namakkal district police has registered 9,179 cases for violating prohibitory orders during the lockdown period, a release said. According to a release, between March 25 and July 17, police has cases against 12,070 persons and detained 4,552 vehicles. Speaking to reporters after holding a meeting with trade organisations, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan said that organisations have been advised to inform authorities if persons visit the district from other places here. He said that there are 14 check posts in the district and they have found that there are 37 inlets to the district. Mr. Ganesan said that 10 more check posts would be set up in the district and other entry points would be sealed.
19 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 death toll rises to 28 in Puducherry||Three more deaths took the Union Territory’s COVID-19 fatalities to 28 on Saturday. A 36-year-old person hailing from Samipillaithottam at Lawspet and a 76-year-old person residing at Kamaraj Nagar, Gorimedu, died at the Government Medical College. Both were diabetic and hypertensive. A 42-year-old hailing from Kavikuil Nagar, who had no co-morbidities, also died at the medical college. At a press conference here, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Malladi Krishna Rao said 58 persons had been admitted to hospital after they tested positive in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases had gone up to 1,898, and 804 were under treatment. So far, 1,066 patients had been discharged, he said.
19 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Elephant brought back to Manakula Vinayagar temple||Lakshmi, the popular elephant of the Sri Manakula Vinayagar Koil in Puducherry, has been brought back to the temple on Saturday from the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) campus at the intervention of Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy. The elephant was relocated to the KVK campus in the first week of June following a complaint by BJP leader Maneka Gandhi to Lieutenant-Governor Kiran Bedi alleging abuse of the animal and violations of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. The Chief Minister, his Parliamentary Secretary K. Lakshminarayanan and AIADMK floor leader A. Anbalagan received the elephant. In a note issued on July 16, Mr. Naraynasamy directed the temple management to take “possession” of the elephant to “bless” the devotees. The direction was given after representations from devotees and Hindu organisations, the note said. New place to stay The Chief Minister also directed the temple management to provide a new place for the animal to stay during non-darshan hours and at night.
19 July 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term in murder case||District Sessions Judge R. Shanmugasundaram sentenced Arjunan (37), son of Kalimuthan (64), of Naduvalasai, near Uchipuli in the district, to undergo life term for murdering his father three years ago over a property dispute. According to the prosecution, Kalimuthan had proposed to give 20 cents of immovable property to his daughter. Opposing the move, Arjunan, his wife Vijayabharathi (29), and his father-in-law Ramamurthi (67) of Maravar Street, Rameswaram, attacked Kalimuthan and he died. The police arrested the three accused and the case was posted before the District Sessions Judge. In his sentence pronounced on Friday, the judge directed Arjunan to undergo life term and imposed Rs. 11,000 as fine and acquitted Vijaya Bharathi and Ramamurthi.
19 July 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Kuruvai target revised for Thanjavur district||The Agriculture Department is said to have revised the target for kuruvai cultivation in Thanjavur district this season. The department had earlier fixed a target of 43,225 hectares. Transplantation/direct sowing has been completed in 41,267 hectares. Nurseries for transplantation is available on about 107 hectares. Hence, officials hope that the total area of cultivation in the district may increase to 45,000 hectares. Director of Agriculture V. Dakshinamoorthy on Saturday inspected a seed processing unit at Sakottai and reviewed implementation of various schemes by block-level assistant directors (agriculture) in Kumbakonam.
19 July 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||TNSCB homes in Theni to be ready by September||Through the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB), the State government has been constructing houses for people living in tents on roadsides, on railway properties or near waterbodies, said Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam here on Saturday. Speaking to reporters after presiding over a meeting attended by engineers from the TNSCB and other departments, he said that after a survey taken in the district, it was proposed to construct 1,224 dwelling units at three locations - Vadaveera Naickenpatti, Thappakundu and near Kombai. The new tenements would have underground drainage facility, rainwater harvesting structure and paver block pathway in common utility areas. Each dwelling units would have 400 square feet of living space. Each beneficiary shall contribute Rs. 1 lakh for the project, the Centre would provide Rs. 1.50 lakh and the State has earmarked Rs. 6 lakh, thus taking the total cost of each dwelling to Rs. 8.50 lakh. Engineers from the TNSCB said that out of the 1,224 houses being built at a cost of Rs. 122.18 crore, 376 units have been completed. These would be handed over to the district administration in a month and the remaining houses would be handed over by September-end. Admitting that urbanisation had made people migrate from their native places to other parts, Mr. Panneerselvam said that the Tamil Nadu government was keen to remove slum habitations very soon. The new dwellings have been constructed on the lines of ‘Green House’ concept with more thrust on solar energy. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, who was present at the meeting, said that as and when the TNSCB handed over the completed units, the officials would carry out inspections and commence handing them over to the allottees. The TNSCB engineers said that COVID-19 pandemic had slowed down the works, but hoped to make it up in the next 60 to 90 days.
19 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Additional testing equipment inaugurated in Thoothukudi||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Saturday inspected a containment zone at Tooveypuram and inaugurated additional RT-PCR equipment being used to detect viral infection in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Later, he had discussion with Tirunelveli Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan, Dean, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH), M. Ravichandran and senior officials at the TVMCH on the ongoing anti-COVID-19 operations. Ms. Shilpa gave an elaborate account of measures put in place in the district to check the pandemic which has so far infected over 2,300 persons. Dr. Vijayabaskar interacted with COVID-19 positive patients and nurses and doctors serving in the COVID-19 treatment ward of TVMCH through videoconference. He had discussion with heads of all departments of TVMCH and honoured doctors and nurses with fruit baskets. “Since Tirunelveli district is carrying out excellent work to contain the pandemic, there will be no dearth for funds to strengthen the ongoing work. As a mark of recognition, all 34 primary health centres in the district will get oxygen cylinders facility,” he said. One more care centre As beds available in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and Government Siddha Medical College Hospital cannot meet the surge in fresh cases, officials here have planned to create ‘COVID-19 Care Centre’ at Government College of Engineering on Palayamkottai outskirts. While 680 active cases are undergoing treatment in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, 180 patients have been admitted in the Government Siddha Medical College Hospital with the viral infection. With the arrival of more patients, the Koodankulam Government Hospital and two private hospitals in Moontradaippu and Pattamadai have been converted into ‘COVID-19 Care Centres’ apart from three more private hospitals here. Since the arrival of fresh cases is still intense, the Government Engineering College on Nagercoil Highway is to be converted into a ‘COVID-19 Care Centre’ where around 200 patients can be accommodated. “Those who have minimal symptoms or asymptomatic will be admitted and treated here. In other words, those who are in need of minimal medical intervention will be admitted here for treatment while those who are in need of oxygen or ventilator support will continue get medical attention at TVMCH. So, with the arrival of higher number of new cases, we’ve to increase the COVID-19 Care Centres and we’re to create a new one at Government College of Engineering,” said an official attached to the Department of Public Health. The officials are now scouting appropriate places for these centres as the number of cases is on the rise.
19 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||An exclusive convalescent plasma therapy section||An exclusive convalescent plasma treatment section to treat COVID-19 patients will start functioning from Monday in Chennai, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Saturday. Reviewing the treatment being given to COVID-19 patients at the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, Dr. Vijayabaskar said the government was making all-out efforts to contain the pandemic by conducting an adequate number of tests for identifying patients and administering them the right treatment to ensure early and complete recovery. The expertise of government doctors in Tamil Nadu even saved pregnant women, who were just a few days away from their due date for delivery, he told journalists. The doctors had also equipped themselves for convalescent plasma treatment to neutralise COVID-19, he said. Of the 26 COVID-19 patients who underwent convalescent plasma treatment on a trial basis at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai, 24 had recovered, he said. Besides, four patients in Madurai had tested negative after undergoing this line of treatment, he said. ‘Donate plasma’ “The convalescent plasma treatment section will start functioning in Chennai from Monday, and I appeal to COVID-19 patients who have returned home after recovery to donate plasma to save thousands undergoing treatment,” Dr. Vijayabaskar said. He added that Tamil Nadu had conducted the highest number of tests in the country. Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju, District Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Dean of Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital Revathi Balan and City Health Officer Arunkumar were present.
19 July 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Villagers hold protest against gas pipeline||Tension prevails in Pottalkaadu near here as Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) is laying pipelines through the village to transport natural gas from Ramanathapuram to a fertilizer manufacturing unit in Thoothukudi. IOC proposes to lay pipelines through cultivable land in Kulaiyankarisal and Pottalkaadu villages. However, villagers say the pipelines will pose a threat to farming operations and their livelihood.
19 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Spike in central region as Thanjavur cluster records more cases||The central region saw a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases with 416 new ones recorded on Saturday. Thanjavur district saw a single-day high with 181 patients testing positive, while recording three deaths. The region saw three other deaths, one each in Tiruchi, Karur and Pudukottai. In Thanjavur, a 48-year-old man, who had with benign tumour and was recently operated upon, died at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital of respiratory failure after testing positive. Two more men, aged 72 and 60, who tested positive, also died at TMCH with co-morbidities of diabetes and hypertension. A 68-year-old man died at Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, while a 55-year-old man died at Karur Government Medical College Hospital. A 69-year-old man also died at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital. All patients tested positive and had known cases of diabetes and hypertension. Of the 181 positive cases reported in Thanjavur on Saturday, at least 170 patients were traders or immediate contacts of traders from the vegetable market in Kumbakonam. “All have been admitted to TMCH. All patients from the cluster are stable,” a health official here said. In Tiruchi, among the 124 patients who tested positive, many were from K. Abishekapuram zone and Srirangam zone. Patients also tested positive from Manapparai and Manachanallur districts. “The numbers are high as we have employed aggressive testing strategies. The cases will begin to decline within the next few weeks,” a senior official in Tiruchi said. Meanwhile, 63 patients, including 40 from Tiruchi GH and 23 from the COVID Care Centre, were discharged on Saturday. They asked to home quarantine for a period of 14 days. In Pudukottai district, 34 patients tested positive for the virus on Saturday. They were admitted to Ranee’s Government Hospital. Twenty-eight patients also tested positive in Tiruvarur. Among the 22 patients to test positive in Nagapattinam were three police personnel, one official of the revenue department and a media person. A staff nurse working at a private hospital in Tiruchi also tested positive. While the nurse was undergoing treatment in Tiruchi, 14 were admitted at Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruvarur, five to Nagai District Headquarters Hospital and one to a private hospital in Thanjavur. Thirteen patients tested positive in Karur. Among them was a seven-year-old boy and four women. All were admitted to Karur Government Medical Hospital for treatment. Of the 10 patients to test positive in Ariyalur, five were local contacts of those who tested positive earlier. Among other patients, one each had returned from Chennai and Salem, while three returned from Cuddalore. Nine patients were admitted to Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital, while one was admitted at a private hospital in Coimbatore and another at a hospital in Kumbakonam. Four patients, two men and two women, tested positive in Perambalur. Three were primary contacts of a woman who tested positive. The fourth patient was an inter-district traveller with influenza-like illnesses.
19 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Residents throng fish market to stock up for Sunday||Crowds thronged Puthur fish market in the city on Saturday. Many stocked up fish and meat ahead of the weekly total lockdown on Sunday. They queued up before wholesale and retail shops as soon as they opened at 4 a.m. and dispersed only four hours later, vendors said. The fish comes from Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and other nearby coastal areas. “We find it difficult to source our catch. This has led to hike in prices. However, many of our customers who are pescatarians continue to buy from us,” says R. Prabha, vendor. The vendors are happy as they are able to make a living. “We have reduced the amount of stock by half. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, some have stopped buying fish. We barely make profit during the week, but sales on Saturdays are reasonable,” he said. “We eat fish only on Sunday. Hence, we buy it a day in advance and marinate it,” says M. Bharathi, a resident of Woraiyur. A section of residents, however, are against the functioning of the markets. “On the one hand, people are fighting to control the spread of the viral infection and, on the other, there are those carelessly wandering outside,” contends M. Sekaran, chairman, Citizens Forum. All fish and meat markets should be closed over the weekend, he says. “If Gandhi Market, where essentials such as fruits and vegetables are sold, can be closed, why is the district administration not closing down these markets?” he wonders.
19 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Renovation of public toilets under way||City-based NGO Gramalaya, in association with HT Parekh Foundation, has taken up renovation and retrofitting of about 95 public toilets in the city. Gramalaya has been playing a key role in construction and maintenance of public and community toilets in the city over the past two decades. It is also engaged in raising awareness of usage of public toilets among local communities. Many of the toilets are being maintained by Sanitation and Hygiene Education (SHE) teams organised and trained by it. The toilets have been taken up for renovation based on a survey on the condition of 430 public and community toilets including integrated sanitary complexes. HT Parekh Foundation is extending Rs. 2.25 crore for the project as part of its CSR initiative. In most of the toilets taken up for retrofitting, the toilet pans/closets and doors have been found damaged. They are being replaced. Repairs to walls and buildings are also being taken up. Besides, the toilet complex is also cleaned and white washed, Gramalaya representatives said. “Through the project, we want to keep the toilets functional and ensure proper maintenance by local communities so that the city is clean. We are also providing incinerators to dispose sanitary napkins as many toilets and sewage lines are found clogged with used napkins. Hygiene education is another important component of the project,” said S. Damodaran, founder, Gramalaya. Thirty-five toilets have been retrofitted so far under the first phase, which began last year, and work was underway on the remaining toilets. The project will be completed by November 30.
19 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three children drown in jungle stream||Three children, including two girls, drowned in a jungle stream near Siruganur on Saturday. According to sources, the children belonging to Mohamadiar Street went to the kattaru along with their grandmother, Thoulad Beevi, to wash clothes. They waded into deep waters and started drowning one after another. Thoulad Beevi, who was washing clothes, raised alarm and sought the help of passersby. But they could only retrieve the bodies. The victims were identified as M. Asia Banu, 11, her brother Ashil, 8, and their relative, Riswana, 10.
19 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Stay away from shooting range’||Collector S. Sivarasu has cautioned people against straying into the Veeramalaipalayam shooting range in Manapparai taluk between July 21 and 23 when RTC Sivagangai, ITBP personnel are expected to train at the range. People have also been advised not to let out their cattle for grazing in the range from 7 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on all three days.
19 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||3 kids drown in jungle stream||Three children, including two girls, drowned in a jungle stream near Siruganur on Saturday. According to sources, the children belonging to Mohamadiar Street had gone to the kattaru with their grandmother to wash their clothes. While she was washing, the children moved to a deeper part of the stream and started drowning one after another.
19 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Siddha care centres for Tiruchi, Karur’||Encouraged by the results of treatment of asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms of COVID-19, the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy of the State government has decided to set up Siddha care centres in Tiruchi and Karur. The move, which is expected to benefit patients who prefer traditional system of medicine, is likely to come up on Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University in Tiruchi. The care centres will also have a few allopathic doctors similar to those in Chennai. Eight Siddha care centres are already functioning in different parts of the State including Chennai, Coimbatore and Theni, S. Ganesh, Director of Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy, told The Hindu.  Mild and asymptomatic patients are being admitted to the centres and treated with Siddha and Ayurvedic medicines. They are also given yoga practice. The treatment has been extended to those who volunteer. “We admit only mild and asymptomatic patients. Our main focus is to treat them before their health condition deteriorates. We have found encouraging results so far. Many have been treated successfully,” Mr. Ganesh said. The COVID centres have also roped in allopathic doctors as a precautionary measure. Siddha and Ayurvedic treatment is being extended to interested patients at the COVID Care Centre at Khajamalai. They are given herbal medicines to control fever, cold and to boost immunity. The treatment also includes steam and sun baths and yoga training. Since the move has received good response, it had been decided to set up an exclusive Siddha COVID care centre in Tiruchi and Karur. Preliminary works have started to finalise the location, Mr. Ganesh said. “We have observed that recovery rate is high if the patients visit government hospitals or Siddha care centre immediately after they notice symptoms of COVID 19. People should not delay their visit to the hospitals” he added.
19 July 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Kovilpatti jail inmates interrogated||The CBI team investigating the Sattankulam twin custodial deaths case grilled a few inmates of Kovilpatti sub-jail on Saturday as the deceased P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks had been lodged at the facility after being arrested on June 19. Injuries A team, led by Additional Superintendent of Police Vijaykumar Shukla, interrogated a few inmates of the jail, where the victims had been lodged with injuries allegedly caused by the Sattankulam police personnel. These injuries ultimately led to the custodial deaths of the duo within a span of just eight-and-a-half hours on June 22 and 23, it has been alleged. Murder case Subsequently, the CB-CID that registered murder case against inspector Sridhar and sub-inspectors Balakrishnan and Raghu Ganesh and 7 other policemen, arrested all of them. On taking over the case from the CB-CID, the CBI is now interrogating the Kovilpatti sub-jail inmates.
19 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||E-pass issuance to be made stricter in Tiruppur district||Issuance of e-passes for those visiting Tiruppur district will be made stricter in an attempt to arrest the rising cases of COVID-19, said Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan in Tiruppur on Friday. Speaking to mediapersons after chairing a review meeting, he said that those applying for e-passes will be “thoroughly scrutinised” henceforth. He claimed that only those who came from other districts caused the increase in COVID-19 cases in Tiruppur district. Officials from the police, health and revenue departments at the 42 checkposts on the district border will also ensure that those with “false reasons” will not enter or leave the district, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. About 3.12 lakh women across the State will receive free milch cows, goats/sheep and native chicken free of cost, Mr. Radhakrishnan said, according to the release. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan presided over the review meeting, which saw the participation of MLAs from the district, police officers and other officials from the District Administration.
19 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Nearly 99% of cases in Tiruppur were those who arrived from other districts’||A total of 176 out of 178 COVID-19 cases reported between July 8 and 17 in Tiruppur district were those who arrived from other districts and their contacts, a source analysis revealed. The summary statement of ‘source and disease transmission’, which was accessed by The Hindu , says that the remaining two were Influenza like Illnesses (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) cases reported on Friday alone. Apart from these, no ILI/SARI cases were reported in any fever camps or private hospitals. Out of the 176 cases, 95 had travel histories who returned to Tiruppur district and 81 were contacts of these cases. There have been no local cases or frontline workers who tested positive in these 10 days, according to the statement. “Our source analysis done for the cases over the past 10 days clearly indicates that the positive cases are either travellers from other States/districts or contacts of those who travelled from other States /districts,” Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan told The Hindu. This could rule out the possibility of community transmission of COVID-19 in the district, he added. Except on July 9, 11 and 12, Tiruppur district reported COVID-19 cases in double digits between July 8 and July 17. In the final three days, the number was consistently high – 26 cases on July 15, 39 cases on July 16 and 28 cases on July 17. According to sources in the Health Department, this was due to backlog of many swab samples collected across the district as part of the contact tracing process. The samples were sent to six private laboratories in Coimbatore to reduce the backlog. Results of such samples in backlog also contributed to the reporting of high case numbers, according to the sources. Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, said that the COVID-19 testing laboratory on the hospital premises received two additional RT-PCR machines, which is expected to be installed in the next week. An automatic extractor, which can be used to extract the samples from the swabs quicker than manual extraction, has also arrived and will be installed shortly. “In the next 10 days, we can test about 1,000 samples per day,” Dr. Valli said, noting that about 500 samples are being tested in the laboratory on an average per day.
19 July 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Minister felicitates CEO||Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan felicitated Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer R. Ramesh as the district retained the first place in terms of pass percentage for Class XII public examinations for two years in a row. The Minister commended the students and the teachers for their efforts, a press release said.  Salem The toppers in recently held Class 12 CBSE examinations from Senthil Public School were felicitated by the school management on Thursday. Of the 302 students of the school, 198 secured 400 above and 81 scored 450 marks and above, a release said.
19 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Bridges inaugurated||Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Saturday inaugurated a new bridge across the Puththar connecting Serukalathur and Chiththadi, constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.51 crore, and another bridge connecting Paruthiyur and Saliyamangalam across the same river, constructed at a cost of Rs. 1.60 crore.
19 July 2020||VEDARANYAM,TAMIL NADU||Wet spells halt salt production in Vedaranyam||Intermittent rainfall during June and July has paralysed production in 800 salt pans at Vedaranyam, affecting the livelihood of over 8,000 workers. Salt manufacturers say they lost the opportunity to derive maximum utility of peak production during June due to the unexpected wet spells. Hopes of stabilising production during July have also been dashed because of two wet spells over the last week. “The rainfall has affected us badly. Consecutive spells of rainfall did not provide enough time for stagnant water to dry up in pans for resumption of production. The possibility for the brine to reach a concentration level of 23 to 25 degrees, therefore, did not exist,” said V. Senthil, president, Vedaranyam Small Scale Salt Manufacturers’ Federation. The local economy of Vedaranyam, which has the largest number of small-scale salt manufacturers in the country, has taken the worst hit at the time of the pandemic. Stoppage of salt production to the extent of 10,000 tonnes a day means huge loss in revenue. As salt is sold for Rs. 1,000 per tonne, manufacturers have been deprived of income to the extent of Rs. 1 crore a day. The likelihood of revival of salt production in the coming months is bleak due to low intensity of sunlight. Salt manufacturers shudder to think of the consequences if production is forced to halt for a lengthier duration since the last few months of the year will witness substantial rainfall from the northeast monsoon. They say their plight has not been ameliorated by either Central or State governments. “Last year, Cyclone Gaja left behind a trail of destruction in the salt pans. This year, the untimely rainfall has aggravated our agony,” Mr. Senthil rued.
19 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Virudhunagar fails to isolate contacts of positive people’||Failure to isolate people suspected to be contacts of COVID-19 patients is one of the major reasons for faster spread of the infection in Virudhunagar district, alleges Makkal Needhi Maiyam. Its central district secretary, J. Kalidoss, said that it was ideal to keep all identified contacts of positive people under institutional quarantine till their swab results were out. “This will curtail their movement among other members of public and prevent further spreading. But, this is not happening on the ground,” he said. Citing an example, he said that after positive cases were detected in a textile shop in the town, all the employees were asked to go for swab test. The tests were taken last week and they were told that it would take at least three days for the results to come. “Some of them were kept in quarantine facility and some of them were asked to remain in home quarantine. But, I saw few of them roaming in the town without adhering to the instructions of the officials to keep aloof,” Mr. Kalidoss said. All the three were potential spreaders though only one tested positive. Meanwhile, a worker of a textile shop near Koomapatti got infected after the owner, kept his shop open for five days while waiting for his swab test results to come. “The man had attended duty at his textile shop and only after five days, his swab test result came and he had tested positive,” said M. Grace, president of Ramasamiyapuram panchayat. She complained that the rural masses were not at all adhering to wearing masks and social distancing norms despite all efforts to create awareness among them. It was Ms. Grace, who had flagged a pertinent problem of lack of social distancing in buses used by fireworks and match industries to pick up and drop employees. After local youths planned for a protest, Ms. Grace on July 7 lodged a complaint with Koomapatti police station on the lack of social distancing.  However, a day after her complaint, the Fireworks industries announced a 11-day closure to prevent further spread of the virus. Another resident of Virudhunagar town, R. Nagarajan, complained that while tea shops and hotels in the containment zones in Muthuramanpatti and Allampatti were asked to remain closed, the officials have allowed TASMAC shops to run in the containment zone. Mr. Nagarajan, who runs a tea shop, along with some tea-shop owners and hotel owners, had petitioned Virudhunagar Tahsildar, Municipal Commissioner about the contradiction in their action. “If coronavirus can spread through customers coming to hotels and tea stalls, will it not spread through customers of TASMAC shops who also come in large numbers?” he asked.
19 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Sathuragiri hills out of bounds for devotees||Virudhunagar district administration has prohibited devotees from visiting Sathuragiri hills for offering prayers at Lord Sundaramahalingam temple during Aadi Amavasai festival scheduled for July 20. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan, said the ban on devotees was being imposed against the backdrop of COVID-19 threat. He recalled that Virudhunagar district administration had already imposed prohibitory order under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure which was in vogue till July 31. He asked people to avoid assembling at Thaniparai, Mavoothu and other surrounding areas between Sunday and Tuesday. Those who violated the instruction would face legal action, the Collector added.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Seven districts in western region report 296 cases||Seven districts in the western region reported 296 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday. In Coimbatore, 117 persons tested positive taking the number of active cases to 1,169. The new cases were reported from Ramnagar, Sundakamuthur, Edayarpalayam, Nanjundapuram, Vagarayampalayam, Idikarai, Velandipalayam, Kovaipudur, Ramanathapuram, Saramedu, K.K. Pudur, Kanuvai, Kavundampalayam, Podanur, Sungam, Selvapuram, Kurichi, Athupalam, Kuniyamuthur and Sulthanpet. Statistics shared by the Health Department showed that 629 persons tested positive from Monday to Saturday. Except on Monday and Thursday, the number of positive cases were more than 100 on other days. The office of the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Karumathampatti sub-division of Coimbatore rural police, was closed for fumigation after a police personnel tested positive. On Saturday, 20 persons were discharged from the ESI Hospital. According to health department officials in Salem, 49 cases were reported, including 31 from the Corporation limits. As many as 100 patients were discharged on Saturday, the highest in recent times. In Namakkal, among the 28 cases reported, 14 are contacts of previous cases and seven traveled from Salem, Erode, Karur, Hosur and Sivagangai. Tiruppur district reported 24 new cases, including one imported case, taking the district’s overall tally to 433. The 5th imported case was a 53-year-old man from Dharapuram, who travelled from Bengaluru on a two-wheeler, Health Department sources said. Among the indigenous cases was an eight-year-old boy from Tiruppur Corporation limits. Six persons – a 52-year-old man, 42-year-old woman, a 16-year-old girl, a 40-year-old man, a 38-year-old man and a 32-year-old man – from Rajiv Nagar in Samundipuram within Tiruppur Corporation limits tested positive. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said in a tweet that 712 swab samples were lifted across the district on Saturday. A total of 115 containment zones were set up in Tiruppur district, he said. In Erode, 12 tested positive. Cases reported were eight in corporation limits, and one each case at Bhavani Sagar, Athani, Talavadi and at Modakurichi. A total of 473 cases were reported in the district so far. While 266 persons were discharged, 199 continue to undergo treatment. A total of 11 cases were recorded in Krishnagiri. Of those infected included a 14-year-old child, who is a contact of an infected person. In Dharmapuri, a single day count of infections touched 55, including a five-year-old child.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Road projects expected to ease traffic congestion in Erode city||Four laning of Erode – Chithode Road, widening of Erode – Thindal – Kanirowther Lake Road and completion of Outer Ring Road project is expected to ease traffic congestion in the city. Speaking to the media at the Collectorate on Friday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that road widening works from Erode to Thindal is being executed at Rs. 25 crore and land acquisition work is in progress. He said that the outer ring road project was stalled as land owners refused to give a portion of their lands for the project. A case was filed for 815 metre land for laying roads and the court ordered the acquisition of the land. He said that compensation will be paid and land will be acquired and works will be completed in three months. Mr. Palaniswami also said that tender has been floated for four-laning of Erode – Chithode Road while the Central government had approved converting the Thoppur – Mettur – Bhavani – Erode Road as national highway. A detailed project report (DPR) is being prepared, he said. He added that DPR is being prepared for the flyover from Kalingarayan Illam to Thindal. Currently, congestion in city roads is a major issue as in the absence of outer ring road, vehicles from other districts have to pass through the city and add to the traffic woes. Educational institutions, hospitals, commercial establishments and residential areas have come up in large numbers on Perundurai Road and Chithode Road making it as the most congested roads in the city. Hence, widening and four lane of the roads is expected to ensure smooth flow of vehicles.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to stop diversion of Pilloor water to Siruvani-fed wards||Coimbatore Corporation will stop diversion of Pilloor water to Siruvani-fed wards to improve water supply in Pilloor-fed wards. The civic body would implement the new water supply arrangement sometime next week after having decided to do so at a meeting held to review water supply situation in the city on Saturday, said sources that participated in the meeting. The Corporation’s water managers had participated in the meeting based on instruction from Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath, who sought an improvement in water supply situation. He had said that in areas where the Corporation supplied water once in more than 10 days it should supply once in a week. At the meeting, the water supply managers decided to stop diversion of Pilloor water to Siruvani-fed wards because there had been an improvement in water level in the Siruvani reservoir and that Pilloor-fed wards were no better than the Siruvani-fed wards. The Corporation had diverted Pilloor water to Siruvani-fed wards about a month ago after water level in the Siruvani Reservoir dropped significantly, the sources said and added that as of Saturday, the water level had touched 10 feet. In Pilloor-fed wards the Corporation had faced problem in distributing water in that the tail-end areas were not getting adequate water because of poor water pressure that forced the Corporation to continue supplying water for longer than usual. This was particularly true of Puliakulam, Town Hall and Singanallur, the sources said and added that the Corporation had been supplying water directly to those areas bypassing the service reservoir. In a related development, the Corporation had removed major blocks in the Pilloor distribution system to increase the pressure in water distribution. A few days ago, when it carried out maintenance work, it found floating walls from the Ganapathy Master Storage Reservoir and a few service reservoirs blocking the butterfly valve near Textool Bridge and the consequence of it was that Pulikaulam, Town Hall and Singanallur areas were not getting adequate water. The Corporation had removed the balls to make the valve functional to maintain optimum pressure. As a result the Corporation would now supply for six or seven hours the quantity of water that it took 12 hours to supply. The sources said that residents of those areas would witness significant improvement in water distribution in the coming days.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports four deaths, two each in Coimbatore, Krishnagiri||Four deaths have been reported in Salem on Friday and Saturday. According to health department officials, a 65-year-old man from Omalur, a 60-year-old man from Attur and a 75-year-old man from Ammapet died on Saturday. A 29-year-old woman died during the late hours of Friday. In Krishnagiri, a 45-year-old man from Athimugam village in Shoolagiri and a 28-year-old woman from Mathur died of comorbidities. Two persons died of the disease in Coimbatore district on Friday and Saturday. A 71-year-old man hailing from Kovilmedu died at a private hospital on Saturday. The other death on Friday was that of a 56-year-old man on NH Road.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea for establishing turmeric storage facilities||Federation of All Trade and Industry Associations of Erode District has urged the State Government to establish cold storage facilities for turmeric and also a textile research institute in the district. During Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s visit to Erode on July 17, office-bearers led by its president T. Jagadeesan submitted a memorandum that listed out their demands. Members said that turmeric is a major crop grown in the district and to benefit farmers and traders, they wanted cold storage facilities to be established at important places in the district. They wanted the government to provide 50% subsidy if private agencies are willing to establish the facility. They said that textile is a major industry in the district and there is a huge demand for a higher educational institute that focuses on textile research. Also, a textile park should be established here, they added. They wanted e-pass to be given to textile manufacturers and traders so that they can travel across the country in their private vehicles to collect outstanding dues. Meanwhile, opposing the move to establish a special centre for turmeric at Vadugapatti in Arachalur, farmers entered into an altercation with officials.  Officials had proposed to establish the centre on 25 acre at a cost of Rs. 48 crore at Vadugapatti village. Over 100 farmers in the village were given land for carrying out cultivation by the State government in 1967 that were later withdrawn, a few years ago. Recently, officials inspected the land for establishing the centre. They wanted officials to select another land in a nearby village and entered into an altercation. Later, District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha held talks with them and told them they would look for an alternative place at Vinoba Nagar. Later, villagers left.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New courts inaugurated||The district munsif and judicial magistrate courts at Sendamangalam and Kumarapalayam here were inaugurated through video conferencing on Saturday. Justice S.S. Sundar, portfolio judge for Namakkal district inaugurated the courts through video conferencing in the presence of R. Tharani, portfolio judge for Namakkal district and other senior officials from the district. Addressing the event, Justice Sundar appreciated the support given by the State government for making judicial infrastructure a better one. Justice Sundar also hailed the efforts taken by the district administration and the health department in containing COVID-19 spread in the district. Justice R.Tharani said that with the inauguration of new courts, 416 cases would be moved to Kumarapalayam munsif court and 710 to Sendamangalam munsif court. A total of 1,184 cases would be heard at judicial magistrate court in Kumarapalayam and 427 cases in Sendamangalam. Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja also spoke.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||To meet water needs||
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai becomes first city to test five lakh residents||"We have developed a portal to facilitate screening of patients before making a decision on home isolation, tertiary care or care centres. Over 350 doctors are at work to screen patients," he said. Zones like Royapuram, once a hotspot, have registered a case doubling time of three-and-a-half months. The city’s case doubling time was 47 days, as against 21 days for the country, he said. As many as 20,000 beds had been readied in the city. "As many as 5 lakh residents have been released from quarantine. A total of 8.5 lakh people have so far been quarantined. Over 11 lakh have participated in 18,000 fever camps and 60,000 have tested positive. Over 80% of the patients have been treated," he said.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||NGO wins award||Environmental non-governmental organisation Kovai Kulangal Pathukappu Amaippu recently won an award from the State government’s Department of Environment for the year 2018. In recognition of its work, the organisation received the ‘Dr. Gurusamy Mudaliar Award’ under the ‘Environment Protection and Management (Organisations)’ category. The award comprised a certificate and a cash award of Rs. 15,000. The NGO’s founder and organiser R. Manikandan told The Hindu that the award ceremony was not held due to the pandemic. Hence the certificate and the cheque were sent via post.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 18   No. of persons tested +ve so far: 1,905 Indigenous cases: 1,872 Imported cases: 33 No. of active cases: 1,169 No. of persons died: 20    House quarantined: 2,850 Domestic cases: 428 (23 new cases on Saturday) Imported cases: 5 (One new case on Saturday) Discharged: 212 Active cases: 217 Deaths: 4
19 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Treatment of asymptomatic patients begins at care centres||The district administration has begun the process of treating asymptomatic COVID-19 patients at COVID Care Centres (CCC). Apart from the district designated COVID-19 hospital, symptomatic patients will be treated in taluk hospitals and some private hospitals. These steps are being taken after a sudden spurt in the infection this week, taking the number of positive cases to three times the number of beds available at the district hospital’s COVID-19 ward. Treatment of COVID-19 positive persons at taluk hospitals has started at Gokak, Ramdurg, Bailhongal, and Saundatti. A similar method will be adopted in six other taluks. A total of 300 beds have been earmarked in 10 taluk hospitals, all with oxygen supply. The number of beds in the district designated COVID-19 hospital has been increased to 350. Officials have set up CCCs at government-run residential schools in towns across the district. A total of 768 beds will be available at 12 CCCs. Asymptomatic persons between the age of 10 and 50 will be sent to CCCs. At the CCCs, a person will get free food and other provisions for 10 days. At both taluk hospitals and CCCs, doctors and paramedical staff will attend on patients. The government will rope in private hospitals that have offered to provideCOVID-19 care to patients. One CCC has been set up at SJV Ayurvedic Medical College in Bailhongal. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath told journalists in Belagavi on Saturday that 33,271 persons have been tested, out of which 28,953 have turned to be negative. As of Saturday, there have been 795 positive cases and 407 persons have been discharged. The district has only 367 active cases at the district hospital. In the next phase, officers will refer all asymptomatic cases for home quarantine. “We have a total bed capacity of 1,418 in the district now. If the cases increase, especially asymptomatic ones, we will refer them for home quarantine as per the State government protocol,” said Mr. Hiremath. On Saturday, Zilla Panchayat CEO K.V. Rajendra and Mr. Hiremath visited CCCs and other facilities in high-risk taluks and spoke to the staff on duty.
19 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Officials quarantined after MLA tests positive||The district administration put six officers in home quarantine at Bailhongal after Mahantesh Koujalagi, MLA, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The quarantine order was issued after Health Department officials found out that the MLA had held a few meetings in which the officers had participated. The process of tracing contacts has started. There are 20 names in the primary contact list. There could be more, a health official said. Assistant Commissioner Shivanand Bhajantri, tahsildar D.S. Hugar, and taluk panchayat executive officer Subhash Sampagave are among those quarantined. Mr. Koujalagi, a Congress leader who is president of KLE Society, preferred to be treated at the Prabhakar Kore Hospital in Belagavi, officers said. Mr. Koujalagi is the second legislator to test positive in the district, after BJP leader and MLA Anil Benake from Belagavi North. However, officers are yet to seal their houses. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said the COVID-19 protocols would be followed.
19 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||No lockdown for now||There is no proposal before the district administration for a district-wide lockdown, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said in Belagavi on Saturday. An order for lockdown in five high-risk taluks has been issued. But there is no proposal for a district-wide lockdown, he said. To a question, he said a decision on imposing lockdown in the district would be taken after a review meeting by district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Monday.
19 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Street vendors reject loan scheme||Street vendors in Bengaluru and in several districts across Karnataka observed a day-long fast on Saturday demanding assistance from the State government. Though the Union government has announced a loan scheme that will benefit 50 lakh street vendors in the country, vendors here say it is not only insufficient but with no livelihood, they are at a loss on how to repay the loans. ‘No income’ “We haven't been able to earn a living for over three months, and continue to live in uncertainty. How does the government expect us to repay our loans?” said S. Babu, president, Federation of Bengaluru District Street Vendors’ Associations. Several street vendors’ associations that participated in Saturday’s fast demanded that the State government immediately give an income assistance of Rs. 15,000, like it has done for several other self-employed persons like drivers and barbers. They have also sought assistance in school admission for their children. Street vendors in Mysuru, Mangaluru, Tumakuru, Kolar, Gadag, Ballari and Koppal participated in the protest and held placards that read: ‘Mr. CM give us income assistance, not loans’.
19 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||THiS institutions achieve 90% average||The school average was as high as 90% at institutions that were part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme in the CBSE Class 10 board examinations results announced recently. All 29 students Sri Vidyalakshmi International School, Anjananagar, passed with 10 students securing distinctions. Pavana S. (95.2%) was the topper. Students of Sri Siddaganga Higher Secondary School, Chandra Layout excelled in board exams with 26 of 71 students securing distinctions. Manojith Bhat V. (96.16%) was the topper. In Freedom International School, 73 of 80 students secured distinctions. P. Anumita Paridhi Sudarshan (97.2%) was the topper. In Sri Vani Education Centre, Hanumavana, 68 of 173 students secured distinctions. Gagana Y. (97.4%) was the topper. In KLE Society’s School, Nagarabhavi, 81 of 94 secured distinctions. Rasavi Tirumani Suresh by securing 97% marks topped the school. Dev-in National School, Sahakaranagar achieved 100% pass with 10 of 22 students securing distinctions. Namitha S. Gowda (91.4%) was the topper. At Sri Kumaran Children’s Home (CBSE), Mallasandra 202 of 230 students secured distinctions. Anvitha Anant Rao (98.4%) emerged topper. In Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV), MEG & Centre, 66 of 189 students secured distinctions. Abhishek Chrisgem (95.8%) was the topper. In KV ASC Centre, 272 students in Class 10 and 192 of 197 in Class 12 students passed. Shanampudi Pranaya Chowdary (96%) was the topper in Class 10. Vardhaman Jain (97%) in Scince, Dudekula Ayeesha Beeb (94.6%) in Commerce and Pearl Sharma (97%) were the toppers in Class 12. KV, CRPF, Yelahanka achieved 100% pass with 44 of 63 students securing distinctions in Class 12. Prajwal K.P. (94.2%) in Science and Disha Rai (95%) in Commerce were the toppers. All 125 students of KV, NAL passed. Kumari Goutami Sooda scoring 485 marks emerged school topper. All 182 students of Class 10 and 62 students in Class 12 at KV, DRDO passed. Elisela Monalisa Rao (97.2%) in Class 10 and Chaitra G (96,6%) in Class 12, were the toppers. In KV, MG Railway Colony, 57 of 74 students passed in first class. LL Likit Pujari (90.8%) was the topper. In Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Bagalur, 223 of 294 students in Class 12 secured 90% and above marks. Jhaansi Reddy (97.8%) was the topper.  (To be concluded)
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ambulances, hearses queue up at crematoriums||As the pandemic takes its toll, crematoriums and burial grounds are getting crowded. This has presented a new set of challenges for not just relatives of the deceased, but also staff who are unable to deal with the load. Hearses and ambulances lining up outside crematoriums and burial grounds waiting for their turn are an increasingly common sight. According to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) war room report, 75 deaths due to COVID-19 were recorded on July 17 alone. On Saturday, the death toll in Bengaluru was 49, as per the health bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare. On Saturday, several ambulances were seen outside the crematorium at Banashankari and Hebbal. Lokesh, a supervisor at the Banashankari electric crematorium, told The Hindu that on an average around 15 bodies (COVID-19 and non-COVID) are cremated every day. “We get at least eight bodies of those who died due to COVID-19 every day. To cremate them, we need at least two hours after which the premises has to be sanitised,” he said. Newly appointed BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad conceded that segregation of COVID-19 and non-COVID bodies had led to some problems. “We will work on the issue to ensure that no one is kept waiting. The details of all electric crematoria and burial grounds will be made available in the public domain,” he said. Adequate protective gear is a problem, claim workers. “We also have to don personal protection equipment (PPE). We find masks or gloves missing in some kits provided by the BBMP. When that happens, we have to ask the relatives of the deceased to provide them,” Mr. Lokesh added. The BBMP, which manages all the burial grounds and crematoriums in the city, is aware of the problem. To avoid overcrowding, a circular was issued extending the time of operation of the 11 electric crematoriums in the city from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. A BBMP official explained the reasons for the delay in cremations. “For deaths that are not due to COVID-19, the family of the deceased makes a booking online. However, the bodies of people who succumbed to the virus come to the crematorium directly from the hospitals. Each crematorium has two furnaces, and we cannot use both when a COVID-19 body is being cremated. We need at least two hours to cremate the body and sanitise the premises,” the official said. Though staff have been directed to accept bodies of COVID-19 patients compulsorily, irrespective of the zone in which the patient resided, there are reports of locals resisting. According to Syed Risalath Jah, who is part of a team of volunteers that performs last rites, there is resistance from residents living around Harishchandra Ghat, Hebbal and Banashankari. “There have been instances when members of our team have been attacked,” he said. BBMP officials, on condition of anonymity, admitted to the problem. “Residents in these areas want us to send bodies to electric crematoria in Sumanahalli, Yelahanka, and Peenya,” he said.
19 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Teachers craft novel ways to maintain discipline||With online classes in private schools back on track, teachers have come up with a novel but simple way to deal with students who disrupt sessions, by ‘removing’ them from the class. It’s the virtual equivalent of asking a student to stand outside the classroom, but it requires at least two teachers. While one teacher conducts the session, another shadow teacher also logs in to the class to monitor students and ensure that they don't misbehave. “We first give them one warning. If they disturb the class more than three times, we remove them from our virtual classroom,” said a teacher of a CBSE school. What is considered as disruptive behaviour is left to the discretion of the teacher. While some teachers remove students if they un-mute themselves and make noise or play music in the background, others insist that students sit upright in front of the camera. Attending without video Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said that they found some students putting up their profile picture but switching off their video. “We call such students, warn them and instruct them to log back in with their video,” he said. Mansoor Ali Khan, member, board of management, DPS Group of Schools, said that schools are trying to inculcate ‘online classes etiquette’ among children. He’s observed that students often un-mute themselves and start talking. “Children are very inquisitive and indulge in this. But in the last month, they were slowly settling down. In some cases, we send emails to their parents if they do not listen even after repeated warnings,” said Mr. Khan. Some schools are trying to inculcate online discipline through positive reinforcement. Positive reinforcement Dakshayani Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said that students and teachers have decided on an essential “agreement” which includes muting themselves and raising their hand if they want to speak. “We award points for their behaviour in online classes, which get added to their houses. As a result, they are very conscious of their behaviour,” she said.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP data shows availability of beds, but patients struggle||Last week, Shalini’s (name changed) family had a harrowing experience as her 94-year-old grandfather’s health took a turn for the worse. He was having breathing difficulties and no hospital was willing to admit him without a COVID-19 certificate. It took many calls and knocking on the doors of several hospitals before they finally found one that would admit him. “Surprisingly, there were only two patients in the ward and enough beds available,” said Shalini. Her grandfather passed away the next morning. He was diagnosed with ‘aspiration pneumonia’ and did not have COVID-19. In another part of the city, this week, a man reached out to his Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) after his pregnant wife, in her 38th week, was made to undergo COVID-19 test in a maternity hospital and found to have contracted the virus. She was informed of this verbally. The couple, who have been asked to take a second test, are now in a dilemma about where she will be admitted for delivery. A man who tested positive and had symptomatic aggravation in the afternoon a few days ago was refused admission in the hospital where he got tested. It was only by late evening that he managed to get admitted to another private hospital. Similar stories are being echoed from various parts every day as Bengaluru is seeing a huge spike in the number of cases in the last few days. As on Saturday, according to the Health Department’s media bulletin, Bengaluru Urban had 29,621 positive cases, of which 22,449 were still active. The total number of discharges was 6,540. There is an increasing number of anecdotal cases of families finding it difficult to get a bed for their loved one. ‘Beds available’ On the other hand, according to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) COVID-19 hospital bed status, as on Saturday 2 p.m., there were 372 beds available in government hospitals (of 853), 19 in government medical colleges (of 769), 4,447 in private hospitals (of a total of 5,027, with only 580 occupied), 740 in private medical colleges (of 2,097), and 459 in COVID Care Centres (of 2,624). The civic body’s data showed that there are a total of 16,257 COVID-19 and non-COVID beds in private hospitals other than the government quota beds. Why then are there still reports of hospital admission denials every day? In Ms. Shalini’s case, she said most hospitals they approached expressed fear of admitting a possible positive case into a non-COVID-19 ward and endangering other patients in the absence of a test and certificate. “They also said that if he didn’t have the virus, and was admitted in the COVID-19 ward, it would be putting him at risk. Either way, someone was at risk,” she said. In the other cases, there have been allegations of hospitals asking for payment or insurance certificates before admission. In some others, there is simply a reluctance to take in a patient. However, hospital managements have maintained that it is not the lack of beds, but rather a shortage of staff that is the problem. Prasanna H.M., president-elect, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANHA), said there was at least 50% shortage of staff, including doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, and Group D workers. PHANHA recently claimed that 58 of 384 private hospitals in Bengaluru have shut their operations permanently or temporarily in the last one year, and 25 of them after the pandemic began. “On an average, around 7,000 nurses, 6,000 doctors and 12,000 paramedics are required. We already did not have 100% recruitment and at present, there is around 50% shortage among existing staff. About 30% went back to their native places during the lockdown, and another another 20% refused to work because of fear. A small percentage is either under quarantine or treatment as they have tested positive. The government is insisting on 50% beds, and we have even said we will run given they can arrange manpower,” said Dr. Prasanna. The way forward, he said, is to rope in medical, nursing and pharmacy students and volunteers who can help the staff. On the other hand, some RWAs are taking proactive measures to ensure their member residents do not face the same ordeal. The Bangalore Apartments’ Federation plans to help communities build COVID Care Centres within their own premises.  Though a portal has been created to show bed availability in private and government hospitals, it is not being updated. We are making it mandatory for all hospitals to update on the portal as and when there are admissions.N. Manjunath PrasadBBMP Commissioner
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Health activists’ strike hits COVID-19 work, but govt. claims others have taken over||Although the strike by Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) that entered the ninth day on Saturday has hit contact tracing and other COVID-19 coordination work across the State, apart from mother and child health tracking and immunisation follow-up activities, the State Health Department claimed that work had not been affected as teams of junior health assistants, anganwadi workers, Stree Shakti members and booth-level volunteers have taken over. Demanding a fixed honorarium of Rs. 12,000 and adequate personal protection equipment, ASHAs in the State stopped work from July 10. PPE kits The main grouse of the frontline workers, who are the first point of contact between patients and hospitals, especially in rural areas, is that they are not being given PPE kits and hence are at risk of contracting infection while on field. Moreover, what they get now is Rs. 4,000 fixed honorarium from the State and another Rs. 2,000 from the Centre. “Although we have also been carrying out our regular duties of health surveys pertaining to immunisation and mother and child tracking, our performance-based incentives are not being paid regularly. It is difficult to make ends meet with such a meagre pay,” said D. Nagalakshmi, State Secretary of Karnataka Rajya Samyukta ASHA Karyakarteyara Sangha. “Despite several appeals to the authorities, our demands are not being considered. When some States are giving fixed honorarium to ASHAs, why is our appeal not being considered?” she asked. Centre’s refusal However, Prabhu Dev B. Gowda, State Nodal Officer for ASHA programme, claimed that work had not been hit as anganwadi workers, junior health assistants, and booth-level volunteers had been roped in. “We have raised their issue with the Centre. But the Centre has clearly refused to accept their demand as they have been enrolled as health activists. Their demand cannot be considered as the Centre has put in place a performance-based incentive payment mode across the country,” he said. “A fixed honorarium of Rs. 10,000 is being paid to ASHAs only in Telangana but that is against rules and the Centre has not approved it,” he said. Meanwhile, Health Minister B. Sriramulu has appealed to ASHAs to withdraw the strike. “Let us discuss and resolve the issues. Give us some time,” he reportedly told the health activists.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nearly 35,000 tests conducted in last 24 hours in Karnataka||Karnataka has ramped up its testing capacity and nearly 35,000 tests have been conducted in the last 24 hours, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Saturday. Addressing presspersons, he said 24,909 RT-PCR tests and 9,315 rapid antigen tests have been done in the State since Friday. This is apart from 110 cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) and 485 TruNat tests taking the total tests in the last 24 hours to 34,819. “With this, the total number of tests in the State have touched 9,84,996 and by Sunday we will cross 10 lakh tests. Karnataka is one among the 10 States where testing is high. While the World Health Organisation (WHO) has recommended 140 tests for every 10 lakh population, Karnataka is conducting 300 tests for every 10 lakh population,” the Minister said. Asserting that the State aimed at conducting 50,000 RT-PCR tests daily in the next few days, the Minister said: “We are now using the one lakh antigen test kits. While we have placed orders for two lakh kits, we are planning to procure over 10 lakh more kits. A decision will be taken at the State COVID-19 task force meeting scheduled on Monday.” Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said it has now been made mandatory for hospitals to admit only moderately and severely ill patients. All asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients should be encouraged to get admitted in COVID Care Centres (CCC) or be in home isolation as per their eligibility and suitability following triage. This is to ensure that beds are available for eligible patients. A circular in this regard has been issued on Saturday, he said. ‘No huge backlog’ Clarifying that the State does not have a huge backlog of samples, Mr. Akhtar said: “There is a backlog of entry of negative samples into the ICMR portal as priority is given to positive cases. Because of sheer numbers, there is a delay in entry of negative cases. We have taken a concerted action to enter all those cases. We have deployed additional data entry operators in the labs and within two days there will be no backlog.” To address issues of non-availability of beds in private hospitals, the department has set up 16 teams of doctors to visit hospitals and coordinate and ensure that 50% of beds are actually available for government referred patients, he said.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka reports 4,537 cases, 93 deaths in a day||Continuing to witness a surge, Karnataka on Saturday recorded 4,537 COVID-19 cases, taking the total number to 59,652. With 93 more deaths, the toll touched 1,240. This is apart from the death of six COVID-19 patients owing to other reasons. Bengaluru Urban, which has been reporting half of the total cases in the State for the past one week, saw 2,125 people test positive on Saturday. Forty-nine of the day’s deaths are from Bengaluru Urban. With this, the total number of positive cases in the city touched 29,621 of which 631 have succumbed to the infection. The total number of discharges in the State touched 21,775, with 1,018 new recoveries on Saturday. Above 100 At least 11 districts have reported cases above 100 now. These include Dakshina Kannada – 509 cases, Dharwad – 186 cases, and Vijayapura – 176 cases. With 36,631 active cases, Karnataka continues to remain third among the States, after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Saturday’s cases in Karnataka are the third highest in the country after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.
19 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||State expects Rs. 2,250 cr. from land grant proposal||The cash-strapped State government, which had issued an order to allow permanent grant of leased land to private organisations, is hoping that the move will generate Rs. 2,250 crore from Bengaluru alone. Principal Secretary of Revenue Department N. Manjunath Prasad said that 921 acres that were leased to private organisations are available for permanent grant in BBMP limits. As per the order issued by the State government on July 6, under Section 27 of Karnataka Land Grant Rules, private organisations that had received land on lease for industries, education, welfare activities, religious and agricultural purposes can request for permanent grant. The order states that if an organisation wants to use the land for the purpose it was leased, it has to pay the existing guidance value. If an organisation wishes to use the land for another purpose, it will have to pay double the guidance value. When how much revenue the State government expects to generate by awarding permanent grant of land, Mr. Prasad said, “The State government has directed the deputy commissioner to submit a report. As of now, we have estimated Rs. 2,250 crore for Bengaluru.” S.R. Hiremath from Samaj Parivartana Samudaya said, “The State government has taken a dangerous route. We have been advocating that while the government should only lease land for industries and other purposes as generating employment is important, it should continue to be the owner of the land.” He cited the example of private medical colleges.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Document moths in parks, neighbourhoods||On the occasion of the National Moth Week, celebrated worldwide from July 18 to 26, people who are interested in these nocturnal insects have a chance to become citizen scientists. All one has to do is to observe and document moths in their backyards, parks and neighbourhood. To find them one has to simply leave a light on after dark. Scientists estimate that there are nearly five lakh moth species. They are among the most diverse organisms, some as small as a pinhead to others as large as an adult’s hand. According to a handout from the India Biodiversity Portal, NMW participants can help map moth distribution and provide information on other life history aspects around the globe through partnerships with major online biological data depositories. To register, citizens may visit:https://rb.gy/en8kze; and for more details, visit:https://rb.gy/vtlavm.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC dismisses plea of former KSPCB chief on resignation letter row||The High Court of Karnataka has dismissed a petition filed by M. Sudheendra Rao, who was chairperson of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB), disputing the genuineness of his alleged letter resigning from the post as well as questioning validity of the “fabricated” resignation letter claiming that it was not in format prescribed by law. Mr. Rao had questioned the May 2, 2020, notification issued by the State government accepting the resignation letter, also dated May 2. It was claimed in the petition that the resignation letter was fabricated though it was his original signature on the resignation letter. One of the few blank sheets, on which the petitioner had signed to enable an advocate of the Board to submit certain information to the High Court in a PIL petition in February 2020, was used for fabricating the letter, it was alleged in the petition. However, this argument was later withdrawn in view of the pending criminal proceedings initiated based on Mr. Rao’s complaint on fabrication of the letter as the High Court could not go into the disputed facts under investigation in the writ jurisdiction. Also, the government told the High Court that the police had filed “B” report on the petitioner’s complaint of fabrication of resignation letter against the advocate. On the other hand, it was contended in the petition that the “fabricated” letter was not in the manner prescribed in the provisions of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1985. The Water Act prescribes that the resignation letter has to be addressed to the State government but in his case the “fabricated” letter was addressed to the Chief Minister, and hence was not in prescribed format, it was contended in the petition.  Not legally disputed Declining to accept this contention, Justice Krishna S. Dixit in his July 17 order observed, “... true it is, that the Chief Minister is not the manifestation of the State unlike the King in England; but he acts as a limb of the government, is not legally disputable. Therefore, the letter of resignation addressed to the Chief Minister, Government of Karnataka, can be safely construed as the one addressed to the State government as per the Act in terms of the constitutional scheme...” Meanwhile. the High Court clarified that the observations made in the order will not otherwise influence or affect the consideration of the “B” report filed by police in the criminal proceedings or the pending proceedings instituted by the petitioner against the advocate before the Karnataka State Bar Council.
19 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two plywood godowns gutted||Two plywood godowns in T.R. Mills, Chamarajpet were gutted in a fire in the wee hours of Saturday. People in the area saw smoke billowing out of the adjoining godowns and alerted fire control personnel around 5.30 a.m. As the two godowns stocked plywood, the fire spread fast. Two fire tenders struggled for four hours to put out the blaze. “Due to the lockdown, there was no one in the godowns. We suspect a short circuit may have caused the fire,” said the police.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DKS questions CM on purchase of ventilators||Amid a spike in the COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Saturday accused the State government of indulging in corruption in the purchase of ventilators at a much higher rate than the prevailing market rate. Speaking to private television channels, he said the BJP government has been siphoning off funds in the name of fighting against the pandemic. The Congress leader alleged that while Tamil Nadu government had purchased a ventilator at Rs. 4.78 lakh, the State government had procured the same ventilator at Rs. 18.2 lakh. He urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to offer an explanation for the exorbitant price paid for ventilators in the state. Mr. Shivakuamar tweeted: “Corona corruption of BJP government is exposed in this ventilator purchase scam.” “TN Govt purchases at Rs. 4.78 lakh per ventilator, Karnataka Govt has purchased it at Rs. 18.2 lakh per ventilator! CM @BSYBJP, answer us on this corruption by your govt,” he said. Terming it as the “biggest scandal in the last 60 years in the State”, the KPCC chief said: “I have cross-checked the information and it stands to be true. We want Mr. Yediyurappa to answer our questions on ventilator procurement in the State.”
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1912 helpline centre sealed||The 1912 helpline centre of Bescom, which was designated as the helpline for grievances related to hospital admission denials, has been sealed for 48 hours after eight staff tested positive. Citizens can contact 9480812450 on WhatsApp or mail 1912covidhelpline@gmail.com for hospital related complaints. For electricity related complaints, consumers have been asked to contact area field officers, whose contact details are available on www.bescom.karnataka.gov.in.
19 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft EIA 2020: More opposition to notification||Opposition to the Draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 continues with a group of 110 individuals, researchers, ecologists, conservationists, and allied professionals writing to Union Minister of Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar deeming the draft as one that “legitimises environmental damage and undermines democracy”. The co-signers include former members of the National Board for Wildlife, Project Tiger, Forest Advisory committee, National Tiger Conservation Authority, and various State Wildlife Boards. The EIA is an important regulation through which the impacts of various developmental projects, land use, forest diversion, industrial pollution etc. on the environment are studied, and used to make informed choices in developmental decision making, the letter says. It adds that the EIA 2020 draft notification diminishes its scope significantly, and fundamentally changes the EIA process by reducing the number of regulatory oversights, reclassifying various industries so they are not required to get environmental clearance, compromising on public hearings with their scope and duration reduced and “normalising environmental violations.” The group has urged the Centre to withdraw the draft and strengthen EIA 2006 instead.
19 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Another virology lab set up in Dharwad||Considering the need for increased testing in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases, another virology laboratory has started functioning in Dharwad. On Friday, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and Dharwad in-charge Jagadish Shettar inaugurated the virology lab for COVID-19 testing at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Dharwad. At the inaugural function, Mr. Shettar said there was a need for private hospitals to join hands with the district administration in fighting the pandemic. He said he was glad that SDM Hospital had set a precedent by setting up a COVID-19 lab at a time when private hospitals were reluctant to treat patients. Mentioning that SDM Hospital had already begun treatment of COVID-19 patients, Mr. Shettar said that the lab would help in early diagnosis and further treatment. Taking exception to some sections of the media focussing more on “negative news regarding the virus”, Mr. Shettar appealed to people not to panic. “In Hubballi-Dharwad, the recovery rate is 64% and more number of people are getting discharged. There is nothing to fear,” he said. Joining the function via videoconferencing, Sri Dharmasthala DharmadhikariD. Veerendra Heggade said that they were able to receive recognition from the Indian Council of Medical Research for the laboratory at the earliest thanks to Mr. Shettar and Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi  Mr. Joshi, who addressed through videoconferencing, emphasised the need for a concerted fight to win against the pandemic. Listing the various measures taken by the State and Union governments, Mr. Joshi said it was mandatory to use masks and sanitisers and also maintain social distancing to check the spread of the virus.
19 July 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||‘Take care of people with other ailments’||Former MLA and Janata Dal (S) leader N.H. Konaraddi has said that as the State government was focussing entirely on the treatment of COVID-19 patients and using the entire medical infrastructure for the purpose, other patients were finding it difficult to get even basic medical facilities. Alleging that the medical infrastructure for non-COVID-19 patients had crumbled in the district, Mr. Konaraddi has written a letter to the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, Nitesh Patil, and urged him to take remedial steps. Mr. Konaraddi said that patients, particularly those from the rural areas, were the worst-hit as even those who had health issues unrelated to COVID-19 were being forced to undergo COVID-19 test before entering the hospital. He said there were no beds for non-COVID-19 patients in government hospitals, and private hospitals had almost closed their doors to them as well.  “While doctors are not attending to these patients, in cases of emergencies they are being asked to undergo COVID-19 test even when not required,” he said. He urged the district administration to take strict action against hospitals registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act if they fail to treat regular patients.
19 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Two more deaths reported in Hassan||Two more COVID-19 deaths and 53 more positive cases were reported in Hassan on Saturday. A 75-year-old man died on Friday night, while a 48-year-old man, who was admitted to the hospital on Friday after testing positive, died early on Saturday.  K.M. Sathish Kumar, District Health Officer, said that so far, 845 confirmed cases had been reported in the district. Of them, 543 had been discharged and 275 were undergoing treatment. As on Saturday, 16 patients were being treated in the ICU. He urged people with Influenza-Like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness to get tested for COVID-19.
19 July 2020||HUBBALLI/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||186 fresh cases reported in Dharwad, 176 in Vijayapura||In the districts of Bombay-Karnataka, Dharwad district continued to record a high number of COVID-19 cases, with Saturday seeing the highest single-day spike of 186 cases. There were also six deaths. Vijayapura too recorded a high number of cases (176), followed by Belagavi (137), Uttara Kannada (116), Gadag (82), Haveri (15), and Bagalkot (13). Belagavi recorded three deaths and Haveri two. In central Karnataka, Davangere recorded 56 cases and three deaths, while Chitradurga recorded 22 cases. The case tally in Dharwad district has now risen to 1,917 cases, with 50 patients getting discharged on Saturday. So far, 643 patients have been discharged from hospital, and the number of active cases in the district stands at 1,216. The district has recorded a total of 58 deaths. 5 deaths in Kalaburagi In Kalaburagi, five deaths owing to the virus were reported on Saturday, taking the toll in the district to 43. As per the media bulletin by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, three of the deceased were above the age of 60. The district also reported 82 new cases, taking the total to 2,674. Ballari, meanwhile, reported 155 new cases and three more deaths. The district now has 2,355 positive cases and the death toll is 57. Bidar reported 72 new cases and one fatality.
19 July 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||‘Hospital denied admission after positive result’||A 40-year-old COVID-19 positive patient in Kalaburagi on Saturday alleged that he was denied admission to Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) for immediate treatment. The patient’s relative, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the patient had given his swab samples to GIMS a couple of days ago and his report came back positive on Friday morning. “I immediately tried to get him admitted, but the hospital authorities neglected the patient despite knowing he was infected and was suffering from high fever,” he said. The staff at GIMS sent back the patient stating that the doctors from the dedicated health centres would visit his residence to assess his symptoms and decide if he needed to be admitted to hospital or should go into home isolation. Since Friday, the patient has locked himself up in a room to maintain a distance from his elderly parents and children. “We have repeatedly complained to the District Health and Family Welfare Officer and our pleas have not elicited any response from the authorities,” the relative said. The DHO, speaking to The Hindu over phone, dismissed the charge.
19 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Student dead||A 21-year-old engineering student was found dead at his residence at Aralikatte area in Hirapur locality on the outskirts of Kalaburagi. The police have identified the deceased as Praveen Kumar N. Kolkur. (Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani Ph.: 104 for help)
19 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Four die, 237 test positive in DK||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Saturday announced the death of three women and a man who were positive for COVID-19. According to a bulletin from the district administration, the deceased are: a 74-year-old woman from Puttur, who suffered from diabetes, hypertension, asthma, and heart disease; a 67-year-old man who suffered from stroke and pneumonia; a 49-year-old woman who had chronic kidney disease; and a 61-year-old woman who had chronic pulmonary obstructive disease and hypertension. The cause of deaths will be looked into by a committee of experts of the district administration, the bulletin said. As many as 237 persons were tested positive on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases in Dakshina Kannada to 1,848. There were 109 persons who were discharged. As many as 109 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi on Saturday, taking the total number of active cases to 492. While 31 persons were discharged, 182 persons were under treatment in the isolation ward. There were 2,197 persons under home quarantine, a bulletin from the Udupi district administration stated. No relaxation today There will be no relaxation, except for purchasing milk and medicines, in the lockdown in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m., an official statement said. As the government has reimposed lockdown in the district for a week from July 16 to 5 a.m. on July 23, there has been a three-hour relaxation from 8 a.m. daily to enable people to purchase essential commodities. This relaxation will not be available on Sunday. Meanwhile, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said in a statement on Saturday that bus services in Udupi district would resume from July 30. Bus services have been withdrawn from July 16 to July 29 to control the spread of COVID-19 in the district.The borders of the district with Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, and Chikkamagaluru will remain sealed till July 29, he said.
19 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. asked to reconsider marks in II PU English paper||With many II PU students not clearing the English paper, educationalists and lecturers have asked the State government to reconsider the marks secured by students in the paper, the exam for which was held on June 18, during the COVID-19 restrictions. As per analysis by the Dakshina Kannada PU Principals’Association, nearly 700 students from the district have failed in English. Nearly 7,500 students from the district have scored low in the subject. A. Vittala, principal of Kittel Memorial PU College, said a majority of those who failed were from rural areas, and those students had been denied teachers’ help in their preparation because of the COVID-19 restrictions. “My college records 100% results every year. This year, 10 of our students failed in the English paper alone,” he said. As many as 25 students from the Government PU College at Vamadapadavu failed in English. “This is not just the scene of our district; it is so across the State,” Mr. Vittala added. The primary reason for the poor performance, an English lecturer pointed out, was the difficulty level of question paper. “Not just slow learners, but even good students found it hard to answer questions that were different from the blueprint,” said C.K. Manjunath, former principal of Vivekananda PU College, Puttur. Among the questions that were difficult, the English lecturer said, was question no. 24 related to an “unseen passage” that needed students to answer 10 questions of one mark each. “Usually the answers are direct as the student answers in a word or a single sentence. It is here that slow learners get maximum marks. It was not the case this time as the questions were indirect and there were multiple answers,” he said, adding that many students did not even attempt this question. Another English lecturer said that in the 13 questions carrying six and four marks, there were none from the poetry section, while two were from the prose section. Moreover, there was no English subject expert as chief examiner at many of the evaluation centres to understand the problem. “At some centres, the evaluators were liberal, while in other centres, they have gone strictly as per the answer code provided,” he said. Mr. Manjunath said that seeing the difficult situation under which students wrote the paper, the State government should consider taking another look at the marks given and look to give passing marks to those who failed. “This is necessary in the interest of the students’ careers,” he said.
19 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Post offices sanitised||In light of two staff members of the head post office at Pandeshwar in the city testing positive for COVID-19, the Department of Post sanitised the office and 13 other post offices in the city on Saturday. These post offices will remain closed on Monday. According to Senior Superintendent of Posts N. Sriharsha, the two personnel who tested positive for COVID-19 had collected cash from the 13 post offices. These two are asymptomatic and are in home isolation. The primary contacts of the two personnel have been asked to remain at homefor one week.  Police station closed With three staff members, including two Assistant Police Sub-Inspectors, testing positive of COVID-19, Kundapur police station in Udupi district was closed for 48 hours following sanitisation on Saturday. The police station has been temporarily shifted to a room at the Inspection Bungalow in Kundapur.
19 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Donation||Dakshina Kannada Wine Merchants’ Association on Saturday handed over a cheque for Rs. 14.6 lakh to Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, to purchase an ambulance to manage COVID-19 patients. District president of the association M. Ganesh Shetty, K.T. Suvarna, president of the Mangaluru taluk unit, presented the cheque in the presence of Shailaja A. Kote, Excise Deputy Commissioner, a release said.
19 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Assault: woman’s son, grandson arrested||The son and the grandson of a 70-year-old woman were arrested by the Belthangady police on Friday for allegedly assaulting the latter. The police suo motu registered the case after a video of the assault went viral on social media. The woman is a resident of Halasinakatte of Savanalu village in Belthangady taluk. The accused have been identified as Srinivasa Shetty and his son Pradeep. The two were arrested for offences under Sections 323 and 504 of the IPC and Section 24 of Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act 2007.
19 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Doctors from Kodagu urged to return home||Unlike other bigger districts in the State, Kodagu has limited private healthcare resources and this has been one of the reasons for its dependence on cities like Mysuru and Mangaluru for healthcare needs. However, under the regulated situation triggered by COVID-19, patients of one district are not being treated/permitted in another easily, and this has put a further strain on the medical staff and infrastructure in the district. This has necessitated roping in more doctors. The fact that three doctors had to be rushed to Madikeri COVID-19 Hospital from the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute to handle the situation resulting from the spurt in infections highlights the situation in the hilly district. Exhausting the possible options amidst the crisis, the Kodagu district administration sought to play the “Work for Kodagu” card, with a fervent appeal to doctors belonging to Kodagu and working elsewhere to return to their homeland and join hands with the government in the unending fight. “I think it’s the best opportunity for them [doctors of Kodagu origin] to work for the land. Kodagu needs doctors and you can fill the emptiness,” said Deputy Commissioner Annnies Kanmani Joy. The recruitment process has been eased to such an extent that any medical graduate and postgraduate can walk into the medical college or the DHO office in Madikeri with relevant educational documents. “If selected, the appointment order is issued the very next day and he or she can start working,” Ms. Joy said, while sharing Kodagu’s COVID-19 combat when she came live on Facebook. However, there are not many takers for the doctors’ posts as only two have responded. “The appointees can either work in the medical college hospital or in PHCs,” she said, recalling the help received from the people hailing from the district when Kodagu was battered by two back-to-back floods and landslides. Ms. Joy said Kodagu might be a small district but the COVID-19 preparedness was on a par with any other bigger district.
19 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Grassland development to increase fodder base in Nagarahole park||A habitat management exercise entailing development of grassland is being implemented in Nagarahole National Park to tackle runaway growth of weeds and increase fodder base for herbivore animals. Nearly 350 acres of land in the tiger reserve has been cleared of lantana and is being supplanted by different species of grass that are not only local but are also edible.  D. Mahesh Kumar, director, Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, told The Hindu that they were manually uprooting the weeds and treating the soil and planting grass seeds and seed balls. “During 2019-20, the area earmarked for grassland development was cleared of weeds and this year, seeds are being transplanted to ensure fresh shoots of grass during and after monsoon,” he added. This will supplement available fodder to herbivore animals in the tiger reserve such as chitals, sambhars, gaurs, and elephants and help minimise their movement outside forests. Mr. Kumar said they have mapped the entire national park for the density of lantana and it transpires that the weed occupies almost 50% to 60% of the 643.39 sq km park. Lantana spread affects undergrowth and suppresses the growth of natural grass. Nagarahole and Kalahalla range have grass swamps and are locally called “hadlus”. “We want to prevent lantana from spreading to the hadlus by creating a buffer through intervention,” he added. Across parks The exercise is being taken up across different national parks where it is feasible and similar efforts in Bandipur and MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary have yielded positive results. While nearly 900 acres of land which was overrun by weeds like lantana has been removed and replaced by grass in Bandipur, MM Hills has taken up grassland development on nearly 300 acres of forest land. R. Balachandra, director, Bandipur, said they have planted six species of edible grass which have covered the landscape and the area has been reclaimed by herbivore species which can be sighted in plenty. V. Yadukondalu, DCF, MM Hills, said apart from developing the grasslands, its maintenance was essential as lantana tends to regenerate despite being uprooted. Experts aver that landscape management and ensuring adequate fodder for herbivores holds the key for the long-term survival of carnivore species such as tigers, leopards and dholes.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘COVID-19 management will be shifted from the zonal to divisional level’||Principal Secretary of Revenue Department N. Manjunath Prasad took charge as Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner on Saturday at a time when the pandemic has a firm grip on the city. Divisional management of COVID-19 is the key to effective management of the pandemic, said Mr. Prasad, who replaces B.H. Anil Kumar as civic commissioner. Currently, the management of COVID-19 cases is being done at the zonal level, but Mr. Prasad is of the view that management will be more effective if it is taken up at the divisional (Assembly constituency) level. One KAS official would be made in-charge of each of the 27 divisions in the city, he told The Hindu . These divisions will have their own control rooms and adequate resources. Ramping up the fleet of ambulances as well as manpower is also high on the list of priorities. “Already two ambulances have been given to each ward. We can ramp up infrastructure and manpower wherever required,” he said and admitted that the delivery mechanism at the zonal level was not up to the mark. Soon after taking charge, Mr. Prasad said he visited the BBMP war room and met senior officials. “I tried to understand the systems already in place and where we are going wrong,” he said. He added that one of the first things that needs to be set right is getting complete contact details of all those who have given their samples for testing in the 70-odd laboratories in the city. “The lack of complete contact details is making it difficult for us to trace those who have tested positive. This is crucial, as we need to inform them and shift them, if required, to either COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) or hospitals,” he said. Asymptomatic cases Directions will be issued to all laboratories to collect complete contact details of those who are coming for tests. The BBMP will give priority to home isolation for asymptomatic patients. “If they have access to a separate bedroom and attached bath, we will suggest home isolation. People may feel comfortable in their homes,” said Mr. Prasad, adding that officials were forcing those who have tested positive to get admitted in COVID-19 Care Centres. “This is unnecessary and results in blocking of beds, depriving the facility to those in need,” he said. Mr. Prasad also pointed out that though the war room was analysing a host of information and coming out with reports and inferences, there was little action on this data. “We will use this data for effective decision-making,” he added.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kannada actor succumbs to COVID-19||Senior Kannada actor H. Gangadharaiah, 70, with a long career in stage, films and television, died at a private hospital in the city on Friday night. He was suffering from respiratory issues and fever and had been hospitalised recently. Later, he was diagnosed with COVID-19. Hailing from Tumakuru district, Gangadharaiah started out in theatre from his college days and later formed theatre group Globe Theatre as he worked with ITI in the city. He debuted in films with Sedina Hakki in 1985 and went on to act in over 100 films and portrayed both character roles and villain. He has acted in several television serials. Gangadharaiah was also a passionate farmer, returned to farming in his native village Hulivana in Tumakuru in recent years and formed the Coconut Producers Company, working with coconut farmers. He even received awards for innovation in sustainable organic farming.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vital details disappear from K-RERA website||Home buyers have written to RERA Karnataka (K-RERA) complaining about lack of transparency in the authority’s website as well as those of developers, who are bound to display vital information under the RERA Act. The Forum for People’s Collective Efforts, Karnataka chapter has alleged that though the Karnataka RERA Rules have a chapter dedicated to stipulating the details to be published on the website, including records of all registered real estate projects and details of defaulters, vital details and information have been diluted under a new ‘Services’ tab. The forum, in the letter, said that it was ‘shocking’ to note content which was available to the public has “all of a sudden disappeared” from the website. Among what is missing are judgments, for which one now needs the complaint number to fetch details. For getting project status and renewal status too, people now need to have the project registration number to get details. “Earlier, all sub tabs (application for registration, application under process, application approved, application rejected, application for third party transfer, application revoked/rejected) under the project status tab, and under project for renewal, all sub tabs (completion date expired, completion applications, extension approved, extension application under process) were accessible and available to the public,” they have pointed out. In addition, under the rules, promoters are required to create a web page on the website of the authority and enter all details of proposed projects for public viewing, they added. “Despite completing three years of RERA implementation in Karnataka, the KRERA Rule 15 is not at all enforced and many contents are found not incorporated in the website. The compliance of this rule would help buyers take a comparative decision on buying a property. There will be transparency on the project status, update, sanctioned plan, details of amenities, facilities that will come up in the project along with its specifications, commencement certificate, number of RERA complaints, litigations, etc,” the forum said, adding that buyers and investors need not have to get the project documents from the developers to seek legal opinion. As per the current practice, there is remittance of up to Rs. 5 lakh to receive the documents, they said. The forum has asked K-RERA to update its website with details of orders on appeal to the Karnataka Rera Appellate Tribunal and the High Court, details of recovery warrants and updates on the fulfilment of penal action. K-RERA Chairman M.R. Kamble told The Hindu that the website is being revamped. “We are trying various solutions to improve the performance, which will be beneficial to home buyers and developers. All these observations will be kept in mind while finalising a user-friendly portal.”
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Release Varavara Rao’||A host of Kannada writers and activists have demanded the release of Telugu poet Varavara Rao, presently in judicial custody as an undertrial in Maharashtra in the Elgar Parishad case. He has been diagnosed with COVID-19. “He has been incarcerated without bail for nearly two years. Arresting a poet, human rights activist and torturing him mentally and physically is not a good sign,” the letter signed Devanur Mahadeva, Baragur Ramachandrappa, K Marulasiddappa, Banu Mushtaq, and Raghunandana, among others, said.
19 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||42 cases in Alappuzha, 23 through local transmission||Local transmission cases continued to rise in the district with 23 people out of 42 who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday contracting the disease through contact. The 23 include eight Pallithode natives and one person from Kuthiathode who were on the contact lists of COVID-19 patients associated with the Chellanam harbour. Another six of a family from Alappuzha municipality who tested positive were on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient from Ambalappuzha. Two persons from Kayamkulam and one each from Kandalloor and Karthikappally, on the contact list of the vegetable vendor from Kayamkulam who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier, were also diagnosed with the disease. Two Thuravoor natives on the contact list of employees of a seafood company who tested positive earlier are also in the list of patients on Saturday. A 38-year-old woman hailing from Venmony, who was on the contact list of a COVID-19-positive Indo-Tibtean Border Police (ITBP) officer, and a 40-year-old woman from Pulinkunnu, who was on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient from the same place, also tested positive. Besides, a woman from Muhamma who is an employee of a private hospital in Thiruvananthapuram and a 20-year-old woman from Chunakkara were diagnosed with the disease. The Chunakkara native’s source of infection is unknown. Of the rest of the cases, 11 had come from abroad and six from other States. Meanwhile, 36 people who were undergoing treatment tested negative for the disease. The number of active cases stands at 607. Ward 35 and 43 in Alappuzha municipality were declared as containment zones.
19 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Vellappally questioned in funds misuse case||The Crime Branch (CB) team probing the Kollam S.N. College golden jubilee fund misappropriation case on Saturday interrogated Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan at his residence at Kanichukulangara. It was the second time in recent weeks the investigators recorded his statements in connection with the case. On June 22, the High Court had directed the CB to complete the investigation and submit the final report in two weeks. Following this, the investigators questioned him on June 30. However, Mr. Natesan moved an interim application in the HC seeking to issue directives to the investigation officer to consider some more evidence and documents regarding financial transactions. Earlier, a local court in Kollam ordered a probe based on a complaint filed by a Kollam native alleging that Mr. Natesan misappropriated funds collected for the construction of an auditorium and library as part of the golden jubilee celebrations. The CB had initially rejected the complaint citing lack of evidence.However, the report was rejected by the court. Mr. Natesan, later, moved the High Court against the probe, but the court directed the CB to go ahead with the probe.
19 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Isaac: steps to popularise Sani coir mat||Steps will be taken to popularise ‘Sani coir mat’ (disinfecting floor mat) launched by the Kerala State Coir Corporation, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Speaking at a webinar here on Friday, Dr. Isaac said that Sani mats would be made available across the State through Kudumbashree. Sani coir mat is available in five models.
19 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Students’ long wait for laptops at Nedumkandam||It was the long wait for getting the sanctioned laptops from the Nedumkandam grama panchayat that prompted two girl students, Anagha Sabu and Ardra Sabu, from a poor family to approach the Kerala High Court. The High Court immediately intervened considering their economic background and directed the panchayat to make available the gadgets within five weeks. With much hope, one of the girls and their mother reached the panchayat office on Friday to meet the secretary to take up the issue. They earned the wrath of the panchayat development standing committee chairperson, who was at the panchayat office. Though the girl told her that they were in dire need of the laptops to continue their education, she was in no mood to listen. Earlier application The incident appeared on the social media and gained public attention. The two students had earlier too applied for laptops in 2018 and the applications had been rejected. It was on their application last year that the laptops had been sanctioned. A panchayat official said the delay was on the part of Keltron, which was yet to deliver the laptops though orders had been placed. However, Devikulam Subcollector S.Premkrishna, who came to know about the plight of the children, had personally intervened in the issue, sources said. The students are now hopeful that their dreams will be realised soon.
19 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Woman, daughter found dead||An elderly woman and her daughter were found dead in their house near Cheruthoni on Saturday. They were identified as Meenakshiyamma, 86, and Lalitha, 62. The police said Lalitha was found hanging in a room and Meenakshiyamma was found dead with a broken rope tied to the neck. The bodies were shifted to a private hospital at Kattappana. .
19 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Online session for start-ups||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSM) and the agri business incubator of the Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) jointly held an online session on ‘Opportunities for start-ups and credit facilities’ on Saturday, as part of the weekly Kalpa Green Web Chat series. KSUM Project Director Riyas P.M. and Lead Bank Manager K. Kannan spoke on the subject. The programme was steered by K. Muraleedharan, head, Social Sciences Department, CPCRI. A joint initiative of KSUM and CPCRI to promote entrepreneurship in the agri-business sector, Kalpa Green Web Chat has so far held sessions on as many as eight topics, said a release.
19 July 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||74-year-old patient dies||A 74-year-old woman died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kannur on Friday night. Nafisa, a resident of Uppala Hidayath Nagar in Kasaragod district, had been undergoing treatment at the medical college hospital after being admitted on July 15. According to the Health Department, she was brought to the hospital in critical condition and was put on ventilator support. She was suffering from hypertension, breathing problems and high blood pressure. Eight of her family members were also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and are under treatment at various hospitals.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||10 health workers among 44 positive cases in Ernakulam||As many as 10 Health workers, eight of whom working at private hospitals, one from Chellanam, and another at a primary health centre in Thripunithura, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. A 24-year-old from Mookkannoor, a 32-year-old from Kottappady, and a 33-year-old from Edathala,zz who are all working at a private hospital in Aluva, have tested positive. A 25-year-old from Avoly, who works at a private hospital, has also tested positive. A 30-year-old nurse at a private hospital in Keezhmad where a patient who had earlier tested positive sought treatment, has been infected. A 100-bedded first-line treatment centre (FLTC) was set up at a government school within the panchayat limits, and it will begin functioning in two days, said Keezhmad panchayat president K.A. Ramesh. A 51-year-old from Thripunithura, a 24-year-old from Panangad, and a 30-year-old, all workers at private hospitals in the district, have tested positive. They had all come into contact with people who had tested positive earlier, said a release here. The source of infection in a 51-year-old junior public health nurse working at a primary health centre in Thripunithura is still being traced. According to municipal officials, she had sought treatment at a private hospital where she tested positive. They were among the 44 persons who tested positive on Saturday — 38 acquired the infection through contact, and six persons had arrived from outside the State. From the Chellanam cluster, 12 persons tested positive, taking the total number of patients in the area to 179. As many as 760 samples have been collected from the area so far. As many as 16 persons tested positive from the Aluva cluster. From the Aluva market area and surrounding panchayats, 855 samples have been collected so far. Among those who tested positive was a 69-year-old from Kanjoor who is the contact of another patient from the area. Nine persons tested negative on Saturday, and 676 people are receiving treatment for the disease. A 26-year-old who arrived from Dubai, a 29-year-old from Maharashtra, a 49-year-old from Andhra Pradesh, a 40-year-old from Muscat, a 23-year-old from New Delhi, and a 23-year-old who arrived from Hyderabad have all tested positive. Meanwhile, all OPDs at VPS Lakeshore Hospital in Kochi will remain closed till Tuesday.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||5 cases that changed COVID-19 scene||Five patients drastically changed the COVID-19 scene in the city, sending the police into a frantic search for a large number of primary, secondary, and tertiary contacts to contain the spread of the virus. One person each from Broadway, Palarivattom, Girinagar, Chellanam, and Ernakulam market who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 eventually turned out to be the source of infection for a large number of people. “There is something called R0, which is the number of new infections estimated to have stemmed from a single case. If a person infects only one, then the R0 value will be one, and if he infects two, then the R0 value will be 2. If the R0 value is more than one, then it has to be taken seriously as it would likely cause community spread. Such cases can drastically change the equation,” said Vijay Sakhare, Inspector General and District Police Chief (Kochi City). The five key cases in the city ended up with very high R0 values. For instance, the one from Chellanam had an R0 value over 25 and the one from Broadway had the R0 value of 15 after infecting as many persons. Owing to the high density of population, Chellanam has since reported a huge surge in infections, leading to its complete lockdown. This left the police with a challenging task of having to track down multiple layers of primary, secondary, and tertiary contacts. “We have traced them, put them in quarantine and contained the entire areas surrounding them. And we keep on tracing the contacts of new infections stemming from the original five,” said Mr. Sakhare. He said that the surge in the number of infections within the containment zones such as Chellanam should not be a great worry as the infection was contained and prevented from spreading into the larger community.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police launch probe into extortion bid||The Cheranalloor police have registered a case against four persons on the charge of threatening a young woman, seeking a share of the money she had received by way of online crowdfunding for her ailing mother’s treatment. A video by a young woman in tears, sharing her experience of being bullied for the money she had received had gone viral online. She had reportedly received contributions far in excess of her need, which, in its wake, allegedly triggered threats from some people who demanded their money back. The police had invoked IPC Sections 383 (Extortion), 511 (Punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). Speaking to reporters, District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare said a First Information Report (FIR) had been registered, and that a comprehensive probe covering the nature of crowdfunding and whether cheating was involved had been launched into the whole affair. He, however, ruled out the case to have any potential hawala links. “Hawala transactions by definition means non-banking dealings, whereas in this case, the contributions had reportedly been received through banks,” said Mr. Sakhare. The police are looking into details of contributors and their past history as well. On the woman being threatened, Mr. Sakhare said all such angles would be covered. “Who contributed, how much they contributed, how the contributions were made are all part of the investigation. The banks’ statements will also be looked into,” he added.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Traders to close shops in protest||Traders on the Market Road-Broadway stretch, under the banner of Merchants Joint Action Council, have decided to down the shutters, terming as unscientific the COVID-19 regulations issued by the police. “The area was a containment zone for the past 18 days. Traders have decided to close shop since directions imposed by the police are unscientific. Hence, we decided to shut shops till the police took traders into confidence and paid heed to our concerns. We regret the inconvenience caused to customers,” the joint action council said. It has as members a dozen trader organisations, including the Kerala Vyapara Vyavasayi Ekopana Samity, chamber of commerce and worker trade unions such as CITU and INTUC. In the meantime, Hibi Eden, MP, has said that the district administration must take the traders into confidence before imposing curbs at the Ernakulam market. On their part, traders must ensure that they adhered to all regulations to contain the pandemic, he said. The concern raised by traders over the stipulation that only 30 per cent of the shops would be permitted to on a day and that everybody must enter the market through one corridor, must be addressed. Yet another proposal was to fix 5 p.m. as the deadline to close shops. These regulations would also affect commercial activities . Customers too would be hit by the regulations. The district administration must thus review them, Mr. Eden said.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi City police crank up contact tracing||With the number of COVID-19 patients surging by the day, the Kochi City police have cranked up contact tracing by deploying 42 teams who will follow a technologically-aided Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for judicious designation of containment zones. The contact tracing teams are made of a Sub Inspector and two police personnel each. This is in addition to the special round-the-clock COVID Control Room with nearly 50 personnel headed by an Assistant Commissioner and directly supervised by the Inspector General and District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare. “We bring to the table investigative instincts of our force, since contact tracing is more or less investigative in nature. Except for minimal staff for station duties, we have engaged our entire force in this exercise,” said Mr. Sakhare. The entire process is based on the presumption that the person concerned would have got infected 10 days prior to the day he was tested positive. As soon as a person is infected, the Assistant Commissioner, Special Branch, secures the preliminary contact list prepared by a Health inspector and hand it over to the contact tracing team concerned. The team then contacts the infected person over phone and debrief him to elicit his travel history, persons who he had come into contact with, and places visited. The team also gathers information from family members, relatives, friends, co-passengers, and the employer based on which an initial contact tracing chart is prepared. “The team again contacts the infected person and tries to massage his memory with the help of the chart for eliciting more information. We also analyse the Call Detail Record, Internet Protocol Detail Record, and CCTV footage. A combination of all these is used to trace the primary contacts, which is then repeated for tracking secondary contacts,” said Mr. Sakhare. The COVID Control room collects all information and maps it on the Geographic Information System. The contact lists are then shared with the motorcycle patrol teams who ensure their proper quarantine through regular visits. Besides, intense vehicle checking is being carried out on four roads each within every police station limit identified based on the threat perception. “We have also deployed 15 teams of two police personnel each in congested places within every police station limit to ensure that the protocol, including mask wearing and physical distancing, is strictly followed. Violators are slapped with a minimum fine of Rs. 500,” said Mr. Sakhare.
19 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||At 53 cases, Kollam sees highest surge||On Saturday, Kollam reported its highest case surge till date with 53 COVID-19 patients. Among the patients, 14 are migrant labourers from Tamil Nadu while four have travelled from UAE. While there are 27 suspected contact cases, eight persons have no travel history. The patients from Tamil Nadu had arrived with auto-approval entry passes for working in various sectors. All of them belong to the coastal belt of Colachal and nearby areas and they were brought to Kollam by their employers who had arranged quarantine facilities for them. Cases with no travel history have been reported from Kanjaveli, Ummannur, Punalur, Neendakara, Chavara, Vettikavala and Perinad. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma on Saturday said that steps would be taken to ensure the service of 500 doctors and other facilities at all the COVID-19 first-line treatment centresShe instructed the authorities to make arrangements for utilising the service of staff employed by private hospitals. Facility at Asramam Various hospitals handed over the list of medical professionals and students whose service can be used at the centres.. It was also decided to set up 5,000 beds within one weeks. The first-line treatment centre at the Asramam hockey stadium started admitting COVID-19 patients from Saturday.
19 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||16 test positive in Kottayam||Sixteen more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, two health-care workers and a worker in a fish market contracted the virus through local contact. The health-care workers, who tested positive, were a 51-year-old nursing assistant and a 41-year-old pharmacist at the Family Health Centre at Kuruppanthara. They were on the contact list of a nurse in the same hospital who was confirmed with virus infection on Friday. With three health-care workers testing positive for the disease from the same hospital, the entire staff including doctors at the centre were directed to go into quarantine. “To ensure the functioning of the hospital, we have deputed doctors and staff members from other hospitals in the district,” said Jacob Varghese, District Medical Officer. Meanwhile, the source of infection of the worker at the fish market in Changanassery remains unknown. Following this, the market was closed down for the time being. Of the remaining cases, six persons landed from abroad while seven arrived from other States. Meanwhile, the Orthopaedic ward in the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) was closed down after two patients here tested positive for the virus infection. While the existing patients were shifted to other wards, as many as 12 staff members including seven doctors were directed to go into quarantine. Reports now surface about the nurses on duty at the ward raising protests for not sending them into quarantine. The medical college authorities, however, maintained that the list of persons for quarantine was recommended by a medical board. The MCH has also received 40 new ventilators to treat critical COVID patients.
19 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Solitary seller keeps cancelled Pakkil Vanibham alive||Thankamma stood all alone in the empty ground that faces the Pakkil Sree Dharma Sastha temple in Kottayam. The same day last year, she was standing here amidst a beehive of activities. People were flowing in and out while traditional goods were being traded for an entire month. The arrival of Thankamma, believed to be a descendant of Pakkanar, a popular character in Malayalam folklore, at this venue on the first day of the Ramayana month heralds the beginning of the famed Pakkil Vanibham. Because of the deepening COVID-19 fears, this time-honoured tradition has been among the headline events to be cancelled in the State. “The temple authorities did inform me about the cancellation of the Vanibham, but I am obliged to carry on the tradition and hence decided to come this year too,” she said. The 76-year-old woman from Changanassery has been a part of the event since she turned 13. Makeshift store After offering the customary darshan of the main deity here with special permission from the temple authority, she soon opened a makeshift store here to sell her stock of woven baskets and mats. “She has agreed to be here for at least 15 days as in every year. Though there is no fair this year, people from Pakkil and vicinity have been coming in to purchase goods from her. Tradition stipulates the villagers to make sure that she returns home a satisfied soul,” explained Mahesh Mariyappally, secretary of the committee.  One-stop market Though Vanibham has been on the wane with the fall of the agrarian economy, the event is regarded as a one-stop market for wares such as woven baskets, mats, agriculture implements, pottery, and wooden furniture.  Pallikonam Rajeev, who has carried out extensive research on the history of the Pakkil temple and the custom associated with it, said the history of Pakkil Vanibham could be traced to at least the time when Buddhism began to take root in Kerala. “Households in villages in and around Pakkil village set their worn out utensils, brooms, and mats on fire and purchased new ones from the Pakkil Vanibham,” Mr. Rajeev said. According to him, this is the for first time in the recorded history of the temple that the trade fair is being cancelled.
19 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Now, educated youths join MGNREGS||Decreasing job openings and the financial crisis consequent on COVID-19 have prompted educated youths to take up odd jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in Kozhikode district. Project coordinators say many educated youngsters across the district have started to register their names and secure job cards in their efforts to tide over the crisis situation. Meppayur grama panchayat has the highest number of such newly employed youngsters, all below the age of 30. Including two engineering graduates, there are now 30 youths employed under the scheme. The workforce also include polytechnic diploma holders, ITI certificate holders, and those who have completed degree courses in various streams. In Azhiyoor panchayat, three graduates registered their names recently for working under the scheme. So are two youths who completed training in ITIs. At the block panchayat level, Perambra has the highest number of 207 such newly employed youngsters followed by Tuneri at 162. 988 youths employed T.M. Muhammad Ja, Joint Programme Coordinator, MGNREGS, Kozhikode, says 988 youths have been newly employed under the scheme in various panchayats and 18,843 people in the 18-30 age group have registered for jobs in the 12 block panchayats, he told The Hindu . Grama panchayat authorities in Azhiyoor say it is the first time they have enrolled men under the MGNREGS. All the 1,537 people previously registered under the scheme were women. “The sad part is that our panchayat was declared a containment zone soon after their enrolment. It may take a few weeks to resume the works,” says Azhiyoor grama panchayat president V.P. Jayan. He says many more will join the scheme if the Union government adds jobs that will suit the skills of educated youths. Many youths now take up the job as family members above 65 years are now unable to work in view of the COVID protocol. There are 45,889 workers above 65 years in the district who used to earn Rs. 291 a day under the scheme. In Kozhikode, the new enrolment, including people of all categories, since the outbreak of the pandemic is 5,000. There are also persons who joined the scheme after they lost their jobs.
19 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lockdown in Kozhikode today||The majority of fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Kozhikode district on Saturday contracted the disease through local transmission even as the district is poised for a complete lockdown on Sunday. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, 22 of the 26 new cases were through contact with infected persons. Nineteen of them tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in antigen tests conducted at Nadapuram, Vadakara, and Koduvally. The newly infected are from Maniyoor, Koduvally, Eramala, Vadakara, Thooneri, and Purameri. There are two from Kallayi, within the Kozhikode Corporation limits. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in th district is 324. Stricter norms All commercial establishments in the district, including shopping complexes, malls and supermarkets, have been directed to ensure physical distancing on their premises, failing which their licences will be cancelled. Air-conditioning inside shops should be switched off and proper ventilation ensured. Sanitisers or hand wash should be made available for customers. Karkidaka Vavu rituals No commercial establishments except shops that sell essential commodities and medical shops will be allowed to function on Sunday when a complete lockdown will be observed in the district. Rituals associated with the Karkidaka Vavu that fall on July 20 and 21 should be restricted to houses. Get-togethers at temples and other places for ‘Bali Tharpanam’ rituals will not be permitted. In Palakkad Forty-nine persons, including three children, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Saturday. Most of them were returnees from the UAE and Saudi Arabia. Officials said that the source of infection in four cases could not be detected. One person each from Pattambi, Ottappalam, Palassana, and Cherupulasseri tested positive, but their source of infection was unclear. The district administration imposed tight measures at Pattambi after authorities suspected local spread in a market there. In Kannur As many as 39 persons in Kannur district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said while six of them contracted the virus through contact, eight are those who arrived from abroad, while 26 came from other States. With this, the number of infected persons in the district has reached 827. Of them, 476 were cured of the disease. In Kasaragod Twenty-nine persons tested positive for SARS-COV-2 in Kasaragod on Saturday. According to District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas, five of the confirmed cases came from other States and two from abroad, while the rest contracted the disease through contact. Meanwhile, seven persons tested negative for the virus on Saturday. As many as 5,946 people are under observation in the district. In Malappuram Nineteen prsons tested positive for COVID-19 in Malappuram district on Saturday. Four of them, including a health worker, contracted the infection through unidentifiable local contacts. District officials said that 13 of the new cases had returned from abroad while two had come back from other States. However, 26 persons who were under treatment recovered from the disease on Saturday. District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem said that eight cases were registered in Malappuram for violating the healthcare norms. In Wayanad Twenty-six persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases recorded in the district to 268. According to District Medical Officer R. Renuka, 11 of the newly infected persons are contacts of patients and 15 others came from abroad and other States. In Thrissur Twenty-one fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday. Of them seven got infected through contact. So far, 763 cases have been reported in the district.   (With inputs from Palakkad, Kannur, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Wayanad and Thrissur bureaus)
19 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Police to use drones to track protocol violators||In line with the directive from the State Police Chief (SPC) to intensify action against COVID-19 protocol violators, the City and Rural police stations have resumed micro-level surveillance using drone cameras. The support of trained operators will be sought again for the purpose. Similar method had been adopted in the initial weeks of the national lockdown. In several locations, the system had been found an effective tool to track offenders and book them with accurate digital proof. Apart from the usual enforcement activities, it had helped the police zoom in on hooch dens and gambling gangs. In Kozhikode district, drone surveillance will be adopted mostly in coastal areas and containment zones. Harbours and fish landing centres too are likely to be covered. According to the police, the district administration also has strongly recommended flawless surveillance in coastal areas. Station House Officers in Koyilandy, Vadakara, Payyoli, Atholi, Nadapuram, Balussery, and Kuttiyadi have made the required arrangements to resume checking. Some police stations have their own devices to coordinate inspections. Others have been permitted to seek the support of private operators. Officials at the Koyilandy police station said they had conducted the trial run using their own camera on Friday. Apart from drone cameras, camera-fitted control room vehicles too will be used to keep an eye on health protocol violators. SHOs from various city stations said violators caught on camera would face legal actions under the Epidemic Diseases Act.
19 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Autorickshaw impounded||The Mukkom police have impounded an autorickshaw allegedly used by a man who was arrested on Friday in connection with the rape and robbery of a 65-year-old woman. The police said the vehicle was used by the accused Mujeeb Rahman to pick up the woman while she was on the way to work on July 2.
19 July 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||A stroll to take the COVID stigma out||Many heads turned curiously when Pulamanthol grama panchayat president V.P. Mohammed Haneefa took a stroll along the roads of Pulamanthol bazaar by holding the hand of an LPG distributor the other day. Mr. Haneefa had a big message to give to his people. LPG distributor Ramachandran was being ostracised for COVID-19 in the name of false social media propaganda. Misled by the false propaganda, the local people of Pulamanthol and neighbouring areas had begun to shoo away Mr. Ramachandran. “At first, I did not understand when some very familiar faces began to turn away from me. Soon I learned that a false message had spread among the people that I had contracted COVID-19,” Mr. Ramachandran said. His attempts to convince the people that he was free of COVID-19 and that the message was false failed, as very few gave him an ear. As a last resort, he approached the panchayat president for help. Mr. Haneefa grabbed Mr. Ramanchandran’s hand and walked through the bazaar. Many watched bemusedly as the duo covered the busy street corners, but some others came forward to apologise to Mr. Ramanchandran. Mr. Haneefa said he knew Mr. Ramachandran and that he never wanted his means of living to be put at risk by a false propaganda. “I could convince the people of the danger of falling prey to false messages,” Mr. Haneefa said.
19 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||28 cases reported in Pathanamthitta||Twenty-eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday, taking the overall tally of COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta since March 7 to 803, a release here said. Of the new cases, 10 came from abroad, four from other States, and 14 were contacts of infected people. A 33-year-old health worker from Anandappally, near Adoor, too was among the 14 contacts of infected patients. Patients A 24-year-old youth from Kadammanitta, a 24-year-old woman from Kulashekharapathi, two women of 59 and 31 years from Pandalam who were family members of a patient, a 27-year-old youth from Vettoor, a 39-year-old fish vendor from Kattoor, a 37-year-old woman from Kumbazha, a 38-year-old woman from Kadammanitta, a 36-year-old man from Naranganam who runs a mobile phone shop, a 60-year-old man from Konni, and a 42-year-old woman employed at the PSC Office in Pathanamthitta contracted the infection through contact. So far, 358 people have recovered from the disease in the district while one person had succumbed to the ailment. Active cases There are 444 active cases in the district. However, 451 people, both patients and those with symptoms, are admitted to hospitals in the district. A total of 5,607 people, 2,254 of them contacts, are in quarantine in the district. Unknown source A Correspondent writes from Idukki: Twenty-eight persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Saturday in Idukki. Of those who tested positive, eight contracted the disease through local transmission. The source of transmission of 13 persons remains untraced. Health workers Those who tested positive for the virus include a doctor and health workers at the Senapathy primary health centre and the Rajakkad social health centre. Five among those who tested positive came from abroad.  14 people in Pathanamthitta and eight in Idukki get the disease through contact
19 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Outpatient wing for Konni Medical College Hospital in August||Konni is gearing up to make the outpatient wing of the proposed Government Medical College Hospital functional within a month. Finishing touches on the medical college complex are fast progressing so as to facilitate the opening of the hospital outpatient (OP) wing in August, K.U. Janeeshkumar, MLA, told The Hindu . An official meeting convened by Director of Medical Education (DME) Ramla Beevi in Thiruvananthapurm on Friday had decided to open the offices of the college Principal and superintendent in the newly constructed administrative block this month itself, he added. He said the DME had recommended immediate approval for 68 new posts for opening the OP wing. The meeting had also decided to appoint health-care professionals at the OP through the National Health Mission. Necessary steps would be taken to obtain conditional environment clearance for the complex. The government would move the Medical Council of India (MCI) seeking clearance for admitting the first batch of MBBS students at the medical college in 2021. Admission to students As per MCI guidelines, a 300-bed hospital should first start functioning for giving admission to 50 medical students. HLL Infratech Services Ltd. is the architect and consultant for the medical college complex coming up in the verdant settings of Perinjottackal, bordering the forests in Konni. The Bengaluru-based Nagarjuna Construction Company has undertaken the project work. The work on the five-storey complex, the 300-bed hospital, and the college building has been completed. The medical college complex situated on 50 acres has got a plinth area of 3.2 lakh sq ft and the construction cost is estimated at Rs. 143.2 crore. Mr. Janeeshkumar said another 200-bed hospital block would be attached to the medical college complex in the second phase. The government had to construct staff quarters, students’ hostel, library, etc., and hence HLL Infratech was made a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) for preparing a master plan for the proposed medical college, the MLA said.
19 July 2020||T HIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||GTech provides 200 beds||The Group of Technology Companies (GTech), the industry body of Information Technology companies in Kerala, has provided 200 beds for the COVID-19 first-line treatment centre at the greenfield stadium in Karyavattom. Plates and other materials were also provided from its CSR fund.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 173 new cases||In the capital district, 173 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Two people who died recently were also confirmed to have been infected. The number of patients being treated in the district for the infection has gone up to 1,685. Seven people recovered from the illness on the day. The deceased persons who were found COVID-19-positive were a 70-year-old Poonthura native, who died on July 11, and a 60-year-old man from Arayoor, near Parassala, who died on July 16. Both were treated at the Government Medical College Hospital here, sources said. The Poonthura native, who suffered from cardiac and kidney ailments, was admitted to the hospital with respiratory problems, while the other person had frequented Kanyakumari where he is suspected to have contracted the infection. He was admitted to the hospital on July 5. Among the new cases, 152 people contracted the infection through local transmission. While 38 people hail from Pulluvila, 29 are from Poonthura. A 62-year- old man undergoing treatment in the Pangode military hospital has also been diagnosed with the illness. Imported cases The imported cases include those who came from Qatar, United States, and United Arab Emirates recently. The source of infection is unknown in four cases which include people hailing from General Hospital and Medical College regions. In his daily briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan expressed concern over such cases, many of which are been reported in large numbers from parts of city including Statue, Pettah, Attakulangara, Peroorkada and Kudappanakunnu. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, who visited the COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (CFLTC) at Greenfield Stadium in Karyavattom, said the district had 12 COVID-19 clusters. 750 people The CFLTC, envisaged to accommodate 750 people, is the 13th such facility to be established in the district.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10-day triple lockdown along coast||Total lockdown came into effect along the coastal belt of the district on Saturday midnight as the government intensified efforts to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in the region that is in the grip of community transmission of the infection. The entire coastal area of Thiruvananthapuram that stretches from Edava in the north to Pozhiyoor in the south has been declared as critical containment zone with restrictions, amounting to a triple lockdown, which will remain in force for 10 days until July 28 midnight. As announced by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan earlier, the region has been divided into three zones — Edava to Perumathura, Perumathura to Vizhinjam, and Vizhinjam to Pozhiyoor — for effective implementation of the lockdown with IAS officers posted as Incident Commanders in each zone. Senior police officers have also been tasked with enforcing curbs in the region.  From 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. While movement has been prohibited into and out of the zones, the public will be allowed to move within the region only for essential activities, medical emergencies, and to maintain supply of essential goods and services. Essential grocery shops, outlets selling vegetables and meat, and milk booths will remain open from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. Private movement of goods between wholesalers from outside and retail shop owners from insider the containment zones will be permitted between 7 a.m. and 1 p.m. through a single-point entry system. However, retail shop owners will be required to collect the goods unloaded by wholesalers at the boundaries. Hospitals and all related establishments such as medical shops, laboratories, nursing homes, and ambulances will remain functional. The Civil Supplies Department will distribute 5 kg of rice and 1 kg of pulses to all families while Horticorp will supply fruits and vegetables in the critical containment zone. Besides, the Kerala State Poultry Development Corporation (KEPCO) will ensure the supply of chicken in the region. Milma has also been tasked with supplying milk through its 138 agents there. While no banks or non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) will function, the banks will ensure that ATMs are refilled and the Lead Bank is required to ply mobile ATMs in the region. Public examinations at all educational institutions within the critical containment zone have been suspended. Transit through the National Highways has been permitted, provided motorists do not stop anywhere through the restricted zone.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Makeshift fish market functioned defying HC order||A makeshift fish market near Kumarichantha, from where the superspread at Poonthura and the community spread to the rest of the capital’s coastal area originated, was ordered to be closed by the Kerala High Court as far back as April 30, following a complaint of unregulated crowding and unhygienic working conditions. But, it continued to function until early July, when a fish seller from here, who had been frequenting Kanyakumari to procure fish, tested positive for COVID-19. According to city Corporation officials, they had closed down the Kumarichantha market for renovation in March. After that, the makeshift market started functioning as a wayside vending facility, a little away from the original market, and run by the same person who had a contract for the fish-vending zone in the market. M. Badusha, a resident of the area, filed a writ petition with the High Court in April, claiming that the unauthorised fish market functioning in the immediate vicinity of his house was attracting an uncontrollable crowd of retail vendors. Contempt of court The court, in its order issued on April 30, had told the police to ensure that the illegal fish market did not function and if such instances occurred, necessary action should be initiated without fail. The resident later filed a contempt of court petition against the Poonthura police, claiming that the illegal fish trade was continuing on the same premises. The court, on July 14, gave one month’s time to the police to file an affidavit regarding the allegations. According to the Poonthura police, the market was closed much before the contempt petition was moved. “When the Kumarichantha market was closed, the person who had the contract for fish vending shifted everything to the road beside his house. It was closed too when the issues cropped up,” said the Poonthura SI. Corporation health officials said they had received complaints regarding crowding at the market before COVID-19 cases were reported.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MVD intensifies checking of travellers at border check-posts||With a spurt in COVID-19 cases, the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has intensified the checking of travellers arriving from other States and motor vehicles entering the State through border check-posts. Thermal scanners are being used to check the temperature of travellers. MVD personnel are allowing only vehicles that adhere to the norms prescribed in the May 22 letter of the Health and Family Welfare Department. Besides, it is being ensured that the vehicles crossing over to the State have sanitisers, gloves, and masks and maintain a COVID-19 log book with details of the journey from the beginning of the trip till the end. The registration number of the vehicle, the name of the registered owner, contact number of the owner and driver, details of all travellers, place of commencement of the journey, and the final destination are being entered into the COVID Vehicle Movement Register at each check- post. The MVD personnel will cross-check the details with the vehicle documents and identity cards. In the case of goods vehicle, the crew will have to maintain a register with details like name of the driver and cleaner, date of carrying out COVOD-19 tests, mobile phone numbers, place of commencement of journey, destination, halts en route, etc. The register needs to be sealed at the check-post by the designated officer on entering the State and on exit. In addition to the existing personnel on duty at the check-posts, those from the enforcement wing will be pooled to increase the strength of the staff for creating three additional shifts at the busy check-posts of Amaravila, Aryankavu, Kumily, Walayar, Gopalapura, Iritty, Muthanga, and Manjeswaram. A control room has been set up at the Transport Commissionerate, Transtowers here, with Motor Vehicle Inspector S. Mahesh as nodal officer (mobile numbers 9446033314, 9447222127).
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||After 9 months, a road trip from Maharashtra ends||It wouldn’t be much of an exaggeration if you were to call it the slowest motorised vehicle on Indian roads in the past one year. A heavy-duty tractor trailer transporting a 70-tonne industrial autoclave for the Composites Entity (CMSE) of ISRO’s Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) at Vattiyurkavu finally entered the capital city on Saturday. This is the last leg of an epic journey for the rig which left Ambarnath, Maharashtra, in September last year. It is expected to end its assignment on the VSSC’s Vattiyurkavu campus on Sunday. Across four States The massive size of the trailer and the sheer weight of its cargo meant that for much of its interesting journey across four States, the vehicle proceeded at an unhurried pace of about 5 km per day. At many places along the route, tree branches had to be trimmed and overhead electric lines shifted so that it could pass unhindered. Its purpose Industrial autoclaves are pressurised vessels used in the manufacture of advanced composites, notably for the aerospace industry. In ISRO’s case, this piece of cylindrical machinery would enable easier and cost-effective manufacture of very large and light-weight structures needed to launch vehicles and satellites, a VSSC official said. Its dimensions The autoclave, which has a diameter of five metres and length of six metres, was manufactured by Unique Chemoplant Equipments, Nasik, at its Ambarnath factory and costs Rs. 9 crore, including transportation charges. The VSSC does have autoclaves, but none this large. Time for installation On Saturday, the massive vehicle passed through Karamana and Killipalam and reached Museum. Once it reaches Vattiyurkavu, it would take another three months before it is installed, integrated with the electrical systems and controls and commissioned.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Webinar stresses Ayurveda’s role in boosting immunity||Strengthening the body’s resistance to diseases has become all the more important in the current COVID-19 scenario, said panelists at a webinar, ‘Ayurveda for Building Immunity,’ organised as part of The Hindu ‘Wellness Series’ in association with the Vaidyaratnam P.S. Varier’s Arya Vaidya Sala, Kottakkal, on Saturday. In this context, Ayurveda can play an important role in keeping the immune system intact through a balanced diet and lifestyle supplemented with Ayurvedic therapies, they said. “There are three factors relevant to communicable diseases: the pathogenic organism, a susceptible host, and an environment that allows transmission. We have to empower the host mechanism to resist the disease-causing organism,” said P.M. Madhu, Assistant Professor, Department of Roga Nidanam, Government Ayurveda College. Multiple factors contribute to vyadikshamathwa (immunity), he said. This includes non-modifiable factors such as the place and time of birth and heredity. But there are the modifiable factors such as a balanced diet, exercise, mental excellence and rasayana drugs that can strengthen immunity, Dr. Madhu said. Development of a healthy and balanced lifestyle is key to building immunity, Nishant Narayan, Senior Physician, Arya Vaidya Sala, said. He also stressed the benefits of cleansing therapies and Ayurvedic medicines that help enhance immunity. “Be aware of your health requirements, and not just the diseases,” he said. Vinod R. Varier, Associate Professor, Department of Kaya Chikitsa, Vaidyaratnam P.S. Varier Ayurveda College, elaborated on the role of Panchakarma procedures and how they help detoxify the body. “Panchakarma has a curative effect and helps one stay healthy,” he said. Serena Josephine M., Special Correspondent, The Hindu , was the moderator.
19 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Private hospitals seek clarity on treatment||Those who test positive for COVID-19 in the State can seek treatment in private hospitals if they prefer and there is no need for a special directive in this regard as the government has already reached an understanding with the private hospitals, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan reiterated on Saturday.However, private hospital managements cannot take the responsibility of COVID-19 care without the government issuing clear directives on what category of patients may be admitted, the reporting formats and the standard operating procedures, chairman of the IMA (Indian Medical Association) Hospital Board of India A.V. Jayakrishnan said. “COVID-19 care is a major responsibility and unless the government issues formal orders and clearly states the procedures that hospitals have to follow when admitting patients, no private hospital would be willing to provide care. It should be remembered that none of the private hospitals in the State have treated COVID-19 patients before. There could be patients with serious ailments and this responsibility cannot be handled without clear-cut protocols,” Dr. Jayakrishnan said. Govt. to monitor Earlier in the day, the Health Minister had maintained that there was no bar on private hospitals now in treating COVID-19 patients but the government would monitor the treatment to ensure that treatment protocols were being followed. During the discussion with private hospitals, the government had stated that it would appoint nodal officers in every district to coordinate the patient care in private hospitals and that a clear reporting format would be drawn up. However, apart from announcing the treatment rates, the operational part of the order for private hospitals has not materialised. “The government is now admitting only Category B and C patients in COVID-19 hospitals, while mild and asymptomatic cases are maintained in first-line treatment centres. We need clarity on whether we are also expected to admit only moderate and severe cases. Most people with mild disease would opt for private sector hospital for the better facilities provided,” Dr. Jayakrishnan said. Treatment rates Though the government had announced COVID-19 treatment package rates under Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati, many private hospitals have pointed out that the State Health Agency has till date not cleared any of the KASP proposals. Most private hospitals are wary about COVID-19 care under KASP burdening them with unpaid bills since the SHA does not seem to have additional funds at its disposal. But during the pandemic, none will be denied care, they have maintained.A major private hospital in Kochi had informed the government about their COVID-19 care plan but they had been told not to admit patients till the government facilities in Ernakulam reached a saturation point. On home isolation Meanwhile, the Chief Minister said that though it had received expert opinion that mild or asymptomatic patients may be allowed to isolate within their homes with stipulations, the government did not intend to put it into practice unless the case numbers became unmanageable.  It should be remembered that none of the private hospitals in the State have treated COVID-19 patients before. A.V. Jayakrishnan Chairman, IMA Hospital Board of India
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fire razes fast-food joint, damages shops||Firefighters battled for nearly three hours early on Saturday to put out a fire that razed a fast-food joint and damaged several shops in a building at Toll Junction, near Ambalamukku here. No casualties were reported, although the fire had quickly spread from ‘Crescent Fast Food’ to the adjacent shops, the Fire and Rescue Services said. The fire could have been caused by two gas cylinders exploding inside the fast food shop, it is suspected. The building, owned by Prasanna Kumar, ‘Pranavam’, Mannamoola, also housed a photostat shop, a bakery, and a television repair shop, all of which have sustained heavy losses.   The incident occurred around 5.30 a.m. The Fire and Rescue Services received an alert by 5.45 a.m. Four fire tenders from the Chenkalchoola unit and one from the Chakka unit were rushed to the scene. Timely intervention prevented the conflagration from spreading further in the populated area.
19 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three RGCB products get manufacturing licence||A cost-effective Rapid Antibody Card, developed indigenously by the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) here, is among three key products that have obtained manufacturing licence lending a cutting edge to COVID-19 management efforts in the country. The two other products of the RGCB that have been granted licence by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSO) are a Viral Transport Media (VTM) kit and a viral RNA extraction kit. These products have been developed by the RGCB in partnership with Sperogenx Biosciences Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru, and POCT Services, New Delhi. The other products of the RGCB — Antigen detection system, ELISA and PCR kits — are in various stages of approval. A press note quoting Director, RGCB, M. Radhakrishna Pillai said the products were developed to help the government in the battle against COVID-19. More samples The Rapid Antibody Card will help study the presence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG antibodies with 100% sensitivity and 98% specificity and is cost-effective, sensitive, and rapid. It also facilitates testing of a large number of samples. The VTM kit, formulated using raw material from Indian sources as per United States’ Centre for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines, is suitable for collection, transportation, maintenance and long-term storage of viral specimens. It helps preserve the viability of viruses for up to 72 hours at refrigerated temperatures. The RNA kit facilitates fast manual isolation of viral RNA from the swab. The process takes only 25 to 30 minutes to extract 95% yield of the RNA.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala varsity to begin UG admissions||Kerala University is set to commence the admission process to its undergraduate courses for the 2020-21 academic year in its 107 affiliated colleges and 33 University Institutes of Technology (UIT) that it controls. The process will be undertaken in the online mode. Applications can be submitted online from July 21. Details regarding the process will be made available on the university website at 5 p.m. on July 21. The university has also invited applications for the NRI seats of BTech courses (Electronics and Communications, Computer Science and Information Technology streams) in the University College of Engineering, Karyavattom. Details can be had fromucek.inor by contacting 9037119776.
19 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Former royals to file affidavit in apex court||The royal family of erstwhile Travancore is gearing up to file an affidavit as directed by Supreme Court in the July13 verdict that upheld the right of the family in the administration and management of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple. Sree Moolam Thirunal Rama Varma, the present head of the erstwhile royal family, said on Saturday it was gratifying that the Supreme Court has approved the rituals followed in the temple and the right of the family over the temple.
19 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||YouTube channel on labour cooperatives||The Institute of Skill and Development Studies in Cooperation under the Kerala State Labourfed is launching a YouTube channel named Labour Cooperatives. RBI Director Satish Kashinath Marathe is scheduled to inaugurate the YouTube channel through an online platform on July 20. He will deliver a talk on ‘Banking Regulation Act- Recent amendments and prospects for urban and primary cooperatives’.
19 July 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Founder’s Day observed||Vaidyaratanam Group observed Founders Day in memory of its founder Ashtavaidyan E.T. Neelakandan Mooss. A webinar on ‘Usage of Ayurveda for improving immunity power’ was organised in connection with the observance. Vaidyaratnam director Ashtavaidayan E.T. Yadhu Narayana Mooss delivered the keynote address. Ayurveda Medical Education former Director Dr. M.R. Vasudevan Namboodiri, SDM Ayurveda College (Udupi) principal Dr. G. Sreenivasa Acharya, WHO Senior Medical Officer Dr. Santhosh Rajagopal, and Dr. Kishore Patvardhan of Benaras Hindu University presented papers. Around 400 doctors participated.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Green lung for Thrissur||
19 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Services of CPI leader recalled||Communist Party of India(CPI) leader V.K. Adinarayana Reddy, known for his service to the downtrodden in the State, was remembered on his 23rd death anniversary on Saturday. While serving food to the patients and attendants at the hospital, the communist leaders, sympathisers and workers said that Adinarayana Reddy had fought for upholding democracy, irrigation in arid districts, and contributed his mite to provide drinking water to the maximum number of people. Professor Pullareddy, who chaired the meeting, expressed the desire to install his statue at some places in Anantapur city and also bring out a book on his life and work in his remembrance. Former student leaders G.P. Rachamalla Reddy, G. Narayana Reddy, DEE Ramana, V.K. Ranga Reddy, and District Writers’ Forum president G. Hari Sarvottamnaidu were present.
19 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 6 lakh seized, four arrested||The Anantapur police on Saturday claimed to have busted a ganja smuggling racket with the arrest of four persons, who were allegedly supplying the contraband from Visakhapatnam, and seized 55 kg of contraband from them. Two of the four arrested were women and they used to allegedly target auto drivers, students, labourers to sell the ganja in Anantapur, the police said. Some persons from Anantapur used to go to Kakinada and allegedly receive the consignment from gang members, who used to transport it from Visakhapatnam to Kakinada. With the liquor price going up sharply, many daily labourers and students reportedly seem to have taken to ganja for affordability reasons, those arrested told the police.
19 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Patients not being given good food, alleges Jana Sena leader||Jana Sena Party’s Tirupati Assembly constituency in-charge Kiran Royal on Saturday alleged that COVID-19 patients who were quarantined in the TTD’s Srinivasam facility were not being provided quality food, and urged officials to take steps to rectify the issue. In a statement, the Jana Sena Party leader alleged that toilets at the quarantine wards of the Srinivasam facility were in a bad state, as the cleaning was being done once in three days. He said that contrary to the State Governmen’s claims that each COVID-19 patient was being given Rs. 2,000 cash on being discharged, the dole was being given to only a handful of patients. Mr. Kiran Royal further alleged that officials were discharging patients from quarantine prematurely, thus increasing the chances of transmission of coronavirus. “As even TTD officials and police personnel are also being treated at the quarantine and isolation wards, steps should be taken to improve the facilities. The Jana Sena Party will launch an agitation if steps are not taken to address the situation,” Mr. Kiran Royal said.
19 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor collectorate closed after employee tests positive||The main block of the district collectorate here was closed to the public on Saturday after a woman employee of a key section tested positive to COVID-19. It is the first COVID-19 positive case to hit the collectorate ever since the lockdown and unlock processes had begun. The officials said that the woman employee’s mother from an area in the town adjoining a red zone tested positive to the virus last week. After creating a red zone and disinfection drive, the COVID-19 task force conducted tests on the primary and secondary contacts of the woman. As the woman’s daughter too tested positive for the virus, the main block that houses the offices of the District Collector and Joint Collectors was closed. Sources said only skeletal staff was allowed to function to handle works pertaining to emergency matters, while other staff were instructed to work from home. The two other buildings to the right and left of the main block have been kept under surveillance, allowing the public in limited numbers by adhering to the COVID-19 guidelines and after verifying their purpose of visit.  District Surveillance Officer Annareddy Sudarsan told The Hindu that COVID tests would be conducted on all the staff in the affected building, and the public would be allowed only after formalities were completed.
19 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed in accident||One person was killed on the spot and two others were critically injured when the car in which they were travelling overturned and landed on thorny bushes by the roadside at Kallupalle village of Gangavaram mandal on the Palamaner-Madanapalle highway, 50 km from here, on Saturday. According to the police, the deceased, Reddappa (32) and two of his friends, all belonging to Kallupalle village, were returning from a neighbouring village. The accident occurred a few meters away from the village. The police suspect that the deceased might have dozed off at the wheel. The rescue operation of the two injured turned a herculean task as the vehicle landed on a bed of thorny bushes. The injured were rushed to the area hospital at Palamaner, and the body was shifted to mortuary for autopsy. A case has been registered.
19 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Join hands, Collector tells private hospitals||With the growing number of COVID-19 cases in Chittoor district, Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta sought the private hospitals and medical fraternity to join the fight against the pandemic, by extending treatment to patients in both network and non-network hospitals under the Aarogyasri scheme. The number of cases crossed the 4,800 mark with 396 cases on Saturday. At an emergency meeting, the Collector said that as there is no respite in the cases, the private hospitals could play a vital role. He said that that the mission could be achieved with coordination between the government doctors and members of the Indian Medical Association. Mr. Gupta said that as an immediate step in this direction, the private doctors could extend their services to the patients at the ESI Hospital in Tirupati. He said that the SVRR Hospital and the facilities at Vishnu Nivasam, Srinivasam and Padmavathi hospitals had already been extending the best treatment to the positive patients.
19 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venkaiah urged to ensure release of Varavara Rao||Tirupati MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy on Saturday urged Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu to intervene and ensure the release of jailed and hospitalised revolutionary writer Varavara Rao. In a letter addressed to the Vice-President, Mr. Karunakar Reddy said the plight of Mr. Varavara Rao in ill-health and under confinement at the age of 81 disturbed him a lot. Emergency days Terming Mr. Varavara Rao as one of his gurus, the MLA recalled the days of Emergency, when he, along with Mr. Varavara Rao and Mr. Venkaiah Naidu, was lodged in the Musheerabad prison. “As a leader with democratic views, I urge you to intervene and see that Mr. Rao is released,” he said.
19 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster on ‘Operation Muskaan’ released||Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik released the posters designed by Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) on the ongoing ‘Operation Muskaan’ at the District Police Office on Friday. The poster throws light on the situation of children working in some hazardous and non-hazardous establishments in the State, and explains the Acts in place to protect them, said CRAF State programme director P. Francis Thambi. Mr. Naik said the operation is being taken up by following the COVID-19 protocol. He praised the CRAF management for designing the posters on dos and don’ts for children in order to prevent contracting the virus.
19 July 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pat for Jeelugumilli police station||The Jeelugumilli station, of Polavaram sub-division, has been given the ‘Best Police Station Award-2020’ by the Ministry of Home Affairs in the State for better maintenance, filing and tracking of cases, and cleanliness, said Eluru Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police K.V. Mohan Rao. Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik congratulated Jeelugumilli Sub-Inspectors M. Veera Babu and Sk. Sadiq and the divisional officers on receiving the award.
19 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curfew in E. Godavari as it reports 1,051 cases||East Godavari on Saturday witnessed the highest single-day spike of 1,051 cases, with 324 of these getting registered in Kakinada city alone. The total number of cases reported in Kakinada rural is 64. In Rajamahendravaram city, 222 persons tested positive while 38 were tested positive in Rajamahendravaram rural. Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy issued an order calling for a 24-hour curfew from 6 a.m. on Sunday. “Only the services of medical emergency, government offices will be available. Any activity, including public movement, will not be allowed during the curfew hours,” according to the order. The curfew would be in force on every Sunday until further orders.
19 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Next 45 days crucial in fight against virus’||Seven more persons succumbed to the virus, four in Prakasam and three Nellore on Saturday, pushing up the toll in the districts to 51, while 544 patients-- 278 in SPSR Nellore district and 266 -- tested positive for the disease in the last 24 hours. The new SPSR Nellore District Collector, K.V.N.Chakradhara Babu, said the next 45 days were crucial in the fight against the viral disease. The hospital bed strength would be enhanced to 5,000 in the district which saw three more deaths on Saturday taking the number to 21. The tally in the district stands at 1,995. Testing capacity The testing capacity would be increased to cover 4,000 persons per day from the present 1500, he said. Village volunteers had to be on their toes identifying early those with symptoms of the disease, he said during an interaction with them in Inamadugu village on Saturday. Mobile testing bus Flagging off a mobile testing bus “Sanjeevini” on Saturday, Prakasam District Collector P.Bhaskar underscored the need for more and more people getting tested voluntarily as early testing and treatment were imperative in saving lives. At a time 10 persons could be tested from the reworked RTC bus which would visit every nook and corner of the district to conduct the test free of cost, he said. Referring to the surge in deaths, he said many of the victims had comorbidities. They had also approached the hospitals late. He also attributed the spurt in the number of positive cases to migrants from other high-risk States returning to the district once the nation-wide lockdown was relaxed. Fresh cases came from across Prakasam district including Ongole, Kandukur, Kanigiri, Mamidipalem, Lingamsamudram, Angirekulapadu, Pakala, Markapur, Tangutur, Giddalur, Idupulapadu, Peddaraveedu, Donakonda, Garladhinne, Yerragondapalem, Mogilicherla, Chirala and Chimakurthy.
19 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hunt on for 7 accused in gang-rape case||Seven persons allegedly gang-raped a 16-year-old girl reportedly after kidnapping her on July 12 under the North Zone police limits in the city. North Zone DSP P. Satyanarayana Rao told The Hindu, “The victim is a minor belonging to the city. On July 12, she was reportedly kidnapped by a group of seven men, who allegedly raped her in a house near Gokavaram bus stand in the city for three days before releasing her.” “On July 16, the victim approached the Korukonda police to narrate the incident. We have launched an investigation into the incident based on the victim’s statement,” said Mr. Satyanarayana, adding the health condition of the victim was stable. “We have identified the seven accused and a search is on for them. Cases under the POCSO Act have been registered against them,” the North Zone DSP informed.  Cases under the POCSO Act have been registered against the accused. P. Satyanarayana, North Zone DSP, Rajamehendravaram
19 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two-week lockdown clamped in Srikakulam||A two-week complete lockdown was clamped in Srikakulam district headquarters on Saturday in order to curb the rapid spread of COVID-19 cases. The lockdown will be implemented stringently, and only pharmacies and grocery shops selling essential items will be allowed to function, that too from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. All other shops including textiles, jewellery, and home appliances will not be allowed to open till the first week of August. According to a directive issued by Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas, people should not come out of their homes unless for essential things, that too only till 1 p.m. “The police department will impose fines if anybody is found moving outside after 1 p.m. Those not wearing masks in public will also be fined. “We have banned all public functions in the town and other places. Prior permission from officials concerned is a must for marriages and other functions which were fixed long ago,” Mr. Nivas said. Cases double in a week Almost all business establishments have agreed to abide by the guidelines of the district administration as the number of COVID-19 cases has crossed 2,400 in the district. The cases doubled within a week and around 200 cases were reported from Srikakulam town itself. Over 50 areas have been made containment zones in the district headquarters. Senior officials advised political leaders to not meet anyone and abstain from organising public meetings till the situation comes under control. Recently, Palakonda MLA V. Kalavati and YSRCP leader Daneti Sridhar tested positive for COVID-19. The district administration observed that many new coronavirus cases were found after public meetings were held recently in Srikakulam, Amadalavalasa and other places. In this backdrop, testing is being ramped up to identify new cases. As many as 1,11,907 tests were conducted so far. Currently, around 400 tests are conducted per day and the number is expected to go up to 1,000 per day as health officials turn their focus on rural areas.
19 July 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||People in favour of imposing partial lockdown in city||With the rapid increase in COVID-19 cases, many in the city are favouring imposition of partial lockdown. There is a feeling that with the relaxation of the lockdown from the first week of June, cases have been spreading rapidly and the community transmission is on. In the first week of June, the total positive cases were 143 and as on Saturday morning (July 18) the cases are 2,562 and the death toll has gone up from 3 (June first week) to 47. Many are not following the basic protocol as prescribed by the WHO or the ICMR, said R. Jagannadham, president of Visakhapatnam Kirana Merchant Association (VKMA). The VKMA, has already imposed a voluntary lockdown and have passed a resolution to open their shops from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Another member of VKMA, Shyam Sundar Prajapati, said “We feel that some restriction in the form of partial lockdown is the need of the hour. The shop timings can be regulated from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 6 a.m. to 2 p.m, across all segments, be it a provision or a garment store or a shopping mall.” Many traders feel that partial lockdown, will get them get some economic freedom and at the same time will also keep them and their customers safe. Many citizens feel partial lockdown should also be implemented in letter and spirit. Even till date the 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew is imposed, but it is not enforced or implemented. Even after 9 p.m. many shops remain open and people are seen moving around freely, said a senior professor from Andhra University. “Let us not see the day when things go out of control and we have to declare complete lockdown like Bengaluru had done,” he said. Agreeing to the fact that at least a partial lockdown is the need of the hour, a senior police officer said that every sector, including the frontline sectors such as media, police and medical, is affected, but it is the call of the government. ‘Develop immunity’ While lockdown could be one option, many doctors feel that the need of the hour is to develop immunity in the community. “It is proved that people with good immunity can resist or fight the virus and it is also proved that only two out of 10 are affected and the others are able to resist due to better immune system. So the need of the hour is that the government should take up supply of good immune boosting drugs free of cost to better the immune system. Since community spread is already on, it is time to build the herd immunity,” said Suresh Somayajula, a senior doctor.
19 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD senior pontiff advised isolation||Tiurmala Tirupati Devasthanams Pedda Jeeyar, who on Friday night was admitted to Padmavati State COVID hospital at Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) super specialIty hospital in Tirupati, returned to his Mutt on Saturday night. As per the mutt sources, the health condition of the pontiff, who reportedly tested positive for COVID19, was said to be stable and had been advised to remain in isolation. The pontiff is on ‘Chaturmasya deeksha’, and this is believed to be one of the reasons behind advising him to remain in isolation. Earlier, the Jeeyar, who had been reportedly unwell for the past couple of days, developed high temperature while in Tirupati, and on suspicion immediately shifted to the hospital, the sources said. Meanwhile, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy directed the authorities to ensure best of the medical care available to the seer, and, if warranted, not hesitate to rush him to Apollo hospital in Chennai. He also urged them to ensure that the daily rituals were carried out to the presiding deity inside the temple without any deviance. On the other hand, State BJP spokesperson and former TTD member trustee G. Bhanuprakash Reddy demanded that the authorities temporarily stop darshan for public and carry out the rituals in private as was done during the lockdown period. TTD honorary priest A.V. Ramanan Dikshitulu, who had kicked up a controversy with his tweet a couple of days back, reiterated his demand to stop darshan for few weeks citing 15 of the priests reportedly contracting COVID-19.
19 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||We haven’t recommended closure of temple: SP||The Tirupati Urban police have denied recommending closure of the Tirumala temple to contain the spread of COVID-19 and debunked the story that has gone viral on the social media to this effect. A news article posted on a web portal quoted a Tirumala-based senior police official as having submitted a report, in which he attributed the spike in cases to the inflow of pilgrims and recommended closure of the temple to contain the spread. The article pointed to over 150 employees and 23 priests testing positive for the virus ever since the temple was reopened on June 8. “We have neither submitted any such report to the government nor have I sought anything from my officers,” Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy told The Hindu . He said the department was duty-bound to ensure discipline and maintain law and order, and not to decide whether to keep a temple open or not.
19 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea for total lockdown in Tirupati||A week-long partial lockdown that was observed by traders in Tirupati proved to be futile as pilgrims bound for Tirumala arrived in the city from all across the country. Last week, the Tirupati Chamber of Commerce (TCC) had announced a voluntary shutdown of all businesses by 2 p.m. daily as a contribution to the efforts of the government to contain the spread of coronavirus. However, little has changed on the ground as nearly 200 COVID-19 cases continue to be reported in the city every day. “We once again request the government to consider imposing a total lockdown in the city so as to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said TCC president A. Manjunath. Mr. Manjunath said it was not proper for the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management to keep the temple open even after several priests and employees contracted the virus. “Even if Tirumala has to be kept open, the government can keep the bypass road open for devotees and clamp a total lockdown in downhill Tirupati for ten days. We are ready to cooperate,” Mr. Manjunath added. Though the retail shops are closed by 2 p.m., the State-run liquor outlets are open till 7 p.m. and are thronged by the public, which renders the entire exercise futile. The trade sections opine that denizens would willingly cooperate , if the authorities come up with a suitable action plan.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown blues continue to haunt power sector in State||The steep fall in demand from bulk consumers due to the lockdown continues to have a stranglehold on the power sector as generation of about 3,710 MW of thermal power has been suspended as on July 16. According to official sources, all the six units of Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (5 x 210 MW and 1 x 600 MW), six units of Dr. Narla Tatarao Thermal Power Station (NTTPS) of 210-MW capacity each, and one 800 MW unit of Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Station (SDSTPS) are kept on reserve standby as the demand has plummeted over the last four months. The seventh (500 MW) unit of NTTPS and the second (800 MW) unit of SDSTPS are the only ones generating power now at approximately 75% and 45% plant load factors respectively.  A major fallout of keeping the thermal generation units on reserve standby is the piling up of coal stocks, which causes their calorific value to deteriorate resulting in a sizeable fall in the energy output and the consequential monetary loss. Sources in the power utilities told The Hindu that the NTTPS had 1.40 lakh tonnes of coal, RTPP 4.50 lakh tonnes and SDSTPS 5.40 lakh tonnes. “If the units are not working and coal is piled up, the cascading impact will lead to about 40 paise per unit increase in the generation cost, which the utilities cannot pass on to the consumers,” a senior engineer in Andhra Pradesh-Genco said. The Energy Department is, therefore, hoping that the crisis will be blown over sooner than later and the power utilities will be back on their feet.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare body criticised for not permitting woman to meet son||The denial of permission to B. Sri Lalitha to meet her nine-year-old son, B. Srinivas, who was traced during ‘Operation Muskaan’ reportedly by the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) of Krishna district, came in for sharp criticism from child rights organisations. Srinivas, who was kept in a Child Care Institution (CCI) in Vijayawada, was traced during the sixth phase of ‘Operation Muskaan’ being conducted from July 14 to 20. The boy is a native of Lakshmi Nagar, Palakol town in West Godavari district. “As per the directions of the higher authorities, we deputed a team headed by sub-inspector J.V.N. Prasad, along with the boy’s mother to meet him on Friday. But, the home organisers said CWC Chairman B.V.S. Kumar has directed them not to allow any person into the home and stopped Ms. Sri Lalitha, the SI and others for some time. The woman was allowed to meet her son only after the intervention of higher officials,” said Palakol CI Ch. Anjaneyulu. “The boy’s mother, who was eager to see her child, was seen weeping. We came on official duty after alerting the CWC chairman, but we were ill-treated at the home. Mr. Kumar argued that the boy was not rescued in ‘Operation Muskaan’, and blamed the police for trying to gain mileage from the issue,” said a team member. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Kumar said he never gave any instructions to the home management to stop the team which came from Palakol, but asked to follow the procedure. Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said the police, during the pandemic, were trying to rescue the missing, runaway and trafficked children and reunite them with their parents. Police were taking up the drive by strictly following the COVID-19 protocol, he said. “We are following the directions of the Supreme Court. Instructions have been given to coordinate with the line departments and supply sanitisers, masks, Vitamin-C tablets and good diet for all rescued children and take every care till they are handed over to their parents,” the DGP said. Criticised Meanwhile, activists of child rights organisations criticised the Krishna district CWC for allegedly “insulting” the boy’s mother at the home. “Under Section 3 of (Clause 12 and 13) Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, institutionalisation is the last resort for a child, and the boy should be reunited with parents, if traced,” said a child rights activist and blamed the CWC for “harassing” the boy’s mother.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor urged not to give assent to capital Bill||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has requested Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan not to give his assent to the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and the CRDA Repeal Bills. In a letter to the Governor on Saturday, Mr. Lakshminarayana stated that the proposed decentralisation of capital was not acceptable to all the stakeholders who had contributed to the development of Amaravati, which was identified by the previous government as the capital city post bifurcation. The proposal was also not welcomed by the people, Mr. Lakshminarayana claimed, and requested the Governor to consider the constitutional aspects of the Bills, the stand taken by various stakeholders, and the people’s wish to have Amaravati as their capital while taking a decision. ‘Unconstitutional’ Mr. Lakshminarayana pointed out that the submission of Bills for Governor’s clearance was unconstitutional as they were referred to a select committee by the Legislative Council. Besides, the matter was sub judice. He insisted that the decentralisation Bill was against the A.P. Reorganization Act, 2014, which provided for only one capital. The TDP government had raised Rs. 2,000 crore through the Amaravati Bonds for development of the capital region. The Central government too extended financial support to the project, he said. Farmers had given 32,000 acres of fertile land on the contractual agreement that there would be only one capital in the Amaravati region, the BJP leader said. Considering these factors, the Governor should refrain from clearing the Bills, he said.  The decentralisation Bill is against the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, which provides for only one capital Kanna Lakshminarayana BJP State president
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP MP seeks sops for tourism sector||The cascading impact of the Coronoavirus is crippling the tourism and hospitality sector. In this turbulent times of the COVID-19 pandemic, the tourism and hospitality sector has been hit the most. Taking up the cause of the stakeholders in this sector in Andhra Pradesh, Member of Parliament from Narasaraopet Parliamentary segment Lavu Sri Krishna Devarayalu, also a member of the HRD standing committee, has written to Union Minister of State for Tourism and Culture Prahalad Singh Patel, drawing his attention to the plight of the lakhs of workers rendered jobless due to the lockdown. Job loss Explaining to him the dismal scenario in Andhra Pradesh, the MP said sectors such as adventure tourism, including water sports, were closed down from August 2019 due to various reasons like floods and later due to COVID-19 from March. Hoteliers and travel agents had incurred revenue losses to the tune of Rs. 10,000 crore since January, while there were salaries, statutory liabilities and interest moratoriums to the tune of Rs. 7,000 crore to be addressed. Almost 50 % of the tour operators, fast food owners and boating operators had shut shop and nearly 75% of the close to five lakh employees in the tourism sector had lost jobs. Quick fix solutions The YSR Congress Party leader said the need of the hour was to help this sector rejuvenate by providing succour to people associated with it.  ‘Quick fix solutions’ A few ‘quick fix solutions’ suggested by him include: the Reserve Bank of India should set up a Tourism Fund to enable banks to support the MSME tourism investors and entrepreneurs, thereby enabling them the required payroll support; grant a 12-month waiver on all Central and State statutory taxes, levies and duties on tourism companies, including GST and Income Tax Holiday for Tourism for financial year 2020-21. The YSRCP leader also sought a moratorium on interest by the RBI extending from July 2020 to July 2021 or one-time restructuring for tourism firms. Completion of all regulatory inspections and permits by the governments (both State and Central) and extend all certifications required by the Ministry of Tourism, extension of incentives to tourism companies on the lines of MSME and steps to promote the concept of adventure tourism.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||U.S. company to manufacture medical grade sensors at MedTech Zone in Vizag||Amphenol Advanced Sensors, a U.S.-based sensor and electronic components manufacturer, and Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone Ltd. (AMTZ) on Saturday signed a Memorandum of Understanding for making medical grade sensors and sub-assemblies and power electronics. Amphenol committed over Rs. 20 crore investment in the facility that will come up in the MedTech zone in Visakhapatnam. Innovative technologies Speaking through a video-conference on the occasion, Minister for Industries and Commerce and Information Technology Mekapati Goutham Reddy said the pact had fortunately come at a time when the State was looking for innovative technologies and products in its battle against COVID-19. He observed that while companies such as Amphenol made their contributions to diverse sectors, including healthcare, people needed to take personal precautions to save themselves from the scourge. Track record Amphenol has a track record spanning 70 years in making devices that could detect body temperature, physiological changes, oxygen and stress levels, humidity, etc,. These devices would be extremely helpful in combating diseases like COVID. Principal Scientific Adviser to Government of India K. Vijaya Raghavan, GoI Secretaries P.D. Vaghela (Department of Pharmaceuticals) and Ajay Sawhney (Ministry of Electronics and IT), AP Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven, AMTZ CEO Jitendar Sharma and others took part.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s nod must for 3 capitals: Yanamala||TDP Floor leader in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu said on Saturday that an amendment to the A.P. Reorganization Act, 2014, was a prerequisite for developing three capital cities, and since the Act was enacted by Parliament, it was for the Central government to take a decision on it. Addressing the media here, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said the TDP government had resolved to set up the capital city in Amaravati as per the Sivaramakrishnan Committee’s recommendations, and pointed out that the Act envisaged development of a single capital city, but not three capitals as mooted by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. ‘Seek legal advice’ Mr. Ramakrishnudu asserted that it would be proper on the part of Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to take all these factors into consideration, and also seek legal advice before arriving at a conclusion on the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and the CRDA Repeal Bills. Mr. Ramakrishnudu further said the passage of the Bills would have been a smooth had the Council given its nod. Alternatively, the Bills would be deemed to have be passed by the Legislative Assembly had the Council rejected them. But the Council Chairman had referred them to a select committee, he added. The Governor should, therefore, elicit legal opinion and also know what people were thinking about the proposed decentralisation of administration before taking any decision that would have far - reaching implications for the State.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel: keep online classes time for primary children to the minimum||The A.P. School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission is of the view that students up to Class V should not be made to attend online classes for long hours. At a recent review meeting headed by Commission Chairman R. Kantha Rao, the panel members discussed threadbare the measures to be taken if online classes were the only option left for the authorities. Assessing the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Kantha Rao, along with Commission Vice-Chairperson Vijaya Sarada Reddy, Secretary Aluru Sambasiva Reddy and other members, deliberated on the possible aspects of reopening schools and colleges and, if the situation did not permit, conduct online classes. If the government should conduct online classes, the number of hours allocated to students up to Class V should be minimum, they opined. They said, instead of confining the online classes to the use of cell phones, teachers should try to give children assignments that could be completed using material at home. At least one of the parents should sit with the child during online classes. Unlike students going to private schools, who mostly have electronic gadgets, students in government schools do not have the facility, and the government should take into account this fact.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decentralisation, CRDA repeal Bills deemed passed: Minister||Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu has claimed that the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills were deemed to be passed, as one month has elapsed after their introduction in the Legislative Council for the second time, as per Clause-2 of Article 197 of the Constitution notwithstanding the fact that they were not cleared by the Upper House and were instead referred to a select committee. He questioned why Telugu Desam Party floor leader in the Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu and his party members, who were staunchly opposing the Bills, did not object when they (the Bills) were moved for the second time. Addressing mediapersons here on Saturday, Mr. Kannababu said Mr. Ramakrishnudu had been supporting the anti-Constitutional manoeuvres of former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and he was offering advice to the Governor on what he should do with the Bills. He alleged that Council Chairman Shariff Mohammed Ahmed had thrown the Bills into jeopardy by using his “so-called” discretionary powers under the directions of Mr. Naidu who was present in the House at that time. Mr. Ramakrishnudu wrote to the Governor requesting him not to give his nod to the Bills as per his party’s agenda. but not out of genuine concern for the farmers who gave their lands in Amaravati, the Minister said, adding that it was Mr. Naidu who hyped up Amaravati as a global city but failed to achieve any progress. In fact, Mr. Naidu implemented his plans in blatant disregard of public opinion, he added.
19 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protect Vizag’s brand image, Kanna tells CM||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy demanding that a robust regulatory mechanism should be created in Visakhapatnam to prevent industrial accidents, and a vigilant policing system be evolved for providing crime-free, peaceful living conditions in the port city. He stated that the brand image of Visakhapatnam, which is one of the world’s 100 fastest growing cities, was damaged by the confused “State government, its irresponsible departments and lawless leaders”. He said there has been a spurt in land grabbing, threatening and extortion cases and other illegal activities since the YSR Congress Party came to power just over a year ago. It was high time the government took necessary action to preserve the image of Visakhapatnam and help it to grow to its full potential, he said. Mr. Lakshminarayana complained that law and order deteriorated and there was a 180% increase in cyber crimes in 2019. The number of criminal cases in Visakha rural increased from 3,313 in 2018 to 4,875 in 2019. A string of industrial accidents took place in the city recently due to irresponsibility of the managements, under-staffed Factories Department and an inefficient Pollution Control Board.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 8.6 lakh collected as fine from people not wearing masks||The city police have intensified drives and imposing fines against people who are going around on the roads without face masks. Since June 24, when Police Commissioner R.K. Meena passed orders to impose fine on violators following instructions from the District Collector, till date, the police teams have imposed fines against 7,238 persons.  An amount of Rs. 8,68,560 was collected from the violators. Teams of police have been conducting checks at various places daily and urge people to wear mask to contain spread of COVID-19 in the city. Cracking the whip Following instructions from Mr. Meena, the traffic police conducted a special drive at various places and imposed fines on motorists violating one-way rule. In these special drives conducted on July 17 and 18, the city traffic police have booked cases against 460 persons and collected fine of Rs. 4,60,000. Mr. Meena said that drives against one-way and mask rules will continue in the city.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu is against Vizag’s growth, alleges Minister||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has alleged that Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N. Chandrababu Naidu is all out to destroy the brand image of Visakhapatnam as he is worried that development of the three regions in the State will make Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy all the more stronger. Addressing a media conference here on Saturday, the Minister alleged that Mr. Naidu has been trying to create an impression that Vizag was unsafe, citing the industrial accidents in the city and the district. He recalled that a mistake was done by concentrating development in Hyderabad and neglecting the other regions of the then undivided State. He reiterated the need to develop Vizag and spoke on the vision of the Chief Minister to develop all the 13 districts in the State. The Minister explained that the government has initiated several steps to check industrial accidents. Four teams have been formed to conduct extensive inspections of all industries till July 29. A review with top officials has revealed that there were certain lapses in the issue of licences to industries in the past. The Fire Department officials were directed to inspect the industries and give some time to their managements to rectify the problems. The Boilers Act would be amended and the status of boilers would be reviewed. The APPCB officials have been directed to go by the rules stringently and in an honest manner. He said that proposal was mooted to set up a hospital at JN Pharma City at Parawada. A decision was taken to hold a review meet with the managements and officials once in every three months. According to him, industries identified in red zone are 390, orange 319 and in green zone are 172. He also said that the guidelines will be strictly followed and pubic safety will be given top priority. State government decided to give 75% jobs to locals, he said.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC to launch portal on virus management||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is developing an exclusive web portal for the management of COVID-19 in the urban limits. It would include information regarding the cases, hospitals and tally of the cases in every area. This was disclosed by GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana responding to a query from a netizen, who requested for information on day-to-day area-wise update, during the online Spandana, which was organised on Saturday morning. The GVMC Commissioner said that the portal will have information on number of cases in the GVMC limits, number of persons admitted and discharged from hospitals, area-wise/containment details with number of cases, number of sample testing centres and others. The web portal will also have details about the number of district hospitals and availability of beds, she said. “The web portal will be a comprehensive one and will be open for public,” she said replying to the question. A number of citizens asked about COVID-19 management, steps being taken by the civic body, containment zone surveillance and enforcement on masks. Emergency testing Speaking about the testing, Ms Srijana refuted the allegations that fewer number of tests were being conducted in the city. She said that during the month of March, per day 200 tests used to be conducted and now the district is close to conducting 3,000 tests. “Public need to understand that emergency testing is a priority,” she added. Ms. Srijana said that following precautions by wearing masks and maintaining physical distance is need of the hour. When a netizen asked why cannot the GVMC go for a partial lockdown making only essential commodities available from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. she said that the decision will be taken as per the orders issue by the government.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 more deaths take toll to 49||As many as 179 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 2,741 on Saturday. Two more person succumbed to coronavirus, taking the death toll to 49. Meanwhile, as many as 136 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged from the hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 912 and the number of persons discharged is 1,780. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V Sudhakar, with the new cases, new clusters including Adavivaram, Santosh Nagar, SC-BC Colony, ITDA quarters-Paderu, G Kothapalli (Cheedikada), Chaitanya Nagar, Dwaraka Nagar, Ganesh Nagar, Nagulapalle (Munagakapaka) and Sharada Nagar (Anakapalle) are created. With the new cases, the total number of very active, active and dormant clusters is 165, 190 and 175 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,000 masks distributed||The women’s wing of the Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry donated 2,000 masks to the needy people of the city, here on Saturday. The distribution of the masks was done for the caregivers, support staff and other citizens who worked in the high- risk areas.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||An insightful short film||A short film Hindya, made by a film-maker from Coimbatore Siddharth in association with Roop P.S. of Visakhapatnam got more than 70,000 views within six days of its release on BVC Studios on Youtube. The film deals with the controversial subject of lynching of a member of one community by another due to wrong notions and disbelief in the social practices of others. “I wanted to work as the director of photography (DoP) for this film but I could not go there in view of the lockdown. I ended up being the film presenter,” says Mr. Roop, who is the creative head of BVC Studios. The film won over a dozen film festival awards at inter-collegiate level and State-level awards in T. N. he adds.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held on charge of illegal liquor sale||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids and arrested two persons who were allegedly selling liquor without having proper authority, here on Saturday. The arrested have been identified as P. Eswara Rao of Thatichetlapalem and Y. Srinu of Arilova. The police seized 40 liquor bottles of various brands. Meanwhile, a team of CTF conducted raid at Allipuram and arrested two persons while they were allegedly in possession of 20 kg ganja.
19 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank of Baroda’s gesture||Bank of Baroda, on the eve of the 113th Bank’s Foundation Day, which will be celebrated on July 20, has sponsored necessary kiosks at Chest Hospital and Regional Eye Hospital for conducting the tests of COVID-19. Shailendra Kumar Singh, Regional Head, Visakhapatnam, handed over the kiosks to P. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College, in the presence of Radha, paramedical staff, here on Saturday. The bank also provided digital TV, printer and other things to Z.P. High School, Patavalasa.
19 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Healthy children of virus-infected parents left in the lurch||Children of nuclear families have become the latest casualty of the fast-spreading COVID-19 pandemic in the district, prompting appeals for government care for such children. There are many cases where parents tested positive for the disease but not the children. And shifting of parents to COVID-19 hospitals led to their children being left alone at home. Similar situations arose when children’s test results came later than that of their parents, as in the case of a nurse here. The woman and her husband were moved to a hospital but their son had been left at home as his test results were to come only a few days later. Potential carriers She was worried about the child since there was none at home to take care of him and, on the other hand, there was the fear that he would mingle with the other children in the area endangering their health as he could be a potential carrier. The worst fears, in fact, came true at Garikavalasa village of Gurla mandal where children moved freely for a few days before the test results arrived, that showed them COVID-19-positive. Consequently, the authorities could not identify the primary contacts of the infected children and an opportunity to contain the spread of the disease had been lost. Authorities alerted A.P. State Commission for Protection of Child Rights’ member Kesali Apparao has brought the issue to the notice of the officials of the Medical and Health Department. “The State government has been providing infrastructure for conducting tests quickly. But it is not being done properly in villages. The results of parents and children should be given at a time. Otherwise, the carriers among the children can quickly spread the virus to others. “Further, the government should take care of healthy children till their infected parents return from hospitals,” he said. Handout released Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari released a leaflet titled, Children’s Safety – Our Responsibility’, brought out by the Kesali Foundation. She said care of children was a crucial responsibility in the current situation when pandemic was wreaking havoc in all areas. She urged parents not to allow children to play freely with others till normalcy was restored. Vizianagaram Child Welfare Committee Chairman V. Lakshmana Rao and members of the Kesali Foundation have urged local non-governmental organisations to come forward for protecting children from the dreaded disease.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Epic fail||
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Family trip!||
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High and dry||
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Day’s catch||
19 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,TELANGANA||Ganja seized, four held||The Anantapur police on Saturday claimed to have busted a ganja smuggling racket with the arrest of four persons, who were allegedly supplying the contraband from Visakhapatnam, and seized 55 kg of contraband from them.
19 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Bhadrachalam MPD office ceases to exist||The office of the Mandal Parishad Development Officer (MPD) has ceased to exist in Bhadrachalam town with the shifting of the entire staff of the MPDO’s office to various mandals recently. A special officer has been appointed to oversee the implementation of the developmental activities and other tasks, hitherto executed by the MPDO office, sources said. The move drew flak from the CPI (M) and various mass organisations which have long been decrying the absence of an elected body for Bhadrachalam major Gram Panchayat (GP) and the issues of "underdevelopment" that have remained unaddressed for a long time. Neglect, alleges CPI(M) The CPI (M) and its frontal organisations had staged protests against lack of a dumping yard to systematically dispose of garbage among other problems plaguing the denizens of the famous pilgrimage centre over the last few years.  Bhadrachalam has remained grossly neglected in the aftermath of the merger of Bhadrachalam mandal (barring the revenue village of Bhadrachalam) along with six other mandals of the old undivided Khammam district with the residual Andhra Pradesh as per the State Reorganisation Act in 2014, rued CPI (M) Bhadrachalam town secretary G Swamy. The temple town, which is the headquarters of the ST-reserved Bhadrachalam Lok Sabha constituency, suffered a raw deal during the reorganisation of the districts as the persons in power in the State failed to concede the long pending demand for making Bhadrachalam the district headquarters town, he alleged. "The much touted assurance of the persons at the helm to spend Rs. 100 crore on the development of Bhadrachalam town is yet to be implemented," he charged.  Uncertain status The local body elections could not be held for Bhadrachalam due to the uncertainty over its status caused by the government’s proposal to upgrade it into a municipality, Mr Swamy said. The shifting of the MPDO’s office from Bhadrachalam is likely to impact the development activities particularly the implementation of the MGNREGS works, he contended.  Demand of Adivasis The government has the bounden responsibility to clear the uncertainty over the exact status of the Bhadrachalam and ensure the comprehensive development of the town as well as strict implementation of the laws governing the Fifth Scheduled areas in Bhadrachalam Agency, the tribal heartland of Telangana, he said. Bhadrachalam should be continued as the major GP and attempts to upgrade it into municipality should be dropped to safeguard the constitutional provisions enshrined under the Land Transfer Regulation (LTR) Act and the interests of Adivasis, insisted Joga, a local Adivasi activist.
19 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor appeals for more plasma donations||Terming plasma donation as safe and live-saving for COVID-19 patients, Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has appealed to all recovered persons to donate plasma without hesitation. She was speaking to the media during a visit to the ESI Medical College at Sanathnagar. She visited the COVID-19 Plasma Blood Bank at the hospital and said those who have got cured and possess adequate antibodies are only eligible to donate the plasma. “The potential donors need not have any misgivings about plasma donation,” she said, adding that plasma therapy is one of the vital therapies to save the lives of critical COVID-19 patients. ‘Coordination needed’ Referring to the plasma bank’s efforts, Dr. Soundararajan stressed that efforts must be streamlined with the data bank of potential donors and the needy, and effective coordination was the need of the hour. The Governor appreciated a plasma donor, Santosh, for his humanitarian gesture and also lauded the services of Dr. Srinivas of ESIC, terming him as a COVID-19 warrior. “Not as the first citizen of Telangana but as one among the common people, I am for the constructive work and I am here to cooperate and complement the services of the government to the people of the State,” she said.  ESI Medical College Registrar T. Madhuri and others explained facilities and services of the college and said it has made tremendous progress in patient care services, teaching and research and has received the Best Medical College Hospital and Best Super specialty Hospital Awards from the ESI Corporation. The institute has also set up the first-of-its-kind Mobile Virology Diagnostic and Research Laboratory by collaborating with DRDO.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Can charity replace sacrifice this Bakrid?||With Id-ul-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid, likely to be celebrated during in the COVID-19 era, many sought to know whether money could be given to the needy instead of buying an animal for ritual sacrifice. With this question gaining traction, the Muslim clergy, over the past few days, has weighed in and held that performing ritual sacrifice is obligatory and not doing it is sinful. Every year, lakhs of Muslims across the State make the ritual sacrifice. Different voices As was reported in these columns, city-based Islamic seminary Jamia Nizamia, had issued a fatwa after receiving a query, stating that money in lieu of sacrifice could be given as charity to the poor. It also stated that sacrifice should be made by the 12th of Zulhijjah (during the first three days of Bakrid), and only in a scenario in which this is not possible, could money be donated to those in need instead of performing the sacrifice. “Coronavirus has affected a lot of people. I wanted to donate money instead of sacrificing an animal. However, I was unsure how to proceed,” said Ikram Ahmed, who works for a large taxation firm. Clearing the air on the issue, All India Muslim Personal Law Board Secretary Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani, in an online address, said that although the opinion of donating money instead of performing the ritual sacrifice was not ill-intentioned, the sacrifice, as per Sharia, itself remains wajib (obligatory) . He said that unless there was law which prevented sacrifice and if one had the wherewithal, then it was obligatory. “The scenario due to the coronavius has witnessed voices from different quarters being raised that instead of the sacrifice, money be given to those in need. I am not saying that they have ill-intentions. But, I will say that they haven’t understood the reason for the sacrifice,” he said, underscoring that a portion of the meat of the animal goes to the poor, and that other modes of charity are available. Making the sacrifice is obligatory on those who possess the equivalent of 87.5 g gold or 600 g silver, he said. Meanwhile, Khateeb of the Shahi Masjid Maulana Ahsan al Hamoomi during the Friday prayer lecture suggested that residents of a neighbourhood select a few butchers, test them for coronavirus, book a function hall, and perform the sacrifice with adherence to rules of social distancing and other precautionary measures.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State govt. guarantees to exceed budget estimates||The State government guarantees to various corporations were likely to be in excess of budget estimates this financial year, thanks to the Centre allowing power distribution companies of Telangana to raise Rs. 12,600-crore loan as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat package to infuse liquidity into the power sector. The State had estimated in its budget proposals this year tentative risk weighted outstanding guarantees of Rs. 40,241 crore, comprising Rs. 22,380.84 crore for irrigation, Rs. 12,010.50 crore for Mission Bhagiratha and Rs. 5,849.96 crore for other projects. Now, the Centre had approved the State government’s proposal to raise Rs. 12,600 crore to clear a lion’s share of outstanding dues of its power distribution companies (discoms) to Central generating stations, independent power producers and solar power generators. The State government issued an order giving counter guarantee for the loan immediately on receipt of Centre’s approval. With this, the total government guarantees will jump to Rs. 52,841.30 crore. The government guarantee to loans of power sector was preceded by an ordinance amending the State Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act which raised the limit on “the amount of annual incremental risk weighted guarantees from 90% to 200% of the total revenue receipts in the year preceding the current year”. The limit was raised, keeping in view funding for major projects. The latest government guarantee to power sector was subject to repayment and servicing of the loan by discoms and payment of 2% commission to government which amounted to Rs. 252 crore. The outstanding of discoms till March 31 last was Rs. 14,333 crore but their receivables from government departments was Rs. 12,609 crore. Therefore, the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) informed the discoms on May 16 that they were willing to lend solely up to the targeted collection. This was followed by a letter of the discoms to the government seeking guarantees. After PFC and REC process files, the loan to discoms would be adjusted against borrowings from Central generating stations and others in their respective accounts.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Bhagiratha saving Rs. 1,800 cr. a year’||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Errabelli Dayakar Rao has stated that treated drinking water supply under Mission Bhagiratha scheme, which is already reaching 23,968 rural habitations and 120 urban local bodies in the State, is saving Rs. 1,800 crore annually for people, who otherwise would have spent it on bottled water in rural areas alone. At a meeting held here on Saturday to review the progress of Mission Bhagiratha, the Minister said that the State government had already spent about Rs. 29,000 crore against the project taken up with the estimated cost of Rs. 46,123 crore. When completed, it would provide safe and treated drinking water to about 71.61 lakh households, including 55.59 lakh in rural area and 16.2 lakh in urban areas. Stating that the scheme had already evolved into a role model for the entire country, he said that Centre was emulating it for Jal Jeevan Mission. He thanked Mission Director of Jal Jeevan Manoj Kumar Sahu for asking other states to study the implementation of Mission Bhagiratha including the use of “flow control valve” technology for equitable distribution of water flow to all household connections in a habitation. He stated that Mission Bhagiratha project had been saving huge amounts to the government every summer during the water scarcity period. He explained that the West Bengal government had recently taken up Jal Swapna scheme on the lines of Mission Bhagiratha with Rs. 56,000 crore cost and Maharashtra, Bihar and Odisha were also implementing similar schemes after studying Mission Bhagiratha. The Centre has decided to implement the Jal Jeevan Mission and provide safe drinking water to 45 lakh households in five states – Assam, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, UP and West Bengal – in 2020-21. However, in spite of winning several awards and recommendation by the NITI Aayog and 15th Finance Commission, the Centre had not supported it in any measure so far.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||As virus spreads, six departments turn to e-Office||To make the administration transparent, accountable and safe in the wake of increasing spread of COVID-19, e-Office system has been launched in six departments in the Secretariat/Directorate/Commissionerate offices, to begin with, on Saturday. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, after launching the e-Office system, commended the six departments for introducing it ahead of others. The departments, which went paperless in file movement from Saturday, are General Administration, Prohibition & Excise, Commercial Taxes, Chief Commissioner of Land Administration (CCLA), Scheduled Castes Development and Women Development & Child Welfare. He instructed other departments to adopt e-Office as early as possible as it would increase the safety of employees by reducing possibility of contracting COVID-19 through file movement and the traceability of files would be very easy.  Mr. Somesh Kumar congratulated the officials for working hard to make the e-Office functional at such a short notice and stated that more than 1,600 employees would be functioning, in the matter of file movement and clearance, in the e-Office system from Saturday. The Chief Secretary observed that the new system would be beneficial as it would ensure greater transparency and would save unnecessary paper work and time. He felt that the system was the need of the hour as it would ensure that every petition/representation was also accountable. The e-Office system would allow quick disposal of files electronically, would save paper and help protect environment to some measure. The employees and officers also thanked the administration for introducing e-Office allowing them to work safely. Principal Secretary (Industries) Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary (GAD) Vikas Raj, Secretary (Scheduled Castes Development) Rahul Bojja, Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Neetu Kumari Prasad, Director (Prohibition & Excise) Sarfraz Ahmed, Secretary (Finance) Ronald Rose, Secretary (Women & Child Welfare) D. Divya and Director CCLA Rajat Kumar Saini were present at the launch.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sec’bad railway station 3D model to locate amenities||The South Central Railway (SCR) on Thursday installed a three-dimensional model of the Secunderabad railway station near the entrance of platform no. 10, which is a self-operated and user-friendly equipment to identify the location of various passenger amenities available. The station sees an average daily footfall of more than 1.8 lakh passengers with 240 passenger trains, including suburban services, in normal times. The model was developed indigenously by staff of Diesel Loco Shed, Kazipet. About 24 buttons are provided in the unit and each button is connected to the particular amenity in the layout. When a passenger pushes the button for a particular amenity, he gets a scrolling indication of that amenity and also an LED light gets illuminated showing the location and platform number. A dot matrix is used to display the location, selected with the help of a keyboard. This model is helpful in locating almost all amenities such as retiring rooms, help desk, wheel chairs, waiting halls, lifts, escalators, foot-over-bridges, refreshment stalls, among others. GM Gajanan Mallya lauded the first-of-its-kind model in the zone, a release said.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notice to govt. over ‘sale of spurious’ chilly seeds||The Telangana High Court had issued notices to the State government, after hearing a PIL plea over alleged sale of spurious chilly seeds to farmers by private companies in Mulugu. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed the Mulugu District Agricultural Officer and its Mandal Agricultural Officer to collect seeds being sold by five companies. Send the samples of seeds to the laboratory concerned to decipher their purity, the Bench said in its order. “The purity report should be presented before the court within two weeks,” the Bench added. Petitioner Cherukuri Satish Kumar’s counsel B. Rachna Reddy contended that Principal Secretary of Agriculture, Agriculture Commissioner and Panchayat Raj Commissioner and other officials failed to initiate action against the companies accused of supplying spurious seeds to farmers. The counsel urged the court to declare ‘inaction’ of the officials in the matter as illegal and immoral. She asked the Bench to instruct the officers to take up a slew of actions, including invoking Preventive Detention Act, against Nunhems India Private Limited for “not maintaining minimum Genetic Purity Standards as prescribed by the Seeds Act-1966 and General Seed Certification Standards”. Despite knowing that chilly seeds US-341 lacked the mandatory standards of genetic purity and germination, the company supplied them to the farmers, the petitioner alleged. He said that farmers sowed the seeds in 4,000 acres of land in Venkatapuram mandal in the district and suffered huge losses. The petitioner also sought a direction for payment of compensation to farmers by the private companies accused of supplying such seeds. Ms. Rachna Reddy urged the Bench to cancel the licence of Nunhems company for failing to comply with the provisions of the Seeds Act-1966.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. turns focus to villages for coronavirus testing||Amid a spike in COVID-19 cases in the State, Health Minister Eetala Rajender has said that the Health and Medical department has now focussed its attention on identifying the symptoms in the primary stage itself at village level. At a review meeting with officials and superintendents of tertiary hospitals here on Saturday, Mr. Rajender said those with symptoms in rural areas would be shifted to the sub centres in the villages and from there to the nearest Primary Health Centre. “After the tests, all the positive patients will be sent for home isolation,” he said. Asserting that the government was making all-out efforts to make available medicines to treat coronavirus, he said, “There is no question of shortage of the much needed medicines.” He added that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed that medicines be procured at any cost. The Minister also held a meeting with pharma companies and suppliers of drugs. He made it clear that there was no question of allowing black marketing of coronavirus medicines. He directed officials and the suppliers to ensure that there was sufficient stock in all the medical shops across the State. Drug Control Director Preethi Meena, who attended the meeting, asked the pharma companies to make available essential medicines to treat the ailment. Mr. Rajender pointed out that the Chief Minister has requested Hetero Drugs management to make Remdesivir available to bring down the virus load. Referring to the staff shortage in hospitals, he said the hospital superintendents were allowed to hire required para medical staff and assured that necessary equipment would be supplied within 24 hours. He said no symptomatic person should be turned away.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Young minds get together to fight misinformation||That a pandemic devastates all existing systems is anybody’s guess. On the brighter side, it inspires different people in different ways. CovidWire (‘https://covidwire.in’), a web application for mobile phones, is one such instance. It is a media initiative by two youngsters, to curate authentic COVID-19 related news and provide translations for the same. Sarigama Yerra, 23, a research scholar from IIIT-Hyderabad, and 20-year-old Poobesh Gowtham, who studies design at the IDC School of Design, Mumbai, have thought ahead of their years, and taken up the initiative to provide authentic news related to the pandemic in accessible and easily comprehensible snippets. “There was so much information overload about the pandemic from several sources, some with questionable authenticity, that we felt there was a need for a single platform where verified news could be collated and provided in readable format, without resorting to sensationalism or click-bait,” Sarigama said. When they shared this idea, several friends from across the country with varied backgrounds enthusiastically joined them. Within three months, they could put together the web app, and provided access from various social media platforms. Intending it to be a crowd-sourced platform, they started calling out for volunteers. More volunteers “Soon, we have grown to 100 in number. Our volunteers are from all kinds of backgrounds, including doctors from COVID wards. We have data analysts, and even homemakers who have volunteered to translate,” shared Sarigama. As of now, CovidWire core team has different specialised groups for social media, technology, and design, while their content teams extend to the six regions they serve — Delhi, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “Each region has a team leader, under whom three teams work respectively for curating the news, preparing short, lucid digests of 70 to 100 words, and translating them into respective local languages,” Sarigama explained. The team has a bank of of 85 verified news sources, which include research portals besides mainstream dailies. Any news not from these sources will not be accepted. Social media forwards, too, will be checked against these sources to find out their veracity. Each news digest has a link to the original source, for anybody wishing to verify. Quality matters While the initiative is still in nascent stage, as witnessed by a number of auto-translations with quite a few inaccuracies, Sarigama hopes that the quality will improve as more volunteers join. “A pandemic of this magnitude will have implications in various spheres panning over a decade. We will stay with this story of pandemic as long as it lasts,” she signed off.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS forms panel on ‘Broadband for All’ mission||A State Broadband Committee headed by the Chief Secretary and comprising senior officials of key departments as its members as well as representatives from telecom industry as special invitees has been constituted in Telangana as part of the National Broadband Mission. It has been formed for effective implementation and proliferation of broadband in the State, as part of the national mission that seeks to enable holistic measures providing equitable access to digital communications across all sections and strata of the society. Bridging the ‘Digital Divide’ and thereby social economic divide is the objective of the National Broadband Mission. From facilitating e-governance, as a tool to ensure transparency, promoting financial inclusion to improving the ease of doing business, the benefits of a digitally-enabled society it expects are manifold. This is to be achieved by addressing policy and regulatory changes to accelerate expansion and creation of digital infrastructure and services. In Telangana, a project on the lines of the national mission was one of the first few announced soon after the State was formed six years ago. Dovetailed with the Mission Bhagiratha project of the State government for supplying protected drinking water to every household, it seeks to provide broadband connectivity for all through an optic fibre network laid alongside the water pipes. Last month, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao had reviewed the T-Fiber project to provide high speed internet connectivity for all in the State and set a 10-month deadline for completion of the ambitious project. T-Fiber wants to connect every household, government institution and private enterprise across the State. The focus will be on those in rural areas and to ensure high speed internet connectivity for them. The State Broadband Committee will be required to brief the National Broadband Mission on accomplishment of the objectives in Telangana, facilitate implementation of the guidelines for expansion of broadband services, address matters regarding Broadband Readiness Index (BRI) besides monitor and evaluate the work of the project. According to the national mission document, the BRI is a tool to measure availability of digital communications infrastructure and conducive policy ecosystem in a State or Union Territory. Nodal officers are to be appointed in each district/municipal area for better monitoring. Besides the Chief Secretary as its chairman, the State Broadband Committee will have as co-member convenors Principal Secretary IT and Adviser/Senior DDG of DOT, APLSA, Telangana. Its members will be Principal Secretary to the Department of Municipal Administration and Urban Development, Principal Secretary to the Department of Transport, Roads and Buildings and Special Chief Secretary to Environment, Forests, Science and Technology Department. Chief General Manager of BSNL, CGM of Bharat Broadband Network Ltd and representatives from Cellular Operators Association of India and Tower and Infrastructure Providers Association will be special invitees.  What the panel will do Brief the National Broadband Mission on accomplishment of the objectives in Telangana Facilitate implementation of the guidelines for expansion of broadband services Address matters regarding Broadband Readiness Index Monitor and evaluate the work on the project
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM to decide on OGH ‘modernisation’||The Osmania General Hospital’s century-old in-patient (IP) block might be razed to construct a new building for the tertiary care hospital. In the aftermath of rain and sewage water flooding the IP block on Wednesday, Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Saturday said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao would take a decision following public request to ‘modernise’ OGH. Sources said plans to dismantle the IP block, built in 1917 by the seventh Nizam Mir Osman Ali Khan, was discussed at a meeting on Friday.
19 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. leaders ‘SpeakUp’ on poor treatment||Telangana Congress leaders have massively responded to the party’s call for ‘SpeakUpTelangana’, posting videos of messages on social media platforms criticising the government for its ‘failure’ to tackle COVID-19. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and A. Revanth Reddy, TPCC COVID Committee chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy, MLA T. Jagga Reddy, AICC secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy, general secretary Vinod Reddy and all senior leaders and party activists responded to the call. Speaking to the cadre on Facebook, Mr. Uttam Reddy alleged that the negligence displayed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in handling the COVID crisis in the State was nothing short of cruelty. To avoid criticism, KCR government simply hushed up the real figures and manipulated data to show that the situation was under control, he claimed. “Telangana is still at the bottom in the list of States in terms of testing,” he said. He said entire load of COVID-19 patients was put on Gandhi Hospital. Consequently, innumerable complaints of negligence have cropped up in the last few months. “The government even failed to upgrade all the government hospitals with basic oxygen supply in the last 5 to 6 months to deal with the situation. There is a huge shortage of ventilators, oxygen-equipped beds, doctors, para-medics and other infrastructure,” he said.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TITA launches farm advisory services||Taking forward its efforts to use technology in addressing societal problems of majority sections, the Telangana Information Technology Association (TITA), has brought out a new solution that would help farmers connect with agriculture scientists and get their farming-related queries answered. The IT professionals body decided to utilise its Tconsult platform, launched a few months ago, to offer telemedicine consultation to those living in rural areas during the initial days of COVID-19 lockdown, for extending expert advice from agricultural scientists to the farming community. According to TITA founder Sundeep Kumar Makthala, the TConsult app had so far offered free consultation by experts to over 10,000 persons on health issues to circumvent issues of distance and time. As part of its new initiative, the TITA had added agricultural scientists from Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) to TConsult to advise the farming community. The IT professionals body decided to launch the new initiative as some complementary service when the State was moving in the direction of regulated farming. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, who on Saturday launched the revised TConsult app to aid farmers , turned the first user of the app. He got connected with former Registrar of Agricultural University Prof. Jalapathi Rao to seek answers to questions related to farming. The Minister lauded the efforts of TITA in launching the farmer-support system via video conference. Mr. Makthala said the new service on the TConsult app was being piloted in one mandal and TITA was interacting with agricultural university scientists to scale up the project. Among others, it would work to bring online experts in farm-related aspects from other countries too for knowledge sharing. Stating that the TConsult platform was robust and more services would be added in future, Mr. Makthala said farmers could book an appointment on TConsult and interact with scientists. They (TITA) were also in contact with scientists and experts from the Water and Land Management Training and Research Institute (WALAMTARI) to offer expert advice to the farming community, Mr. Makthala added.
19 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IIIT-H e-convocation sees 459 graduate||International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIITH), conducted its 19th convocation online where 459 students graduated while a record number of 11 PhDs and 86 Masters with thesis received certificates. Sadaria Aanshul Ashwin Kumar, B. Tech Computer Science and Engineering (CSE), was awarded the IIIT gold medal in recognition of his outstanding academic performance. The B. Tech best All-rounder award was presented to Kanay Gupta in CSE. Thirteen students received programme gold medals. In her e-convocation address, Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Department of Gastrointestinal Sciences, Christian Medical College, Vellore, and director, Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), asked the students “to seek out new perspectives, listen to what other voices are saying, reflect on them and define what your core values are and what matters to you. And as Mahatma Gandhi said, ‘Understand and embrace your values, because they become your destiny.” Prof. Raj Reddy, chairman, Governing Council of IIIT-Hyderabad, also dialled into the eConvocation from the US to admit students to their degrees and congratulated the graduating students. The director of IIIT-H, Prof. P J Narayanan, also spoke. Despite the uncertainty, 130 companies registered for placementss. The institute had achieved 97% placements till now.
19 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Model United Nations debates pressing issues||The Model United Nations (MUN) conducted by the Suchitra Academy was the first one in the State conducted online involving prominent judges from across the country while the icing on the cake was a personalised recorded message from UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres himself. The Secretary-General encouraged young ambassadors to have a better understanding of the organisation — what it is, what it does and what it can do. The event attracted more than 100 registrations from different schools in the State. The chief guest was sports journalist and author Boria Mazumdar, who has written books on the history and politics of cricket in India and across the world. Educationist and entrepreneur Fatima Agarkar was chief guest at the concluding ceremony. The participants showcased their innate talent and immense understanding of global issues, debating them in the ‘General Assembly’ and various other committees. Health, education were other issues that saw participants sharing thoughts and coming up with solutions. Our goal is to empower students to be leaders and bridge-builders,” said MUN coordinator Mithu Nag.
19 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Why is govt. mum on ‘treasure trove’: Revanth||Congress MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has reiterated his allegations on the treasure trove under the ‘G’ block of the Secretariat and asked why is the government responding through unconnected people like Nizam’s family or the party’s student wing. “I am only reiterating what the media has written a few years ago and the permission sought by the Archaeology department and the National Mineral Development Corporation (NMDC) for excavation of G block to check the assumed cave connecting it to the Mint Compound, Vidyaranya School and Home Science college,” he said at a press meet on Saturday. Mr. Reddy said that the doubts increase when Nizam’s relatives and some unconnected people come into the picture arguing in favour of the government and not the government departments. He wanted to know why the Archaeology department was not responding or the officials and Ministers connected with the department. Mr. Reddy also wanted to know why the government was so secretive about the demolition when it should be done openly and recorded for posterity. “Now that the Telangana High Court and Supreme Court have given clearance for the new Secretariat, the government should allow the political parties and the media to visit the demolition site for recording,” he demanded.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy flood continues into Jurala, Srisailam||Discharge of heavy flood of over 78,000 cusecs was continuing from Jurala to Srisailam as it was getting about 80,000 cusecs of inflows from the upstream as at 9 p.m. on Saturday. Accordingly, over 78,000 cusecs of flood was also being released into Srisailam dam and storage in the reservoir crossed 60 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft. According to flood monitoring engineers at Jurala, the discharge of flood through the spillway through 10 crest gates was about 41,600 cusecs and nearly 37,000 cusecs was being released to the river after power generation. Total outflows from Jurala were measured at over 83,500 cusecs including drawals by Nettempadu, Bhima-I & II and Koilsagar lifts and Right, Left and Parallel canals. According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) officials, the inflows into Almatti increased to over 36,100 cusecs on Saturday. The CWC, however, forecast fall in inflows into Jurala from Sunday.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Project to attract national interest||One of the three States allowed by the Centre to pursue a Broadband for All project of its own, Telangana and its T-Fiber project are expected to attract considerable attention and may well serve as a model as the National Broadband Mission takes root. ‘Unique model’ “Ours will be a unique model,” Principal Secretary IT Jayesh Ranjan said about the T-Fiber project of providing broadband connectivity to all. “At the national level, there is lot of interest and attention to see what we deliver,” the senior official said. Three aspects will be of specific interest. First, the quality of infrastructure “we will be able to deliver, second how affordable we will be able to make it and third, what services we will be able to ride on them,” Mr. Ranjan added.
19 July 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||IGBC Green League from July 21||CII’s Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) is organising the “5th edition of IGBC Green League “Reform, Perform & Transform”, from July 21. The five-day event will focus on green building concepts for architects, engineers etc. It will culminate in an IGL 2020 quiz competition on Sustainability and Green attributes. Winners will receive cash prizes of Rs. 50,000, Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 30,000, C Shekar Reddy, chairman, IGBC Hyderabad chapter, said.
19 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Beautified junction inaugurated||Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan inaugurated the beautified and developed junction of Mallapur in Kapra Circle here on Saturday. The developed junction includes giant circular waterfall with eight pillars designed as elephant head and trunk, and a ball fountain in the centre, all encircled by landscaping. The junction beautification cost Rs. 27 lakh, a statement by GHMC said.
19 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Dhamsalapuram RoB to be completed by October-end||The deadline for completion of the much-awaited Road Over Bridge (RoB) under construction at Dhamsalapuram on Khammam-Bonakal main road here has been extended by little over two months. The RoB was originally expected to be completed by mid-August, sources said. However, the coronavirus pandemic induced labour shortage has caused considerable delay in execution of the works on the RoB in the last two-and-a-half months. Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar and Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao have written letters to the railway authorities recently requesting early completion of the RoB by August 15. Responding to their requests, the authorities reportedly apprised them of the minor disruptions caused in execution of the RoB works due to shortage of labour, particularly during the first and second phases of coronavirus lockdown. The authorities reportedly conveyed to them that the final phase construction of the RoB will be carried out expeditiously to complete the bridge by October end this year, sources added. The foundation stone for the RoB was laid in June 2017 at an estimated cost of Rs. 77 crore. It was sanctioned following long pending demand from the denizens of the town for easing the daily ordeal of traffic chaos at the Dhamsalapuram level crossing on the Kazipet-Vijayawada section, the busiest corridor in terms of high traffic density in the South Central Railway Zone.
19 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||BRF||A middle-aged woman died after accidentally falling from a moving train at Motamarri village in Madhira mandal on Saturday morning. The woman travelling in the Golconda express train reportedly slipped while apparently standing at the entrance of the compartment door and suddenly fell off the running train heading towards Khammam. The train came to a sudden halt after some passengers pulled the emergency chain. The body was found close to the adjacent railway track. Alerted by the railway staff onboard the train, the Government Railway Police recovered the body.
19 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||BRF||In wake of rising COVID-19 cases, several traders’ associations in Miryalaguda town have called for a voluntary lockdown till July 31. According to the merchants’ association, starting Monday, only stores selling vegetables, other essentials and agricultural inputs, would be allowed to operate till 12 noon. Stores found open beyond noon would be penalised. Miryalaguda municipality chairman T. Bhargav said this was done as a preventive measure to break the infection chain. In case of essentials or emergency, he advised only one member from a family to venture out following safety precautions.
19 July 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Notices to ryots to attend land award inquiry on same day||Jarupula Mangya is a resident of Gouravelli in Akkannapet mandal. He has 0.27 acres of land in survey number 452 of the village. He was served an award inquiry notice by the land acquisition and revenue divisional officer (RDO) of Husnabad on July 16, stating that his land was required for Gouravelli reservoir. It was mentioned in the notice that the primary notification was issued on May 27, 2017, in Eenadu newspaper, followed by a declaration on May 24, 2018, in Vaartha and Namaste Telangana newspapers for acquiring 167.3 acres. It was stated that as much as 323.39 acres were required from both Gouravelli and Janagama villages of Akkannapet mandal. It was mentioned in the notice that objections could be submitted within 30 days and those interested and right-holders can present themselves before the RDO by 10 a.m. on July 16, 2020. While Mangya is the landowner, Uske Tirupathi Reddy has been cultivating the land presently. The notice was served to one Srinivas Reddy, a close relative of Tiruapathi Reddy, at 12.35 p.m. on July 16, the day the inquiry was scheduled. Same was the case with Maddela Chandraiah, owner of 10 guntas who received notices on July 15 to attend an award inquiry on the same day. Even on July 17, notices were issued to some farmers. Agitated over this, some farmers presented a memorandum to the RDO questioning the rational behind issuing notices to attend an award inquiry on the same day. “As per the notices issued to us, three years were over after issuing the primary notification. Declaration was issued on May 2, 2018. The land acquisition process has to be completed by May 2, 2019, as per 3D of the 2013 Act. Extension of declaration was not mentioned in any of the notices issued to us. We feel that the declaration was null and void and the entire process has to restart again. Extend the copies of the redesign. Then only take steps to acquire land,” said farmers in the memorandum to the RDO on Friday.
19 July 2020||Mumbai,||HC issues notice to minister over hiding criminal cases||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday issued a notice to Minister for Relief and Rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar on a plea that he had not disclosed the criminal cases pending against him while twice applying for a passport in Nagpur. A Division Bench of Justices A.S. Chandurkar and Amit Borkar was hearing a criminal petition filed by former MLC Mitesh Bangadiya. Mr. Wadettiwar is a senior Congress leader who represents the Bramhapuri Assembly constituency in Chandrapur district. The court has also issued notices to the State Home Department, Nagpur Commissioner of Police and passport offices in Nagpur and Mumbai. ‘Direct police to file FIR’ The petition sought the court to direct the Nagpur police to register an FIR against Mr. Wadettiwar and confiscate his passport.  The petition said Mr. Waddettiwar did not disclose he had over 10 criminal cases pending against him when he applied for a passport in May 2001 in Nagpur. ‘Misled authorities’ The petitioner also said that Mr. Wadettiwar “knowingly suppressed necessary information with a view to mislead the authorities in order to procure a passport in his favour and gave false information that there were no criminal cases pending against him”. The petition added, “It is apparent from the above act that the respondent was aware that if the passport office gains knowledge about the criminal cases pending against him, passport may not be issued to him.” The petitioner said Mr. Wadettiwar applied for a passport for the second time in January 2007, but again did not disclose the criminal cases pending against him and misled the authorities. The petitioner has requested the court to direct the Nagpur Commissioner of Police, and the passport offices in Mumbai and Nagpur to register an FIR against Mr. Waddettiwar under Sections 120b (criminal conspiracy), 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust), 41 (when police may arrest without warrant), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 426 (punishment for mischief), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. The court has adjourned the matter for four weeks.
19 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Retailers association urges State to take steps to reopen malls||The Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) has urged the Maharashtra government to take concrete steps for urgent reopening of malls in the State. In a letter to State Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, SCAI said five million people involved in modern retail would suffer if the State delays the reopening of malls any further. Maharashtra has over 75 malls with 50% in Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan, Navi Mumbai and Dombivli. Pune has over 20%, while the rest are in Amravati, Aurangabad, Kolhapur, Nasik and Nagpur. The lockdown has also put work on over 30 malls, which are under construction, on hold. Retailers and owners of Shopping Centres said it was becoming difficult for them to meet day to day expenses, including employee salaries, due to zero revenue since closure of the establishments in March. Cash reserves drying Cash reserves are also drying up, and the first big impact could be seen in August 2020. SCAI in its letter said stocks worth crores of rupees are getting damaged and their value would be lost if not sold immediately. “The industry has already seen losses exceeding Rs. 1 lakh crore. Maharashtra is a critical market for shopping centres and a delay in opening malls will prove to be a death knell”, said Amitabh Taneja, chairman, SCAI. Citing examples of States where malls have been allowed to open, SCAI said it has developed and rolled out stringent standard operating procedures (SOPs) in over 500 shopping malls across the country, and have successfully implemented physical distancing and other necessary measures. While malls have opened in most States since June 8, Maharashtra is yet to take a decision on easing the lockdown. Currently malls are operational in major Metros and Tier-1 cities including some with a large number of COVID-19 cases.  State support reassuring Manoj K. Agarwal, CEO, Viviana Mall, said, “It is reassuring to see the confidence posed by State government’s across the country in our SOPs and our ability to strictly adhere to social distancing guidelines and provide a safe shopping experience.” He added, “We have urged the Maharashtra government to give us the opportunity to at least start operating in a controlled manner and help the industry’s survival.” Malls that have opened have been capping the number of visitors along the lines of SCAI and Health Ministry’s guidelines. SCAI in its letter to Mr. Thackeray also recommended guidelines that should be implemented once malls reopen.
19 July 2020||MUMBAI,||A.P. Moller-Maersk leases 2 lakh sq.ft. office space at Godrej Two||Godrej Fund Management (GFM), the real estate private equity arm of Godrej Group, has leased 2 lakh sq.ft. office space to A.P. Moller-Maersk’s business units at Godrej Two, a commercial office building in Vikhroli. Godrej Two is jointly owned by GFM and Godrej Properties Ltd. A.P. Moller-Maersk, the Denmark-headquartered integrated container logistics company, is bringing its seven business units from four different locations in Mumbai to under one roof at Godrej Two. This is the largest co-location project the firm has undertaken in India, the company said. Maersk will initially occupy 1.4 lakh sq.ft. with an option to take additional space, post which the total space occupied would be 2 lakh sq.ft. An estimated 1,100 employees will work at the new office once it is ready towards the end of 2020. Karan Bolaria, managing director and CEO, GFM, said, “A.P. Moller-Maersk are our first partners in Godrej Two and we look forward to further strengthening this partnership across our office portfolio.” Steve Felder, managing director, Maersk South Asia said, “Maersk has a long-term commitment to India and over the period has established several business units across Mumbai. We are bringing most of these business units under one roof which will allow us to collaborate better and continue building constructively on our commitment towards India.” JLL was the transaction advisor of the deal and has been appointed project manager to complete fit-outs.
19 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Apologise for crimes against women: BJP||Former Bharatiya Janata Party MP Kirit Somaiya on Saturday asked Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh when he would apologise to women for the crimes against them. On a visit to the Indiabulls Covid Care Centre at Kon village in Panvel — where a 25-year-old COVID-19 patient is alleged to have raped a 40-year-old woman in quarantine on Thursday — Mr. Somaiya said, “This is shameful. Previously we heard of body missing from hospital, then COVID patients going missing, and now this. I really want to know when does Mr. Deshmukh intend to apologise.” Mr. Somaiya was accompanied by other party leaders including Chitratai Wagh, Prashant Thakur, MLA, and Panvel Mayor Kavita Choutmol. The Indiabulls facility is being used by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) as a quarantine centre for suspected coronavirus cases as also for isolating COVID-19 patients. The rape accused and the victim had been admitted by PMC. As per the complainant, the accused had posed as a doctor and approached the lady to offer her a massage for her body ache. The swab test of the victim, who was quarantined on July 14, was reported negative on Saturday while the accused, quarantined on July 15, has tested positive. A guard has now been posted there. “We will arrest the accused after seeking advice regarding his treatment,” said senior police inspector Ashok Rajput from Panvel Taluka police station. Ms. Wagh demanded, “Not just the accused, but each officer whose negligence led to this crime should be penalised and strict action taken against them. How did that man end up in the women’s section?” Condemning the incident, Ms. Choutmol said, “All patients are kept in separate rooms for their safety and we never thought something like this could happen. Security will be increased and men and women will be put up in different buildings.” Speaking about the political developments in Rajasthan, Mr. Somaiya said that the BJP was being unnecessarily dragged into the issue. “It’s an internal issue of Congress, where they are alleging corruption against each other,” he said.
19 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||In a first, Maharashtra to use drones to inspect power lines||Maharashtra has become the first State in the country to get the go-ahead to use drones for aerial surveillance and inspection of extra high voltage power transmission lines and towers. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Director General of Civil Aviation have permitted the Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Ltd (MSETCL) to deploy drones to inspect faulty lines, reducing the risk posed to its staff. “Workers who otherwise use ladders and chairs to inspect transformers can now use drones. The risk was higher in the hilly areas of the State. With the onset of monsoon, drones will be a boon for workers,” Milind Awatade, public relations officer, MSETCL, said. The MSETCL said each of its zones will be given a drone, which will be equipped with ultra HD cameras to capture high-resolution close-up photographs and videos of EHV lines and towers. “This will allow better assessment of faults. Besides the zonal office, the head office in Mumbai will be monitoring the drones. So if a problem arises in Nagpur, the chairman and managing director in Mumbai can also guide the workers,” Mr. Awatade said ‘More efficient’ An MSETCL official said the drones will also help them slash maintenance costs and reduce losses from outages. “Drones have the potential to revolutionise the way we inspect our power lines and transmission towers. It will also allow aerial surveillance, which is more efficient than manually surveying power lines. Drones will also help detect defects at the incipient stage,” the MSETCL official said. In a meeting on Thursday, State Energy Minister Nitin Raut asked the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) to chalk out plans for the electrification of remote and inaccessible tribal areas in Melghat and Gadchiroli. Mr. Raut also instructed MSEDCL officials to identify areas in the State which do not have electricity owing to geographical hurdles. “There are some villages in forest areas that do not have power because the forest department has not given us permission to lay transmission lines. Mr. Raut has directed the principal energy secretary to hold meetings with the forest department to get clearances,” Anil Kamble, chief public relations officer, MSEDCL, said.
19 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Two held for Navi Mumbai bank robbery||The Koparkhairane police on Saturday arrested two men in the case of a robbery occurred at Saraswat Bank at Sector 19, Koparkhairane, 30 hours after the robbery on July 16. Swapnil Sapkal (18) and Bhushan Choudhary (26), both from Chembur, were unemployed, investigations so far have revealed. Mr. Choudhary planned the robbery after his plans to start a shoe shop were foiled by the lockdown, and asked Mr. Sapkal to join him. The accused recced the area for two months and finally conducted the robbery with pistol look-alike lighter and a knife. “Five minutes before they robbed the bank, a cash van had just collected Rs. 80 lakh form the bank and left while they were sitting there as customers,” assistant police inspector Wasim Shaikh said.
19 July 2020||Press Trust of India Pune,||Rapid antigen tests may be behind surge in Pune||The surge in COVID-19 cases in Pune district over the last few weeks can be attributed to the use of rapid antigen detection tests, district officials said on Saturday. Simultaneously, the case recovery rate has gone up to 65% while the mortality rate has fallen to 2.65%, according to a report released by the district health officer this week. As per reports, Pune has emerged as a new urban COVID-19 hotspot like Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Hospitals located under Pune Municipal Corporation and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, villages and the Pune Cantonment Board have sent 1,88,066 samples for testing so far. Civic officials said the surge in number of patients can be attributed to rapid antigen tests being conducted by various laboratories. The Pune civic body had decided to conduct the rapid antigen detection tests for diagnosis of COVID-19 earlier this month, with an objective to reduce burden on labs. It is a test on swabbed nasal samples that detects antigens (foreign substances that induce an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Informing about various measures to check transmission of the infection, the report stated that a 10-day lockdown has been imposed in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad township. The district administration has also enhanced healthcare infrastructure and human resources. The number of labs has been increased from 2 to 25, officials said. According to Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad, public and private funds have been used for enhancing health infrastructure. “We are also hiring medical staff as per requirement at the taluka level. We have around 91 ambulances (in the district) and have asked gram panchayats to purchase their own ambulances. We have private hospitals on our panel which will provide free medical treatment to patients either via various schemes or through the State Disaster Relief Fund (SDRF),” he said. District Collector and Disaster Management Authority chairman Naval Kishore Ram said testing and contact tracing has been increased and healthcare infrastructure strengthened. “We have also sent our teams to private hospitals to check for any asymptomatic patient occupying a bed. We are counselling such patients to vacate beds for the needy patients,” he said. Saurabh Rao, former Pune civic chief and Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at the office of the Pune divisional commissioner, said five deputy collector-rank officials have been posted at private hospitals which have been directed to post details on availability of beds on an online dashboard, he said.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A helping hand||
19 July 2020||Tehran,||35 mn Iranians face infection: Rouhani||President Hassan Rouhani said on Saturday that 35 million Iranians may contract COVID-19, as the country still did not have herd immunity although a quarter of the population may have already been infected. It appears to be the first time a senior Iranian official has indicated the country is seeking to defeat COVID-19 via herd immunity. The SARS-CoV-2 virus has killed more than 5,88,000 people and infected nearly 14 million around the world since first being detected in China late last year. Iran has been battling a resurgence of COVID-19, with figures showing a rise in both new infections and deaths since a two-month low in May. On Saturday, the Health Ministry reported another 188 deaths and 2,166 cases of infection in the past 24 hours. That took the overall toll to 13,979 dead out of 2,71,606 cases since Iran reported its first cases in mid-February. The rising toll has prompted authorities to reimpose restrictions in worst-hit provinces after being lifted country-wide in April, with Tehran extending them for an extra week on Friday. “Our estimate is that up to now, 25 million Iranians have been infected with this virus,” Mr. Rouhani said during a televised meeting of the country’s virus-fighting task force. Herd immunity “We have to consider the possibility that 30 to 35 million more may face infection,” he added, citing the results of a study by the Health Ministry. “We have not yet achieved herd immunity and we have no choice but to be united and break the chain of transmission of the coronavirus.” Mr. Rouhani’s deputy head of communications, Alireza Moezi, said on Twitter hours later that the 25 million in fact refers to “those who have encountered the virus and achieved complete immunity”. Mr. Rouhani also said that Iran may have to prepare itself for double the amount of hospitalisations it has had in the past five months, according to the study. The study shows that “out of every 1,000 infected, 500 show no symptoms” Mr. Rouhani added, warning that they present the main challenge by “spreading more virus and over a longer period” than those identified. The Health Ministry does not report the overall amount of hospitalisations over COVID-19. The Islamic republic has been struggling to contain West Asia’s worst COVID-19 outbreak since announcing its first cases in mid-February. Iran has refrained from imposing full lockdowns but closed schools, cancelled public gatherings and banned travel between provinces in March, before lifting the restrictions the next month to reopen its sanctions-hit economy.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The race to dominate future tech||On July 15, the U.S. said it would impose visa restrictions on the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei, its latest move against a company that has occupied centre stage in the ongoing U.S.-China trade war. The Donald Trump administration has been pushing countries around the world to ban Huawei’s products, particularly in 5G networks. Under U.S. pressure, the U.K., which in January first indicated it would allow a limited role for Huawei in constructing “non-core” elements of its 5G network, on July 14, reversed its stand, announcing a ban. If the moves aimed at Huawei are certainly part of a broader U.S.-China competition to dominate technologies of the future — a battle in which many Chinese companies have made huge strides to close the gap with their American competitors — concerns have also been driven by questions surrounding Huawei’s ties to the Chinese government. The rise of the company has paralleled China’s economic resurgence. Huawei was founded in 1987 with a start-up capital of 21,000 RMB (then around Rs. 73,000) in Shenzhen. Fast forward three decades, and China is the world’s largest trading nation and second-largest economy, while Huawei is the world’s biggest supplier of telecom equipment and, according to the company, the second-biggest manufacturer of smartphones. Ownership question Huawei’s founder, Ren Zhengfei joined the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) Engineering Corps in 1974. While much has been made of Mr. Ren’s PLA background, the Engineering Corps, at the time, was not an uncommon choice for aspiring engineers. He was promoted to a rank that is the equivalent of a Deputy Regimental Chief, but without a military rank. He left the Army in 1983 when China disbanded much of the PLA Engineering Corps, and started Huawei four years later. Huawei describes itself as “an independent, privately-held company” and says it is “not owned or controlled by, nor affiliated with the government”. The company says it is owned by its employees, who are given shares. That claim has been questioned. While Mr. Ren owns 1% of Huawei Investment and Holding, the company that owns Huawei Technologies, the remaining 99% is owned by Huawei Investment & Holding Trade Union. In a 2019 paper, Donald C. Clarke of George Washington University Law School and Christopher Balding of Fulbright University Vietnam argued that what Huawei called “employee shares” were “at most contractual interests in a profit-sharing scheme”. The ownership of the Trade Union, they said, remained unclear. “If Huawei Holding is 99%-owned by a genuine Chinese-style trade union operating the way trade unions in China are supposed to operate, it is in a non-trivial sense state-owned,” they wrote. “Regardless of who, in a practical sense, owns and controls Huawei, it is clear that the employees do not”. Beyond the question of ownership, even “private” companies in China have close ties with the state — all the more so when they are involved in sensitive sectors of the economy. Moreover, the Chinese government has, on occasion, acted on the behalf of Huawei, treating it as it would a prized asset. India is weighing a decision to exclude Huawei from its 5G network. Following recent moves to ban 59 Chinese apps and curtail imports of Chinese power equipment for security reasons, analysts have suggested Delhi is considering a ban. That could cost Huawei billions of dollars in revenue, with India a major overseas market for Huawei’s telecom equipment, which currently powers India’s 3G and 4G networks. In 2018-19, the company reported revenues of Rs. 12,884 crore from India, up from Rs. 8,282 crore in the previous financial year.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The rebel in turbulence||A member of the Lok Sabha at 27, a Union Minister at 32, Congress State chief at 37 and a Deputy Chief Minister of a big State like Rajasthan at 41 — Sachin Pilot’s rise in Indian politics has few parallels. Once feted as the future of the Congress party, Mr. Pilot finds himself in a corner — partly painted in by himself, partly pushed into it by his ruthless rival and Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, the magician-turned party patriarch, who is never short of a few tricks up his sleeve. At 43, Mr. Pilot is at a crossroads, with precarious options — surrender to Mr. Gehlot or lend his clout to the BJP’s machinations. A more honourable path of making a regional outfit is arduous even for the battle-hardened. Mr. Pilot was born into comfort. Mr. Pilot inherited a ballast of social capital from his late father, Rajesh Pilot who made it all by himself. Rajesh Pilot was born Rajeshwar Bidhuri Prasad Singh in a village in Ghaziabad in the outskirts of Delhi. The Gujjars, his community, traditionally are cattle herders. He moved with an uncle to Delhi, lived in the outhouse of a Lutyen’s bungalow and sold milk in the neighbourhood, according to the legend. Tenacious, ambitious and zestful, Rajesh Pilot had set his eyes high. He joined the Indian Air Force. A war veteran and a Squadron Leader by 1979, he met Indira Gandhi and sought an entry in politics. Shearing his old surname and adding ‘Pilot’, he entered politics as a Lok Sabha MP from Bharatpur in Rajasthan in 1980. He would soon endear himself to Rajiv Gandhi, and his political career soared. Children of privilege For the outside world, Sachin Pilot and Rahul Gandhi are children of privilege, but the bonding they would soon develop was equally of tragedy — of losing their fathers at a young age. Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in 1991 when Rahul was 21; Rajesh Pilot died in a road accident in 2000, when Sachin was 23. In 2004, both entered the Lok Sabha as first time MPs. They often sat together, and spoke — perhaps, about taking the party from the clutches of the old guard. In 2009, Mr. Pilot got a berth in the Union Ministry. The camaraderie between him and the Gandhi siblings was soon talked about in Delhi. He had also married by then. Sarah Abdullah, daughter of Farooq Abdullah and Mr. Pilot had met as children. His father had bequeathed his style, smile and ambition to Mr. Pilot as it would turn out. His education at Delhi’s St. Stephen’s College and Wharton Business School did not disconnect him from the sense of grassroots. He wanted to be an IAF pilot, but weak eyesight scuttled the plan. He had a brief stint at the BBC in Delhi and worked for General Motors in the U.S. for two years. Among all the rising stars of the UPA era, Mr. Pilot had a keen sense of caste dynamics in the Hindi heartland, could tie his Rajasthani turban with the same felicity as he would slip into a suit and tie. He continued with the tradition of his father’s annual signature lunch for journalists and assiduously cultivated global and Indian opinion makers. An observation about his father fits well for him too — ‘he made ambition honourable’. Appointed Rajasthan Congress chief in 2014, Mr. Pilot led from the front and the Congress won the assembly poll in 2018, along with Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. In the other two States, the party chiefs, Kamal Nath and Bupesh Singh Baghel, became Chief Ministers, but Rajasthan took a different turn. Most MLAs supported Mr. Gehlot. Mr. Gandhi had grand plans for a transition in the party, from the old guard to the younger generation, but the second consecutive Lok Sabha defeat in 2019 derailed him. He threw in the towel and all his comrades were left to fend for themselves. It was at this point that Mr. Pilot was required to rework his plans and ambitions. The failure to do that may be proving costly for Mr. Pilot.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||John Lewis, towering figure of Civil Rights era, dies at 80||Rep. John Lewis, a son of sharecroppers and an apostle of non-violence who was bloodied at Selma and across the Jim Crow South in the historic struggle for racial equality and who then carried a mantle of moral authority into Congress, died on Friday. He was 80. His death was confirmed in a statement by Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Mr. Lewis, of Georgia, announced on December 29 that he had Stage 4 pancreatic cancer and vowed to fight it with the same passion with which he had battled racial injustice. “I have been in some kind of fight — for freedom, equality, basic human rights — for nearly my entire life,” he said. On the front lines of the bloody campaign to end Jim Crow laws, with blows to his body and a fractured skull to prove it, Mr. Lewis was a valiant stalwart of the civil rights movement and the last surviving speaker at the historic March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom in 1963. More than a half-century later, after the killing in May of George Floyd, a Black man in police custody in Minneapolis, Mr. Lewis welcomed the resulting global demonstrations against police killings of Black people and, more broadly, against systemic racism in many corners of society. He saw those protests as a continuation of his life’s work, although his illness had left him to watch from the sidelines. “It was very moving, very moving to see hundreds of thousands of people from all over America and around the world take to the streets — to speak up, to speak out, to get into what I call ‘good trouble’,” Mr. Lewis told “CBS This Morning” in June. No turning back “This feels and looks so different,” he said of the Black Lives Matter movement, which drove the anti-racism demonstrations. “It is so much more massive and all inclusive.” He added: “There will be no turning back.” Mr. Lewis’s personal history paralleled that of the civil rights movement. He was among the original 13 Freedom Riders, the Black and white activists who challenged segregated inter-State travel in the South in 1961. He was a founder and early leader of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, which coordinated lunch-counter sit-ins. He helped organise the March on Washington, where King was the main speaker, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. Mr. Lewis led demonstrations against racially segregated restrooms, hotels, restaurants, public parks and swimming pools, and he rose up against other indignities of second-class citizenship. At nearly every turn, he was beaten, spat upon or burned with cigarettes. He was tormented by white mobs and absorbed body blows from law enforcement. On March 7, 1965, he led one of the most famous marches in American history. In the vanguard of 600 people demanding the voting rights they had been denied, Mr. Lewis marched partway across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, into a waiting phalanx of state troopers in riot gear. Ordered to disperse, the protesters silently stood their ground. The troopers responded with tear gas and bullwhips and rubber tubing wrapped in barbed wire. In the melee, known as Bloody Sunday, a trooper cracked Mr. Lewis’s skull with a billy club, knocking him to the ground, then hit him again when he tried to get up. Once registered, millions of African Americans began transforming politics across the South. They gave Jimmy Carter, a son of Georgia, his margin of victory in the 1976 presidential election. And their voting power opened the door for Black people, including Mr. Lewis, to run for public office. Elected in 1986, he became the second African American in Congress from Georgia since Reconstruction. While Mr. Lewis represented Atlanta, his natural constituency was disadvantaged people everywhere. Known less for sponsoring major legislation than for his relentless pursuit of justice, his colleagues called him “the conscience of the Congress”.NY Times
19 July 2020||Shanghai,||After new cases emerge, China rolls out mass testing in Xinjiang||Urumqi, the capital of China’s far western region of Xinjiang, has gone into “wartime mode” and launched an emergency response plan after the city reported 16 new COVID-19 cases on Friday. State broadcaster CCTV cited unnamed officials as telling a press conference on Saturday that the city had suspended gatherings and ordered communities to restrict visits to other households. It urged people not to make unnecessary trips outside the city and ordered infection tests for anyone who needed to leave Urumqi, aiming to prevent the spread of the virus. ‘Wartime’ response It has also carried out city-wide free infection tests, officials told the press conference as part of what the officials termed a ”wartime” response. On its official Weibo account on Saturday, the regional government said all recent new infections and asymptomatic cases reported in the autonomous region were in Urumqi. Rui Baoling, director of the disease control and prevention centre in Urumqi, told the news conference that recent cases in the city were associated with a cluster of activities, with all confirmed cases and asymptomatic infections reported in Tianshan District, CCTV said. She didn’t say what activities were involved. Xinjiang has so far mostly avoided the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic which erupted in the central Chinese city of Wuhan late last year. As of July 17, the region reported a total of 17 cases, plus 11 asymptomatic cases. Another 269 people were under medical observation, according to the regional health commission. It reported another 12 asymptomatic cases as of noon on Saturday. The city launched an emergency response plan on Friday to analyse confirmed cases and asymptomatic infections, state broadcaster CCTV reported, adding the government would carry out epidemiological investigations to trace the source of the infection in order to make sure no one was missed.
19 July 2020||Washington,||Hackers manipulated employees to access accounts: Twitter||Twitter says hackers “manipulated” some of its employees to access accounts in a high-profile attack on the social media company, including those of Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden and tech entrepreneur Elon Musk. Posts trying to dupe people into sending the hackers Bitcoin were tweeted by the official accounts of Apple, Uber, Bill Gates and many others on Wednesday, forcing Twitter to lock large numbers of accounts in damage control. Virtual currency More than $1,00,000 worth of the virtual currency was sent to email addresses mentioned in the tweets, according to Blockchain.com, which monitors crypto transactions. “We know that they accessed tools only available to our internal support teams to target 130 Twitter accounts,” said a statement posted on Saturday on Twitter’s blog. For 45 of those accounts, the hackers were able to reset passwords, login and send tweets, it added, while the personal data of up to eight unverified users was downloaded. Twitter locked down affected accounts and removed the fraudulent tweets. It also shut off accounts not affected by the hack as a precaution. Most of those have now been restored, Twitter said on Saturday. The attack was carried out by a group of young friends with no links to state or organised crime, The New York Times reported on Friday. The paper said it interviewed four people who participated in the hacking, who shared logs and screenshots backing up their accounts of what happened. The young hackers said a mysterious user who went by the name “Kirk” initiated the scheme with a message and was the one with access to Twitter accounts. They added they were only involved in taking control of lesser-known but desirable Twitter accounts, such as an “@” sign and single letters or numbers that could easily be sold, according to the report. The hackers maintained they stopped serving as middlemen for “Kirk” when high-profile users became targets.
19 July 2020||Tehran,||Ukraine plane’s black boxes sent to France||Iran has sent to France the black boxes of a Ukrainian passenger plane its forces mistakenly shot down in January, a Foreign Ministry official said in a media report on Saturday. “The black boxes were transferred to Paris yesterday by aviation organisation officials and a judge, and their reading will start on Monday,” Mohsen Baharvand, Deputy Foreign Minister for international and legal affairs, was quoted as saying by the Etemad newspaper. Flight 752, an Ukraine International Airlines jetliner, was struck by two missiles and crashed shortly after taking off from Tehran’s main airport on January 8. ‘Human error’ The Islamic republic admitted days later that its forces accidentally shot down the Kiev-bound jetliner, killing all 176 people on board. Iran has said that the misalignment of an air defence unit’s radar system was the key “human error” that led to the plane's downing. Canada, whose nationals made up most of the victims on board the jetliner, had demanded for months along with Ukraine that Iran send the black boxes abroad so their contents can be analysed.
19 July 2020||Sydney,||Sydney, July 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Australia’s Parliament will be suspended for two weeks over fears that politicians could bring COVID-19 from outbreak hotspots to the country’s capital, Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced on Saturday. The announcement means that Parliament will not reconvene until at least August 24, having resumed on June 8.AFP
19 July 2020||Beijing,||Floods kill 14 in China as water peaks at Three Gorges Dam||At least 14 people have died in the latest round of seasonal rains and flooding in southern China. Three floodgates of the Three Gorges Dam that spans the Yangtze were opened as the water level behind the massive dam rose more than 50 feet above flood level, Xinhua reported.AP
19 July 2020||MUMBAI,||HDFC Bank Q1 net profit rises 19.6%, provisions climb 49%||HDFC Bank on Saturday reported first-quarter net profit rose 19.6% to Rs. 6,658.6 crore, from Rs. 5,568.16 crore a year earlier, helped by double-digit growth in net interest income and reduced operating costs. The private sector lender, however, registered a 48.9% increase in provisioning for possible defaults. Provisions and contingencies rose to Rs. 3,891.5 crore in the three months ended June, from Rs. 2,613.7 crore in the corresponding period in 2019. Total provisions for the quarter included contingent provisions of about Rs. 1,000 crore and the bank cautioned that there was a risk that defaults could rise as a result of the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The continued slowdown may lead to a rise in the number of customer defaults and consequently an increase in provisions thereagainst,” the bank said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges. “The continued slowdown in economic activity has led to a decrease in loan originations, the sale of third party products, the use of credit and debit cards by customers, the efficiency in collection efforts and waiver of certain fees,” the lender stated, adding that fees/other income were lower by about Rs. 2,000 crore as a result. Net revenue (net interest income plus other income) grew to Rs. 19,740.7 crore in the April-June quarter, from Rs. 18,264.5 crore. Net interest income (interest earned less interest expended) grew by 17.8% to Rs. 15,665.4 crore, driven by growth in advances of 20.9%, and a growth in deposits of 24.6%. The net interest margin was 4.3%. ‘Management transition’ “Such resilient performance is highly comforting,” said Rajiv Mehta, lead analyst at Yes Securities. “However, we would be closely monitoring moratorium data, management’s recent assessment of the COVID impact and management transition,” Mr. Mehta added. The total balance sheet size was Rs. 15,45,103 crore, an increase of 22.1%. Deposits rose to Rs. 11,89,387 crore. “The bank’s continued focus on deposits helped in the maintenance of a healthy liquidity coverage ratio at 140%, well above the regulatory requirement. Total advances as of June 30, 2020, were Rs. 10,03,299 crore, up 20.9%.” the lender said.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Agriculture sector needs reforms for sustainability’||India should urgently look at comprehensive reforms to make agriculture a sustainable and scalable industry, says Barnik Chitran Maitra , managing partner, India, South Asia, at global consulting firm Arthur D. Little. In an interview, Mr. Maitra discussed many issues around sustainability, falling farmer incomes, better price realisation, value addition, cold chain infrastructure and management. Edited excerpts:  Where does India’s agriculture sector stand now? The country has made big strides in agriculture. Post-liberalisation, the yield has increased, and is the third-largest producer by value. However, the sector realises only 50 to 60% of its potential. Price realisation is affected by the APMC Act and middlemen. Except for a few crops (rice, wheat) and a few States (Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh), the selling price for the farmer is 15-50% below the minimum support price (MSP). The country’s food processing value addition is less than 10% of the produce while for most developed economies this is 100 to 300%. How can farming be made a sustainable occupation? The agriculture sector employs over 52% of the workforce, contributing to only 14% of the GDP. Incomes have been stagnant over the last decade with the average worker earning less than 60-70% of the income of their counterparts in the city. With labour moving to rural India and depressed consumer demand, incomes could drop by about 10-20%. Agriculture and food processing GDP contribution has to rise to close to 20% while surplus labour needs to be deployed in manufacturing and food processing. The sector needs to grow at 5% per annum, which is double the historical growth rate. How do we ensure adequate remuneration for farmers? Increasing remuneration via MSP has drawbacks. It couldn’t be enforced beyond three States and it triggered food inflation and macroeconomic instability. There are other ways: increased price realisation for the farmers, so [that] they get most of the consumer surplus, and use of technology and supply aggregation platforms for storage, logistics and better price discovery. There is potential to create a segment of processed and branded food, to increase farmers’ income.  Anysuggestions to reform the farm sector? The country should follow a five-point agenda for reform: focus on sustainable yield improvements through scientific farming practices; improve agriculture marketing to increase farmers’ price realisation through policy changes; set up an Integrated Agriculture Export Mission to scale up food processing and exports to increase value addition from 10% to 50%; promote direct marketing through farmer producer organisations; and, seriously work on reforms in the agriculture sector.  Agriculture employs over 52% of the workforce, contributing to only 14% of the Gross Domestic Product
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Levy on digital services is ambiguous, say tax experts||The Finance Ministry’s move to impose an equalisation levy of 2% on e-commerce supplies and services from April 1 has led to a lot of ambiguity and needs clarity, according to tax experts. The first instalment of payment became due on July 7. Earlier, the government had imposed a 6% equalisation levy on online advertisement services by non-resident entities. Later, the scope was expanded to online sale of goods and provision of services from April 1. “The language is quite ambiguous. The concerns are genuine,” said K. Vaitheeswaran, a Chennai-based advocate and tax consultant. “While the intention appears to be taxing e-commerce, it cannot end up taxing transactions where the medium is only the Internet.” he said. “There should be a distinction between digital goods/digital services on one hand and goods and services supplied using the digital medium as a mode of delivery or for transacting,” he said. Mr. Vaitheeswaran, who had authored the book ‘Taxation of Digital Economy,’ pointed out that, for instance, booking a film ticket online will not make movie screens e-commerce suppliers but downloading a film would become an e-commerce supply. “Digital offerings of non-residents such as online books/online games/online gaming services (under specified circumstances) seem to come under the purview of the expanded equalisation levy. This is also in line with digital tax enactments by some other economies,” said Vishal Malhotra, tax leader for technology, media and entertainment and telecom, EY India. However, he pointed out the way the provisions were worded, one could also interpret the same to bring sale of physical goods as also services enjoyed offline within the purview of the equalisation levy. Mr. Malhotra said many businesses negotiated supply and service agreements online and use electronic means for confirming contracts but the delivery of goods and/or services was largely offline. An example of this could be orders placed online for commodities such as oil on a portal. The intent cannot aim to bring billions of dollars of cross-border commodity purchase transactions within the ambit of the equalisation levy merely on account of placement of the order online, he said. He urged the government to provide clarity to help avoid litigation.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,||Growers wary of Rubber Act’s repeal; board says no proposal||The rubber sector, which has about 1.3 million rubber farmers contributing to a Rs. 1-lakh crore industry, is in turmoil amid concerns that the Centre plans to repeal the Rubber Act of 1947. The very existence of the Rubber Board, the system of licensing, extension, replanting, research, subsidies, control over export-import and a host of other support systems depend on the Act. Withdrawal of the Act would empower the Centre to disband the board and end the present system of rubber farming, growers’ representatives fear. Jose K. Mani, MP, asserted that any ‘move to repeal the Rubber Act’ is a ‘declaration of war against the people’. But sources in the sector suspect that reports of the likely repeal of the Act, which first surfaced in 2016, was the result of a ‘clerical error.’ The Union government had drawn up a list of obsolete Acts to be repealed. The Rubber and Tea Acts got into the list and since then there have been apprehensions about the future of these Acts. Rubber Board chairman K.N. Raghavan said on Saturday that the board had sent a proposal for amendments to the Rubber Act to make it reflect the current scenario. He had not received any proposal for the repeal of the Act, he said. ‘Strategic product’ Mr. Mani, representing Pala, the heart of rubber country in Kerala, said rubber was a strategic product that needed government support, but that over the years the Centre had ignored the sector by cutting financial allocations. Shajimon Jose, rubber farmer and secretary, Chirakkadavu Rubber Producer Society in Kanjirappally said rubber farmers had fallen on hard times and reports of a possible withdrawal of the Act were disappointing. The Rubber Act came into being in 1947 to promote natural rubber, a strategic product, entrusting the task to the Rubber Board. The sector has since grown to comprise 8.22 lakh hectares of cultivation and 13.2 lakh small cultivating units.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Rajaratnam, IRS, could ‘smell the brief’||In the last few decades, if there was one man whose name was synonymous with the law of income-tax, it was that of Mr. S. Rajaratnam, IRS, who breathed his last on Saturday at the age of 93.  My lawyer-friend told me while breaking the news this morning that in the last twenty years or so he had not seen Mr. Rajaratnam miss a single study-meeting organised by the professionals. Such was his eagerness to learn, and share what he knew. He never dismissed an idea or a seed of an idea out of hand; he would think, nurture the idea, water and manure it and develop it into a full-grown theory, the same way in which he would pass orders during his long stints in the IRS and in the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. Mr. Rajaratnam’s stint in the Tribunal was a golden era, particularly for the junior members of the Bar. He could “smell the brief” as they say! You had only to stand up, and he would anticipate all your arguments and sum it up for you. He would have looked up all the facts and all the law himself. He never stood on the formalities of a judicial proceeding; his only aim was to do justice. Patience he had in abundance; not a frown creased his face, nor a harsh word was uttered. The profession will undoubtedly miss Mr. Rajaratnam’s sobering counsel. The values he stood for are eternal. His motto in life appeared to me to be only to share his stupendous knowledge with others so that it may benefit them.     (The writer is a retired judge of the Delhi High Court and previously, the President of ITAT)
19 July 2020||Chennai,||Sundaram Brake Linings focusing on exports||Sundaram Brake Linings Ltd. (SBL), which reported a marginal increase of 1.2% in its net export sales for FY20, is focussing on exports to stay afloat, it said. The short-term outlook for the Indian economy is rather grim and domestic sales are expected to decline substantially. This will have a knock-on effect on SBL’s production and sales, the company said in its annual report. SBL had grown its exports to almost 50% of its FY20 revenue from operations of Rs. 258-crore, sustaining operations at tolerable utilisation levels since May 2020. The U.S. market demonstrated a robust demand during FY20. But following restrictions on dispatch of orders in the last ten days of the financial year, there was only a marginal increase of 1.2% in net export sales. The suspension of operations and dispatch of goods from March 24 following the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 contributed disproportionately to the decreased turnover. It would, however, be inaccurate to blame the entire decline on the pandemic and the restrictions that flowed from it, the company said. Poor national economic indicators, reduction in demand for new haulage capacity and upcoming model changes caused a record fall in commercial vehicle sales. This can be seen from the significant decrease of 28.9% in original equipment sales.  Short-term outlook for Indian economy is rather grim and domestic sales are expected to decline substantially
19 July 2020||mumbai,||Domestic aviation gets single-window clearance cell||The Civil Aviation Ministry has set up a single-window clearance mechanism to expedite various investment proposals in the domestic aviation industry. “MoCA (the Ministry of Civil Aviation) has an Investment Clearance Cell (ICC) for prompt assistance and clearance,” the Ministry said in a tweet on Saturday. The setting up of the ICC was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the 2020-2021 Union Budget in February this year, as per MoCA. According to a Ministry order of July 16, the cell was also set up following an order from the Department of Promotion of Industry and Trade (DPIT) on July 1 in this regard. The 10-member ICC will be headed by Amber Dubey, Joint Secretary in the Aviation Ministry, according to the MoCA order. The ICC has been mandated to serve as a single-window system for attracting investment and its terms of reference include accelerating investments, bringing projects to the Empowered Group of Secretaries (EGoS) and which require special incentive, policy interventions, expeditious clearances and systematic references, among others, the MoCA order said.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||Vodafone Idea pays Rs. 1,000 cr. in AGR dues||Vodafone Idea on Saturday said it had paid an additional Rs. 1,000 crore to the government towards the statutory dues, taking its total payment to Rs. 7,854 crore. The company had earlier deposited Rs. 6,854 crore in three tranches, Vodafone Idea said in a regulatory filing. “In line with the above, the company has yesterday (July 17, 2020) paid a further sum of Rs. 1,000 crore to the DoT (Department of Telecom) towards the AGR dues. The company had earlier deposited Rs. 6,854 crore in three tranches,” according to the filing.   Vodafone Idea was facing a staggering Rs. 58,000 crore demand in overall statutory dues, after the Supreme Court last year ordered non-telecom revenues to be included in calculating statutory liabilities.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||New 26AS to show major transactions||The Income Tax Department on Saturday said the new Form 26AS would have additional details of taxpayers’ high-value financial transactions undertaken during a financial year and facilitate voluntary compliance and ease of e-filing of I-T returns. Form 26AS is an annual consolidated tax statement that can be accessed from the income-tax website by taxpayers using Permanent Account Number (PAN). The earlier Form 26AS used to give information regarding tax deducted and collected at source relating to a PAN, besides other information. But now, the new form will have Statement of Financial Transactions in various categories to help taxpayers recall all their major financial transactions so that they have a ready reckoner while filing the ITR, the Central Board of Direct Taxes said.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||Zydus gets U.S. FDA nod to sell tension headache drug||Drug firm Zydus Cadila on Saturday said it had received final approval from the U.S. health regulator to market generic Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine combination tablets to treat symptoms of tension headaches. The company has received final approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to market Butalbital, Acetaminophen and Caffeine tablets in strengths of 50mg/325mg/40 mg, Zydus Cadila said in a statement. The drug will be manufactured at Nesher Pharma’s manufacturing facility at St. Louis in the U.S., it added. This combination medication is used to treat symptom complex of tension (or muscle contraction) headaches, Zydus Cadila said. The group now has 294 approvals and has filed over 390 abbreviated new drug applications (ANDAs) since the commencement of the filing process, it added in the statement.
19 July 2020||BUDAPEST,||Hamilton takes pole||Lewis Hamilton broke the circuit lap record and drew level with Michael Schumacher for another feat on Saturday as he claimed a record-increasing 90th pole position of his career for the Hungarian Grand Prix. The six-time champion clocked a stunning time of one minute and 13.447 seconds on his second run in final qualifying to finish just ahead of teammate Valtteri Bottas as Mercedes reeled off its 65th front-row lockout. Another mark beckons It was Hamilton’s second successive pole of the season and his Schumacher-equalling seventh pole at the Hungaroring, where on Sunday he seeks his eighth victory, potentially drawing level with another Schumacher achievement for wins on the same track (Magny-Cours, France). “I have to pinch myself,” said Hamilton. “It doesn’t register. It’s quite humbling because I work with an incredible bunch of people who do an amazing job here and back home. “And Valtteri doesn’t make it easy for me. It takes perfection to do laps like that so this is one of the things I enjoy most.” Bottas said he expected it to be close. “We seem to be on another level, pretty far ahead of the others. My laps were ok, but I couldn’t go faster really.” Racing Point impresses Behind the two ‘black arrows’, the controversial ‘pink Mercedes’ of Racing Point were third and fourth with Lance Stroll and Sergio Perez ahead of a much-improved showing by four-time champion Sebastian Vettel and Charles Leclerc for Ferrari. Max Verstappen was a disappointing seventh for Red Bull, Lando Norris eighth ahead of his McLaren teammate Carlos Sainz and Pierre Gasly, in his 50th Grand Prix, 10th for Alpha Tauri.  The starting grid:   Row 1: Hamilton (Mercedes) and Bottas (Mercedes); 2: Stroll (Racing Point) and Perez (Racing Point); 3: Vettel (Ferrari) and Leclerc (Ferrari); 4: Verstappen (Red Bull) and Norris (McLaren); 5 : Sainz (McLaren) and Gasly (Alpha Tauri).   6: Ricciardo (Renault) and Russell (Williams); 7: Albon (Red Bull) and Ocon (Renault); 8: Latifi (Williams) and Magnussen (Haas); 9: Kvyat (Alpha Tauri) and Grosjean (Haas); 10: Giovinazzi (Alfa Romeo) and Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo) .
19 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Third day’s play washed out||Jofra Archer will be available for England’s third and final Test against the West Indies next week after being ruled out of the second match for a breach of coronavirus protocols, it was announced on Saturday. The England and Wales Cricket Board’s statement came as the host’s quest to level the three-match series at 1-1 was frustrated by rain washing out the whole of the third day’s play at Old Trafford. Written warning The 25-year-old Archer could yet feature in the finale after a disciplinary hearing chaired by England managing director Ashley Giles on Friday decided an “undisclosed” fine, believed to be in the region of £30,000, and a written warning amounted to sufficient punishment. He will undergo two COVID-19 tests, which have to produce negative results, before his self-isolation period is lifted. The ECB said Archer was due to rejoin the squad on Tuesday.
19 July 2020||KOCHI,||It’s all play for Pavithra now||When she won the Kerala State women’s badminton title at Ettumanoor two years ago, one felt that she was someone special. Pavithra Naveen was just 13 then and was playing her maiden State senior championship. Now, the young girl has taken some bold steps to boost her game. “I’ve quit regular school and joined open school now. I don’t have to attend classes...I’m fully into badminton now,” said Pavithra in a chat with The Hindu on Friday. “When I was in the eighth standard, I told my dad that I want to fully concentrate on badminton so he said that we would try for an open school. Also, I’m above average in studies, I got 83% in my 10th exams. “These two years are crucial for me. I’m in my first under-17 year and I want to be ready whenever tournaments resume. I want to be the senior National singles champion in about two years,” said the teen who finished her 10th from St. Pius School, Kochi. Skip State tournaments Pavithra, who played the under-15 Asians late last year, has decided to skip State tournaments and focus on the National circuit in a higher age group. “I will not be playing under-17 but the senior and under-19 category in the National and international circuits,” she said. Former State champion Antony K. Jacob, who has been coaching her the last eight years, feels that Pavithra would do well among bigger girls. “She is training well but she needs a lot of match experience, especially in the senior National level. That will help her build confidence,” said Antony, who has taken leave from his State Government job to focus on his talented bunch at the Bright Sports Centre . Attacking player “Pavithra is very strong in attack, an offensive player, she uses her strokes well. That’s why I believe she would do well at the National level, even pull off a few upsets. But she has to improve her defence. “Pavithra and Andrea Sarah Kurien, who is also very talented, were the India No. 1 in under-15 doubles last year but I want Pavithra to focus on singles. I want to make her a National champion.”
19 July 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Women’s wrestling is much more competitive now’||Alka Tomar, the first female wrestler from the country to win a World Championships medal, says a more conducive ecosystem has lifted women's wrestling standards in India. Alka, who bagged a bronze medal in 59kg in the 2006 World championships, said a host of factors have made women’s wrestling more competitive in the country in recent times. “The overall scenario is very different and much better now. Top wrestlers like Vinesh Phogat, Sakshi Malik, Sarita Mor and Pooja Dhanda have taken India closer to the world level. Pro Wrestling League (PWL) also helped. Good scientific support, sponsorship and publicity have attracted a lot of girls to the sport. “In our times, we used to hide injuries as we feared that we might not get a chance to appear in the trials. There was hardly any scientific support to make you fit in quick time,” Alka told The Hindu . Boon of technology Alka — a Commonwealth Games champion, an Asian Games bronze medallist and the winner of several medals — said technology was a boon for today’s wrestlers. “We used to know about our opponents after landing in the country where we had to compete. Now, you know everything beforehand, see the video footage of your opponents and prepare. “Even today, I don’t have the video of my best fight where I rallied to beat Chinese Su Lihui in the last second to win the Asian Games bronze (in 55kg) in Doha.” Alka, 36, who worked as a coach in the National camp before taking a break to look after her kids, said wrestlers should keep things simple. “With the stress on attacking wrestling, one must enhance stamina and stay mentally alert for quick decision making. One should focus on three-four techniques and improve in ground wrestling. “My favourite techniques were 'kunde', 'fitley' and 'Irani'. My coach, Jabbar Singh, used to tell me ‘If you practice a technique 500 times, then you will be able to apply it once or twice.’ That remains true even today,” said Alka, who oversees an akhara in her village Sisoli near Meerut and supports a few girls.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kapil’s advice really helped, reveals Dravid||Batting great Rahul Dravid says legendary allrounder Kapil Dev’s advice helped him to explore options after his retirement before eventually taking up the coaching job of India-A and U-19 sides. “After I finished [playing], there were quite a few options and I was not sure what to do. It was Kapil Dev who gave me this advice actually when I was coming to the end of my career,” Dravid told India women’s team coach W.V. Raman on his Youtube channel ‘Inside Out’. “I bumped into him somewhere and he said ‘Rahul, don’t commit to doing anything straightaway, go out and spend a few years just exploring and doing different things and see what you really like’; I thought it was good advice.” The former captain said initially he liked doing commentary, but later found “a little disconnect” from the game. “...the thing that gave me the most satisfaction was really being involved in the game and being connected with the boys. I really liked the coaching side of things and I got sort of involved in that when the opportunity came up to do some coaching with India-A and Under-19,” Dravid said. “I thought it was a good place to start and and took it up and I’ve really enjoyed it since. A lot more satisfying to be involved in the coaching side of things,” he said. He backed the BCCI’s decision to restrict U-19 players to one World Cup only. “Instead of just 15-20 players, we were able to give 45 to 50 players exposure to the facilities at NCA, so it broadens the pool,” said Dravid, Head of Cricket at the NCA in Bengaluru.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,||India’s reputed mathematician C.S. Seshadri passes away||C.S. Seshadri, 88, one of the leaders of Indian mathematics in the post-Independence era, passed away here on July 17. He is survived by sons Narasimhan and Giridhar. Early success Seshadri, who began his career at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) as one of the first batch of graduate students, achieved early success with the proof (in the first nontrivial case) of a well-known conjecture of French mathematician Jean-Pierre Serre. Inspired by David Mumford, he then began a life-long involvement with geometric invariant theory and moduli. Both Serre and Mumford are Fields Medallists. Together with M.S. Narasimhan, he proved a theorem which is now a cornerstone of geometry. An extension of this led to the notion of parabolic bundles. With students Musili and Lakshmibai, Seshadri combined algebraic, combinatorial and geometric insights into the modern theory of ‘standard monomials’. Along the way, he discovered his ampleness criterion and the ‘Seshadri constant.’ After establishing TIFR as one of the centres for mathematics research in the world, he moved to the Institute of Mathematical Sciences here in 1984. In 1989, he started the School of Mathematics (SPIC Science Foundation), which evolved into the Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI). CMI, an unique institution which grew out of Seshadri’s conviction that learning and research go together, ranks among the best schools for undergraduate studies in mathematics and theoretical computer science. Padma Bhushan in 2009 Elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1988 and a Foreign Associate of the National Academy of Sciences (USA) in 2010, Seshadri was awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2009. Seshadri was an accomplished Carnatic singer. The passing of his wife Sundari, a singer and theatre artiste, in October 2019 was a heavy blow to Seshadri. Over the past decade, Seshadri grappled with serious health problems with characteristic grit and good humour.  (V. Balaji & T.R. Ramadas are from the Chennai Mathematical Institute)
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushil Kumar keeping it simple||Double Olympic medallist and former World Champion wrestler Sushil Kumar, whose accomplishments are top class, keeps his life simple and has clear goals. “I have got bronze and silver, gold is still left to win’’, said Sushil, in the Manav Rachna Happy Times web interaction, in conversation with Ritika Singh and Sataruka Ghosh. The 37-year-old Sushil said staying motivated had never been a problem as he always looked ahead after every achievement and prepares for the next target. Even though he was prepared, Sushil did not get a chance to compete in the Rio Olympics. He recalled a similar instance in 2002. “As a junior, I was selected for the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester. But a few days before the competition, my name was removed. “I had beaten Shokinder Singh and he was selected, as I was still a junior. My guru Satpal tried his best, but nothing happened. “At that time, Sports Minister Uma Bharati had announced Rs. 20 lakh for gold. Coming from a middle-class family, I had felt that the money would have been useful,’’ recalled Sushil. Guidance Heartbroken, he had decided to compete in mud-wrestling where there was a lot of money, when Sushil found the light of guidance. “Coach Uday Chand told me, who knows god has bigger things for you.’’ “God has given me so much more,’’ said Sushil, happy about the foundation that strengthened his resolve to settle for nothing less than the Olympic medals. Sushil said there was never any pressure on him, as he prepared hard and did not allow anything to distract his focus. “If you prepare well, there is no fear and you happily compete’’, he said. Sushil revealed that he had enjoyed four months of family time during lockdown. Peak performance “Reaching peak performance is in your hands. The whole world has been facing the same situation. To cry or laugh, it is your choice’’, said Sushil. Sushil gave credit to the close circle around him for everything he had achieved so far. “I am very lucky. I have a good guru, good family, good wife, children. My focus is to stay fit and be ready,” said Sushil.
19 July 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL 2020 likely to be held in UAE||Anticipating the postponement of the T20 World Cup, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has prepared a back-up plan to stage the Indian Premier League (IPL) this year. The fate of the IPL’s 13th edition, which was deferred following the COVID-19 outbreak, has been linked to the T20 World Cup, scheduled to be played in Australia from October 18 to November 15. The October-November period is the only available window to fit the IPL into this year. The ICC Board is set to meet on Monday and, besides finalising the election procedure for the chairman’s post, is expected to announce the postponement of the T20 World Cup. Given the likelihood of this outcome, the BCCI’s apex council considered plans for rescheduling the IPL when it met on Friday. Sept. to Nov. window In terms of the venue, the BCCI’s proposal is to either conduct the event in four stadiums in the Mumbai-Pune corridor or move it to the United Arab Emirates. As for the dates, the BCCI’s options are: September 26 to November 7 or September 26 to November 14. The apex council was told that the BCCI will seek the Central government’s advice and permission on staging the IPL. COVID-19 hotspots Considering that Mumbai and Pune have emerged as COVID-19 hotspots, the BCCI hopes to get the government’s go-ahead for shifting the IPL to UAE. “With the arbitrator ruling against us [in the Deccan Chargers termination case, which could set the BCCI back by around Rs. 4,800 crore], it’s imperative for the IPL to be staged and it looks like UAE will be the most viable option,” said an apex council member on condition of anonymity.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Financial aid for Nikhat Zareen||Former junior World boxing champion Nikhat Zareen has something to cheer about during thesevdark days of the pandemic. Natco Pharma Company chairman N. Rajeev has contributed Rs. 5 lakh towards her training. The 24-year-old Nikhat, gold medallist in the 2011 junior Worlds, was presented the cheque by Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud on Saturday. SATS chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy and Devarakadra MLA A. Venkateshwar Reddy were present on the occasion. Goud also promised to take up the issue of Government employment for the boxer, at the prompting of the SATS chairman. Nikhat, ranked World No. 21 in the 51 kg, said: “I don’t think there will be any boxing activity till this year-end. But, this financial assistance should help me a lot. Nikhat will continue to focus on her regular event — the 51kg. “We have to keep ourselves motivated and ensure minimum fitness levels. Right now, my focus is on avoiding stress,” she said.
19 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Willing to tweak my game: Soosairaj||Indian international Michael Soosairaj is willing to tweak his natural game if it will make him a better player next season. In a web talk organised by Little Flower Football Academy (LIFFA) recently, the 25-year-old said he was using the off-season to improve his passing and one-touch skills. New role Soosairaj said it had been a challenge for him to settle into his role as a wing-back for ATK last season, but was happy with his overall performance. “Dribbling comes naturally to me and it is not easy to change my style. But I am aware that I need to pass the ball quickly so I am trying to change my natural holding game and play more one-touch passes. “When ATK coach Antonio Lopez Habas wanted me to play as a wing-back I wasn’t comfortable with it. For Jamshedpur FC I had played a more attacking role in the midfield. But after initial difficulty I adapted well and was happy with the way I performed and scored goals last season. “But I know I need to improve and I didn’t have many assists last season and now I am working on my crosses from the left flank,’’ he said. “As a professional you should be ready to absorb pressure and be willing to change your game to adapt to different formations under different coaches. I am under pressure when I know I have to change my style, but one should also have the self-belief to overcome it,’’ he added. Sacrifices Soosairaj, who left his home in Eraviputhenthurai at the age of 12 to join the sports hostel in Tiruchi, said he made many sacrifices in life to realise his goal of playing for India. “I missed my friends and all the church festivals. But I was very determined to be a good footballer and play for the country. It was a great feeling when I wore the India jersey. Being part of an ISL-winning team and sharing the dressing room with my elder brother Regin was a surreal moment,’’ he added.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||Harbhajan Singh clarifies on Khel Ratna||Harbhajan Singh on Saturday clarified the Punjab government’s decision to withdraw his nomination for this year’s Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna award as he doesn’t fit in the eligibility criteria for country’s highest sporting honour. “I have been flooded with calls as to why Punjab Govt withdrew my name from Khel Ratna nominations. I am not eligible for Khel Ratna which primarily considers the international performances in last three years,” he tweeted. “The Punjab Govt is not at fault here as they have rightly withdrawn my name.”
19 July 2020||BUDAPEST,||Daruvala gets first points||Jehan Daruvala got his first points of the FIA Formula 2 Championship with a sixth-place finish in the feature race won by Robert Schwartzman on Saturday. The Indian, starting 15th, had a poor start that saw him drop down to 21st before running long on his first stint on the medium tyres. After changing to the faster soft tyres for the final third of the 37-lap race, the Carlin Racing driver’s rapid pace helped him climb to sixth. On Sunday, Daruvala will start from third in the reverse grid race, aiming for his first podium of the season.
19 July 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Chess tournament||The Telangana State online chess championship, for under-9, 13 and 15 boys and girls, will be held on will be held on Sunday, July 19. There is no entry fee. The event begins at 11 a.m. and those interested must enrol at www.chesstelangana.com . Call 7337578899/7337399299 for details.
19 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Malolan signs up with CPL team||Former Tamil Nadu off-spinner R. Malolan, who became the head of scouting at Royal Challengers Bangalore earlier last year, has been appointed assistant coach of St. Kitts and Nevis Patriots in the Caribbean Premier League.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 07:32 IST,||Sudoku - July 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The power of positivism||In an irony that does not escape her, Roseliz Francis began keeping a gratitude journal when the pandemic hit. A tutor living in the UK, she says: “For an ambivert like me, it has not been easy staying home 24/7, for days together. I was looking for ways to make this experience tolerable. I realised that there is so much to be thankful for and wanted to document that; little things that make a big difference, but are often taken for granted and lost on us in the ‘busyness’ of life.” She hopes to continue the practice once things return to how they were. Strength warriors Keeping a journal is one of the best ways to tap into that ray of sunlight in everyone, says Shaarika Menon, a consultant psychologist from Thiruvananthapuram. She says that we subconsciously practise positive psychology, which is the pursuit of emotional, physical, and mental well-being. However, circumstances, our thoughts and perceptions could drag us down. “Then we have to consciously find a way out to catch that glimmer of light and let it blaze. Write down what makes you happy and what causes unhappiness. But the most important attribute is be appreciative and grateful,” she says. However, it is not just the theme of gratitude: Optimism and hope were other doctrines people turned to, through fitness programmes, meditation and rekindling a connection with Nature. Giving, to help artisans or migrant workers was another choice people made. All of these fed into the overarching theme of positivism. In the book Character Strengths and Virtues: A Handbook and Classification , the authors advocate tapping into our positive traits. They divide the book into ‘Strengths of Wisdom and Knowledge’, such as curiosity; ‘Strengths of Courage’, such as persistence; ‘Strengths of Humanity’, such as kindness, and more. It is these that people have begun to take note of. So when Bengaluru-based homemaker Rachana Jagdish Ram says that she would like to continue the interaction with the outdoors, learning new things about the soil, and planting her food, she unknowingly brings out the side of her that is curious, persistent, and grateful. Chennai-based fashion designer Samanta Chiu is turning to her strength of humanity. “The value of sustainable fashion is evident. It has given me an insight on how ‘less is more’ from a business perspective. All my cotton fabric scraps are made into face masks and a certain percentage of the sale proceeds go towards face mask donations for the elderly and children in and around Chennai,” says Chiu. As we exit lockdown, we asked people what they would take away from these testing times and the corresponding strengths they would enhance, to bring positivism to the fore. Bare necessities As an Associate Partner at EY in Bengaluru, Rajesh R Nair realised that the most positive space for him was home. “Before the lockdown, I was travelling nearly every day between cities and clients. The first thing I realised during lockdown was that a lot of that travel could have been avoided. Going forth, we will look at travel with a closer lens and avoid what is unnecessary,” he says. The main thing is to take a lesson from these testing times and develop a strategy to stay upbeat in life. Entrepreneur and Instagrammer Minu Marie Mathew from Mumbai did not let the slump in her business knock her to the ground. Mathew says, “It has been a time to create new opportunities. I began a Facebook page called Girl Boss Going Places, which is doing well now. I mentor around 500 entrepreneurs and handhold them to find motivation, and business collaboration. A halt in an old activity can create the way to a new one.” Stepping out of the comfort zone has been a confidence booster for many. Quarantine and social distancing left several senior citizens feeling lonely and isolated. Not 83-year-old retired teacher PS Padmini from Kottayam, Kerala, who is holding an online exhibition of her craft and works to raise funds to build a house for 14-year-old Athira, who lives in a dilapidated house. “All my age-related discomforts vanished when I put my heart into the exhibition,” she says. Entrepreneur and homemaker Anjali Manoj from Thiruvananthapuram says that she has learnt to value every moment and never take even one stress-free moment for granted. She adds, “I plan to create more festivity and occasions for no reason. Celebrate the small pleasures and celebrate life more.”  Life lessons Dr Arun B Nair, psychiatrist, Medical College, Trivandrum gives us a few guidelines to ensure our sunny side does not take a beating.  Maintain sleep hygiene by staying away from digital equipment two hours before your sleep time.  Keep yourself engaged through the day to prevent overthinking, by engaging in meaningful work: gardening as a family, for instance  Stay away from information glut related to COVID-19 and statistics on social media. Plan to check the news only at specific times.  Have conversations with all family members participating. Let children speak their mind.  Exercise daily between 7 am and 9 am or 4 pm and 6 pm so you get some sun to enhance production of vitamin D. Exercise increases dopamine and endorphins in the brain, giving us a sense of well-being and happiness.  Develop an artistic pursuit or innate talent.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Pulse oximeters||Back when TikTok reigned strong in India, there were hundreds of videos of people showing that wearing a mask did not inhibit oxygen saturation. One user Emily Lyoness, who has moderate persistent asthma, recorded herself wearing a spectrum of masks — from a reusable fabric mask to a P100 mask — and tested her oxygen levels by clipping a pulse oximeter to her index finger. The oxygen reading on the device wavered between 98 and 99. People with COVID-19 often need oxygenation support, so this tool, a staple for many doctors, has become something of a necessity for the layperson. Oximeters have been flying off the shelves for many households’ first aid kits, largely because they are non-invasive, low-cost, easy to use, and effective at detecting hypoxemia (low blood oxygen levels). It comprises a monitor which contains the batteries and display; a probe, which consists of light emitting diodes or LEDs and a light detector called a photo-detector. This probe senses the user’s pulse. There are two important readings: the pulse rate, recorded as beats per minute (60 to 100 is the safe range); and the oxygen saturation of haemoglobin in arterial blood, the reading of which is recorded as SpO2). Normal readings range from 95% to 100%; anything less, and the user should get medical assistance from a doctor. If your oximeter has alarms, atypical readings will set them off. The mechanism clips onto the user’s forefinger, though some oximeters have been known to be clipped onto one’s big toe or even the ear, depending on the model. According to the World Health Organization’s Pulse Oximetry Training Manual , one must use the oximeter with patience. Once clipped on, it requires about 10 seconds to get an accurate reading. A pulmonologist based in Jaipur and chief editor of Lung India , Dr Virendra Singh points out that pulse oximeters are not COVID-19 detectors. “One cannot use the pulse oximeter as a sole detector for any respiratory issues. It is only meant to give readings for a small time interval,” he explains. He adds, when buying an oximeter, do be wary of the brand names. There are oximeters selling on e-commerce platforms that will work for a month at most before giving out, and may cost as much as about Rs. 2,000. “Go to your pharmacy,” he suggests. “Most Indian pharmacies have partnered with legitimate names in the medical device sub-industry to provide cost-effective and reliable pulse oximeters.” Those who want to support India-made pulse oximeters can look to AmbiTech, Oxysat, or Home Medix.  In this column, we decode the buzzwords in health and wellness
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital well-being will have its own vertical?||The last time I installed an app to measure how long I spent on the phone screen, I deleted it in a week. I am ashamed to say I found that I was spending eight hours on just one device, and this was in pre-lockdown times. During the lockdown, all we had for work and entertainment were our screens, whether to attend a Zoom yoga class, a Microsoft Teams meeting, or a WhatsApp video call with a group of friends. Screentime through the day was no longer punctuated with a colleague who’d stroll over to have a quick gossip; it was instead broken by a quick visit to an online store to buy groceries. We have already realised that screens are like sugar: not obviously a poor health choice, but addictive to the extent that it can disturb circadian rhythms. Which means that it can mess with our sleep cycles, and in a natural corollary, push up the stress on our body, which in turn can adversely affect our work days, relationships, and even our weight. It is in human nature to problem solve, and a whole new industry is likely to spring up to get information and entertainment across to us in ways other than screens. These ways will probably use our other sensory organs — touch, smell, hear, taste. Google recently launched its Podcast Manager, while Audible launched a campaign that encouraged people to “fly Audible” to ‘get away’ by listening to a book being read. During the lockdown, people have proactively taken to baking, pottery, even crochet, seeing value in using their hands to form and create. Adult colouring books took off a few years ago; now there are sure to be many more hobby kits that encourage us to rekindle a childhood hobby or begin a new one. We’ve come to realise we live too much in the head, whether it’s with number crunching or generating ideas, even meditating. While sensory marketing has become the norm, and brands tap into all aspects of the way a customer experiences its physical stores (including the aroma and music), we will very soon realise the health benefits of spreading our interactions with the world through all our senses. Digital smell technology will allow us to smell the flowers of a tropical country in a white-winter land. Only recently, Ayballe, a digital olfaction startup raised 7.89 million dollars — a sign of where the industry is headed. Perhaps gustatory tech will develop to the extent that we can taste and smell home: the sharpness of axone or the heady sweetness of jackfruit. They will take us away from just viewing, and will be marketed as tech that’s good for our overall wellbeing. After all, a technology that helps partners touch across miles, keeping off loneliness for just a little while longer, can help our mental health. Maybe though, if we kept things simple, we will make things simple and choose to be with each other more — indulging in each other’s company, walking through a garden brought alive by the rains, cooking and tasting together, holding hands, touching someone’s cheek, ruffling hair. Because technology aside, these shared sensory experiences make up a balanced life.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||How about a Kung Fu panda workout?||Until March this year, nine-year-old Avika Gupta, a student of Phoenix Greens International School, Hyderabad, used to attend Taekwondo and Bharatanatyam classes. As schools and activity centres closed due to COVID-19, the school alerted students and parents about Fitb.ee, a fitness app for school-going children and teens. Avika’s mother Arti, an HR manager, gave it a try. “I was keen that my daughter continues some form of physical activity. Initially I would monitor to see if she could follow the videos. Now she uses the app independently,” says Arti. Avika reels off the names of exercises she does: “mountain climbers, leg raises, planks, push ups, cobra and table top.” She also enjoys participating in walking contests on the app. 60,000 and counting In January 2020, Hyderabad couple Avinash Rajapet and Prathima Koppolu launched th Fitb.ee app for kids and teens. They founded the Fitbee gym in Hyderabad in 2017, to encourage the 4-16 age group to take up fun fitness programmes, and stave off childhood obesity. The gym is temporarily closed, in keeping with the COVID-19 guidelines. However, the free app had 3,000 users in the first few weeks. Now, there are over 60,000. Prathima and Avinash have a four-year-old son, Akira. But their interest in children’s health and fitness goes back to when Avinash was studying in the U.K., where he assisted his cricket coach in training children. “I observed how fitness and diet plans were being chalked out for children as young as five. This was different from the approach we have — that children will burn off whatever they eat,” says Avinash. Children are sitting more and more. With lockdowns, are unable to attend the tennis or basketball classes they once had. Add the pressure of academics, and kids just don’t move enough. “The space for playgrounds and parks is diminishing in many cities and children aren’t spending enough time outdoors,” says Prathima, talking of how app-based routines could help. Avinash is a certified fitness professional with a specialisation in youth fitness from the International Sports Science Association, and a black belt in Kung Fu. When he returned to Hyderabad, he saw the potential in opening a fitness centre for children. Fitb.ee has 200 workouts for different age groups, developed with the help of US-based Sifu Harsha Dandamudi of White Dragon Martial Arts. Its advisors include Dr Gurava Reddy of Sunshine Hospitals, managing director and Chief Joint Replacement Surgeon in Hyderabad. “The app is programmed such that specific workouts are accessible according to the child’s age,” says Prathima. Thursdays and Sundays are recovery days and an exercise routine suggested for the day lapses in 24 hours, only after which a child can access the next routine. “This is to negate the tendency to overdo many routines on a few days of the week,” they state. Fitbee has Harry Potter and superhero-themed workouts that can be done with parental guidance. The app offers different set of workouts. “We have workouts inspired by animal movements for young children. For instance a leopard strike or a tiger move routine to target the lower portion of the body. Different routines target specific muscle groups,” says Avinash. Panda moves A 14-minute Kung Fu panda workout is based on the moves of panda Po and The Furious Five, and gives a full body workout. For older teens, kickboxing and calisthenics are incorporated into the workouts for speed and agility. Recipe suggestions are available on their Instagram and YouTube channel. On the app, dietary plans are worked out on a paid, custom basis for teens with obesity, thyroid or PCOD/PCOS. “The diet is charted in consultation with doctors. We encourage families to look at significant lifestyle changes that will act as preventive health care in the long run,” says Prathima. In the future, she says they would like to build programmes based on the data they collect.  Fitb.ee is available on Google Playstore for Android and Apple Store for iPhone. Facebook, Instagram, YouTube: fitb.ee   Fitbee advisors include Dr Gurava Reddy of Sunshine Hospitals, managing director and Chief Joint Replacement Surgeon based in Hyderabad.  Avinash graduated from the University of Liverpool with an M.Sc in Information and Intelligence Engineering and also holds B.Eng (Honors) degree in Electrical, Electronics and Communications Engineering from the University of Wolverhampton.  Prathima graduated from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign with a Master of Science degree in Technology and Marketing Management. She also runs a satirical blog ‘​Think different mommy’
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘You guys made us feel at home’||I’m thrilled to present to you my greatest journalistic coup yet: the world’s first interview with SARS-CoV-2-XUV-700. This is not just any coronavirus but the Chairvirus of the virus community’s COVID-19 Task Force. I must record here my gratitude to Potangoli Pvt Ltd for sharing with me a special bio-genetic software that enabled me to bypass the communication barrier between humans and viruses and conduct this historic interview. Edited excerpts:  Me: Thank you Mr…should I address you as Mister or Ms or..?  Virus: The virus community is stringently opposed to any form of discrimination or identification based on gender, sexual orientation or heteronormativity. We are fully LGBTQIA-plus-plus-compliant. However, to keep things simple, you may call me Shrimati Shrimati SARS-CoV-2-XUV-700-ji. But if that causes symptoms of breathlessness, say ‘Corona Madam’.  Me : Corona Madam, let me start with a personal question. In the good old days, viruses had such exotic names — Chikungunya virus, Chandipura virus, Uukuniemi virus, West Nile virus. I mean, who wouldn’t want to meet the West Nile virus? Or get a taste of Tuscany from the Toscana virus? But nowadays you’ve gone fully alphanumeric! It’s all HIV, HAV, H1N1, SARS-CoV-2. You have 10 gorgeous species of rotaviruses. But their names? They are called A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I, J. Why?  Virus: We viruses have long outgrown the primitive human proclivity for names loaded with meaning. Some human societies, for instance, call themselves a democracy. Does that mean they actually are a democracy? On the other hand, a virus by any name would be as infectious.  Me : It’s nearly six months since you entered the Indian market. How has the journey been?  Virus: Well, the April-June numbers have just come in and I’m happy to share that our quarterly results have exceeded our top line and bottom line projections. On all the key growth parameters — number of infections, mortality, rate of transmission, and public relations — India has been our biggest success story.  Me: What’s the secret behind the COVID-19 success story in India?  Virus: Before coming to your country, we’d  heard a lot about Indian hospitality. Atithi devo bhava , right? But none of us expected such a fabulous reception. All the clapping, the lighting of candles, the sheer human warmth, and everywhere we went, encouraging chants of “Go, corona, Go!” — you guys made us feel at home. We finally realised what your PM meant when he said the ‘ease of doing business’ in India is unmatched by any other country.  Me: Really?    Virus: Yours  is the only country that has implemented every single one of our recommendations.  Me: What recommendations?  Virus: India is a large country, but its cities are not well connected with the hinterlands. We needed help in rapidly expanding our geographical footprint. So we suggested a unique lockdown model wherein migrant workers in cities are forcibly held back for a few weeks in overcrowded conditions where chances of infection are high, and then gradually allowed to disperse to villages across the country. Your government loved our suggestion. India’s unique, zero-notice lockdown gave us the initial boost we needed — a generous seed fund of infections — in order to become Atmanirbhar in India.  Me: You mean, India’s lockdown was your idea?  Virus (smiling): We do our homework.  Me: But the logic of a lockdown is that it makes it difficult for you guys — sorry, you girls — to infect more people. So why would you recommend it?  Virus: We figured that whether it’s a pandemic or Pangong Tso, so long as we let your government score propaganda victories, we can do whatever we want.  Me: Why does this logic sound familiar?  Virus: Back where I come from, it’s common sense. Anyway, to answer your question, we made a deal with your government. We said, “Look, we’ll save you from having to spend big money on public health, hospital beds, testing capacity, nurses’ salaries, etc.” How, they wanted to know. We said, “Do a draconian lockdown — it will cost you nothing, but it will look like you’ve taken decisive action. We’ll manage the rest.” So, we let your government control the narrative, and in exchange, our best ever performance came under your lockdown.  Me: I see. So you really are a Chinese virus, aren’t you?  Virus: Viruses don’t subscribe to national identities. But yes, I do sometimes consult for the PLA.  Me: You betrayed us!  And to think we trusted and encouraged you!  Virus: I’ll say this much. Despite my place of origin being China, I’ve never felt discriminated against in your country. All I’ve ever received, from the people and the government, is love, and for that, every single coronavirus will always have a soft corner for India in its RNA.  Me: Ok, this interview is over.    Virus ( laughing ):  Cool.    Me: Why you laughing?  Virus: Your mask!  Me: What’s so funny about my mask?  Virus: It’s the way you Indians wear masks. And then you blame us when you die!  Despite my place of origin being China, I’ve never felt discriminated against in your country. All I’ve ever received, from the people and the government, is love
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I saw a future where you could frown at your digital device’||In September 2001, only a week after the horrific events of 9/11, Rana el Kaliouby, a newly married Egyptian woman, went to the University of Cambridge in the U.K. to pursue her Ph.D in computer science. With this degree, she would qualify for a tenure-track position at Cairo’s top university. She wanted to be an academic and raise her family in Egypt. That was the plan. Her doctoral research was in artificial emotional intelligence (Emotion A.I.), dedicated to training computers to recognise and respond to human emotion. To realise the full potential of her research, she became a tech entrepreneur in the U.S. In 2018, Fortune magazine named el Kaliouby, co-founder and CEO of Affectiva, Inc., one of the most influential young people in the world of business. In her recently published memoir, Girl Decoded , she writes candidly about her journey from “nice Egyptian girl” to a woman who pursues her own path and career. Tell us about your mother, a trailblazer in her own right. My mother was one of the first women computer programmers in the Middle East. At a time when most Egyptian mothers did not work outside the home, she held an important job with the Bank of Kuwait and raised three children, all girls. Education is the best investment, she used to say. When I was about eight years old, an uncle told my father, “Ayman, your girls will just get married, so why waste all that money on those fancy schools?” My father, a progressive man when it came to women’s education, paid no heed to such “advice.” But like most Middle Eastern men, he expected my mother to put her duties as wife and mother first. When school let out, she would be home taking care of her daughters. So, the trailblazer was also a traditional wife. How did you get interested in computer science? Both my parents were technologists. They met in a class where my dad taught programming 101. My dad was an early adopter of technology. He bought us an Atari console and made us figure out how to set it up. I was less interested in the gadget and more intrigued by how video games brought us together as a family. As I went on to study computer science, my interest was once again in the human side of technology. I read the book Affective Computing by Rosalind Picard. She said that if we want smarter computers, we must design machines that can recognise, understand, even express emotions. This idea would change the entire trajectory of my career and my life. Tell us about your research in Emotion A.I. When we communicate in person, only 10% of our meaning is conveyed through words, while the rest comes from our facial expressions, tone of voice, gestures, and other subtle cues. Our computers are oblivious to such non-verbal cues. But I saw a future where you could frown at your digital device, it could recognise your frustration, and use this input to create a better user experience. The research goal for my Ph.D. was to teach computers to read facial expressions, to infer the person’s mental state or emotions. For my thesis, I developed a facial expression-reading algorithm, which I called “The Mind Reader.” In 2004, I got a chance to demonstrate this technology to Rosalind (Roz) Picard — the author of Affective Computing — who was visiting our lab in Cambridge. She was impressed with my work and offered me a postdoc position at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), in Boston. How did you become a tech entrepreneur? I moved from the U.K. to the U.S. I accepted Roz’s offer and went to work in the Affective Computing Group at the Media Lab in MIT. I found it exhilarating to interact with the lab’s industrial sponsors and hear about the varied uses they envisioned for “Mind Reader.” I realised we had a unique opportunity to take this technology and scale it in the real world. So, in 2009, Roz and I incorporated a company called Affectiva. To raise money for our startup, we went to Silicon Valley. Some of the men at the venture capital firms recoiled when they heard the word “emotion” in our presentations. But eventually, we found investors who shared our vision. Today, many industries use Affectiva’s Emotion AI in myriad ways, from market research to mental health and even in cars that check for signs of distraction or drowsiness in drivers. Your memoir, a book about the coming age of emotive machines, also gives us unexpected glimpses into your culture. In a way, my education in the science of emotions began on my visits to Cairo for summer vacation, sitting around my grandmother’s dining table. I watched, fascinated, as members of my large extended family talked, gestured with their hands, laughed out loud, interrupted one another, and engaged in lively conversation and debate. People think of a smile as being all about the mouth, but without those crinkly smile lines around the eyes, a smile is not really a smile. My mother’s older sister wears a niqab — she is covered from head to toe, with a small slit for her eyes — but I can tell if she has had a good day or not, simply by looking at her eyes. With Emotion AI, a computer could identify the same thing, just as accurately as a perceptive human can. Looking back, I see that it was at my grandmother’s that I began to notice the differences in how emotion is expressed, a fact that I took into account later, when I was designing software that would read and interpret our emotional cues accurately across cultures, not just the one I come from. The interviewer is a Boston-based science journalist.  Bachelor’s and Master of Science degrees from The American University in Cairo, and Ph.D from Newnham College, Cambridge Worked at MIT Media Lab as research scientist, spearheading the application of emotion recognition technology in mental health and autism Her company, Affectiva, is a leader in the field of emotion AI and works with 25% of the Fortune 500 Inducted into the ‘Women in Engineering’ Hall of Fame, and listed inForbesAmerica’s Top 50 Women In Tech 2018   When we communicate in person, only 10% of our meaning is conveyed through words, while the rest comes from our facial expressions, tone of voice, gestures, and other subtle cues
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Lucie in the sky with bananas||The Devil might have been wearing Prada while cooking up COVID-19 but luckily for us, he also invented Kevin Kwan. But you might exclaim, as several of his Singaporean ladies do, “Hiyah! Kwan who?” There are many ways to describe Kevin Kwan — most recognisably, he is the author of the superhit trilogy that starts with Crazy Rich Asians ( CRA ). When it was made into a lushly choreographed film of the same name in 2018, it underlined that Singaporean Asians could bling with the best of them while clanging their gongs. Kwan leads the parade by showcasing every bead and bauble, Bottega bag and couturier with haute aspirations, to let his readers know what the privileged one per cent of Singapore are lavishing their money on while also making sure that the ancient bloodlines are safe. Their ancestors might have fled from China but their offspring are most often in the U.S., climbing the social ladder as their Tiger-moms roar after them, “Hiyah! Higher!” Snacking in Capri If Kwan had described Chinese-Americans in CRA , here he tells us that Asians marrying any other racial type are termed ‘Hapa,’ meaning ‘half’ in Hawaiian. The heroine, Lucie Barclay Churchill, is one such. On her father’s side the family is old money and Kwan has a wonderful time lampooning them in all their magnificent eccentricity, in particular Lucie’s grandmother, who is fixated on her nose, like the old granny in CRA . Lucie’s ethnic Chinese mother, Dr. Miriam Tang Churchill, is a pioneering geneticist. Lucie wonders if she is merely a “banana” — yellow outside, white inside — as she meets George Zao, a young man of superb physical attributes (so much so that when he appears at a society wedding of monumental excess on the island of Capri, one of the young women gasps, “He’s a total snack”). Kwan provides some arresting terms for the arriviste male: there is the “s’mocialite”, the new-money bloke who tends to air-kiss his way around the room, as Lucie’s New York fiancé Cecil Pike does; and there are billennials, the millennials who have become billionaires. Sadly, we may not be seeing many of those any more. Saran-wrapped sex Sex and Vanityis the pick me up and stuff me with gold-dusted truffles kind of comedy that is ideal for these stressful times. It’s like being reminded of how blissfully decadent life used to be for those who could afford an apartment in New York’s Fifth Avenue for the winters and a sprawling estate in East Hampton for the summers. Kwan faithfully delivers what every reader of his has come to expect by this time — each sartorial, gastronomic or ancestral mention is elaborated with notes indicating which educational institutions the one per cent may have attended. I was immeasurably reassured that one of the schools I attended, the International School in Geneva or Ecolint, gets honourable mention, though by way of its Italian subsidiary. I could count myself as aspirational in the Kwan order of things. So, it’s really a snob’s guide to privilege and position. As for the “sex” of the title, the reader is likely to be disappointed since the Singaporean Kwan prefers to have it Saran-wrapped and a little discreet, used chiefly for advancing his storyline. We may describe it as a form of ‘puppy yoga’ where the practitioners are cajoled into doing complex yogic poses in a room full of pedigreed pups. One of the characters here teaches that fine art. It’s difficult not to be reminded of the 1961 musical, Flower Drum Song, featuring the delectable Nancy Kwan (no relation, we presume). She played Suzie Wong in the film set in the golden era when Hong Kong was just beginning to emerge from the War: Nancy Kwan was just another version of Holly Golightly, immortalised by Audrey Hepburn in Breakfast at Tiffany’s . Kevin Kwan may or may not be aware of these connections though he does mention both Suzie Wong and Hepburn, but only as adjuncts to his obsession with dropping names, William Holden’s in the first instance, Tiffany’s in the second. Kwan has modestly signalled in an interview that he’d like to be compared to E.M. Forster, stating that the inspiration for Sex and Vanity is Forster’s exquisite novel, A Room with a View. For those of us who never considered Forster a hoot, let us admit that Kwan is more Barbara Cartland than Forster, not the least because of his fondness for cheesy endings. Sex and Vanity ’s conclusion is of Gorgonzola blue cheese proportions and Kwan manages to pull it off with immense brio. Pass the popcorn, please. The Chennai-based writer is a critic and cultural commentator.  Sex and Vanity  Kevin Kwan Penguin Random House  Rs. 699    On her father’s side the family is old money and Kwan has a wonderful time lampooning them in all their magnificent eccentricity, in particular Lucie’s grandmother, who is fixated on her nose
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The great extermination||As the world reels from the impact of COVID-19, evidence from the Amazon shows that the pandemic disproportionately affects remote indigenous people. Given this, a grave danger looms over the Andaman Islands, which are home to four historically isolated communities, and all of them belong to particularly vulnerable tribal groups (PVTGs). Epidemics and diseases brought on by “civilisation” since the mid-19th century have wreaked havoc on the island’s indigenous communities. Delving into the Great Andamanese past, the annals show that the indigenes in the Andamans, already on the brink of extinction, are unlikely to recover from yet another blow to their health and way of life. History lessons In January 1875, F.E. Tuson, the British officer-in-charge of the Andamanese people, noticed something peculiar at the Góp-l’áka-báng ‘Andaman Home’. A woman had developed a nasty bubo. Tuson knew what the symptom meant but chose to ignore it. One year later, several islanders at ‘Viper Home’ were found suffering from sores. The British quarantined them in an empty shed and inspected all the Andaman Homes where many inmates exhibited symptoms of an alien disease. As expected, it was an outbreak of syphilis. Initially, about 16 indigenes were hospitalised. ‘Some have been already discharged, and the remainder are progressing favourably; only one woman and one child, who were suffering from the disease in its worst form before being admitted, have as yet died,’ remarked Major General Charles Arthur Barwell in his Annual Report of 1875-76. The syphilis cases, in the beginning, appeared to be a handful, and the British believed that everything was under control. But an overlooked fact — that children were infected — implied the disease had been around for years. Soon, the worst was revealed — syphilis was not confined merely to the Homes but had spread even among the islanders of distant villages.  The East India Company colonised the Andamans in 1789 by establishing a settlement at Chatham Island, which was transferred to the North East harbour three years later. A hostile climate and high mortality rate led to its closure in 1796. A year after the 1857 uprising, the British returned to the Andamans and set up a penal settlement, incarcerating hundreds of Indian freedom fighters. At this time, around 5,500 to 8,000 indigenes inhabited the islands. Among these were 10 groups of the Great Andamanese, who comprised the largest tribe (the others included the Jarawa, the Onge, the Sentinelese and the Jangil). Quixotic resistance The Great Andamanese fiercely resisted the British — they raided and plundered the settlement, murdered the convicts, and obstructed the clearing of jungles. But their quixotic resistance against a militarily superior enemy was doomed from the start. Punitive and friendly measures eventually subdued them by the 1860s. An institution named the Andaman Homes was established in 1863; deeply resented by the islanders, it played a pivotal role in their ‘taming’. Here, the British attempted to ‘civilise’ the ‘savages’ by coercively altering their hunter-gatherer lifestyle. The islanders were trained in agriculture and performed a plethora of new activities — they acted as guards and manual workers, captured runaway convicts and participated in risky expeditions. While the Andaman Homes furthered the expansion of the settlement, they were, as argued by German anthropologist Egon Freiherr von Eickstedt (who conducted fieldwork in the Andamans in the late 1920s), a door of death for the islanders. Here, the indigenes became dependent on alien foods, learnt to smoke and drink, experienced torture and abuse, and contracted several alien diseases.  The islanders had contracted syphilis at the Homes when convicts sexually exploited them by offering small rewards or simply by issuing threats. A senior petty officer named Shera, who suffered from syphilis and later died of it, was found to be ‘the chief, if not sole, offender’. Measures were taken to contain the epidemic. A ‘special hospital’ and ‘a well-ventilated barrack, with concrete flooring’, were built. The infected were asked to stay away from their partners; the people in the Homes were instructed to bathe frequently. And parties were sent to far-flung areas to bring syphilitic cases in for treatment. Amidst this chaos, the Great Andamanese were hit by another epidemic. Ophthalmia broke out in July 1876, leaving many islanders partially or entirely blind. In the meanwhile, syphilis began to surge. As per the Annual Report of 1876-77, 54 patients were admitted to the hospital, of whom seven died, five remained under treatment, and 32 were discharged (perhaps the rest ran away). Scores of indigenes chose to suffer alone rather than visit the settlement for medical aid. ‘Detention’, ‘discipline’ and a ‘long course of treatment’ at the hospital prompted many to flee to distant jungles. In March 1877, another deadly epidemic broke out. A batch of convicts from Madras brought measles to Ross Island. The children at the Andaman Orphanage were infected first, then the rest of the Great Andamanese. In less than a month, 100 cases thronged the hospital. Around six weeks later, 51 of 184 patients were dead. ‘At the Viper Home, 71 Andamanese were attacked and 6 died. Of the syphilitic patients, 43 were attacked and 10 died. Of the visitors in hospital, 77 were attacked and 37 died. Self-treated in the jungle, say, 350 attacked and 56 died,’ wrote E.H. Man in his Annual Report of 1876-77. Man’s report, however, had ‘considerably under-stated’ the ravage wreaked by measles. The epidemic had spread like wildfire from one end of the Great Andaman to the other, affecting all the indigenes except the (hostile) Jarawa. ‘Half, if not two-thirds, of the whole of the Andamanese in the Great Andaman died from its effects [measles and its sequelae]. All the people inhabiting the west coast of the South Andaman between Port Campbell and the Middle Straits [have] died,’ wrote the officer-in-charge of the Homes, Maurice Vidal Portman, who visited these parts three years later. The outbreak of measles among the Great Andamanese and their impending extermination were not entirely accidental. The negligence of the officer in charge of the Andaman Orphanage and the medical staff at Ross Island played a crucial role in tipping the scales.  The massive death toll at the hospital and at the Homes was unnerving for the islanders. They believed that after death people turned into spirits who might harm them. This visceral fear  turned them against the idea of the hospital. As soon as they were brought in for treatment, they thought they were ‘certain to die’. This ‘retarded’ their chances of recovery and the Great Andamanese began to die at an alarming rate. Estimated, conservatively, at 3,500 in 1858, their population depleted to 2,000 by 1883.  Rapid decline The islanders, who had thrived in their ‘inhospitable’ terrain for millennia, were suddenly being obliterated en masse by the mere touch of ‘civilisation’. Vast swathes of verdant rain forest in the Andamans, where generations of the Great Andamanese had hunted, were now devoid of human activity. Col. Thomas Cadell wrote: ‘The friendly tribes of Andamanese are, I regret much to report, rapidly dying out... Every year shows a decreasing population, the old and middle aged dying, and no children coming up to fill their places. It may safely be predicted that the friendly tribes will be extinct some thirty or fifty years hence’. The government, in its Resolution on the Annual Report for the year 1883-84, remarked: ‘The Governor General in Council noticed with regret that the friendly tribes of Andamanese are said to be dying out, but the matter appears to be one which is beyond the power of the Government to remedy’. Dying out In 1884, the British brought several islanders to the settlement for treatment. Many of them were rotting alive in the interior jungles. ‘[B]eing covered all over with sores like small-pox pustules, and the smell from their bodies was so offensive that they could not be allowed on board the steamer, but were towed in a boat some distance astern,’ described Portman. There were 11 births and 38 deaths at the Homes in 1884-85. But the newborns hardly survived. ‘I always send the women to the jungle to be confined, as the very small babies seem to thrive better there,’ wrote Portman. Even those who survived were affected by hereditary syphilis. ‘It breaks out as hip disease, about their 10th or 11th year, and this would place the date of the introduction of syphilis among the Andamanese certainly prior to 1873,’ remarked Col. Cadell. By now, almost all the men of the ‘friendly tribes’ in the South Andaman were dead. By August that year, the Great Andamanese were battling another epidemic, mumps. In 1886-87, the Homes recorded two births and 13 deaths. Five islanders died over the next year; and the year following it, wrote Portman, was ‘merely a record of sickness and deaths. 33 Andamanese died at the Homes, and there was no birth’. There were 20 deaths and no birth at the Homes in 1890. Russian Influenza broke out in the month of April and 38 indigenes, including the last member of the Rutland Island Sept, were dead by June. Towards the end of July, 16 islanders came from Long Island, bringing devastating news — barring a few indigenes at the Archipelago Islands, Mount Kunu and Jurucháng, they were the ‘only survivors’ between Port Blair (South Andaman) and Rangat (Middle Andaman). 14 canoe loads In August that year, Col. Cadell and Portman surveyed several islands. On the Stewart Sound Islands, they found that only 14 Great Andamanese had survived. A decade earlier, when Portman visited these islands, ‘14 canoe loads’ of islanders had come to meet him. ‘All the people on Rutland Island and Port Campbell are dead, and very few remain in the South Andaman and the Archipelago. The children do not survive in the very few births which do occur, and the present generation may be considered as the last of the aborigines of the Great Andaman. Even these have their constitutions to a great extent undermined by hereditary syphilis, and are unable to endure much exposure,’ remarked Portman in his Annual Report of 1890-91. With 60 deaths, 1890-91 was one of the unhealthiest years. Then, in July 1892, the Andamanese were inflicted with gonorrhoea. Over the next two years, another 50 deaths were recorded at the Homes. Now, death among the Great Andamanese had become a regular phenomenon; birth, a rarity.  On February 26, 1894, Ríala, the chief of Áka-Béa-da tribe and the oldest man in the South Andaman, passed away at 57. He was one of the last survivors who remembered the times before the British colonised the Andamans and finally pushed the islanders on the road to extinction. Mébul-pé-lá-pich, ‘the last of the South Andaman eremtaga [forest dweller]’, succeeded Ríala as chief and died shortly on March 11. Soon, Polala, the chief of Bálé, also died from a heart ailment. By now, the once fiercely independent and proud islanders were reduced to a ‘sickly remnant’. Around 245 Great Andamanese lived precariously in the Homes on the South Andaman. Besides them, no indigenes, except for the Jarawa, were left in the South Andaman. With the extermination of the elders, the Great Andamanese’s rich traditional knowledge, oral histories and languages were also gone forever. The children, born or brought up at the Homes, lost connection with their roots and never discovered the splendid past of their community. Over the decades, their numbers dwindled rapidly — 625 in 1901, 455 in 1911, 207 in 1921. And by the 1931 census, only 90 Great Andamanese were left. ‘The majority suffer from hereditary syphilis while the men are completely sterile. There are, however, a few healthy half-bred children, the result of unions between Andamanese women and the convicts,’ wrote M.C.C. Bonington, the Superintendent of Census Operations. Two years after Independence, the Great Andamanese were relocated to the tiny Bluff Island and their traditional habitats were appropriated for the settlement of refugee and migrant populations. The islanders further shrank to 19 in number by 1961. In 1969, they were relocated to the tiny Strait Island, where 56 of them now survive on government doles. Postscript As of July 16, 176 people from mainstream society have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the islands, of which 46 are active cases. The unprecedented crisis demands a speedy assessment and redress of the risks and vulnerabilities facing the PVTGs in the Andamans. Even slight negligence, as the history of the Great Andamanese extermination cautions us, could snowball into an unmanageable catastrophe. The “civilised” world has brought many disasters that the islanders have somehow endured. But if this pandemic strikes them, it will probably be the very last straw. The writer is assistant professor at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. He works with remote indigenous communities.     The islanders, who had thrived in an ‘inhospitable’ terrain for millennia, were suddenly being obliterated en masse by the mere touch of ‘civilisation’ and the resulting outbreak of epidemics   Over the decades, the numbers of the Great Andamanese dwindled rapidly. ‘The majority suffer from hereditary syphilis while the men are completely sterile,” wrote a 1931 Census official
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Ice ice baby||The clink of an ice cube in a tall glass is almost like poetry. I look at the different shapes of ice that float in a summer drink these days — stars or little rings, depending on the designs that the ice tray promises. The trays have evolved with time, as have refrigerators, which spew out ice like slot machines. But I recall the time when we had to work hard to dislodge ice cubes from a tray. We had to twist it hard, hold it under water, and then pick up the slippery ice from the floor where it would invariably land. But what we did was nothing compared to what a young man called Frederick Tudor accomplished back in the early 1800s. He transported ice from Boston to what was then Calcutta. A book called Empires of Food: Feast, Famine and the Rise and Fall of Civilizations by Evan D.G. Fraser and Andrew Rimas tells the story. The book is a fascinating account of how food, nourishment, climate change et al shaped civilisations. As Americans moved from villages to cities, food travelled too, underlining the role that ice played as preservative. “In places like New England, which possessed a wealth of frozen pond water for much of the year, ice could be cut, packed in straw, and used to preserve food from rotting on its way from the field to street,” they write. Slippery speculation Young Tudor — a Harvard drop-out and son of a Boston lawyer — realised that there was money to be made in ice. He decided to transport it to the Caribbean: “His idea was to sail a cargo of pond ice 2,000 miles to Martinique and sell it to the sweating natives.” He convinced his investors to buy a brig, and sailed off on ‘The Favourite’ with 80 tonnes of ice, evoking considerable mirth. “We hope it does not prove to be a slippery speculation,” the Boston Gazette said. The voyage was a fiasco. Most of the ice melted on the way, and there were no takers for what was left “since no one in Martinique had any idea what to do with this weird, evaporating substance.” Tudor lost $4,300, was sued and imprisoned, but didn’t give up. He was in jail for much of 1812 and 1813, but after being released, still full of pep, set off for Havana, where he built a warehouse insulated with sawdust. It’s a steal “Discontented with mere success he decided to export ice to India. This was a plan of magnificent foolhardiness. The journey from Boston to Calcutta was 15,000 miles and, barring bad weather, took four or five months.” He lost one-third of the cargo in the first Calcutta run, but the British colonists bought what was left, happy to have a cold drink at last. They even helped him build an insulated warehouse. “In return, he kept prices low, turning a profit of a mere three cents per pound, so that even the humblest colonial servant could afford a lump of ice in an afternoon cocktail. Ice was now cheaper to buy in India than in London or Paris.” The book quotes an observer as noting: “It was long before the natives could be induced to handle the crystal blocks. Tradition reports that they ran away affrighted, thinking the ice was something bewitched and fraught with danger. But now they come on board in a long line, and each of them takes a huge block of ice upon his head and conveys it to the adjacent ice house, moving with such rapidity that the blocks are exposed to the air only a few seconds. Once deposited, the waste almost ceases again, and the ice which cost in Boston four dollars a ton is worth 50 dollars.” Good for Tudor, I say, as I look at the tub of ice cream in my freezer. Kesar Pista, anyone?  The voyage was a fiasco. Most of the ice melted on the way, and there were no takers for what was left
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The past spells the future||Debates on democracy are often noisy and inconclusive, appropriately perhaps, but there is near universal agreement on its moral superiority over other forms of social organisation. David Stasavage, professor of politics at New York University, is a self-declared optimist on democracy but he is cautious of the romanticism associated with it. His new book, The Decline and Rise of Democracy , is a rich and coherent account of democracy’s evolution over millennia and across diverse geographical and environmental settings, “a deep history.” “The democracy we have today is but one potential way of organizing things,” and there could be other forms also, and the volume pays particular attention to autocracy which is often considered its antithesis. There is nothing inevitable about the birth of a democracy and there is nothing deterministic about the course of its evolution, but a long view of history allows some generalisations. People and rulers Rulers listen to the people when they need to, rather than an act of enlightenment — it could be to devise efficient mechanisms for tax collection at one point and to mobilise soldiers at another. The ruler needs the council to gather information and seek consent of the ruled, when he is weak and his powers not far-reaching. Places where an efficient bureaucracy took root earlier on turned out to be less hospitable for democracy — China and Islamic West Asia being the living examples. The Communist Party of China or the Islamic ideology cannot be linked to the present-day organisation of these societies in any absolute terms. Islam had consultation as an elementary component of its faith but early Islamic empire builders inherited strong bureaucracies that made resource extraction and exercise of power easy in the lands they freshly conquered. They did not need councils. The CCP built on the long tradition of bureaucratic control over people in China. After the revolutionary takeover of the state, Mao Zedong declared that “our present task is to strengthen the people’s state apparatus.” Technological advancements that reinforce bureaucratic authority can be inimical to democracy in certain situations. The historically diffused nature of its social organisation, its ‘king and council’ template, was the differentiator that made Europe fertile for the seeds of modern democracy. It is here that representative democracy takes its current form. Commercial vibrancy and democracy are not necessarily correlated, with China and Islamic empires offering illustrations. There is also no empirical evidence historically to validate the suggestion that democracy creates wealth or wealth creates democracies. When France turned into a democracy with the Third Republic in 1870, its per capita income was around the same as that of Tanzania today. As for creating wealth, democracies and autocracies both have advantages and disadvantages. Poor countries have become democracies too, and India is a forceful example. The village councils as an institution survived many empires that created prototypes of a central authority occasionally. A resistance to centralisation continued and that helped the survival of Indian democracy. What happened in America Europeans transplanted to the Americas, where no form of state existed, to build a robust form of democracy. Land was in abundance, labour was in shortage, and there was no apparatus of state control. The only means of forming a community was allowing participation of everyone. Classical ideas and medieval experiments in democracy in Europe had the perfect setting for growth and evolution in America. Suffrage was the most expansive in America — but still it was only restricted to white males. It would take several centuries before African Americans — brought as slaves to create a labour class that did not have political options — could get equal voting rights. Chiselled and formatted in the U.S., modern democracy circulated back to Europe and other parts of the world, but this by no means should obscure the fact that democracies existed in many societies in antiquity, including what is present day Bihar in India. Mass redistribution An old elite worry that democracy might force mass redistribution of wealth has turned out be unfounded. In fact, democracy has not even resulted in any massive reduction in inequality. In recent years, representative democracy has raised fresh concerns of trust and concentration of executive power. Altogether, this volume is an unsentimental and rigorous analysis of democracy drawn from the author’s engagement with the topic over two decades. “In the end, China is not a deviation from the European pattern of political development; it is simply a different path that has its own logic to it and may well stay that way,” he says, in a suggestion that might not please democratic evangelists. The author is also critical of what passes of as democracy these days. “Instead of only asking whether democracy will survive, we need to also ask whether we will be satisfied with the democracy that does survive.” Democracy is facing its biggest threat in history, in the fresh wave of unprecedented technological progress. This volume helps us look into the future, and one might be unsettled by what can be seen.  The Decline and Rise of Democracy: A Global History from Antiquity to Today David Stasavage Princeton University Press  Rs. 1,592 (Kindle price)     As for creating wealth, democracies and autocracies both have advantages and disadvantages
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Parallel lions||Starting 2 p.m. on June 5, some 1,400 forest personnel, armed with binoculars, cameras and spreadsheets fanned out across dry deciduous and thorny scrub forests, fields and villages in and around Gujarat’s Gir National Park to count the world’s only remaining Asiatic lion population. The survey was over in 24 hours. And within the next few days the tally was announced. The lion population, said the State forest department, had increased significantly by 29%, from 523 five years ago to 674. The department also said that the big cat’s distribution had increased to 30,000 sq.km. from 22,000 sq.km., covering nine districts in Saurashtra. All this despite the scourge of the canine distemper virus (CDV) outbreak in 2018 that killed 36 lions. This heartening news about the Asiatic lion — an animal that was once close to extinction — was celebrated widely; ‘Kudos to the people of Gujarat and all those whose efforts have led to this excellent feat,’ the Prime Minister tweeted. But very soon, scientists raised questions: how do you count lions across thousands of square kilometres in 24 hours? How do you analyse and arrive at a figure in a matter of days? Is it not time that the census method — the block count method — used for decades, was upgraded to test newer techniques? COVID impact This year, the COVID-19 lockdown changed a few things. For instance, the wildlife experts who usually take part in this exercise could not do so, and it was carried out exclusively by the forest department; and second, the number of survey days was cut down from three to one. These, however, are not the only reasons why wildlife biologist Ravi Chellam, CEO, Metastring Foundation, who has spent decades studying Gir’s lions, believes the census numbers are unreliable. He cites several other reasons too. “The scientific way of doing a census is to be transparent and open to peer review. Here, the method was not described in detail, the raw data not shared, the approach to analysis is not known and no independent individual is involved.” Moreover, the survey lasted just 24 hours, “and just days later, like magic, a number was produced. The actual number could be less or more — at best it is a guesstimate,” he says. The fact that 1,400 people participated in this exercise could create ‘observer bias,’ says Chellam. “One person’s ability to observe will differ from the next person’s. One person’s training and competence is going to differ from the next. It is best to have a small and dedicated set of people who devise a scientific way of doing the count.” Counting lions is no mean feat. Unlike tigers and leopards, lions do not have distinct coat patterns that camera traps can easily capture to help identify individuals. In the case of lions, trackers must study their faces closely — especially the unique whisker spot pattern or ‘vibrissae pattern’, which is as good a distinguisher as stripe patterns for tigers and rosette patterns for leopards. Scratch marks or other scars are good markers too. New method needed For over two decades, wildlife experts have been proposing newer methods to arrive at lion population sizes. In several papers since 1999, Y.V. Jhala, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India, has argued that a way to avoid double counts would be to differentiate individual animals though whisker spots and permanent body markings. When clubbed with a method called ‘spatially explicit density capture and recapture,’ where the density of lions in an area can be evaluated based on the presence of prey, the population can be better estimated. The current method used by the Gujarat forest department monitors lions that visit watering holes. Experts say this could grossly under-count or over-count the animals; possibly counting the same lion multiple times. A better method, experts say, would be to photograph lions, survey habitats, and calculate the probability of finding lions at distances from designated spots: for instance, watering holes, the site of a carcass, or areas where deer and other prey abound. While the Gujarat forest department’s methodology is one that has been used consistently over decades, “one should always be open to testing new techniques, such as mark and recapture based on camera traps, even if it means more human resources and money,” says Meena Venkataraman, a wildlife biologist who researches the Asiatic lion. “What is amazing is that we have achieved this for tigers, who span such a diverse set of habitats across the country. For lions too, it could well be possible. We want the best way to look at how our lions are doing; a powerful alternate monitoring protocol.” Dozens of deaths Another matter of concern for scientists are the recent lion deaths in Gir. As many as 92 lions reportedly died of unnatural causes this year. A team of representatives from the government, the Wildlife Institute of India, the National Tiger Conservation Authority and the Indian Veterinary Institute visited Gir in the last week of May but could not ascertain the exact cause of death. The State government vehemently denied the presence of CDV. A former IFS officer termed the State forest department’s failure to get the samples of dead lions investigated as “criminal negligence,” but Shyamal Tikadar, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and chief wildlife warden of Gujarat, said that samples could not be sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune due to the lockdown. “We need to know where these lions died, if they are part of the same pride, we need to rule out CDV,” says Chellam. Venkataraman believes that the focus on numbers distracts from the real picture. “The census just gives a number and a number is nothing. Scientists need to address new conservation challenges such as disease ecology and issues outside the protected area. We also need an understanding of lion ecology to devise conservation management strategies, and to get clues into their health, behaviour, prey-base and movement in human-dominated landscapes.” Chellam agrees: “The census should ideally be part of a long-term population monitoring programme conducted over years — not just to get numbers, but to get a much deeper understanding of the animal. After all, we are talking about the only lions in all of Asia.” With inputs from Jacob Koshy.  Unlike tigers and leopards, lions do not have distinct coat patterns that camera traps can easily capture to help identify individuals
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Red is the cruellest colour||Joginder Paul (1925-2016) was one among the league of progressive writers from the pre-Partition period who survived long after the icons of the movement were gone. Born in Sialkot, now in Pakistan, he was 22 when Partition happened, shaping his world view. Despite being forced to leave his motherland and later getting a degree in English literature and teaching it, he continued to hold Urdu close to his heart. He is considered one of the greatest Urdu novelists of the 20th century. Aik Boond Lahoo Ki, published in Karachi in August 1962, launched his career. It has now been translated into English by Snehal Shingavi, who has translations of Premchand and Bhisham Sahni to his credit. Being a member of the Progressive Writers’ Association, it was but natural for Paul to write about class conflict and its impact on society. A Drop of Blood pivots around a jobless young graduate, Mohan Karan, an orphan who lives with a destitute old woman. Karan sells his blood to survive. He lands up in the house of a rich man, Dr. Bakhtiyar, who is in constant need of the rare blood type he shares with Karan. He is hired for his ‘services’. He is similarly exploited when he gets close to his neighbour, Ragini, the wife of a well-heeled old hakeem, and Zahra, Dr. Bakhtiyar’s young daughter. Paul creates the binary of two classes, one represented by Karan and the other by Dr. Bakhtiyar, making up the underdog and the exploiter. Paul had dedicated the original Urdu novel to the times he was living in: “To this very active era, which, with a very complacent indifference, is engaged in the trade of blood of human beings.” This is the crux: blood is an extended metaphor for exploitation in this scathing satire. The Urdu text has a prominent Punjabi lilt (Paul was Punjabi-speaking) both in terms of dialogue and the milieu it creates. The characters’ classes are determined by the shades of the language they speak. It is challenging to translate those nuances, but Shingavi has handled the task well. The reviewer is a Lahore-based journalist and poet.  A Drop of Blood Joginder Paul, trs Snehal Shingavi  Penguin Modern Classics  Rs. 319 (Kindle price)
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A game in black and white||Will the upper-caste hegemony accept that “chess was not created by some obscure brahmin in a raja’s court as a game to idle time away”? What really are the origins of chess? Nihshanka Debroy attempts to explore these promising questions in his debut novel. Most readers, however, will decode all the answers in the very first chapter, stripping the thriller of any suspense. Intended to be historical fiction, the narrative alternates between two time periods and locations — present-day Delhi and 5th century central India. The dateline is repeated at the beginning of all 27 chapters, signalling the author’s mistrust of his readers’ intelligence. Or is it mistrust of his craft? An estranged daughter is forced to return to the country after her father’s death to take care of his unfinished business — both professional and personal. As she follows the trail of her multiple-Swiss-bank-accounts holding father’s last days, she also has to keep two sinking ships — her company in the U.S. and her father’s in Delhi — afloat. Because the author repeatedly tells and doesn’t show , he fails to evoke any empathy for the protagonist. Overwrought descriptions, filled with cardinal directions, numerical dimensions and material possessions, drag the narrative down. Debroy’s disregard of the politics of language, however, is Checkmate’s biggest flaw. His villains are foreign, meat-eating savages with yellow teeth and thick coils of hair who “bark harsh sounds that one could not tell apart”. The whitest pebble is anointed king and black pebbles are considered the enemy. All women — a gang-raped monk, an intelligent princess, and a courtesan — in ancient India seem to have just one attribute: they are beautiful and have a slender nose/ neck. Insults like “My mother can fight better than you” are sexist and lines like “Just as beauty can be a curse for a woman, bountiful riches have doomed our land” are unpardonable. Debroy redeems himself somewhat in his treatment of the fight sequences in the 5th century sections, but that, alas, is too short a reprieve.  Checkmate  Nihshanka Debroy  Westland  Rs. 399
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Armed conflict and the bitter inheritance of trauma||Images of roads blocked with coils of concertina wire, protesters left blind by pellets, militants’ bombs tearing lives apart, mothers at police stations awaiting news of their sons have emanated from Kashmir with disturbing regularity. Years of militancy and large-scale militarisation have taken a toll on the mental health of generations of Kashmiris. Last August, when Jammu & Kashmir was stripped of its statehood after the withdrawal of special status under Article 370 and a tight shutdown imposed, the isolation was complete. Over the years, there have been several books on the dispute, including Radha Kumar’s political history, Paradise at War, David Devadas’ The Generation of Rage in Kashmir , on the stone-pelters and their anger, Basharat Peer’s Curfewed Night about the civilian-military-separatist tangle, Rahul Pandita’s Our Moon has Blood Clots on the Pandits who lost their homes, and A Desolation called Peace , a collection of ethnographic essays on the people’s aspirations edited by Ather Zia and Javaid Iqbal Bhatt. To the tomes on the Valley, add Sahba Husain’s Love, Loss, and Longing in Kashmir which chronicles the social impact of prolonged armed conflict. Husain, an independent researcher and women’s right activist, spent the last two decades travelling across the State, listening to the people. If the large-scale troops in Jammu & Kashmir to crush the insurgency that began in 1989 have had far reaching consequences for the people, Husain discovered early on in Kashmir “that the pledge of the aggrieved is never to forget...” Insurgency, aftermath Her brief as a researcher was to examine the psychological impact of violence on people’s daily lives. She talked to men and women about “the loss of loved ones, prolonged suffering, grief, stress, the unforeseen hardships, and the intense trauma.” A common refrain she heard was that when people left home in the morning they were not sure whether they would return alive. Husain begins her book with the experience of Kashmiri Pandits who had to flee the Valley when militancy began. She visited the camps for displaced Pandits in Jammu. She met the small population that had stayed behind in the Valley who felt that the government had forgotten about them. She also recounts the story of Parveena Ahangar of Batmaloo in Srinagar whose 16-year-old son was picked up by security forces in 1990. “Kashmir is beautiful, but it is full of pain and grief,” she tells Husain and explains why an Association for the Parents of the Disappeared Persons had to be set up. “Parveena’s life, like that of hundreds of other Kashmiri women who have lost a son, a husband, a brother, a father, has been dramatically transformed from that of an ordinary home-maker to an active campaigner and fighter for justice,” writes Husain. Women participated in large numbers when militancy began in Kashmir. In the chapter titled, ‘The Other Face of Azadi’, Husain looks at women in the movement and the impact on their lives. Stress factor A senior psychiatrist told her that more than two-thirds of the population suffered from chronic psychological disorders. Doctors say all age groups are now exposed to post traumatic stress disorder, unlike before 1990 when only those over 40-45 would come with complaints of high blood pressure, hypertension and heart ailments. “In an environment where the threat of violence followed everyone like a shadow, doctors found that children were particularly vulnerable,” she writes, displaying “behavioural disorders, ranging from a state of fearfulness, crying, irritability and refusal to be left alone.” A district block medical officer recalls his daughter was four years old when the violence erupted, and would throw up at the sound of firing which continued even after she turned 10. International mental health experts have said that Kashmir is one of the most traumatised war zones in the world. Husain’s thorough enquiry confirms that the anxiety has only deepened.  Love, Loss, and Longing in Kashmir Sahba Husain Zubaan  Rs. 595
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1Born on July 19, 1894, American physicist Percy Spencer was one of the world’s leading experts in radar technology. One day while working on combat radar equipment he noticed that the candy bar in his pocket had melted. He then put in another item which subsequently popped, releasing the moisture inside. He went on to patent his invention which has now become a staple feature in modern kitchens. What did he invent, thanks to this accidental discovery, and what was the first food item he experimented on, something we make even today? 2Alfred Fielding and Marc Chavannes were attempting to create 3D plastic wallpaper in 1957. That idea failed but they discovered that the item had another useful quality to it. The item is made with polyethylene film with a shaped side bonded to a flat side which resulted in a shape that gives this entity its name. Due to this shape it provides a cushioning effect to sensitive objects. What is this entity that many people take much pleasure in just destroying, one by one? 3Benzoic sulfimide is an artificial sweetener with effectively no food energy. Russian Chemist Constantin Fahlberg was analysing the chemical compounds in coal tar. One day he forgot to wash his hands after an experiment and had lunch. He was surprised by the unusual sweet taste of the bread he was eating. In 1884 he went on to patent it and nowadays it’s used to artificially sweeten drinks, candies, cookies, and medicines. How better do we know this sweet sounding compound? 4In 1974 Arthur Fry was figuring out a way to hold bookmarks in his hymnals while singing in the church choir. He remembered a talk by his colleague Spencer Silver about a unique adhesive he had accidentally developed that was strong enough to cling to objects but weak enough to allow for a temporary bond. What million dollar business did Fry develop, which has stuck around for decades in offices and schools? 5George Crum was a chef at Moon’s Lake House in New York. Legend has it that his sister chipped off a piece of a vegetable which fell into a pan of fat. She fished it out with a fork and set it down upon a plate beside her. Her brother tasted it, declared it good, and said, “We’ll have plenty of these.” He then popularised it at his hotel. What accidental discovery was this which started a multi-million dollar industry based around a single vegetable? 6In 1889, two doctors, Oskar Minkowski and Josef von Mering, were trying to understand how the pancreas affected digestion. To experiment they removed the organ from a dog and few days later saw an unusual sight — flies swarming around the dog’s urine. This led them to understand that they had given the animal a disease which eventually led to another duo discovering how to treat it. What condition did the dog develop? 7Charles ____ had been unsuccessfully trying for years to make a certain compound useful. One day in 1839 he accidentally dropped a piece of the compound covered with sulphur on to a stove. Instead of becoming charred it became a heat resistant, waterproof substance. He patented it the same year and formed a company that till this day is built on that discovery. What was his full name and what compound was this which led to Charles having a very good 1839? 8Chemist Harry Coover Jr. was experimenting with acrylates and accidentally made a very sticky batch. One day his colleague Fred Joyner spread some of it between two lenses. The lenses could not be separated and was deemed a waste of expensive lab equipment. Coover though saw the potential and sold the sticky substance with a name that refers to it having extraordinary powers. What did he discover? 9French scientist Edouard Benedictus was climbing a ladder to access a shelf when he accidentally knocked a glass flask that had been filled with a solution of cellulose nitrate (a type of liquid plastic). It broke and the liquid evaporated, but the pieces of glass maintained the shape of the container. He realised that the plastic coating helped the glass stay together. This was in 1903, and a recent invention on the roads used normal glass. What did Benedictus introduce which made travelling so much safer? 10Chemist Robert Chesebrough was on an oil rig when the workers told him about a substance known as ‘rod wax’ that constantly got into the machines and caused them to malfunction. He also noticed that the workers used it to soothe cuts and burns on their skin. Further experimentation led to a product that is now found in skin creams, soaps, lotions and cleansers. What did he find? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking to equals||Children are discerning consumers. They have an instinctive sense of what works and what doesn’t, and they have no hesitation in saying something is boring. So if you’ve tried to get your kids to watch or listen to something that you believe is ‘good for them’, while there’s a small chance they may suffer it in silence, it’s more likely they will simply switch off and walk away. It’s the same with podcasts. There’s a mistaken notion that children are an ‘easy’ audience, for whom such details as production values and innovative narrative techniques do not matter too much. Just throw a good story at them and they’ll lap it up, we think. But quite the contrary. As experience with television and cinema — and that older medium, print — has shown, creating content that will engage children at multiple levels is quite a challenge. With children at home and parents at their wits’ end wondering how to keep them occupied and away from screens, some have turned to the podverse. Practically every podcast company has something for children, mostly straightforward re-tellings of classic tales or original stories with a strong value education component. For instance, there’s Raa Raa Storytime (Tamil) and Eashwari’s Stories for Children (Telugu) from Suno India and Kini aur Nani ki Kahaaniya (Hindi) from IVM and the popular Baalgatha series of classic tales. While the stories themselves are quite charming, they tend to fall short in sound design and presentation, rarely going beyond the style of narration one might expect from a loving grandparent. Variety fare In the English language market, however, there is much more variety, ranging from storytelling to science to history and health. Some of the shows available on Pinna.fm (a subscription service) take children’s storytelling to different level, mixing in irreverent questions and creating opportunities for children to think about even familiar tales in a new light. The series Grim, Grimmer, Grimmest , hosted by Adam Gidwitz, for instance, presents live recordings of sessions with children talking back and into the stories. I was engrossed as Gidwitz performed Rumplestiltskin , warning the children that some parts of the story might get quite ‘weird’ and if they felt uncomfortable they could ‘turn down the volume and count to five... you know how much gross and scary you can take....’ The most innovative genre in kids’ programming however is science, with RadioLab, NPR and American Public Media all offering some excellent programming for family listening. Brains on One parent pointed me to Brains on , a series for children 3-12 that deals with some really complex stuff in a fun way without talking down to the audience. Recent episodes tackle questions like ‘why do kids have more energy than adults?’ and ‘why does green mean go?’ with children joining host Molly Bloom in figuring out the answers. There’s also the tongue-in-cheek history podcast You’re Dead to Me (BBC Radio4) aimed at ‘people who don’t like history’ as well as David Williams’ Marvelous Musical Podcast, which won a Great British Podcasts Award this year in the Best Family Podcast category. What makes some of these podcasts engaging is that they talk to children as equals, rather than ‘talking down’ to them, and in many cases involve them in the conversation. They are produced with the same attention to detail and finesse as any adult-facing podcast, recognising that they’re playing to a very critical audience — that can get easily distracted! The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Game’s up||After years of simmering controversy over sexism in the video game industry, change may be on its way after outrage came to a boil with a C-suite massacre at Ubisoft. Following online allegations of sexual misconduct, the publisher of Assassin’s Creed and Far Cry launched a probe, resulting in the departure over the weekend of the company’s chief creative officer. The head of human resources also left, as did the chief of operations in Canada where the game maker has its biggest studios. CEO and co-founder Yves Guillemot acknowledged that “Ubisoft has fallen short in its obligation to guarantee a safe and inclusive workplace environment for its employees.” The ousters were a high-profile victory for the #metoo movement in the male-dominated video game publishing industry that has a reputation for hostility towards women. Accusations on social media of sexual harassment have targeted a number of video game publishers, as well as people in the gaming community. In 2014, two prominent women developers became targets of an online harassment campaign known as gamergate, seen as a backlash to growing pressure about sexism. Women Ubisoft employees described the work culture at the company as “toxic”, particularly in its Canadian studios. One woman said that “working on Far Cry cost me two burnouts, psychological and sexual harassment and humiliation, and human resources never bothered to listen to me.” One employee said on social media that shortly after arriving at Ubisoft a team leader told her she was hired because she was “cute” but that “to everyone's surprise you do your job well”. She discovered a mailing list where men describe what women are wearing “so guys can go take a look”. She received comments about her looks and unwelcome invitations from superiors. One employee put the blame on the “work hard, play hard” culture inside the company. “That is where one creates a climate that is not safe, where inhibitions are lowered and people engage in predatory behaviour.” On Ubisoft’s creative teams only one in five employees are women. Isabelle Collet, a French researcher who has long studied the issue in the IT industry overall, said “getting more women requires a willingness to better welcome them”. Collet said, “Video game publishers today are real companies that should have real tools against harassment.” There has been some change in the representation of women in the games themselves. In the successful Lara Croft game, the heroine morphed from excessively voluptuous and scantily-clad to a more normal body covered by clothes appropriate for her adventures. “Many games are now without stereotypes, but some still engage in them extensively, and that usually includes a hypersexualistion of bodies,” said Lignon. “Women are slender and well proportioned, men have more varied builds but most are young and athletic. We end up with a vision similar to that presented by other media like advertising,” she added. On the other hand, Lignon pointed to Ubisoft’s 2018 Assassin’s Creed Odyssey for offering users choices of women characters with real bodies of warriors. “We’re seeing more women characters emerge that are a bit ‘badass’,” she said. Yet, the Abby in the game The Last of Us Part 2 released in June has kicked up controversy about her “unrealistic” body for a woman — illustrating that some gamer stereotypes remain entrenched. — AFP
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Colour and caste||As an Indian living in the U.S., I found that one could not be dismissive of the protests against the killing of George Floyd by a police officer. Caricaturing the protests as an excuse for violence and suggesting that there is no evidence of “systemic racism” in the U.S. is like saying India never had a caste system. Blacks have been systematically oppressed, from the very conception of the U.S. That methodical oppression has become a systemic problem today. Many Indians are relatively more privileged in the U.S., though it is a fact that they too face racism here. Many of them moved to America leaving behind discrimination in their home country. It is not always comfortable for them to deal with the social issues of this country that resonates with the caste system in India. I find that my role as a relatively privileged brown Indian American is to acknowledge the problems of this country and help elevate the voices of blacks. That means setting aside my opinions and biases, having uncomfortable conversations, and admitting mistakes. People like me have a head start on my black peers simply because of the colour of the skin. These issues are deeply rooted in the American system and need to be addressed head-on, no matter how uncomfortable change can be. The people who report these events play a pivotal role in presenting the right facts and in helping all of us find our roles in society. Much like caste in India, race is a deeply rooted and complex issue in American culture. Both countries have to eliminate these ugly realities, and the role of the media becomes critical to help address them appropriately. The legal system has de-funded black communities with disturbing regularity. Hence, blacks are deprived of opportunities and resources. Another aspect of systematic racial discrimination in America is that blacks arrested for much smaller crimes such as possession of marijuana and shoplifting are given prison sentences for up to 15 years. The Black Lives Matter protests, as the news coverage shows, were largely peaceful. The peaceful protesters outnumbered rioters 10 to one. No one condones violence, but the riots had a reason: blacks have reached a breaking point after years of oppression and persecution. In 2014, Eric Garner, another black man, was killed in almost the same manner as Floyd was. Elijah Mclain and Breonna Taylor are other victims whose lives were unnecessarily taken by the police. Mclain was arrested for no probable cause based on a phone call and injected with twice the normal dose of sedative, which killed him on August 24, 2019. Breonna Taylor was in her home sleeping when the police burst through her front door and shot her eight times. Thus, the protests were significant to highlight racial injustice. The protests all around the U.S. played a pivotal role to highlight the real problems that the black community faces every day in the U.S. It is time to listen to their voices and learn our role in their fight. tejatgt@gmail.com
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The secret sauce in the street fare||Have you ever relished golgappe at a restaurant or mall? I am sure, you never liked the taste and got the thrill which you get at eating from a street vendor. That rustic charm, though without much hygiene, has its own mystique. Piping hot aloo ki tikiya with sonth and paanak and imli ki chatni (tamarind sauce) at Chandni Chowk, Sarojini Nagar and Shahadara are tastier than having the stuff at a restaurant at upmarket Chanakyapuri or Greater Kailash in New Delhi. There is a proverb in Hindi: Aap ruchi khana, par ruchi pahan-na (Eat to your heart’s content, wear what others approve). One always loves to eat in a relaxed and unhurried manner. An Urdu proverb articulates it well: Dastar pe jaldbaazi qatai nahin karni chahiye (One should never be in a hurry on a dining table). I still remember the out-of-the-world sarson da saag with makki di roti at an open field at Firozpur, Punjab in 2006. The dollops of ghee added to the aroma, and the same dish at a star hotel will be dull fare. The ingredients, condiments and taste you get at a dhaba or a roadside joint are hard to get at a stylish joint. Moreover, the spoon and fork take away the remaining mojo of the food. How can people eat meat and fish with a fork? How will you de-bone a fish fillet or a tangdi kabab? According to the legendary English chef Gordon Ramsay, most of the delicacies in the world are meant to be eaten with fingers to relish them to a T. A well-cooked piece of baby-pink salmon tastes best when eaten with fingers. Let the snooty people look at you sardonically. Eat salmon, trout or haddock with fingers. Tell me, can you enjoy one of the finest delicacies in the world Sorshe Ilish (Hilsa in mustard) with a fork and spoon? Impossible. “It’s like caressing a lovely child's chubby cheeks with gloves on,” said American actor Rita Hayworth when served Hilsa in mustard with a fork and spoon at Kolkata’s Great Eastern Hotel. Food has a direct relation to physical and mental well-being. It should therefore be taken in a manner devoid of any frills. To enjoy food, one shouldn’t be fussy and fastidious. sumitmaclean@hotmail.com
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The goodness of being||Even the title of the book by the young historian, Rutger Bregman, is a play on the word ‘kind,’ proclaiming its intent to establish human beings as inherently good and generous. According to Bregman, nurture rather than nature accounts for the ‘occasional’ bad behaviour of human beings. They are not, he tells us, the warring creatures of Hobbes’ Leviathan , still less the egoistical individuals of Adam Smith’s Wealth of Nations whose actions are driven entirely by self-interest. Hatred to love Humans are altruistic and trusting and care about others, he argues, and rarely wish to kill each other. What ought to have emerged from World War I was not its unprecedented savagery but the reluctance of soldiers on opposing sides to kill each other. He establishes from military records that soldiers were often reluctant to fire their guns and sometimes deliberately missed their targets. But for Bregman, how many would know about the improbable and spontaneous ceasefire of 1914 that, at Christmas time, brought the Germans and allied troops together in celebration, singing Christmas songs, exchanging gifts and even meeting up with each other? As he tells us, “Hatred can be transformed into friendship and bitter foes can shake hands. That’s something we can believe — not because we’re naïve, but because it really happened.” Myth and fact It would have been easy to dismiss Humankind , as another ‘feel-good’ book in the market. The mass of verifiable references he furnishes to buttress the points he makes, however, is irrefutable and convincing. He also has a sharp eye for the influence of literature on conditioning our minds and he busts long-held beliefs that are more myth than fact. One of them, which had more or less established that boys left alone, as those in William Golding’s celebrated novel, Lord of the Flies, would turn on each other murderously is not what happened in real life. To prove his point, Bregman gives the example of the survivors of a group of boys shipwrecked for long on a deserted Pacific island. Rather than turn on each other they had all kept themselves in harmony until rescued by a passing ship. We humans have a miserable capacity to think the worst of ourselves, Bregman tells us, when all through history it is the less discussed decent side of humanity that has asserted itself — often in the grimmest of situations. Bregman’s book is an entertaining work, which even hard-nosed publications such as the Economist and the Financial Times agree is serious history. Perhaps Bregman downplays the rotten aspect of human behaviour. However, in telling us about the good side, he brings to the fore an almost unrecorded aspect of human behaviour we need to know about but do not. The reviewer teaches in IISc, Bengaluru.  Humankind: A Hopeful History Rutger Bregman Bloomsbury  Rs. 699
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The noodle theory||Isn’t it fascinating how food somehow plays a catalytic role in almost every socio-political discourse in our country? From the kind of meat one is ‘allowed’ to eat, to the rather banal debate often centred around the North’s roti reverence versus the South’s obsession with rice, we’ve been spectators to it all. But none perhaps more contentious than what we know, love and yes, paradoxically hate, as ‘Chinese food’. A cuisine that we’ve ingeniously co-opted to form a hybrid in the form of our coriander leaf and garam masala-redolent Chindian food. In 2012, a khap panchayat in Haryana’s Jind district blamed the consumption of chow mein for the growing incidents of rape in India. Yes, try chewing on that indigestible titbit. The most recent salvo against the cuisine was fired by Union Minister Ramdas Athawale, who called for a boycott of “Chinese food”, demanding that restaurants serving it be banned. All this vilification, notwithstanding the fact that chow mein is probably as Chinese as chaat! Or that another Chindian staple, chicken Manchurian, was invented in Mumbai in the late 1970s by Nelson Wang, a third-generation Chinese chef born in Kolkata. What’s interesting, however, is that we in India have had a tryst with Chinese cuisine way before dishes like chow mein and chicken Manchurian entered our local culinary lexicon. Unbeknownst to us and thanks to ancient international trade routes like the Silk Road and to the Chinese Buddhist scholar Xuanzang, who travelled extensively around India in the 7th century, Chinese cuisine has lent us several regional noodle and dumpling iterations. Much like it has to Italy’s celebrated pasta repertoire, something many believe to be a direct result of 13th-century cultural appropriation by the famous Italian explorer Marco Polo. Speaking of Italy, we may as well set the record straight about the whole which-came-first-the-pasta-or-the-noodle conundrum. Irrefutable evidence in the form of a 4,000-year-old bowl of millet noodles unearthed at an archaeological settlement in the Laija region of Northwest China has proved that most forms of noodles and dumplings — be they rolled, pulled, cut or extruded — have indeed come to the world from China. Super-fine hybrids And that is also how one of India’s most beloved and popular vermicelli-like dried noodles — seviyan or semiya — came into being. Adapted from Italian vermicelli, also called angel hair pasta or minutelli (which was itself adapted in the 14th century from an ancient Chinese super-fine rice noodle called mai fun), this rice noodle is used in both sweet preparations like sheer khorma and payasam and in savoury ones like upma. The slightly fatter and freshly extruded idiyappam or noolputtu, as it is known in Kerala and Tamil Nadu respectively, is another hybrid rice noodle that is steamed in coils and eaten with both sweet and savoury (think egg curry) accompanying dishes. Similarly, the translucent corn or arrowroot-starch noodles found at the bottom of a glass of falooda came to India from Iran — another pivotal country on the Silk Road — where they are called faloodeh. The North Indian sweet called sutarpheni is another rice-based noodle of Chinese origin that was introduced to India by way of the Turkish, who call it pismaniye. It is by turning our attention to lesser known, more regional varieties of Indian noodles and dumplings — particularly in the high north and northeast of the country — that we see how well the original Chinese ones have been adapted and assimilated into the culinary milieu. Take, for instance, the steamed Shanghainese nian gao rice dumplings made from dense rolls of pounded glutinous rice. In both Ladakh and Spiti, the kyu made from wheat dough and cooked in a warming stew along with yak meat is a popular dumpling and a dead ringer for the nian gao. Chutagi, another Ladakhi dumpling that came to the region via the Silk Road from Central Asia, is a bow-tie shaped dumpling (much like the Italian farfalle pasta) used in a soup that is made from meat and vegetables and similar to a thukpa. Ladakhi cuisine is also known for its sweet dumpling called pakchel mirku that is cooked into a warming dessert along with ghee and dried yak cheese called churrpi. Assam too has its own version of the Chinese bee tai bak (rat tail) rice noodle that takes the form of anguli pitha. Named after the pinky finger (anguli) that they resemble, these extruded rice dumplings are eaten as a teatime snack when cooked with onions, green chillies and tomatoes. The chushi and jhinuk pitha originally from east Bengal are further examples of dried rice flour-based dumplings that can be reconstituted by adding them either to a savoury curry or a creamy, milk-based payesh. Versatile dumplings This sweet-savoury adaptability is also one of the chief characteristics of the tiny ring-like dried dumplings called sarvale. Found in the cooking of Goan Muslims, sarvale are either boiled and served with a topping of scrambled eggs for breakfast or as yet another kheer-like thickened milk dessert. Substituting dairy for the thick, first extract of coconut milk is the delicious coastal Maharashtrian noodle dessert called ‘naralyachya dudhache shiravlya’ where rice noodles are cooked with the coconut milk along with sugar and cardamom and served during festivals like Ganesh Chaturthi. While most of China’s noodle and dumpling varieties are made from either rice, corn or wheat, there are a few made from legumes like the mung bean cellophane noodle called fen si. Interestingly, Indian dumpling adaptations — particularly in regions like Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh — seem to focus on these. With its glossy surface speckled with tempered black mustard seeds and a scattering of freshly grated coconut and coriander leaves, the Gujarati khandvi made from a mixture of gram flour and buttermilk is also spread on a flat surface to set before being rolled up into bite-sized morsels, much like the Cantonese dim sum dumpling called cheung fun. Again in Gujarat, the wheat-based dumplings of dal dhokli that are submerged in a spiced lentil stew are another example of adaptation. As are other regional Rajasthani dishes like the chickpea flour dumpling strip-based besan chilla ki subzi and Varanasi’s sui mai-meets-ravioli-like wheat pockets called dal ka dulha. Wonder what Marco Polo and Xuanzang would have made (pun intended!) of these? The Mumbai-based writer and restaurant reviewer is passionate about food, travel and luxury, not necessarily in that order.  The Chindian staple Chicken Manchurian was invented in Mumbai in the late 1970s by Nelson Wang, a third-generation Chinese chef born in Kolkata
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||No escape||North’s three-spade cue bid just showed a good hand — not necessarily a diamond fit. It gave South some slam interest and he was happy to play in either minor. North chose diamonds. South won the opening spade lead with his ace and saw that he had to hold his club losers to one if he hoped to make his contract. He got started right away by leading a low club at trick two. He intended to finesse dummy’s 10. This was reasonably safe as West might have led a singleton club if he had one. Even so, king-jack-fourth of clubs in the East hand would probably defeat him. That changed when West played the king, which South captured with dummy’s ace. South cashed the king and queen of diamonds, learning that West started with four diamonds to go with his presumed six spades. West’s likely starting shape was 6-2-4-1. Declarer led a heart to his king and ruffed his last spade. He cashed dummy’s jack of diamonds and crossed to his hand with the queen of hearts to draw the last trump. West had the expected shape, so East’s hand was easy to count. East had started with 4-4-1-4 distribution and was now down to jack doubleton in both hearts and clubs. South could just play the ace and another in either one of those suits to endplay East and force him to lead the other one. Nicely played!
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Short-lived||The statue of a Black Lives Matter demonstrator, Jen Reid, was placed in the spot where the toppled Edward Colston figure stood in Bristol. The sculptor, Marc Quinn, had been working with Reid since the demonstrations to create a likeness of her with raised fist. Reid’s statue was placed without the city authority’s knowledge but to much public acclaim. It was, however, subsequently removed by the administration.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Varavara Rao hospitalised||The 81-year-old revolutionary poet from Hyderabad, Varavara Rao, was finally taken to Mumbai’s JJ Hospital from Taloja Central Jail after several appeals to authorities about his deteriorating health. He has since tested positive for COVID-19. After a phone call during which Rao sounded incoherent, his wife and daughters, historian Romila Thapar, the Human Rights Forum, and several young poets wrote letters to the government asking for medical care for Rao. The poet-critic-activist has been in prison for two years without trial after being arrested for his alleged role in the Elgar Parishad case.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Gapping the bridge||Part of the newly built Rs. 263.7-crore Sattarghat Bridge, which crosses the Gandak River in Gopalganj, Bihar, reportedly collapsed when heavy rainfall caused the water level to rise, a month after it was inaugurated by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar with much fanfare. Opposition leaders lashed out, although officials said the damage was only to an approach road located 2 km from the bridge.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Mathemagic||Interest rode high onShakuntala Devi — The True Story of India’s Math Genius, an upcoming film on the late Shakuntala Devi, the ‘human computer’, whose role will be played by Vidya Balan. A trailer was released in which Balan says, “Maths has no rules. Only magic.” The film tracks her life from childhood and will release on July 31 on Amazon Prime.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Tweet hack||The Twitter accounts of several major U.S. public figures, including former President Barack Obama, presidential candidate Joe Biden, and billionaires Bill Gates, Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk, were hacked in what appeared to be a scam to solicit payment in the digital currency Bitcoin. The social media company responded by blocking some verified accounts from publishing messages as it investigated, while its shares fell by almost 5%.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Big beautiful wall||Astronomers reported the discovery of a giant ‘wall’, or filament, of galaxies, at least 1.37 billion light years long — one of the largest structures in the known universe. Dubbed the ‘South Pole Wall’, it’s just half a billion light years from our own Milky Way, a small distance in intergalactic terms, which is part of the reason it remained undetected till now — it was hidden by our galaxy’s brightness in a ‘Zone of Galactic Obscuration’.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A Nepali Ram||Nepal’s Prime Minister, K.P. Sharma Oli proclaimed that the real Ayodhya was in Nepal and that Ram was born there. Nepal was “a victim of cultural encroachment and history has been manipulated,” he said. Congress leader Karan Singh said this claim would “hurt the sentiments of a billion Hindus living not only in India and Nepal but around the world.”
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Desert storm||In a dramatic turn, Rajasthan Deputy CM Sachin Pilot, who was dismissed by the Congress for challenging Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, moved the High Court against the Assembly disqualification notice served to him and 18 MLAs. Pilot was accused of horse-trading but maintained that he did not wish to join the BJP. As this goes to press, it’s all up in the air.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Google’s $10 billion||Google CEO Sundar Pichai announced a $10 billion investment in India over the next seven years, almost half of which was put first into Reliance Jio in return for a 7.73% stake. “Our collaboration will focus on increasing access for hundreds of millions of users who don’t currently own a smartphone while improving the mobile experience for all,” Pichai said.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Prisoner’s Wife||Maggie Brookes  Berkley $17.00 In this novel inspired by a true story, a Czech farm girl and a British prisoner of war are on the run, till they are tracked down by Nazi soldiers and sent to a POW camp. The days are bleak but there’s hope in the shape of a small group of prisoners who risk their lives to save the couple.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||If It Bleeds||Stephen King  Hodder & Stoughton Rs. 799 The title story is a standalone sequel to the bestsellingThe Outsider, and has Holly on her first solo case. All four stories in this collection are marked by King’s trademark horror and suspense. King provides insight into the genesis of each in the Author’s Note.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Peasant’s Dream||Melanie Dickerson  Thomas Nelson Publishers Rs. 1,939 Frederick, a poor farmer’s son, is a talented wood carver. He meets Adela, the daughter of the duke, who has come to experience real life in the town in disguise. They fall in love, which is threatened when Frederick is roped into a plan to kidnap Adela and her real identity is revealed to him.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||How Lulu Lost Her Mind||Rachel Gibson  Gallery Books Price not mentioned A mother-daughter duo is like chalk and cheese, but the daughter must put her career on hold to take care of the mother, who is losing her memory to Alzheimer’s. As they retire to the family’s decrepit home in Louisiana, the daughter discovers a new topsy-turvy life.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Exploring Sociabilities of Contemporary India: New Perspectives||Sujata Patel  Orient BlackSwan Rs. 945 Prominent Indian sociologists reflect on the three ‘classic’ fields that have defined sociology since independence: family–marriage–kinship; caste and tribal inequalities; and belief, religion and religiosities.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting There||Manjula Padmanabhan  Hachette India Rs. 399 Novelist, cartoonist and award-winning playwright Manjula Padmanabhan looks back on her ‘youthful misadventures’. In Bombay in the 1970s, a visit to a diet clinic and an encounter with two tall Dutch men sent her off on a Westward-bound spiritual quest.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Traditional Knowledge in Modern India||Nirmal Sengupta  Springer Rs. 1,176 (Kindle price) This book demonstrates how traditional knowledge can be connected to the modern world. In the past decades, global communities have become aware that the old valuable knowledge has fallen by the wayside.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A World Without Work||Daniel Susskind  Penguin Random House Rs. 799 Advances in artificial intelligence mean that all kinds of jobs are increasingly at risk. Drawing on almost a decade of research in the field, Susskind argues that more and more work are within the reach of machines. Can human beings thrive in a world with less work?
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Study finds evidence of vertical transmission of coronavirus across the placenta||Transmission through droplets and contact with contaminated surfaces seem to be the major routes of novel coronavirus spread. The World Health Organization recently acknowledged that “short-range aerosol transmission” of the virus “cannot be ruled out” in specific indoor locations which are crowded, inadequately ventilated and where exposure to the infected person is over a prolonged period of time. Now, a study has found evidence that confirms vertical transmission of SARS-CoV-2 virus from the mother to the foetus. The route of infection is through the womb (in utero) well before the onset of labour and delivery of the baby. About half-a-dozen studies published in medical journals have already suggested vertical transmission as a possible route but have not been able to provide strong evidence about the route of spread — transplacental or transcervical — of the virus from the mother to the child. These studies could not confirm the transmission route because samples of placenta, amniotic fluid and blood of the mother and the newborn were not collected and tested in every mother–infant pair. For instance, in a study published recently in the journal CMAJ (Canadian Medical Association Journal), only the placenta and nasopharyngeal swab samples of the mother were tested for the virus. Though nasopharyngeal swab samples of the newborn collected on the day of birth and on two other days, plasma and stool samples tested positive for the virus, the researchers did not collect and test the cord blood. Hence the researchers classified it a “probable” case of congenital route of vertical transmission. Strong evidence In contrast, the results published recently in Nature Communications involving one mother–newborn pair provide strong evidence of “confirmed” vertical transmission of the SARS-CoV-2 virus through the “transplacental” route. Studying how the virus reaches the foetus, the researchers of the Nature Communications paper led by Daniele De Luca from Paris Saclay University, France, found that the virus first occurs in the mother’s blood and later causes placental infection and inflammation. The virus then gets into the blood of the neonate following placental infection. The neonate also showed clinical manifestation of COVID-19 in terms of neurological signs and symptoms. The mother aged 23 years, at 35 weeks of gestation, was admitted to the hospital in March with symptoms of coronavirus infection. Real-time PCR detected the presence of two genes (E and S) of the virus in the blood and in nasopharyngeal and vaginal swab samples. To check for vertical transmission, the researchers first collected clear amniotic fluid prior to rupture of membranes. The amniotic fluid tested positive for two genes of the virus. The baby was delivered through caesarean section to avoid infection during normal childbirth; caesarean delivery is routinely done in the case of HIV positive mothers to cut the risk of vertical transmission. Confirming infection To confirm infection in the newborn, the researchers collected blood and bronchoalveolar lavage samples soon after birth and tested them for the virus. Both samples tested positive. They also collected nasopharyngeal and rectal swab samples at three time points — one hour after birth, and three and 18 days of postnatal age. These too tested positive for the virus, confirming infection with SARS-CoV-2. The amount of virus in different tissues both in the mother and newborn varied. “Viral load was much higher in placental tissue, than in amniotic fluid and maternal or neonatal blood,” they write. In the case of the newborn, the nasopharyngeal sample collected on day three after birth had higher viral load, while the blood contained the least amount of the virus. “Our findings confirm that transplacental transmission is indeed possible in the last weeks of pregnancy, although we cannot exclude a possible transmission and foetal consequences earlier during the pregnancy,” they write.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Previously unknown faults at the foot of the Himalaya discovered||Data from an oil and gas exploration company has helped geologists discover a series of faults at the foot of the Himalaya. The international team notes that this fault system in the southeastern region of Nepal has the potential to cause earthquakes in the country. The team looked at seismic reflection data, routinely collected by exploration companies looking for oil and gas. In this method, seismic waves are produced by small explosions at multiple sources, and many recorders called geophones record the sound echoing off layers beneath the surface. Composite image The signals are combined to make an image that looks like a slice showing layers through the top few kilometres of the Earth’s crust. The researchers were able to identify the faults because the pattern of layers showed bends. “Our research highlights the need to look below the surface, and further afield, to fully understand earthquakes and structures within the Himalaya,” said Michael J. Duvall a graduate student from the Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences at the University of Alberta, Canada, in a release. “This network of faults show that the Himalayan deformation reaches further [about 40 kilometres further south] than we previously thought.” He is the first author of the paper recently published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.  Seismic waves When asked if this fault could affect India, corresponding author John W.F. Waldron explained in an email to The Hindu: “The faults we detected don’t appear to extend into India, but seismic waves from an earthquake occurring on them might affect regions of India near the border... other similar faults might be present elsewhere along the southern edge of the Himalaya and might extend beneath northern India. We don’t currently have access to data that would help us explore this.” He adds that the work with seismologists might add to the present study by clarifying how these faults move. “The problem is that good scientific records of earthquakes go back less than a hundred years. During this time there don’t seem to have been any earthquakes on the faults that we discovered. However, the time between earthquakes on typical faults is often hundreds or thousands of years, and is very haphazard,” explains Prof. Waldron. As to whether 2015 Nepal earthquakes could have had a connection to this fault, he answered that they “occurred much further within the mountain belt. As far as we know, the faults we newly discovered did not move in that event.” Prof. Waldron adds: “General earthquake preparedness is most important in my opinion, rather than trying to guess where the next earthquake will be. Making sure buildings are safe in an earthquake is important.”
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic may call for sustained support for health-care workers||The COVID-19 pandemic has pushed health-care systems across the world to the very brink. This is not just about lack of infrastructure but also about stretching healthcare workers to their limits. From having to make very difficult decisions, for example, regarding allotment of resources, to breaking bad news often to families of patients, health-care workers are under tremendous pressure. In this context, an Analysis published in The British Medical Journal compares the trauma faced by healthcare workers during the pandemic to that of a war situation and advocates giving them adequate support and counsel before, during and after the crisis. The type of decisions health-care workers may have to take could range over allocating scant resources, balancing their own needs against those of patients, allotting time for family over the demands of duty and so on. All of these could result in “moral injury” – a term borrowed from military usage by the authors, referring to the psychological distress that results from actions that violate someone’s ethical or moral code. The authors advocate that this can be prevented by preparing the personnel for what they are going to encounter, and providing enough support and encouragement during and after the crisis, in such a way that they do not take the route to mental illness and instead move towards post-traumatic growth. Post-traumatic growth Post-traumatic growth refers to positive changes in attitudes, beliefs and behaviour following traumatic life events. “It may present as being more able to cope with adversity in the future or feeling less anxious when thinking about future challenging events,” says Neil Greenberg, Professor of Defence Mental Health with King's College London and trauma lead at the Royal College of Psychiatrists, in an email to The Hindu. He is an author of the paper. He further adds, “This may come across as increased optimism, more positive mood and better coping when adversity strikes.” Prof. Greenberg further explains, “Many people find it hard to talk about what did not ‘go right’ because they fear being judged or reprimanded... or they may feel a seething anger at their bosses for not supporting them which they do not speak about as they fear they may lose control and this might lead to problems at work.” He suggests that reflective practice sessions, by leaders who speak about what did not go right for them, may help people develop a meaningful narrative. “Best to do this either periodically as the crisis is ongoing or shortly afterwards as people are trying to make sense of what they have experienced,” he says. Indian context In India, for several reasons, including the early lapse into lockdowns, and perhaps the demography, the medical systems have not been stretched as much as the European systems. However, here too, there is a chance that mental health issues may crop up. Chennai-based psychiatrist, Dr M. Suresh Kumar, currently Director of Psymed Hospital, who has worked internationally in public mental health, has this to say: “Young people are at the forefront of this fight, and many of them may not be adequately prepared to work under such circumstances… there is a chance of moral injury occurring.” He also points out that professionals such as doctors or nurses do not readily ask for help or reveal stress. They should be encouraged to speak out and be provided ongoing help rather than a one-time help. According to Dr Suresh Kumar, peer support is easier to accept. He adds, “Most important is to express appreciation of the service.”
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Arming India’s poor against the pandemic||There have been considerable discussions in scientific circles on the importance of vitamin D in these days of the COVID-19 pandemic. Maryam Edabi and Aldo Montana-Loza have published a paper titled, “Perspective: Improving vitamin D status in the management of COVID-19,” in European Journal of Clinical Nutrition (2020) 74:856-859; https://doi.org/10.1038/s41430-0200661, which points out how vitamin D deficiency can affect COVID-19 high-risk patients, particularly those who are diabetic, have heart conditions, pneumonia, obesity and those who smoke. It is also associated with infections in the respiratory tract and lung injury. Besides, vitamin D is known to help in having the right amount of calcium in the bones, catalyse the process of protecting cell membranes from damage, preventing the inflammation of tissues and helping stop tissues from forming fibres and weakening bones from becoming brittle, leading to osteoporosis. Thus, the levels of vitamin D (and calcium) in human (and animal) bodies need to be monitored and when necessary, and administered in appropriate doses and frequency, externally by a trained clinician. Vitamin D and its prevalence The easy to read site <ods.od.nih.gov> describes vitamin D in detail. It is produced when sunlight (or artificial light, particularly in the ultraviolet region of 190-400 nm wavelength) falls on the skin and triggers a chemical reaction to a cholesterol-based molecule, and converts it into calcidiol (adding one hydroxyl group, also called 25(OH)D technically) in the liver and into calcitriol (or 1, 25(OH)2D) in the kidney. It is these two molecules that are physiologically active. It is suggested that the level of 25-OHD in the range 30-100 ng/ml is thought to be sufficient for a healthy body; levels between 21-29 ng/ml are considered insufficient, and levels below 20 ng/ml mean the individual is deficient in the vitamin. Since sunlight in important for the generation of vitamin D, tropical countries have an advantage over the northern countries. India, being a tropical country, one would expect naturally derived vitamin D levels to be good. Yet, it is not so! Indeed a paper by Sandhiya Selvarajan and colleagues, titled, “Systematic review on vitamin D level in apparently healthy Indian population and analysis of its associated factors” was published in September 2017, in Indian Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism, 2017; 21(5):765-775, free access directly or through http://www.ijem.in/text.asp?2017/21/5/7652/21/5/765/214773. The group did a thorough and exhaustive analysis of over 2,998 published papers and reports, and also data from studies done in various states of India (North Zone, comprising Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana; East Zone: Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and West Bengal; West Zone: Rajasthan, Gujarat, Goa and Maharashtra; South Zone: Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamilnadu and the Northeast Zone: Assam, Sikkim, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh). Overall, these 40 studies provided a sample of 19,761 persons. The level of vitamin D from all these 40 studies ranged between 3.15 ng/ml to 52.9 ng/ml. Vitamin D level among south Indians is (15.74–19.16) ng/ml, yet below 20. Also, females showed consistently lower levels than males. The authors conclude that India, a nation of abundant sunshine, is surprisingly found to have a massive burden of vitamin D deficiency among the public irrespective of their location (urban or rural), age or gender, or whether they are poor or even rich. Hence, it is clear that vitamin D supplementation is necessary for most Indians to treat its deficiency.  Nutritive food The Central and State governments, as well as public-spirited foundations, companies and even sympathetic public have been very helpful in offering free food for crores of poor, particularly, migrant workers. In addition,almost all of them are extremely poor and have had to depend on such food. Their vitamin D levels must certainly be less (far less) than 10 ng/ml. Typically, these food supplies have included wheat or rice, and grains (chana, urad and the like), and some highly subsidised items of food (sugar, milk and such). Vegetables are not given — raw or cooked — though cooked meals are offered in cities and towns by the State governments and private foundations, at affordable prices. Also, the main government schemes of giving free mid-day meal scheme for students studying in government schools, and the feeding programmes for preschool children and pregnant women under the Integrated Child Development Services through angadwadis have been vital. Given the deficit in vitamin D (indeed in many other vitamins, and calcium), it is highly desirable for the governments to (a) consult nutrition experts and institutions to advise and suggest the type of nutritive items that can be added to the current ‘ration’ food given to the poor, and the meals given to school children, (b) in any case, supply free of charge, vitamin D, other vitamins and calcium, in consultation with medical and public health experts regarding the dosage, frequency and other details. There are excellent Indian companies that manufacture these. With these steps, India will have armed its poor against not just the current, but future pandemics as well.  (I thank Drs. Mahtab Bamji and Ghanshyam Swarup, and Shakti Balasubramanian for their inputs and advice.)  dbala@lvpei.org
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Self-amputation in lizards||How does a lizard lose its tail? Certain animals voluntarily shed a body part in response to attempted predation. Lizards losing their tails when they are pulled by a predator is well known. This self-amputation is called autotomy. The severed tail continues to wiggle for about 30 minutes. Studies have shown that the severed tail follows an elaborate repetitive and diverse motion, which includes flips up to 3 cm in height. The wiggly motion very often distracts the attention of the predator, thus enabling the lizard to escape. Now, researchers at Aarhus University have found the answer to what allows lizards to shed their tails easily. They found that tail autotomy occurs at preformed horizontal fracture planes. In the case of tail autotomy within the vertebra, the tail gets fractured or split at a distinct preformed area of weakness. Studies have shown that lizards aid the process of autotomy by “contracting muscles around the fracture planes”. The muscle contractions are supposed to “facilitate splitting of the skin and muscles to complete the release of the tail”. According to their findings published in December 2012 in the journal PLOS ONE, the mechanism of tail autotomy in Tokay gecko is determined by pre-formed ‘dotted lines’ in the fracture planes, which are maintained by adhesion and microstructures seen at the terminal end of the muscle fibres also likely play a role in releasing the tail. The pre-formed fracture surfaces are found at specified intervals all along the lizard’s tail.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ready to roll again||From operating for nearly 20 hours a day to being stationed across 13 depots in the city for the last four months, over 330 metro trains have been a witness to Delhi at its fastest and slowest. The nearly 400 km metro network spreading across the National Capital Region had come to a halt on March 22 following the nationwide “janata curfew” and the lockdown imposed by the Centre to stem the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. With around 2,200 coaches sitting idle at the depots and a network of 285 stations, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), in the last few months, has been carrying out extensive maintenance work in a bid to keep the system well-oiled. Maintenance and cleaning of lights on platforms, rectification of tunnel lights, inspection of cross passages, painting of viaduct railings, cleaning of tracks and replacement of defective welds are some of the aspects being looked into by the DMRC. A non-functional metro network has given the transporter extra time to carry out maintenance work, which on a regular day was restricted to around four hours. ‘Extended blocks’ According to officials, “extended blocks” or durations were being given to various departments to carry out the requisite work. The block activities, which were usually planned in a limited manner on a weekly basis, are now being planned and executed on a monthly basis (for July), officials said. “During revenue services this block was possible only for a limited period of 3-4 hours and that too at night; now this is being given for around six hours during the day and four hours at night. This window of 10 hours is giving adequate time to each and every department to carry out whatever activity they want to fine-tune their equipment so that when services resume, the system is well-maintained,” a senior DMRC official explained. The lockdown period also gave the DMRC time to analyse the feedback received from commuters in the last two years, related to heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system in the coaches, and carry out requisite maintenance work. Following inspections it was found that around 2,000 HVACs (each coach has two HVAC systems), mostly in trains which run on the Yellow and Blue lines, needed special cleaning, officials said. “A massive drive was undertaken to overhaul the HVAC system in trains, with special chemicals, as for the first time all the trains were stationed at the various depots. During investigations it was found that a lot of dust, dirt deposits and scale formations in HVAC coils could not be fully cleaned during regular maintenance, which may have led to underperformance,” the official said. “DMRC has effectively utilised the lockdown for carrying out chemical treatment of HVAC coils. This would have lingered over longer periods due to train availability in normal scenario. The thorough cleaning exercise is expected to result in 15%-20% better air-conditioned environment in summers,” the official said. Phase IV construction With the relaxation in lockdown norms, the DMRC has resumed construction of Phase IV network. The casting work of U-girders to be installed on the elevated section between Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor has commenced, according to the transporter. “DMRC’s team of architects and designers regularly coordinated with site personnel, design consultants and contractors to finalise all the designs for ensuing construction work of Phase IV. Senior officers even held meetings via videoconferencing,” the official said. Dedicated “COVID marshals” have also been nominated for all the sites in order to ensure compliance of safety guidelines by the workers and to prevent the spread of the virus, according to officials. “As a precautionary measure, the DMRC has installed hands-free washing and sanitiser facilities at its construction sites. It has directed all the contractors to provide such facilities at all the sites with 100% compliance,” a DMRC official said. Even as the wait for the green light continues amid the prevailing pandemic, the DMRC continues to run two trains daily from every terminal station, twice a day, to ensure a “good health and functionality” of the system.
19 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Double trouble in malls||It has been nearly three weeks since malls in the Millennium City were allowed to reopen, but visitors are staying away due to apprehension over getting infected, and many stores are not reopening due to the double whammy of low demand and high rent. Several shuttered stores greet visitors at MGF Metropolitan Mall, which used to be one of the busiest shopping centres on the Mehrauli-Gurugram Road before the lockdown in March. An attendant at a footwear kiosk said he is yet to sell a pair since they reopened. Many shops at the mall are closed due to dispute over high or outstanding rent. A few brands have decided to wind up their business altogether as they were not expecting much demand. MGF Metropolitan Mall Association member Aman Bajaj, who runs a gaming and gadget store ‘Music Festival’, said that around half-a-dozen shops had shut owing to dispute over rent. “A couple of well-known brands dealing in luggage and kitchenware have wound up their business entirely and hence closed their shops in this mall too,” said Mr. Bajaj. The shopkeepers in the mall, said to be among the most successful in the city, have been seeking reduction in rent till the time business improves. In some cases, however, this request has led to disputes and shutting down of shops. Many store owners in other malls, however, have considered lowering the rent for at least six months. The manager of a gifts and greeting cards shop in MGF Metropolitan Mall said business has plunged to “nil” and tenants are finding it difficult to sustain themselves due to high rent. “The owners must consider reducing the rent for at least six months. Many of them, however, are adamant on collecting full rent for the months during the lockdown,” the manager said. Low footfall Many clothing brands in Ambience Mall have also closed, finding it difficult to sustain themselves due to fall in demand and inability to pay rent. “A shop selling Kashmiri shawls and carpets, and a clothing store, have shut on this floor,” said Mohammad Ahmed, assistant manager of a clothing store. “Footfall is around 20% of normal and sales have dipped sharply,” he added. Nitin, a bookshop manager, said the number of average daily customers has fallen from 70-100 to just 5-10. “Sales have dipped as kids below 10 are not allowed inside the mall... meanwhile, erratic transport has delayed fresh stock, which has further hit business,” he added. Store owners in several malls said they expect footfall to remain low till the time theatres and restaurants with bars are allowed to reopen. “When a family steps out on a weekend, they look for a complete package: a movie, good food and entertainment for children,” said Mr. Ahmed. Chief security officer of Ambience Mall, Major Ajit Singh (retd.), said the restriction on entry of kids, elderly and pregnant women has hit footfall. On an average weekend before the lockdown, the mall used to see 60,000-70,000 visitors. When the mall reopened, it saw only 6,000-7,000 shoppers over the weekend — just 10% of normal. Lalit Rawat, manager of Metropolis Mall, said weekend footfall has reduced to 20% of normal. In an attempt to stay afloat in such a tough situation, many store owners have started offering home delivery, virtual tour on WhatsApp, and attractive discount offers. Many are advertising online while others are calling up regular customers to inform them that stores are now open. “We have been offering 50% off on fresh stock to lure customers. The mall management has asked store owners to facilitate virtual tour of the shop on WhatsApp to reach out to the customers at home,” said Shyam Kannujia, assistant store manager of a shoe shop at Ambience Mall. “This week, the store saw an average of 44 customers... we used to see at least 150 people before the lockdown,” he added. Three of the 11 store employees were told to go on leave without pay to cut costs. Many shops have not called back their workers who travelled to their home Sates. Focus on the positive Amid the gloom, Mr. Bajaj has decided to focus on the positive. “Footfall has increased since the day malls reopened... the numbers will go up further in the coming days,” he said, adding that local markets had opened two months earlier and had till now been taking care of the demands of shoppers. “But the customers will return to the malls soon. There is talk of theatres opening soon, though there is no confirmation. If the multiplexes open, the footfall will increase,” said Mr. Bajaj. Many, however, believe that the situation is unlikely to improve till the end of this year.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Why is India out of the Chabahar rail project?||The story so far: The inauguration of a track-laying project from Iran’s Chabahar port to Zahedan on the border with Afghanistan on July 7, has ensured that Chabahar — which literally means “four seasons”, named for its salubrious weather — is once again in the middle of a storm over the fate of India’s investment there. The port project along Iran’s southern coast in the Sistan-Baluchistan province has been a part of discussions between New Delhi and Tehran since their first agreement to develop it, in 2003. State-owned Ircon International Limited (IRCON) was associated with the rail project even as India acted quickly to develop Chabahar port facilities. Over the years, the Chabahar project has grown, and now envisages a port, a free trade zone, the 628-km railway line to Zahedan, and then the little over 1,000-km track to Sarakhs on the border with Turkmenistan. What ties India to Chabahar? The Chabahar project is ambitious and will require deep pockets, but New Delhi has always weighed its strategic benefits above the costs. India-Iran relations are historic and New Delhi has sought to maintain these ties in the face of opposition from Iran’s adversaries, namely the United States, Saudi Arabia and Israel. The Chabahar project ties India and Iran together as New Delhi deals with its difficult neighbour to the west, Pakistan. A major trade and connectivity hub on Iran’s coast not only gives India an alternative route to Afghanistan, bypassing Pakistan, but also has the potential to provide an Indian strategic counter to Pakistan’s Gwadar port being developed by China right next door to Chabahar. The Chabahar trade zone could be an important weigh station for India’s energy imports and food and material exports coming from Kandla and Mundra ports. And the rail project will allow India an independent corridor not only to Afghanistan, which Pakistan has denied it, but also to Central Asia and Russia someday. What happened to the rail project? While the Chabahar port development has moved forward in the last five years, the railway line languished. After several threats and appeals to India, Iran said it was moving ahead to build the Chabahar-Zahedan line on its own this month, with approximately $400 million from the National Development Fund of Islamic Republic of Iran. What was the hitch? Despite the attractions, India’s investment in Chabahar has always been held hostage to international policy shifts on Iran. U.S. policy in particular has swung wildly in the last two decades. It placed heavy sanctions on Iran until nuclear talks between the P-5+1 (the U.S., the U.K., France, China, Russia and Germany) that began in 2006, ended successfully with the signing of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) in 2015. As a result, while India continued to negotiate for Chabahar, it was not until after the sanctions were lifted that talks could make headway. In 2016, the Chabahar agreement, which included the Trilateral Agreement on Establishment of International Transport and Transit Corridor between Afghanistan, Iran and India was signed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. It also included the port project and the railway line to be built and funded by IRCON for $1.6 billion. In 2018, however, U.S. President Donald Trump overturned the JCPOA, and re-imposed stringent sanctions on Iran. This meant India’s energy imports from Iran, which was its third largest supplier, had to be dropped to zero. Bilateral trade, which depended on a rupee-rial exchange mechanism also stopped. The U.S. gave Chabahar port and rail line a special waiver or “carve-out”, but the sanctions made it very difficult for companies dealing with the U.S. to participate in the project. Are other projects hit too? The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) has disclosed that India’s ONGC Videsh Ltd (OVL) has been cut out of the development of an Iranian gas field project, Farzad B; both sides had been in talks since 2009. The project, which will now go to an Iranian company, had also floundered due to a combination of U.S. sanctions, Iran’s changing conditions and fluctuating prices, as well as India’s delayed responses. On the Chabahar-Zahedan rail project, the MEA said IRCON had completed its feasibility studies by December 2019, three years after the memorandum of understanding was signed, but that it had not heard back from Iran. In the meanwhile, Iranian Railway authorities have begun laying tracks. An Iranian official told The Hindu , “In the absence of an active Indian engagement and partnership, it is currently under construction by Iranian funding and engineering capacities.” Both New Delhi and Tehran have left the door open for IRCON to return to the project at a later date, but for the moment, India is not a part of the railway construction. What is the China angle? The announcements on the two projects come even as news filters in of a China-Iran 25-year partnership for $400 billion to build infrastructure and energy resources in Iran, giving the impression that Iran may be relying more and more on Beijing. Has India lost an opportunity? India’s stakes in Chabahar remain strong, and no matter who builds the railway line, Indian trade could still find its way to Afghanistan and Central Asia. India’s monetary losses are minimal, as it had not invested money or material on the rail line yet. However, there is the worry of reputational damage from the idea that India gave in to U.S. sanctions, a departure from the past. China’s growing inroads in Iran could make Indian projects there more unviable. The largest worry is that Chabahar, the enduring symbol of India-Iran friendship, could become collateral damage in a larger proxy war between the U.S. and China.  After threats and appeals to India, Iran said it was moving ahead to build the Chabahar-Zahedan line on its own, with the help of approximately $400 million from National Development Fund of Islamic Republic of Iran
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||City reports more than 1 lakh recoveries from COVID-19||A total of 1,475 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,21,582, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 26 more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 3,597. Of the total cases, 1,01,274 people have recovered and there are 16,711 active cases. Fewer cases On June 23, the new virus cases almost touched 4,000, the highest so far. However, since then, the number of new cases has been dropping and it has been less than 2,000 for the past eight days. The number of cases is less compared to the spike in June, but of the total 21,658 tests done in the past 24 hours, over 71.11% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT-PCR tests. The active cases have been decreasing since July 1 and it has decreased from 27,007 on July 1 by 38.12% to reach 16,711 on Saturday. Number of beds Also, the number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has been steadily decreasing for the past 17 days. On July 1, a total of 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied and it has decreased steadily to 3,635 on Saturday. The number of COVID-19 positive people under home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 on July 1 to 9,132. Also, the positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 6.8% on Saturday. The number of containment zones in the city was 678. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has issued an “office memorandum” that specific attention should be given to reduce COVID-19-related deaths, since committees formed after Supreme Court orders are inspecting all hospitals. “Since the committees constituted for inspection of all hospitals in Delhi, consequent upon orders passed by Supreme Court on 19 June, 2020, are already carrying out their mandate in a continuous manner, it would be appropriate that specific attention may now be focused upon aspects which have a bearing on reduction of COVID related mortalities,” the memorandum issued by principal secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government dated Friday read.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||What is plea bargaining and how does it work?||The story so far: Many members of the Tablighi Jamaat belonging to different countries have obtained release from court cases in recent days by means of plea bargaining. Accused of violating visa conditions by attending a religious congregation in Delhi, these foreign nationals have walked free after pleading guilty to minor offences and paying the fines imposed by the court. These cases have brought the focus on plea bargaining as a practice by which time consuming trials can be avoided. Even though plea bargaining is available to those accused of criminal offences in India for over a decade, it is not yet common. When was it introduced in India? Plea bargaining refers to a person charged with a criminal offence negotiating with the prosecution for a lesser punishment than what is provided in law by pleading guilty to a less serious offence. It is common in the United States, and has been a successful method of avoiding protracted and complicated trials. As a result, conviction rates are significantly high there. It primarily involves pre-trial negotiations between the accused and the prosecutor. It may involve bargaining on the charge or in the quantum of sentence. In India, the concept was not part of law until 2006. There has always been a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure for an accused to plead ‘guilty’ instead of claiming the right to a full trial, but it is not the same as plea bargaining. The Law Commission of India, in its 142nd Report, mooted the idea of “concessional treatment” of those who plead guilty on their own volition, but was careful to underscore that it would not involve any plea bargaining or “haggling” with the prosecution. Plea bargaining was introduced in 2006 as part of a set of amendments to the CrPC as Chapter XXI-A, containing Sections 265A to 265L. In what circumstances is it allowed? How does it work? Unlike in the U.S. and other countries, where the prosecutor plays a key role in bargaining with the suspected offender, the Indian code makes plea bargaining a process that can be initiated only by the accused; further, the accused will have to apply to the court for invoking the benefit of bargaining. Cases for which the practice is allowed are limited. Only someone who has been charge sheeted for an offence that does not attract the death sentence, life sentence or a prison term above seven years can make use of the scheme under Chapter XXI-A. It is also applicable to private complaints of which a criminal court has taken cognisance. Other categories of cases that cannot be disposed of through plea bargaining are those that involve offences affecting the “socio-economic conditions” of the country, or committed against a woman or a child below the age of 14. The applicant should approach the court with a petition and affidavit stating that it is a voluntary preference and that he has understood the nature and extent of punishment provided in law for the offence. The court would then issue notice to the prosecutor and the complainant or victim, if any, for a hearing. The voluntary nature of the application must be ascertained by the judge in an in-camera hearing at which the other side should not be present. Thereafter, the court may permit the prosecutor, the investigating officer and the victim to hold a meeting for a “satisfactory disposition of the case”. The outcome may involve payment of compensation and other expenses to the victim by the accused. Once mutual satisfaction is reached, the court shall formalise the arrangement by way of a report signed by all the parties and the presiding officer. The accused may be sentenced to a prison term that is half the minimum period fixed for the offence. If there is no minimum term prescribed, the sentence should run up to one-fourth of the maximum sentence stipulated in law.  What is the rationale for the scheme? What are its benefits? The Justice Malimath Committee on reforms of the criminal justice system endorsed the various recommendations of the Law Commission with regard to plea bargaining. Some of the advantages it culled out from earlier reports are that the practice would ensure speedy trial, end uncertainty over the outcome of criminal cases, save litigation costs and relieve the parties of anxiety. It would also have a dramatic impact on conviction rates. Prolonged incarceration of undertrials without any progress in the case for years and overcrowding of prisons were also other factors that may be cited in support of reducing pendency of cases and decongesting prisons through plea bargaining. Moreover, it may help offenders make a fresh start in life.  Do courts have reservations? Case law after the introduction of plea bargaining has not developed much as the provision is possibly not used adequately. However, earlier judgments of various courts in cases in which the accused enter a ‘guilty’ plea with a view to getting lesser sentences indicate that the judiciary may have reservations. Some verdicts disapprove of bargaining with offenders, and point out that lenient sentences could be considered as part of the circumstances of the case after a regular trial. Courts are also very particular about the voluntary nature of the exercise, as poverty, ignorance and prosecution pressure should not lead to someone pleading guilty of offences that may not have been committed.
19 July 2020||JAIPUR,||‘One-stop’ scheme to fast-track investments||A “one-stop shop” scheme approved in Rajasthan is set to fast-track investments and help revive industries in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic by giving as many as 98 types of clearances under one roof to the potential investors through the Bureau of Investment Promotion (BIP). The new scheme will expedite all the processes for investment proposals above Rs. 10 crore. The Cabinet approved amendments to the Rajasthan Enterprises Single Window Enabling and Clearance Act, 2011, and gave a go-ahead to the constitution of a Board of Investment earlier this week. All industries, including the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), will receive due facilitation. Transparent, hassle-free Principal Secretary (Industries) Naresh Pal Gangwar said here on Saturday that the new scheme was the latest step to evolve a transparent and hassle-free environment for investments coming to the State. The industrial development policy and investment promotion scheme were formulated last year, he said. While the MSME (Facilitation of Establishment and Operation) Act, 2019, exempted small industries from the necessity of securing the State government’s clearances for initial three years, the one-stop shop scheme will make the process easier for all investment proposals above Rs. 10 crore. Officers from 14 major departments, including industries, energy, labour, urban development, local self-government, State Pollution Control Board, consumer affairs, tourism, revenue, public works, health and Rajasthan State Industries Development & Investment Corporation, will be deputed hereat the one-stop shop. Mr. Gangwar said the pandemic had prompted the State government to seek new opportunities and strengthen the system. “A comprehensive centralised repository of manpower and the Raj Kaushal web application acting as a bridge between the manpower and the potential employers have been established for the first time,” he said. The Board of Investment will be headed by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot. Confederation of Indian Industry-Rajasthan chairman Vishal Baid said the decision would motivate investors to come to the State. He said the CII had earlier requested the State government to make the BIP a single window and post the nodal officers there to give all approvals at one place.
19 July 2020||Noida,||Gautam Buddha Nagar residents adapt to weekend lockdowns||The weekend lockdowns im posed in Gautam Buddha Nagar district to contain COVID-19 has shifted the Sunday grocery stocking trips to Fridays, confined morning walkers within the boundaries of their housing societies and slightly increased waiting times at liquor shops. Having already experienced a series of nationwide lockdowns, residents said they prefer to stay indoors between 10 p.m. on Friday and 6 a.m. on Monday rather than risk being questioned and issued fines by the police; or stand in queues at essential commodities stores, given the possibility of contracting COVID-19. Stocking up “My husband and I take turns to visit the grocery stores on alternate days to stock up on what we need,” said Sucheta Bhati, a resident of Omega I in Greater Noida. “For the second week running, we have bought most vegetables and provisions till Friday. We cook enough to last us till Saturday and then order food on Sunday. A lockdown is in place but this time it is more manageable than the previous ones,” said her husband Ravi, a real estate agent. Rajveer Pradhan, an avid morning walker, said: “I normally walk 2 km to and from a public park near my housing society but have had to compromise as I can’t move out of the main gate and have to walk inside,” he said. Issues related to the entry of house helps at some apartment complexes have made the weekend lockdowns inconvenient. “There are no issues that we face except the entry of house helps; the rules, left to local RWAs, are arbitrary,” said Bela Choudhary, who stays in a high-rise apartment complex in Pocket 7. Sunil Kumar Gupta, who runs a pan shop in Alpha I, said he does most brisk business on Fridays with both his usual customers as well as “walk ins”. “It is just two days but customers still stock up,” he said. Raghunandan Singh, whose AC maintenance services are much in demand given the time of the year, has added a few more slots to his working hours during the week. “I work two hours extra every day so that I can attend to all my clients and don’t have to venture out on the weekends,” he said.
19 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab may go for urban local body polls in October||The Punjab government is likely to recommend to the Election Commission that polling to the 126 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) of the State be held in the second week of October. The final decision would be subject to the COVID-19 situation. Though as per the provisions of the Punjab Municipal Act, these elections are due by September 2020, it was felt at a videoconference meeting of the Ministers, chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on Saturday that the final decision in the matter should be taken only after seeing the COVID-19 developments over the next few weeks. ‘May peak in Sept.’ An official statement said the Chief Minister pointed out that the pandemic was projected to peak in the State in September, and it would be better to take all developments on that front into account before finalising the recommendation to be made to the Election Commission. The meeting ruled out the possibility of conducting the polls next month, given the increasing number of virus cases in the State. It also took note of the fact that the procurement and festival season would start in mid-October, and it would not therefore be feasible to hold the elections during that period. All the Ministers agreed that the ULB elections should be held at the earliest possible, taking all these factors into account, added the statement.
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Psoriasis drug in COVID-19 therapy||The story so far: On July 11, pharma major Biocon announced that it had received the approval of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to market Itolizumab for treatment of cytokine release syndrome (CRS) in moderate to severe acute respiratory distress syndrome patients due to COVID-19. Itolizumab is a monoclonal antibody which is used to treat acute psoriasis. What are monoclonal antibodies? Monoclonal antibodies are proteins cloned in the lab to mimic antibodies produced by the immune system to counter an infection. They have their genesis in serum, the colourless constituent of blood that contains antibodies. These proteins bind to an antigen, the fragment of an infectious virus in the case of SARS-CoV-2, and either destroy it or block its action. In the case of COVID-19, there are yet no proven drugs to treat moderate or severe manifestations of the disease. Among the therapies being tested is convalescent plasma, which is a constituent of blood and recovered from those who have successfully fought the disease. This blood contains antibodies produced within a week or two of being infected. While plasma therapy involves injecting this entire antibody-soup into another sick patient, a monoclonal antibody can be made by isolating specific antibodies and multiplying them via various techniques. Isolating plasma and serum is laborious and time-consuming when it must be administered to every patient. However, since 1975, several techniques have been perfected that allow antibodies once isolated to be easily replicated. These are stored in vials and can be injected into patients. How useful are they in treating COVID-19 patients? While eight in 10 of those infected by the disease recover with little more than a few days of cough and fever, about one in 10 can manifest severe systems of the disease irrespective of their age and medical history. Experts are not sure why, but have observed that many who died were victims of a cytokine storm — when the immune system goes into overdrive to flush out the virus. Pro-inflammatory cytokines recruit a host of specialised immune system cells to neutralise antigens. However, these cytokines can aggravate inflammation and injury in lung cells as well as in several other organs. A challenge in treatment is how to prevent this over-reaction. One method is to use antibodies that can block a particular protein, called CD6. They are found on the surface of T-cells, a class of cells that are a central prong in the body’s defence system. Experts say if this CD-6 is suppressed, it will prevent the T-cells from releasing a cytokine cascade and thus better regulate the immune system. There is also a lot of research going on in using such antibodies to prevent the replication of the virus. Since last month there have been reports from laboratories from nearly everywhere, reporting the presence of one or more antibodies that could be used to block the ‘spike’ protein, the key the coronavirus uses to infiltrate lung cells and proliferate. Before monoclonal antibodies were roped into discussions surrounding COVID-19, research has focused on deriving the right kind of antibodies that specifically bind onto regions of interest. These underpin the design of cancer therapies or fixes for autoimmune diseases, rheumatoid arthritis or acute psoriasis. Is there a downside? Sometimes antibodies are known to help viral entry and replication in target cells which can worsen the disease. This is why they need careful evaluation. Does Itolizumab hold promise in the fight against COVID-19? Itolizumab is an approved drug for acute psoriasis since 2013 and has passed safety and efficacy trials for that disease in over 500 patients. However, independent experts have pointed out that the efficacy of the drug in treating COVID-caused Acute Respiratory Disease Syndrome has not been conclusively demonstrated because it has, as part of a clinical trial, only been tested on 30 patients. However, the drug has been approved by the DCGI for emergency use in the treatment of moderate to severely-ill patients as per the discretion of physicians. The DCGI also directed Biocon to conduct a phase-4 study — it must monitor it for adverse reactions or side-effects after it has been administered in large groups of patients and report back to the authorities. Experts pointed out that the normal process for approving a drug includes a phase-3 trial, where the drug’s safety and efficacy are first evaluated in the wider population. Officials at Biocon claim they plan to test the drug in the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Several doctors, at a press conference organised by Biocon, said their patients had benefitted from the drug but mostly when they were yet to reach a stage before requiring ventilators or external oxygen support. The drug cost a little under Rs. 8,000 for every vial. Generally, four vials are necessary for treatment, company officials said.  Itolizumab is an approved drug for acute psoriasis since 2013. Experts have pointed out that its efficacy in treating COVID-caused Acute Respiratory Disease Syndrome has not been conclusively demonstrated
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||DJB V-C inspects water augmentation project in Palla||Delhi Jal Board (DJB) Vice-Chairman Raghav Chadha on Saturday inspected a water augmentation project being carried out by the water body in Palla. He said an additional 25 MGD (Million Gallons per Day) of water can be extracted in a sustainable manner through this region as extracted ground water will get recharged automatically during monsoon. Mr. Chadha also visited an automation center created by the DJB to control and monitor working of tubewells in the Palla region. He stressed upon the need of water auditing and instructed the DJB to put flowmeters in the complete supply system of the existing 25 MGD as well as for future extraction so that water is not wasted at all, an official statement said.  ‘Uninterrupted supply’ “To bring about overall improvement in the water management system of the Board, this additional 25 MGD should be extracted and connected to the main supply to augment the distribution of water in north and north-west Delhi. The officials should focus on the fact that DJB should not leave any stone unturned to provide 24*7 uninterrupted water supply to the citizens of Delhi,” Mr. Chadha said. The DJB is already extracting 25 MGD water from the Palla region. Further, it is estimated that the work of Installation of 200 Tubewells to extract 25 MGD water will be complete in two years.
19 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||BJP leader seen with accused in Bulandshahr violence||In a photograph that went viral on the social media on Saturday, the district president of the Bulandshahr unit of the BJP could be seen felicitating Shikhar Agarwal, one of the accused in the Bulandshahr violence of December 2008. A mob had allegedly killed inspector Subodh Kumar Singh after cow carcasses were found in the Syana area of the district. The party has distanced itself from the organisation behind the event. Out of the 38 accused, police charged five with murder while Yogesh Raj and Mr. Agarwal, who are said to be associated with the BJP and its affiliate groups, were charged with inciting violence and arson. In the event organised by the Pradhanmantri Jankalyankari Yojana Abhiyan (PJYA), BJP district president Anil Sisodia could be seen giving a letter to Mr. Agarwal affirming his appointment as general secretary of the Abhiyan (campaign) in the district. The letter mentions names of Union Cabinet Ministers Narendra Tomar, Giriraj Singh and Dharmendra Pradhan, among others, in the ‘Margdarshak Mandal’ in bold letters. The Facebook page of PJYA describes it as a political organisation, featuring BJP’s election symbol on it. Denying any association with the organisation, Mr. Sisodia told reporters that he was invited as the chief guest and didn’t know Mr. Agarwal by face. He said the party believed in clean politics and steered clear of people facing such serious charges. Sanjay Gurjar, general secretary of the BJP unit in Bulandshahr, said the organisation was not part of the BJP family. “We were invited by some local businessmen,” he said. On the use of names of senior party leaders on the letter, Mr. Gurjar said, “All options are open, including legal action.” A person claiming to be PJYA national president Aneet Kaushik said the letter and the Facebook page were fake.
19 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Volunteers helping fight virus and flood in Assam district||A ‘resistant army’ of volunteers has been helping an eastern Assam district combat a pandemic and two concurrent disasters — flood and a blazing blowout natural gas well untamed for almost two months. Tinsukia Superintendent of Police Shiladitya Chetia had to take some of his men off COVID-19 duty for crowd control at Baghjan where an Oil India Limited well burst into flames. Protests over the accident and resultant ecological damage also warranted protection of other sites of the oil major. He looked no further than Protirodhi Bondhu, meaning Resistant Friends, a community-based volunteer force the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) had formed soon after the nationwide lockdown began. “They have been a force multiplier, helping the administration and the police in controlling crowds, enforcing COVID-19 protocols, rescuing flood-affected people and providing other non-medical services,” Mr. Chetia told The Hindu . The volunteers also stepped in when 35 police personnel and homeguards tested COVID-19 positive. “We have 245 volunteers, 30 of whom are girls, providing an array of services from checking people’s temperature and adherence to COVID-19 protocols at an entry point for buses and trucks to regulating the movement of people at Tinsukia’s Siding wholesale market and banks,” said ASDMA District Project Officer Ruby Gogoi. The authorities had doubts about the ability, attitude and sincerity of the volunteers when applications were sought in April. Some 16,000 registered but 14,000 were selected with 5,500 presently engaged in different activities. “These young people exceeded our expectations,” Ms. Gogoi said. On July 15, five volunteers cremated Pradip Kumar Sharma, a 75-year-old doctor who died of COVID-19, after the municipal workers refused. Pratirodhi Bondhu is the brainchild of Pankaj Chakravarty, ASDMA’s State Project Coordinator.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sikh body begins free transport for patients||The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Saturday said that a free medical transportation facility has been launched for COVID-19 patients requiring assistance with mobility. Under the first phase, 12 ambulances equipped with modern medical facilities have been rolled out in the Capital, it said. Safe services  DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa said, “The ambulances have been rolled out so that needy people can be provided convenient, reliable and safe transport services at the earliest for all COVID-19 medical trips, besides other emergencies such as accidents, injuries, natural calamities or scheduled check-ups.” The ambulances have been stationed at gurdwaras under the DSGMC across the city, including Gurdwara Moti Bagh, Gurdwara Nanak Piao and Guru Harikrishan Public School Hari Nagar. While helpline numbers have been set up, a central control room has also been set up by the DSGMC for free medical facilities. Free taxis Stating that there will also be available free taxis equipped with essential protective gears, Mr. Sirsa said: “They will be operated by a specially trained drivers following proper sanitary, safety and hygienic measures as per the government guidelines issued to contain the outbreak. The free taxi ride will enable mobility support and access to healthcare for COVID-19-related emergencies which is becoming a major challenge in Delhi.”  Free taxis will be operated by a specially trained driver following proper sanitary, safety and hygienic measures as per the government guidelines   Manjinder Singh Sirsa DSGMC president
19 July 2020||July 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Who draws up the Central Board of Secondary Education syllabus?||The story so far: With the COVID-19 pandemic keeping students out of classrooms, forcing schools into various modes of distance education and reducing teaching time, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has decided to cut down its 2020-21 syllabus by 30%, for students from Classes 9-12. Why does it matter? Although the CBSE said core concepts will be retained, there has been concern regarding the topics removed from the syllabus. For the sciences and mathematics, some teachers are worried that the topics removed are foundational in order to understand concepts that will be covered in the following academic year. The wider public concern has revolved around social sciences, history, political science and other humanities subjects. Opposition politicians and academics are protesting against the omission of topics such as federalism, citizenship, nationalism, secularism, democracy, and diversity, as well as analysis of recent economic policies such as demonetisation and the Goods and Services Tax. What was the rationale? “When we interacted with our schools and principals, there was a demand that with this much content in the provided time they can’t complete the syllabus,” said Joseph Emmanuel, Director of Academics at CBSE. He pointed out that the CBSE has already been in the process of promoting competency-based education and experiential learning, instead of content-based learning dependent on memorising facts. “... in the COVID scenario, we thought why not experiment by integrating different topics for the examination, so that the load on the children is minimised. So the strategy is through pedagogy. You will be integrating new topics and teachers will be giving more focus on concepts, rather than the content.” How is the curriculum compiled? The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) is responsible for developing the National Curriculum Framework that all school systems across the country follow. It also prints textbooks based on its syllabus each year, which are used in all CBSE schools. The CBSE course committees, each with about six to seven members, comprises school teachers as well as university professors. They meet every year to deliberate on changes and updates, and recommend a revised syllabus by February, before the new academic session begins. This year, they were asked to meet again in June to select topics for the 30% reduction. “Mainly we use the NCERT curriculum and syllabus, but there is about 10-20% variation done by every examination board,” said Dr. Emmanuel. “The course committees are an independent group. There was no outside input for the rationalisation process. Being an autonomous body, there is complete independence on academics,” he explained. The course committee suggestions were approved by the CBSE’s Curriculum Committee and then its Governing Body, which includes representatives from the Union Ministry of Human Resource Development and the Delhi State government, apart from school principals and vice-chancellors. “Topics suggested for rationalisation have already been covered. For example, concepts such as democracy or federalism have been interwoven from middle level onwards. The children are already familiar with these concepts and they can be taught through various alternative ways,” added Dr. Emmanuel. Subjects such as GST and demonetisation may have been left out of Business Studies because they were covered in the Economics syllabus instead, he added. How does this inform the teaching process? Teachers say that given the time crunch exacerbated by COVID-19, it is highly unlikely that topics which will not be tested in the examination will be taught in the classroom. “Even in a regular year, many political science teachers omit subjects such as federalism, democracy and citizenship from the political theory chapters in Class 11, in order to begin the Class 12 syllabus instead. They don’t see the point in teaching such ‘vague’ subjects and the COVID-19 rationalisation only validates that kind of thinking. Each school has complete discretion for Class 11 since there is only an internal examination,” said a political science teacher from a reputed Delhi school, who did not wish to be named.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘They hurled communal slurs, told us to leave area’||On April 5, a group of men in a Hindu-dominated locality in north Delhi’s Sarai Rohilla allegedly verbally abused and hurled communal slurs at a Muslim family living in the area. On a day when the nation got together to light lamps to display a collective spirit in the fight against COVID-19, the family had to brave communal slogans that were chanted outside their home. Non-Cognizable Report Three months on, the family said no FIR has been lodged in the case. The police, however, said a Non-Cognizable Report has been lodged. In a police complaint, the family has named the people who harassed them. Akram Khan  (name changed), who runs a factory in Wazirabad, said that on the day of the incident, he and his family members were lighting candles on the terrace when a group of men, including a few neighbours, started shouting communal slurs at them. “Our neighbour suggested we ignore them and go back to our rooms as my sisters and parents were also present. We had to go back,” he said. A few minutes later, when Mr. Khan and his sister went to buy milk, the latter saw one of the men and requested him not to shout such communal statements. “She told them that our parents are heart patients and they will stress over the issue. But the man continued to argue when we started walking back,” he said. On the way home, members of the group allegedly stopped Mr. Khan and hurled more communal slurs at him. When his sister tried to intervene, the group allegedly misbehaved with her. Meanwhile, more people gathered at the spot and Mr. Khan’s parents came and took the siblings back home. “We locked ourselves inside the house. We also called the PCR seven to eight times,” he said, adding that while they waited for the police to come, the group stood outside their residence and continued shouting. The group also allegedly asked the family to leave the area. In a video of the incident, accessed by The Hindu , the group can be heard making provocative statements while Mr. Khan’s sister kept saying that they too have the right to chant slogans for India. Mr. Khan said that when policemen finally arrived, they told the crowd to disperse and helped his family. Both, the family members and the group of men, were taken to the police station. “At the station, my mother fainted and we took her to a hospital. The police said they would come the next day to record statements but nothing happened for the next one month,” he said. Mr. Khan said they went to the office of DCP (North) Monika Bhardwaj who assured them help. Recently, the family also went to meet a Joint Commissioner of Police, who too assured them help. “After the Joint CP’s intervention, for the last one week, some members of that group — who used to stand outside our house — have stopped,” said Mr. Khan. ‘Men counselled’ Ms. Bhardwaj said, “Legal action has been taken. A Non-Cognizable Report under Section 506 (Criminal intimidation) of the IPC has been lodged. We are taking necessary action for the family’s safety.” Meanwhile, another senior officer said the members of the group — identified by the family — have been counselled.  On April 5, a day when the nation got together to light lamps to display a collective spirit in the fight against COVID-19, the family had to bear communal slogans that were chanted outside their home
19 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Unlocking process in Guwahati from Monday||The Assam government on Saturday announced relaxation of the three-week lockdown in Guwahati from July 20 with critics pointing out that the restrictions did not serve the purpose of checking COVID-19 positive cases. But the lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays, across urban and semi-urban centres, will continue to be imposed in the city. The lockdown was initially imposed for two weeks from June 29, a day after the State recorded 7,492 positive cases with more than 700 of them having been infected through community transmission. It was extended by a week till July 19. From June 29 to July 17, 14,372 positive cases were recorded and more than 45% of them were from Guwahati. The figures, the Opposition Congress and some residents of the city had pointed out, made it apparent that the lockdown was not effective. “We have decided to start the unlocking phase from July 20 with certain restrictions. Night curfew will remain in force from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. while inter-district movement will open for only two days till July 22,” Chief Secretary Kumar Sanjay Krishna said. Wine shops to reopen According to an order by the State Disaster Management Authority headed by Mr. Krishna, wine shops, wholesale and retail outlets can open from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. but alternately on one side of the road. Vegetable, fish and meat shops, courier and e-commerce activities have been given the same window. “There will be no street and footpath vending. Malls, cinema halls, gyms, yoga centres and all places of public gathering shall remain closed,” he said. While shopkeepers have been allowed to operate with only 50% of the employees “including owner testing negative”, government and private offices have been asked to operate with only 30% of the workforce. Cab aggregators, auto and manual rickshaws except e-rickshaws have been allowed to operate. But private vehicles have been disallowed unless in medical and other emergency.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||Independent prosecutors must for fair trial: AAP||AAP MP Sanjay Singh on Saturday insisted that public prosecutors appointed in the north-east Delhi riots should be “independent”. He was reacting to the L-G Anil Baijal’s letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on appointment of senior advocates in north-east Delhi riots cases. He said the AAP government in Delhi is committed to provide strictest possible punishment to all those involved in the riots. “But for that to happen, independent investigation by the police and a free and fair trial are a must. The L-G and the Centre are insisting on the appointment of a panel of special public prosecutors chosen by the Central government. This is happening at a time when there are very serious allegations on the response of Delhi Police to these riots as well as how the investigation process is going on. There are reports that the police is busy implicating some people, while at the same time trying to save others,” Mr. Singh said. “Therefore it is important that the panel of lawyers chosen by Delhi government represents these cases in the courts,” he added. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said that under CrPC, it is very clear that the public prosecutor is a representative of the State and not the police. In a statement issued later in the day, the Raj Niwas said: “There is no reason to imagine that the public prosecutors appointed wouldn’t perform their duty fearlessly and impartially as the officers of the court.”
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for murder found dead in jail||A 36-year-old man, who was lodged in the jail for killing his mother-in-law with an ice pick on Thursday, was found dead inside the prison, said officials on Saturday. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said the resident of Mohan Garden was found dead in jail number 4. He used a bedsheet to end his life in the early hours of Saturday, he added. The man was arrested for killing his 62-year-old mother-in-law. He had also injured three other persons who tried to intervene. He was overpowered at the spot. The man was earlier lodged in jail for nine months on charges of raping a minor.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
19 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man booked for opening gym, 10 others fined||The owner of a gymnasium in Shahdara’s Shivpuri area was booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for opening his gym in violation of Delhi government orders, the police said on Saturday. The government has directed all gyms to remain closed due to the COVID-19 outbreak. No masks Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said that information was received regarding a gym being open in Shivpuri. “When a police team reached the spot, they found the gym’s shutter half open. There were 11 people exercising inside... none of them were wearing masks,” Mr. Sharma said. The owner, Raheesh (33), a resident of Brijpuri, was booked and also sent for COVID-19 test. Ten others, including seven men and three women, were challaned for violating COVID-19 guidelines.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Groundwater extraction SOP ready’||Following a plea seeking action against illegal extraction of groundwater by water filing plants, the DPCC has informed the NGT that the Delhi government’s Environment Department had prepared an SOP for the regulation of groundwater extraction and prohibition of illegal activities. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson was informed that the Delhi Jal Board and local bodies were directed to identify illegal borewells and that Deputy Commissioners (Revenue) directed to supervise closure of the same.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||East Delhi gets its first charging station for e-vehicles||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday inaugurated an electric vehicle charging station in Patparganj, his Assembly constituency in east Delhi. “East Delhi’s first-ever public charging EV station is equipped with all modern facilities. It can charge four vehicles at the same time for 45 to 90 minutes. Heavy-duty vehicles like SUV, Mahindra, Hyundai, Kona etc. can be charged at this station,” an official statement said. Mr. Sisodia said electric vehicles are our future as we can make Delhi pollution-free through them. “People who have purchased EVs are currently facing charging issues. This EV charging station installed here will solve that problem. As we come across petrol pumps everywhere, now we will also see EV charging stations everywhere,” he said. The initial charge for this EV charging facility will be Rs. 10.50 per unit for a limited period, which is the lowest amongst the current EV tariff rates (for public) in Delhi. A software application called PlugNGO has been made available on Google Play Store facilitating citizens to make an advance booking for charging their EVs. Pre-booking facility is also available via mobile phones.
19 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP distributes ration kits||State BJP president Adesh Gupta distributed ration kits among auto drivers on Saturday in an event organised at the EDMC Primary School in Laxmi Nagar.Mr. Gupta said in lockdown period and now, Delhi BJP karyakartas were constantly working for the people of Delhi and providing all possible help.
