19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Days after clash, China frees 10 soldiers||Three days after clashes in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh left 20 Indian soldiers dead, the Chinese on Thursday evening released 10 Indian Army personnel, including a Lieutenant Colonel and three Majors, from their custody. A security source told The Hindu that all 10 persons were released around 5 p.m. after an agreement was reached at the Major General-level talks on Wednesday evening and they were returned unharmed. Separately, the Army clarified in a statement that there were “no Indian troops missing in action”. ‘Soldiers were armed’ In another development, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said the Indian troops, who were outnumbered and attacked by the Chinese side, carried arms. “All troops on border duty always carry arms, especially when leaving post. Those at Galwan on June 15 did so. Long-standing practice (as per 1996 & 2005 agreements) not to use firearms during faceoffs,” Dr. Jaishankar said on Twitter, in response to a tweet from Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. Article VI of the 1996 agreement between India and China on “Confidence-Building Measures (CBMs) in the military field along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China border areas” says, “Neither side shall open fire, cause bio-degradation, use hazardous chemicals, conduct blast operations or hunt with guns or explosives within two kilometres from the line of actual control. This prohibition shall not apply to routine firing activities in small arms firing ranges.” Commenting on the 1996 agreement, former Northern Army Commander Lt. Gen. H.S. Panag said these agreements apply to border management and not while dealing with a tactical military situation. “Lastly when lives of soldiers or security of post/territory threatened, Commander on the spot can use all weapons at his disposal including artillery,” he said on Twitter. The third round of talks at the Major General-level were held in the Galwan area. Specific outcomes from Thursday’s meeting were not immediately known, but a source said the talks were positive and there would be more meetings in the coming days. The effort was to reduce tensions on the ground and implement the consensus agreed on June 6 for de-escalation, the source said. ( With inputs from   Vijaita Singh )
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||97 fresh cases, death rises to 21||With 97 new COVID-19 cases and one more COVID death, that too of an apparently healthy 28-year-old, being reported in the State on Thursday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here that there seemed to be a total let-up in the vigil that the State used to exercise earlier in containing COVID-19. With 89 persons reported to have recovered from the disease, the number of active cases in Kerala now stood at 1,358. Though a total of 2,794 persons has been diagnosed with COVID-19 ever since the outbreak began in the State, the number of recoveries has been high at 1,413. The death toll now stood at 21. 3 imported cases Of the 97 new cases reported on Thursday, all except three are imported cases of infection diagnosed on people who have returned from abroad and other States where the disease transmission is on. Three persons are believed to have contracted through local transmission. The total number of hotspots in the State now is 108. The government is readying a comprehensive proposal to engage more people as health-care workers and deploy them in COVID-19 containment activities if disease transmission becomes intense in the State. Mr. Vijayan said that the government proposed to recruit people who were less than 45 years in State government service and give them special training so that they could be engaged as health-care workers to implement COVID-19 containment activities. Interested students who are in the final year of various health science courses, health-care workers who are now out of job and retired health-care professionals can be trained and deployed wherever their services are required. They will be given special training with the aid of various departments.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India coasts to win in Security Council polls||Terming India’s winning of a non-permanent seat of the UN Security Council one of its “best performances” ever, the Union government said the majority of votes received in the General Assembly demonstrated the “goodwill” the country enjoyed. India will promote multilateral solutions for the COVID-19 crisis and enhance global action against terrorism, among its priorities, during the two-year term beginning January 2021, it said. In the election decided overnight on Wednesday, India secured 184 of the 192 votes, far in excess of the 128, or two-thirds minimum, it needed to be confirmed. Others that won were Mexico with 187 votes, Norway 130 and Ireland 128, defeating Canada, which won 108. Several countries, including the permanent Security Council members, the U.S., the U.K., France, Russia and China, congratulated India. Neither Kenya (113 votes) nor Djibouti (78), both contesting for one seat from Africa, won a two-thirds majority. The two are contesting a second round. In its last bid for the UNSC seat in 2010, India had won 187 votes.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks status report on Safoora’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to the city police on a plea to grant bail to Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi violence case. Justice Rajiv Shakdher asked the police to submit a status report on the bail plea by June 22, the next date of hearing. Ms. Zargar, who is more than five months pregnant, has challenged a June 4 order of a trial court denying her bail in the case. She had contended before the trial court that from the material available on record, no act was attributable to her which incited any violence.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks status report on Safoora’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to the city police on a plea to grant bail to Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi violence case. Justice Rajiv Shakdher asked the police to submit a status report on the plea by June 22, the next date of hearing. Ms. Zargar, who is five months pregnant, has challenged a June 4 order of a trial court denying her bail in the case. She had contended before the trial court that from the material available on record, no act was attributable to her which incited any violence. Her advocate had argued that Ms. Zargar was “mischieviously” arrested by Delhi Police to curtail her liberty upon her release on bail in another case. The trial court, however, said she could not shy away from her liability under the provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
19 June 2020||Pune/ Mumbai,||100 more deaths in State||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 100 more COVID-19 deaths, taking its total number of fatalities to 5,751. The State also recorded a spike of 3,752 cases, pushing its tally to 1,20,504. Of the total cases, 53,901 are active ones, said State Health Department officials. As many as 1,672 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 60,838. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stands at 50.49%, while its case fatality rate is 4.77%. Mumbai reported 1,288 new cases, taking its case load past 62,000. The city now has 62,875 cases, of which, 31,856 have recovered. As many as 67 more deaths were also recorded, pushing the toll to 3,311. After an uproar over the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation adding 862 deaths to the city’s toll, following a data reconciliation exercise, the civic body issued a statement on Thursday, claiming there has been no attempt to hide deaths.
19 June 2020||Belagavi,||Physically challenged woman sits on dharna||A physically challenged woman sat on a dharna in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Belagavi on Thursday, against what she said unilateral termination of her contractual services from the Revenue Department. Saleema T. has been working as an assistant data entry operator in the Ramdur Tahsildar’s office since October 2019. The contracting company paid her half the wages and terminated her services without notice during the COVID-19 lockdown. She met Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli and urged him to help her.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||With 425 new cases, curve rises steeply||The growing incidence of COVID-19 infection among locals and those coming from abroad and other States during the past few weeks has more than doubled the total number of cases in the past 18 days. During the past 24 hours, 425 new cases and two deaths due to the virus were reported in the State, taking the tally to 7,496 and the toll to 92, according to the State’s bulletin issued on Thursday. Of the total 7, 496 cases, as many as 3, 772 persons have recovered, including the cases of 131 new recoveries during the past 24 hours, and 3, 632 persons are undergoing treatment in the State. As many as 5, 854 cases (78%) of the total cases are of locals and the remaining 22% are of foreign returnees (289) and migrant returnees and other State people (1,353). Meanwhile, the State has crossed the six-lakh-mark in tests, including the 13, 923 conducted in the past day.
19 June 2020||Chennai,||Chennai’s arterial roads to be off limits from today||Arterial roads in the city will be closed to the public and residents will have to walk to shops to buy essentials from Friday as the State capital and its surrounding areas go into complete lockdown till June 30. The lockdown will be enforced in parts of Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts as well. On Thursday, surveillance was heightened along the city’s borders to prevent people from leaving without valid e-passes. “All restrictions announced by the government will be fully implemented,” said Chennai Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan. Employees of organisations must carry their company ID cards. Employees would not be allowed to travel daily to workplaces outside city limits. Managerial and supervisory level employees, who have been provided with e-pass by the Industries Department, will alone be allowed to move in and out of city police limits.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Why no arms, asks Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asked “who is responsible for sending Indian soldiers unarmed to martyrdom” as the Congress once again raised the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops that killed 20 Indian soldiers. “China has committed a big crime by killing unarmed Indian soldiers. Who sent these bravehearts towards danger without arms and why? Who is responsible for this,” Mr. Gandhi asked in a video message. In a tweet, he said, “How dare China kill our unarmed soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent unarmed to martyrdom?”page 9
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID cases cross 6,000 mark in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed the 6,000 mark as 352 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, taking the total cases to 6027. This is the highest number of cases detected in a day till date. Three more people died taking the toll to 195. The State government started performing 50,000 coronavirus tests from Monday in containment zones, on contacts of positive patients, those who come to government testing centres with symptoms and others. The aim of conducting tests is to gauge the prevalence of the infectious disease. It is serving the purpose as more cases are being detected. While 269 were detected on Wednesday, 352 more were detected on Thursday, which indicates that increased testing helps in detecting more cases. If more cases are detected and their contacts too are traced, further spread of the virus can be checked. Though the number of tests performed in a day and cumulative number of tests were mentioned in medical bulletins issued by the State Health department in the past two days, the crucial data was not mentioned in the medical bulletin on Thursday. The 352 new cases include 302 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area , 17 from Rangareddy, 10 from Medchal. Of the total 6027 cases, 2531 are active cases, 3301 were discharged and 195 died.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘PLA planned attack for at least two days’||The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) meticulously planned the attack on Indian troops at Galwan in eastern Ladakh for at least two days, a senior government official said. The Chinese blocked small rivulets in heightened areas, releasing water at a high speed when Indian Army personnel appeared at the disputed site in the Galwan area on June 15. “The strong gush of water made the men lose balance. The Chinese charged, pushed the Army personnel and many fell into Galwan river,” the official said. The Chinese did a reconnaissance by flying unmanned aerial vehicles to see the strength of the Indian troops and accordingly bolstered their presence on the other side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the official stated.  The Hindu reported on Wednesday that the clash took place after Colonel Santosh Babu, who was commanding the unit, dismantled a tent erected by the Chinese and later set it on fire.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC stays Puri Rath Yatra||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the annual Jagannath Rath Yatra in Puri scheduled on June 23.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Bengaluru worries as Karnataka toll rises by 12||For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported 2,000-plus cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Thursday. The State’s recovery rate stood at 54%, while the mortality rate was 1.2%. Andhra Pradesh reported two cases. Cases in Telangana rose as 352 more samples tested positive, taking total cases to 6,027. Three more people died taking the toll to 195. There were 97 new COVID-19 cases and one more COVID death of an apparently healthy 28-year-old in Kerala, prompting Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan to lament that there seemed to be a total let-up in the vigil in the State. Tamil Nadu added 2,141 new cases of COVID-19, taking its overall tally of cases to 52,334. The number of active cases stood at 23,065. Another 1,017 persons were discharged from hospitals. With this, the total number of recoveries increased to 28,641. However, the State’s toll climbed to 625 with 49 more fatalities (36 deaths in government hospitals and 13 in private hospitals). As Chennai reported 1,373 of the fresh cases, its total case count climbed to 37,070. Of this, 16,882 persons were under treatment. The number of deaths in the city touched 500. The total number of samples tested so far in the State crossed eight lakh. In the last 24 hours, 26,736 more samples were tested, taking the total samples to 8,00,443. With 89 persons reported to have recovered from the disease, the number of active cases in Kerala stood at 1,360. Though a total of 2,794 persons were diagnosed with COVID-19 since the outbreak began, the number of recoveries were high at 1,413. Mr. Vijayan said that post-lockdown, despite repeated warnings about the gravity of the situation, people seemed to go about their business as usual, without social distancing or adequate hand sanitising. This called for stringent interventions from the Government, he added. The death of the 28-year-old youth at Kannur, whose infection could not be traced to a particular source, was a warning that no one was safe from the virus. Of the 97 new cases, all except three were diagnosed in people who had returned from abroad and other States. Three persons were believed to have contracted COVID-19 through local transmission. Growing incidence of COVID-19 infection among residents and those coming from abroad and other States in Andhra Pradesh more than doubled the case number since June 1. Since Wednesday, 425 fresh cases and two deaths were reported taking the case tally to 7,496 and toll to 92, the State bulletin said. Both deaths were in Krishna district. During the ‘Unlock 1’ so far, between June 1 and June 18, the State reported 3,925 cases, representing 52% of the total cases. Of the total, 3,772 persons had recovered including 131 new recoveries in the past day and 3,632 persons were under treatment. Also, 5,854 cases (78%) of the total cases were of locals and the remaining 22% of foreign returnees (289) and migrant returnees and people from other States (1353).  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Thiruvananthapuram B ureaus)
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Why were our jawans unarmed’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asked “who is responsible for sending Indian soldiers unarmed to martyrdom” as the Congress once again raised the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops that killed 20 Indian soldiers. “China has committed a big crime by killing unarmed Indian soldiers. I want to ask who sent these bravehearts towards danger without arms and why. Who is responsible for this,” Mr. Gandhi asked in a video message. In a tweet, he said, “How dare China kill our unarmed soldiers? Why were our soldiers sent unarmed to martyrdom.”. The tweet comes a day after he slammed Defence Minister Rajnath Singh for “taking two days” to condole the death of the soldiers. Addressing a press conference in Jaipur, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal and its chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the Ladakh face-off reflected the shortcomings of the Central government. “If Army protocol in the Line of Actual Control (LAC) did not allow troops to carry arms to the forward areas, why was there no armed back-up force available? And if they were available, why were they not used,” they asked. In a separate tweet, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attacked the Centre’s weak policy towards China. ‘Kneeling down’ Citing a news report, she accused the government of ‘kneeling’ down before China by awarding a Rs. 1,126-crore contract for the Delhi-Meerut rapid rail to a Chinese company. “Twenty of our soldiers have been martyred. In such a situation, the Central government should give a strong message. But it has adopted a weak strategy of kneeling down by handing over the contract of Delhi-Meerut semi high-speed rail corridor to a Chinese company. All Indian companies are also competent to build this corridor,” she said in a tweet.
19 June 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Cong. says it has the numbers in Manipur||The Congress in Manipur has staked claim to form a Secular Progressive Front (SPF) government after convening a special session of the 60-member Assembly to take up a no-confidence motion against the Ministry led by Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren. Nine MLAs, including three of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), had on Wednesday night withdrawn support to Mr. Biren and reduced the BJP-led government to a minority. The political upheaval has put the spotlight on the election for Manipur’s lone Rajya Sabha seat on Friday. “We are confident of winning the election because the numbers are with us,” said Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei. A team of Congress, National People’s Party (NPP) and Trinamool Congress MLAs led by former Chief Minister Okram Ibobi Singh met Governor Najma Heptulla on Thursday afternoon seeking the replacement of the BJP-led coalition. Mr. Singh pointed out that the Congress has 20 MLAs, seven of its lawmakers having been barred from entering the House by the High Court of Manipur, while the strength of the BJP is 18 after the resignation of three of its MLAs and since another Congress MLA — former Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar — had been disqualified earlier for defecting to the BJP, the effective strength of the House has been reduced to 49. The present Ministry has 23 MLAs with four from the Naga People’s Front and one of Lok Janshakti Party compared with 26 of the Congress with the support of four NPP, a Trinamool Congress and an Independent MLA, he added. “In the event of the Speaker’s Tribunal ruling in favour of the seven Congress MLAs [against whom the Congress had sought legal action for supporting the BJP], the strength of the House rises to 56 and the SPF will command 33 MLAs while the BJP will have 23,” Mr. Singh said. Meanwhile, the High Court issued a directive to the Speaker to not rule on the disqualification of the seven Congress MLAs before the RS election on Friday.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Umifenovir to undergo clinical trial||The Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Lucknow, a constituent lab of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), has received permission for carrying out Phase III trials for the use of Umifenovir against COVID-19. The randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial will test the efficacy, safety and tolerability of the drug. “This drug has a good safety profile and acts by preventing entry of virus into human cells and also by priming the immune system,” a release issued by the Central government on Thursday said. Umifenovir, mainly used for the treatment of influenza, is available in China and Russia, and has recently come into prominence due to its potential use for COVID-19 patients. The Health Ministry added that to evaluate its efficacy in Indian patients, CSIR-CDRI has taken up the clinical trial. The trial will be carried out at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS) and Era’s Lucknow Medical College & Hospital. “Further it has developed the process technology for Umifenovir in record time and licensed the economical process technology for manufacturing and marketing the drug to M/s. Medizest Pharmaceuticals Private Ltd. Goa, who have already received test license from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI),” it added. Tapas Kundu, Director of CSIR-CDRI, said that all the raw materials for the drug are indigenously available and if the clinical trial is successful, Umifenovir can be a safe, efficacious, affordable drug against COVID-19. Prof. Kundu also added that this drug has the potential for prophylactic use. Shekhar Mande, Director General of CSIR, said that the clinical trial was an integral part of the CSIR strategy of repurposing drugs for COVID-19. The Ministry added that the clinical trial application was processed on high priority in keeping with the DCGI’s initiative against COVID-19. The next steps of the trial are being fast tracked to enable the availability of the drug to patients as soon as possible, it said.
19 June 2020||Chennai,||Pandemic amplifies demand for retirement homes||The lockdown following the COVID-19 pandemic has impacted many communities. Of these, the elderly are among the worst hit. The lockdown has exposed the vulnerability of elderly people living alone, driving up the demand for retirement homes and assisted living facilities. Columbia Pacific Communities, which has facilities in Bengaluru, Chennai, Kancheepuram, Coimbatore and Puducherry, has seen a four-fold increase in applications. “Of the new queries, 60% are for immediate occupation,” said CEO Mohit Nirula. They receive nearly 30 calls a day now, compared to 10-15 queries earlier. Surge in queries In the past, most queries were from people aged 65-plus. Now, there has been a surge in requests from the 45-60 years age group. “These are people who, despite owning large properties, are realising that a community lifestyle is better suited for senior living, where the responsibility lies with the service provider,” said Mr. Nirula. The lockdown has amplified fears of isolation, falling ill, and dependence on external caregivers. Arun Gupta, CEO, Age Well Ventures, said that enquiries had doubled for their upcoming projects in Gurgaon, and had increased in Ahmedabad. The company has homes in Bengaluru and Ahmedabad, and under-development projects in greater Gurgaon, Jabalpur, Kolkata and Hyderabad. At the Columbia Pacific facilities, all residents wear masks, practise social distancing and have minimal contact with outsiders. Care is taken to keep the residents in good spirits. “We connect them with friends and family and organise interactions with experts and celebrities,” said Mr. Nirula. Medical facilities After the lockdown, Mr. Gupta asked a few staff members to stay in the homes and take up roles across departments. “We dropped some routine housekeeping chores and reduced some items from the menu. We began to deliver food to the rooms,” he said. Medical facilities are top priority in senior living facilities. According to Mr. Nirula, “The 24x7 availability of an ambulance and driver and tie-ups with nearby hospitals has kept residents at ease. We also roped in an NGO for anxiety counselling.” At Age Well Ventures, programmes on mental health are hosted on Zoom and there are yoga sessions for residents. Southern India is ahead when it comes to senior living. Coimbatore, Puducherry, Chennai, Bengaluru, Kodaikanal, Mysuru, Kochi and Kancheepuram have nearly 65% of the country’s overall senior living projects.
19 June 2020||PATNA,||Grief, anger in villages of slain Bihar soldiers||As the funeral procession of Havildar Sunil Kumar began from his ancestral home at Tarapur near Patna on Thursday, his inconsolable wife Ritika Devi and daughter Sonali Kumari, 12, came out and saluted him. “The government must avenge my husband’s martyrdom,” said Ms. Ritika. Sunil Kumar was among the five soldiers from Bihar who were killed in the Galwan area in Ladakh in a clash with Chinese soldiers. His body arrived in Patna on Wednesday evening. The bodies of four other soldiers from Bihar and one of Sahebganj in Jharkhand reached Patna on Thursday. The Army will take the bodies to their villages by road. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi and other leaders paid tributes to them at the Patna airport. Earlier in the morning, thousands of people participated in the 15-km-long procession to the cremation ground at Haldi Chhapra in Maner on the banks of the Ganga. Youths carried a 400-metre-long tricolour and chanted ‘ Bharat Mata Ki Jai ’ and ‘ Sunil Bhaiya amar rahe ’ (Long live Sunil Bhaiya). People showered flower petals and raised slogans against China and appealed to the people to boycott Chinese goods. Kumar’s elder son, Ayush, 10, performed the last rites. Apart from Sonali and Ayush, Sunil Kumar, 35, had another son, Virat, 5. A native of Tarapur, Sunil Kumar joined the Army in 2002 and his elder brother Anil Kumar is a veteran. “Only a few days ago did he call me up, asking to take proper care of myself and not to leave the father alone..., but he himself left us alone,” said a sobbing Rukmini Devi. Similarly, the house of Jai Kishore Singh at Chak-Fateh in Vaishali district was in gloom. Singh, 22, joined the Army in 2018. His elder brother Nand Kishore Singh is also in the armed forces, serving in Sikkim. “... I feel proud that he laid down his life for the honour of the country... I’ll send my younger sons — Shivam and Kaushal Kumar — to the Army,” said his father Rajkapoor Singh, a farmer.  The scene at Kundan Kumar Singh’s home at Aran in Saharsa district is no different. His father Nirmindra Yadav, a farmer, said, “This must not be the end... I still have two grandsons and will send them to the Army.” Kundan Kumar’s sons are five and three years old. Grief prevailed at the residence of Aman Kumar Singh, 24, at Sultanpur in Samastipur district. “At least the government should make our 18-year-old youngest son join the Army so that he can serve the country and take revenge,” father Sudhir Kumar Singh said. Aman was married in February 2019. Chandan Kumar, from Kora-Gyanpura in Bhojpur district, was the youngest among his siblings, and was to get married in April. But the ceremony was postponed because of the lockdown. Heartbroken yet proud, his father Hridanand Singh, a farmer, said all his four sons were in the Army.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Polls for 19 Rajya Sabha seats today||Elections to 19 Rajya Sabha seats in nine States, including polling for 18 seats that had been deferred following the COVID-19 pandemic in March, will be held on Friday. MLAs who have been hospitalised with COVID-19 will be allowed to vote by postal ballot, said an Election Commission of India (EC) instruction issued on Wednesday. Apart from the 18 seats which were vacated in April, the EC had on June 1 announced polls for six seats that would be vacated in June and July. Of these, five seats went uncontested, leaving one seat in Mizoram to go to the polls on Friday. Single largest party With Friday’s elections, the BJP’s position of the single largest party in the Upper House, with 75 members out of 245, is likely to get a boost. In Andhra Pradesh, five candidates — Ayodhya Rami Reddy Alla, Nathwani Parimal, Pilli Subhaschandra Bose and Venkataramana Rao Mopidevi of the YSRCP and Varla Ramaiah of the Telugu Desam Party — are in the fray for the four seats. Three BJP candidates — Abhay Ganpatray Bhardwaj, Amin Narhari Hirabhai and Ramila Becharbhai Bara — and two from the Congress, Solanki Bharatbhai Madhavsinh and Gohil Shaktisinhji Harichandrasinhji, are contesting for Gujarat’s four seats. Former Jharkhand Chief Minister Shibu Soren will be the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha’s candidate, along with Deepak Prakash of the BJP and Shahzada Anwar of the Congress on the ballots for two seats from the State. Former Union Minister Jyotiraditya M. Scindia, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP earlier this year, and Sumar Singh Solanki are the two BJP candidates, while the Congress has fielded Digvijay Singh and Phool Singh Baraiya for the three seats going to the polls in Madhya Pradesh. Meghalaya & Manipur Kennedy Cornelius Khyriem of the Congress and Wanweiroy Kharlukhi of the National People’s Party are in the fray for one seat in Meghalaya. The contest for one seat in Manipur will be between the Congress candidate Tongbram Mangibabu Singh and BJP’s Maharaja Sanajaoba Leishemba. The contest for one seat in Mizoram would be between three candidates — Lallianchhunga of the Congress, K. Vanlalvena of the Mizo National Front and B. Lalchhanzova of the Zoram People’s Movement. Polling will be held for three seats in Rajasthan, with the BJP’s Onkar Singh Lakhawat and Rajendra Gehlot, and the Congress’s Neeraj Dangi and K.C. Venugopal in the fray.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mobile lab to improve access to testing||Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan on Thursday launched the country’s first mobile I-Lab (Infectious disease diagnostic lab) for last mile COVID-19 testing access. The lab will be deployed in interior, inaccessible parts of the country and has the capability to perform 25 RT-PCR tests a day, 300 ELISA tests a day and additional tests for TB, HIV as per CGHS (Central Government Health Scheme) rates. “Double set of machines can help increase the capacity to about 500 a day in 8 hours shift. It can be deployed in remote areas and can be lifted from automotive chassis and put on goods train for sending to any location in the country,” the Minister said. The Infectious Disease Diagnostic Lab (I-LAB) is supported by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, under the COVID Command strategy, the Health Ministry said. The number of government labs had now increased to 699 and private labs to 254 as of Thursday. “In the last 24 hours, 1,65,412 samples were tested. The total number of samples tested thus far is 62,49,668,” it said. The National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) has licensed the manufacturing know-how of a PPE (personal protective equipment) suit named — ‘NavRakshak’ — to five MSME clients to meet the ongoing country-wide demand for quality PPE kits. PPE manufacturing These five manufacturers put together are planning to mass produce more than 10 million PPEs a year, a Ministry release said. The manufacturing know-how of NavRakshak was developed at the Innovation Cell of the Institute of Naval Medicine, INHS Asvini Hospital (Mumbai) of the Navy, from where the name was derived, it stated. “The PPE is cost-effective as it does not require major capital investment and can be adopted even by gown manufacturing units using basic stitching expertise,” it added.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Boycott Chinese goods, says Paswan||Union Consumer Affairs Minister Ram Vilas Paswan called for a boycott of all goods made in China on Thursday. Rules will soon be framed to block the import of any substandard products from China and other countries, he said. Speaking to presspersons here, Mr. Paswan said, “I appeal to the public in general to give a strong reply to China by boycotting it’s products and to promote only made in India products”. He had already ordered his Ministry to refrain from purchasing stationary and other administrative items from firms selling products made in China, he said. Plugging ‘loopholes’ The Minister said the new rules would be notified soon by the Bureau of Indian Standards that fixes standards for around 25,000 products. “When our products are exported, many nations reject them claiming that it does not adhere to their standards. But when their goods come to India, there is no strict quality control. Our new rules will plug these loopholes,” he added. It is unfortunate that even Ganesha idols or the lights used during Diwali more often than not come from China, the Minister said. “We have to give them a strong reply for their barbaric attack,” he added.  We have to give them a strong reply for their barbaric attack Ram Vilas Paswan Union Consumer Affairs Minister
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways to terminate Rs. 471 cr. contract of Chinese firm||Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India Ltd. (DFCCIL), a special purpose vehicle under the Railway Ministry, on Thursday decided to terminate a Rs. 471-crore signalling contract given to a Chinese firm. While the decision follows the violent clash between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, the Railways said the contract was being terminated due to “poor progress.” The move also comes a day after the Department of Telecom decided to ask the two state-run telcos — BSNL and MTNL — not to use gear by Chinese firms in its 4G upgrade. The contract for ‘signalling and telecommunication work’ for the 417-km section from Kanpur to Mughalsarai on the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor was awarded to Beijing National Railway Research & Design Institute of Signal & Communication Group in 2016. According to the Indian Railways, despite passage of four years, only 20% of the work has been completed. An official added that the company showed “reluctance” in furnishing technical documents, as per the contract agreement, such as logic design of electronic interlocking. Additionally, the company’s engineers or authorised personnel were not available at the project site which was a “serious constraint,” the official said.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rs. 50,000 crore scheme for migrants’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan on June 20 to offer immediate employment opportunities to migrant workers who have returned to their villages because of the COVID-19 lockdown, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Thursday. Out of an estimated 1 crore migrant workers who have returned to their villages, 67 lakh workers are expected to benefit from this scheme, a senior government official told The Hindu.  At a press conference here, she said 116 districts across six States had been identified as those having the highest number of workers returning home after the lockdown. Public works worth Rs. 50,000 crore would be carried out in these districts to provide immediate relief to these workers. Mr. Modi will launch this scheme through videoconference from Telihar village in Khagaria district of Bihar, where the Assembly election is due later this year. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi will join the event. Apart from Bihar, the States that have been seen a rush of migrant workers returning are Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Rajasthan. The Chief Ministers of these States and the Union Ministers of the Ministries concerned will also take part at the launch of the scheme. ‘Skill sets mapped’ “The Central and State governments have very meticulously mapped the skill sets of the migrant workers who have returned in large numbers to the 116 districts in 6 States,” Ms. Sitharaman said. Workers will be employed in rural housing, rural connectivity including the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, national highways, railway works, community sanitation complex, gram panchayats, anganwadis, water conservation, digging of wells, plantation and horticulture. “Within 125 days, for 116 districts, nearly 25 schemes of the government will be brought together under the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan. We will reach saturation levels for each of those schemes within those 125 days,” Ms. Sitharaman said. The Finance Minister said each of the 116 districts had a minimum of 25,000 migrant workers, but the number varied from district to district. The scheme will see a coordination between 12 different Ministries/Departments, such as Rural Development, Panchayati Raj, Road Transport and Highways, Mines, Drinking Water and Sanitation, Environment, Railways, Petroleum and Natural Gas, New and Renewable Energy, Border Roads, Telecom and Agriculture. “This campaign of 125 days, which will work in a mission mode, will involve intensified and focussed implementation of 25 different types of works to provide employment to the migrant workers on the one hand and create infrastructure in the rural regions of the country on the other,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.
19 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab looks to export PPEs||With 128 manufacturers in Punjab approved for production of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking permission to export the surplus. The Chief Minister said these manufacturers had risen to the occasion in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak to make Punjab self-reliant. “Permitting them to export the PPE coveralls would also give an impetus to the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ recently launched by government of India under your leadership,” he said in his letter. Captain Amarinder said it appeared that there was not enough domestic demand of PPE at present. These manufacturers are finding it difficult to obtain orders from HLL, he pointed out, adding that of the 128 approved manufacturers, only 18 units have received orders from the Government of India. The Chief Minister recalled that on May 21, 2020, the State Industries and Commerce Minister had written to Chief Ministers of all States to consider directing their health departments to place orders on Punjab’s PPE body coverall manufacturers at HLL rates. The 128 approved manufacturers have a cumulative current capacity to manufacture 5,21,050 coveralls every day. They can also further scale up the total capacity, and thus the potential for exports is massive, said Additional Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supreme Court stays Puri Rath Yatra||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the annual Jagannath Rath Yatra in Puri scheduled on June 23. “We direct that there shall be no ‘rath yatra’ anywhere in the temple town of Odisha or in any other part of the State this year. We further direct that there shall be no activities secular or religious associated with the rath yatra during this period,” the court ordered. “Lord Jagannath won’t forgive us if we allow the yatra,” Chief Justice of India (CJI) S.A. Bobde observed orally. Chief Justice Bobde, leading a Bench, said the restraining order arose out of the court’s concern for public health and safety amid the COVID-19 pandemic. “Do you know the word ‘juggernaut’ comes from ‘Jagannath’? ‘Juggernaut’ means something that cannot be stopped,” Chief Justice Bobde said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta quipped “Your Lordships have stopped it today.” The court’s order was vehemently objected to by several parties, who said the rituals at least should be allowed to be conducted. The Centre, represented by the Solicitor General, first sought a day or two to file a reply, before leaving it to the State government to decide, even as it said a blanket injunction would be an “extreme position”. Finally, Mr. Mehta suggested allowing certain rituals without any room for a gathering. But the court was firm.  Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the Odisha government, agreed with the court, saying, “The moment there is any celebration, people will congregate on the streets.” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for petitioner Odisha Vikas Parishad, which sought an injunction on the ‘rath yatra’, submitted that “the religious fervour is usually so much that people will throng the streets”. He said, “Even the Olympics have been postponed this year.”
19 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Nod for new-generation engg. courses||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has approved the introduction of new-generation courses in 21 engineering colleges in the State this academic year onwards. The Syndicate which met on Wednesday sanctioned 27 BTech and 13 MTech courses in three government, two aided, three government-controlled self-financing and 13 private self-financing colleges. While the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram (CET) has been sanctioned an additional batch of B.Tech Computer Science and Engineering with 60 seats, the college will also offer MTech programmes in Artificial Intelligence and Power Electronics with intake of 18 seats each. Government Engineering College, Thrissur, has been permitted to commence five MTech courses in Industrial Engineering and Management, VLSI and Embedded Systems, Electrical Instrumentation and Control Engineering, Health Safety and Environmental Management, and Geotechnical Engineering with 18 seats each. Government Engineering College, Sreekrishnapuram, Palakkad, will also commence MTech programmes with 18 seats each in Mechanical Engineering (Robotics), Electronics and Communication Engineering (Internet of Things), and a BTech course in Civil Engineering with an intake of 60 seats. Among the aided colleges, TKM College of Engineering will launch additional batches of BTech Computer Science and Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering as well as a new batch of MTech. In Artificial Intelligence (18 seats). Mar Athanasius College of Engineering, Kothamangalam, has been permitted to conduct BTech courses in Computer Science and Engineering (Data Science), and Robotics and Automation (60 seats each). The Syndicate also constituted a committee chaired by Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. to recommend steps to launch the ‘Earn while you learn’ scheme in engineering colleges this year. While the Syndicate decided to go ahead with the existing examination schedule for final-year students starting July 1, the Syndicate standing committee on examinations has been entrusted with studying the recommendations made by the academic sub-committee regarding the examinations of intermediate semesters.
19 June 2020||SURYAPET,||Thousands throng final rites of Col. Santosh Babu||Thousands of people packed the voluntarily shut down Suryapet town for Col. Bikkumalla Santosh Babu’s last journey, a distance of 6 km from the family’s residence to Kesaram, where he was cremated on Thursday. The mortal remains of the Colonel, killed in the skirmish with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley, Ladakh, on June 15, was flown to his home town by the Army late on Wednesday. On Thursday, at 9.35 a.m., the funeral procession began at Vidyangar in a bedecked Army convoy. The convoy moved amid slogans of Bharat Mata ki Jai , Santosh Babu amar rahe , China down down and Vande Mataram that were raised by emotionally charged residents of the town, as they stood in rows with flowers, the national flag and cellphones to capture the procession. Major J.H. Fareedi of Bihar Regiment, who was the Army’s liaison officer, coordinated the military funeral honours, and the State’s representative, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy, arranged the necessary courtesies. Just about when the clock struck noon, the soldiers facing east in front of the pyre lowered their guns and observed silence. The Army band then played The Last Post , and a gun salute followed. The tricolour that was covering the Colonel was folded and handed over to his wife Santoshi. 14-gun salute At least 50 armed forces officials, cadres of the National Cadet Corps, alumni of Sainik School, Korukonda, representatives of political parties and thousands of residents were present. The gathering raised thundering slogans as the last rites progressed. At 12.15 p.m., the Colonel’s three-and-a-half-year-old son Anirudh, who was carried by his mother, lit the pyre along with his grandfather Upender. And simultaneously, the soldiers fired three volleys in a 14-gun salute. Mr. Jagadish Reddy, on behalf of the State government, post-cremation announced from the very site that Kesaram would be made a memorial symbol, and the town’s main intersection would be named after the Colonel. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has conveyed that the family would be taken care of in all respects. Col. Santosh Babu will go down in history as one who made us all proud,” he said.
19 June 2020||Chennai,||Only minor savings due to cut in legislators’ pay, says study||The reduction in salaries and allowances of legislators of six States, effected with the intention of supplementing the States’ resources in tackling the impact of COVID-19 pandemic, is likely to lead to only “negligible savings” in the annual budgeted expenditure of the States, according to a study. Carried out by the PRS Legislative Research, a New Delhi-based think tank, the study has covered Karnataka, Kerala, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh. After the outbreak of the pandemic in late March, the States had promulgated ordinances, envisaging cut in salaries and certain allowances ranging from 15% to 30%. The reduction, which came into effect from April, touched upon several components such as basic or fixed salary and sumptuary allowance. In Gujarat, the basic salary of Rs. 98,500 for Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Ministers, Deputy Ministers and Leader of the Opposition, has been reduced to Rs. 68,950. In Karnataka, this has been lowered from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 35,000, which is for Chief Minister and presiding officers of the legislature. In Himachal Pradesh, the fixed salary of Chief Minister is now Rs. 66,500 from Rs. 95,000. In Kerala, even the constituency allowance has not been spared — from Rs. 40,000 it is down to Rs. 28,000. As for the total amount of annual savings, it has been assessed as Rs. 2.1 crore for Bihar; Rs. 5.8 crore for Gujarat; Rs. 4.3 crore for Himachal Pradesh; Rs. 15.9 crore for Karnataka; Rs. 3.1 crore for Kerala and Rs. 17.4 crore for Uttar Pradesh. In terms of proportion of the total budgeted expenditure of the States, this ranges from 0.001% for Bihar to 0.002% for Kerala to 0.003% each for Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh to 0.007% for Karnataka to 0.009% for Himachal Pradesh. The study also referred to the practice of some countries in appointing independent authorities to determine the pay of legislators.
19 June 2020||Thrissur,||Malayalam director Sachy no more||Film director, script writer, and producer K.R. Sachidanandan, popularly known as Sachy, died at a private hospital here on Thursday. He was 49. Sachy was rushed to Jubilee Mission Hospital, Thrissur, in a critical condition two days ago after he suffered a cardiac arrest reportedly during a surgery at another private hospital. He was on ventilator support. An expert team in the hospital was trying to save the life of the director. The director, whose recent Prithviraj-Biju Menon starrer Ayyappanum Koshiyum became a huge hit, reportedly had undergone a hip replacement surgery at the private hospital. Sachy, who hailed from Kodungalloor, was active in theatre right from his college days. His directorial debut was Anarkali in 2015. He had co-scripted many films with Sethu and later started writing solo scripts. Sachy was a practising lawyer at the Kerala High Court. He scripted hit films including Driving Licence , Ramleela, Seniors, and Run Baby Run .  His Prithviraj-Biju Menon starrer Ayyappanum Koshiyum became a huge hit recently
19 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||FIR against scribe, chief editor for ‘misreporting’||A Delhi-based journalist working for news portal Scroll.in was booked under various charges, including the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act, and an FIR was lodged on June 13 for allegedly misreporting about the poverty of a Dalit woman in a village adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Varanasi, the police said on Thursday. The Chief Editor of Scroll.in was also named in the FIR. Sections 269 and 501 (printing matter that is defamatory) of the IPC were invoked, along with relevant Sections of the SC/ST Act. Journalist Supriya Sharma was booked in connection with a piece published on June 8 titled, ‘In Varanasi village adopted by Prime Minister Modi, people went hungry during the lockdown.’ The story was about Domari village in the high-profile constituency. Ramnagar police station in-charge N.K. Singh said, “She had published the photo of a woman, Mala Devi, and made fun of her poverty, that she did not get food. Ms. Devi said there was nothing of this sort and submitted a complaint.” In her police complaint, Ms. Devi says she works as a Safai karmachari in Nagar Nigam Varanasi through outsourcing and that her mother was also receiving pension from the same department. She said she told the journalist that she and her family did not face any shortage of food during the outsourcing from the municipal corporation. She alleged that Ms. Sharma published “lies” about her.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Hong Kong residents to be flown out||Within days of 20 Indian soldiers having been killed in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh, a large number of Hong Kong residents in India would be evacuated because of the “emerging” situation. The Chinese nationals, who are residents of Hong Kong and working in different States in India, will be flown back home in a special flight from Chennai on June 20. Highly placed sources told The Hindu that in an advisory to all the States, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the Government Secretariat of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) of the People’s Republic of China had requested immediate assistance for facilitating the movement of its residents in the country to board a special flight from Chennai “for their return journey to Hong Kong” on June 20. MHA advisory The Ministry advised the States that the travel of the Hong Kong residents and the services of their drivers be treated as “essential” and they be allowed to travel through the districts to reach the airport. The authorities should facilitate the return of these drivers to the places of origin or residence, the advisory said. With a sizeable number of Hong Kong residents living in Tamil Nadu, mostly working in oil companies, gas pipelines and IT companies, the State government has asked senior police officers in all cities and districts to facilitate their travel. Since a 12-day complete lockdown has been declared in Chennai and parts of Kancheepuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur from June 19, the police said special passes would be issued to enable the Hong Kong residents to travel through district border checkpoints. Parrying questions whether other Chinese nationals in India were also planning to return, a police officer said the instructions for now was only with regard to Hong Kong residents. However, some flights were planned for moving out Chinese nationals, mostly students, tourists and businessmen, but that was in view of the pandemic and the lockdown, the officer said.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Twitter launches search prompt for domestic violence||Twitter on Thursday launched a search prompt for users seeking information on domestic violence, which will lead users to the NCW and the Ministry of Women and Child Developments’ pages. However, there is a lot left to be desired from the two government pages, which lacked user-friendly resources for survivors. The way the service works is that when users type keywords including #domesticviolence, #crimeagainstwomen, #dowry, #maritalrape etc, they will be directed to a page hosted on the official website of the Ministry of Women and Child Development (MWCD) and the Twitter timeline of the National Commission for Women. The purpose is to direct users to information and updates from ‘authoritative’ sources.  The Hindu audited the service and found that the NCW’s timeline didn’t provide any useful information that could be used by a woman in distress. It carried an announcement about the Twitter initiative, Chairperson Rekha Sharma’s advice on mental health and her comments on boycotting Chinese goods. There was only a helpline number as its cover image, which was of use. The Ministry’s page fared better — it had a directory for One Stop Centres across the country, a text of the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, emergency helplines and contact details for legal aid and mental health. “It would be helpful if NCW and WCD have specific pages and helplines linked to these prompts on Twitter,” says Japleen Pasricha, a feminist activist and media entrepreneur who founded the webportal, Feminism In India.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal’s new map now part of Constitution||The Upper House of Nepal’s Parliament on Thursday passed the Second Constitution Amendment Bill 2077 (Vikram era), with all 57 members voting in favour of the new map that claims parts of Indian territory in Pithoragarh district. One post has fallen vacant and the Chairperson doesn’t vote. President Bidhya Devi Bhandari signed the Bill hours later in her official residence, Shital Niwas. The voting and the presidential assent completed the legislative procedure of the Bill that was taken up by the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, after India inaugurated the Darchula-Lipulekh link road on May 8. Nepal immediately protested, saying the road violated the status quo of the region, which it described as “unresolved”. The process of pass ing the Bill — cleared unanimously by the Lower House, Pratinidhi Sabha —was fast-tracked. The new map will now be part of the national emblem of Nepal. The Parliament Secretariat had started using it in its official letterheads and posters. It is likely to be featured prominently on the promotional tourism documents. The formal inclusion of the map gives a rare guarantee to the physical territory of the Nepalese state that makes negotiations with India on the Kalapani issue difficult. However, Nepal has maintained that it is open for dialogue. Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said the amendment amounts to “artificial enlargement of claims that are not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable”.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India to take part in meeting of RIC grouping||India will participate in the virtual meeting of the Russia-India-China (RIC) grouping on June 23, the Ministry of External Affairs confirmed on Thursday. The Indian decision to go ahead with the ministerial level exchange has created an opening for de-escalation of tension along the Line of Actual Control with the Russian diplomatic sources indicating that they support “constructive dialogue” over the tension in eastern Ladakh. The confirmation from the Indian side came a day after External Affairs Minister Dr. S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi spoke over phone regarding the killing of at least 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley on June 15. It is understood that RIC is likely to throw up a moment of frank exchange between the Indian and the Chinese sides if the Ministers decide to bring up the Ladakh scenario during their exchanges. “Bilateral problems are not supposed to be discussed while we certainly appreciate the efforts from both sides, including on the high level, aimed at maintaining constructive dialogue and the situation in the LAC de-escalated,” said a Russian diplomatic source who highlighted that Moscow is trusted by both India and China. The official said RIC is a “useful platform to support a unified agenda” and several regional and global challenges like the COVID-19 pandemic may also come up during the discussion. The Russian reiteration of support for dialogue between China and India came even though Moscow’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov had said bilateral issues were usually not taken up at RIC.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana HC: publish COVID-19 patients’ list||While hearing a batch of PIL pleas related to coronavirus for the second consecutive day on Thursday, the Telangana High Court directed the State government to publish ward-wise COVID-19 positive patients’ lists in GHMC. These lists should be communicated to associations of colonies so that they in turn alert the public about spread of virus. This would help people realise the situation and take precautions, said the Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy. After giving an audience to Public Health Director Srinivasa Rao and Gandhi Hospital, the nodal COVID-19 treatment centre in the State, for nearly two hours, the Bench passed a slew of instructions and suggestions to the government. It directed the government to step up sample collection and testing for virus. The Bench also suggested to the government to comply with ICMR guidelines with regard to conducting rapid tests. “Tests should be conducted on asymptomatic direct contacts (those living in the same house or working in close proximity to a positive person) between the fifth and 10th day of coming in contact with an infected person. The government should give wide publicity about the 54 designated COVID-19 government hospitals located in different parts of the State. Not only common people, even doctors of Gandhi Hospital were under the impression that only Gandhi Hospital was the place where COVID-19 patients were treated. Message should be conveyed to the public that even designated hospitals in the districts can treat coronavirus patients, the Bench said. It directed Mr. Rao to explain what difficulties the government was facing in conducting Real-Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction Test (RT-PCR) that was being extensively adopted by the Kerala government. It instructed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to file a report on all the points raised in the direction by June 29. Not only doctors and para-medic staff, all policemen deployed for security at Gandhi Hospital, especially those posted closer to isolation and ICU wards, should be supplied PPE kits and all other safety gear, the Bench said. Gandhi Hospital staff was divided into two groups. While 50% staff work for a week, the remaining go for quarantine for the same period. Government should impress upon private hospitals to also follow a similar method, the Bench said. Assistant Solicitor General of India N. Rajeshwar Rao was directed to present all circulars, directions and rules issued by the Centre to the State on issues related to COVID. The AG was instructed to secure affidavits from the superintendents of five hospitals — King Koti, Chest, NIMS, Osmania and Gandhi on status of COVID-19.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID cases cross 6,000 mark in TS||The coronavirus tests are serving the purpose as more cases are being detected. While 269 were detected on Wednesday, 352 more were detected on Thursday, which indicates that increased testing helps in detecting more cases. If more cases are detected and their contacts too are traced, further spread of the virus can be checked. Though the number of tests performed in a day and cumulative number of tests were mentioned in medical bulletins issued by the State Health department in the past two days, the crucial data was not mentioned in the medical bulletin on Thursday. The 352 new cases include 302 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area , 17 from Rangareddy, 10 from Medchal. Of the total 6027 cases, 2531 are active cases, 3301 were discharged and 195 died.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||E-auction of BDA sites in a phased manner||The Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) has started auctioning sites in various layouts. This comes two months after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that around 12,000 BDA sites will be auctioned as an additional source of much-needed revenue for the State government. E-auctions for sites at HSR Layout, Sir M. Visvesvaraya Layout, Banashankari, NGEF, J.P. Nagar and Rajajinagar will start from June 20. BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev told The Hindu that e-auctioning of the sites will be done in a phased manner in the coming days. “As per estimates, about 12,000 sites are available. There are doubts about the number. I have asked officials to do an audit. Probably, we may have around 7,000 sites for sale. At this stage, it is difficult to estimate how much revenue it will generate,” the official said. The cash-strapped BDA has been e-auctioning its sites for the last several years. In the past, on many occasions, the BDA had tried to generate revenue by auctioning sites to fund civil infrastructure projects. For instance, the BDA had maintained that revenue from the auctions would be used to fund the steel flyover project, which was later shelved. A senior BDA official said, “This time, we are selling corner sites, which generally are in demand. We will observe how people react to our notification during these difficult times of COVID-19. Ashada month is also approaching. In the first phase, 200-odd sites will be auctioned off. Based on the response, we will decide on the next phase of e-auctions.” The cost of a site ranges from Rs. 36,000 per square metre to Rs. 1.60 lakh per sq metre depending on the location. The maximum number of sites is available at M. Visvesvaraya Layout and Banashankari. “The BDA has fixed 1.5 times the guidance value as the price for sites in layouts formed before 2000, and 1.2 times the guidance value for layouts formed after 2000,” he added.  Probably, we may have around 7,000 sites for sale. At this stage, it is difficult to estimate how much revenue it will generate H.R. Mahadev, Commissioner, BDA
19 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Last Shramik Special from Kerala tomorrow||Operation of Shramik Special trains from Kerala to facilitate the return of migrant labourers stranded in the State following the COVID-19-induced lockdown is coming to a close. The last Shramik Special from the State to Dibrugarh in Assam via Bihar will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central on June 20. Since the start of the operation on May 1, Railways have operated 226 trains from the State. The Thiruvananthapuram railway division operated 125 trains from six railway stations, including Kanyakumari, to transport 1,73,845 migrant labourers and the Palakkad rail division 117 trains from six stations, including Mangaluru, to transport 1,65,839 migrants. The longest Shramik Special was run from Thiruvananthapuram to Dimapur on June 9 with the Government of Nagaland paying the fare of Rs. 1,210 per passenger.The Shramik Specials were operated to Barauni, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Katihar, Saharsa, New Cooch Behar, New Jalpaiguri, Howrah, Nergundi, Malda Town, Berhampore Court and Guwahati. Students, patients and other persons stranded in the State also made use of the facility.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,||Actor abduction case: court seeks more time||With the COVID-19 lockdown upsetting its schedule, the Additional Sessions Court trying the female actor rape and abduction case has sought extension of the deadline set for completing the trial in the case. The deadline fixed by the Supreme Court had expired in April. The nearly three-month-long lockdown and the slow pace of the proceedings in the post-COVID days had upset the schedule fixed by the apex court, said judicial sources. The police had arraigned actor Dileep and a few others as accused in the case. Incidentally, CBI Special Judge, Ernakulam, Honey M. Varghese was given the additional responsibility of trying the case following an order from the Kerala High Court. It was on a petition from the victim seeking a woman judicial officer to try the case that the High Court had appointed Ms. Varghese, also an Additional Sessions Judge, to try the case. Meanwhile, Ms. Varghese, who has been transferred to Kozhikode as part of the general transfer of judicial officers, is expected to assume charge on July 1.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Days after clash, China frees 10 soldiers||Commenting on the 1996 agreement, former Northern Army Commander Lt. Gen. H.S. Panag said these agreements apply to border management and not while dealing with a tactical military situation. “Lastly when lives of soldiers or security of post/territory threatened, Commander on the spot can use all weapons at his disposal including artillery,” he said on Twitter. Third round of talks The third round of talks at the Major General-level were held in the Galwan area. Specific outcomes from Thursday’s meeting were not immediately known, but a source said the talks were positive and there would be more meetings in the coming days. The effort was to reduce tensions on the ground and implement the consensus agreed on June 6 for de-escalation, the source added. The Army had stated that both sides had disengaged from the site of the clash. However, both sides continue to retain a large number of troops in the general Galwan area following the build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) after the violent scuffle at Pangong Tso on May 5 and the standoff since. In the first combat fatalities in 45 years along the LAC, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a clash after they were attacked by Chinese troops. About 80 Indian troops were also injured and all of them are said to be stable.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||India coasts to win in Security Council polls||Neither Kenya (113 votes) nor Djibouti (78), both contesting for one seat from Africa, won a two-thirds majority. The two are contesting a second round. In its last bid for the UNSC seat in 2010, India had won 187 votes. “The strong support by almost the entire U.N. membership for India’s election demonstrates the goodwill that India enjoys in the U.N. and the confidence that the international community has reposed in India’s capability to contribute to the work of the Council,” said MEA Secretary Vikas Swarup on Thursday. “India will become a member of the Security Council at a critical juncture and we are confident that in the COVID, and the post-COVID world, India will continue to provide leadership and a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system,” added India’s U.N. Ambassador T.S. Tirumurti, in a video message released after the win. India’s term on the 15-member Council will be its eighth. Briefing the media about the win, Mr. Swarup said India would be the “voice for all those who are not represented in the Council” during its tenure. He also thanked the government of Afghanistan, which had allowed India to contest unopposed by giving up its bid for the seat in favour of India in 2013. “India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote in a tweet, thanking the members for their “overwhelming support”. When asked about the eight countries that did not vote for India, Mr. Swarup said India would rather focus on the vast majority that did and on its “broader canvas” on global issues. While the vote was conducted by secret ballot, Pakistan’s U.N. envoy had publicly criticised India just ahead of the vote, something Mr. Swarup described as Pakistan’s “standard norm” of “raking up bilateral issues at multilateral forums”. Significantly, in June 2019, both China and Pakistan had endorsed India as the Asia-Pacific grouping’s nominee. The victory was expected but the government had left nothing to chance in terms of an outreach including via its embassies abroad. Prime Minister Modi had reached out to the heads of government in more than 60 countries and at multilateral forums like SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) and External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had also lobbied other governments, The Hindu had reported. Earlier in June, Mr. Jaishankar gave India’s overall objective during its forthcoming UNSC tenure as an acronym ‘NORMS’ — New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System, making it clear that U.N. reforms, including the push for expanding the UNSC permanent membership, would be high on agenda when it assumes the UNSC seat.  India will work with all member countries to promote global peace, security, resilience and equity Prime Minister Narendra Modi
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘PLA planned attack for at least two days’||“The strong gush of water made the men lose balance. The Chinese charged, pushed the Army personnel and many fell into Galwan river,” the official said. The Chinese did a reconnaissance by flying unmanned aerial vehicles to see the strength of the Indian troops and accordingly bolstered their presence on the other side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the official stated. The Hindu reported on Wednesday that the clash took place after Colonel Santosh Babu, who was commanding the unit, dismantled a tent erected by the Chinese and later set it on fire. During the June 6 military level talks, the two sides decided to remove the tent. It has now emerged that the tent was destroyed two days before the June 15 clash. When Indian troopers were patrolling the contested site, the Chinese threw boulders on them and unleashed strong current of water by unblocking the rivulets. The Chinese were wearing body protecters, helmets and carried spiked batons, the official noted. MEA statement The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) had issued a statement that the “Chinese side took premeditated and planned action that was directly responsible for the resulting violence and casualties.” The official said, “The patrolling team walked into an ambush. The area had witnessed clashes on May 5 and the attack took place despite a high alert. The men were outnumbered by the Chinese. No gunshot was fired”. As reported, some men “died on the spot” and the exercise to locate the missing bodies continued till late hours of June 16. As many as 20 Army personnel were killed and several injured. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), deployed with the Army along the LAC, helped move the injured to the base camp the next day. An ITBP rescue team trekked 3-4 km the next day to evacuate the injured. At least 20 helicopter sorties from the base camp in Galwan were undertaken to evacuate the injured and retrieve the bodies. The clash, a first of its kind in the last 45 years, came amidst a “de-escalation” process that was started last week after a month long stand-off between troops at several points along the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Decide on plea on Rule of Law Index in 6 months’||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the government to treat a writ petition filed by lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay, for setting up expert panels to boost India’s prospects in the Rule of Law Index, as a “representation” and decide on the issue within six months. Mr. Upadhyay sought a direction to the government to constitute expert committees to examine the practices of the top 20 countries in the Rule of Law Index-2020.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pay health workers on time, Ministry tells States||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday directed States and Union Territories to ensure the timely release of salaries to doctors and healthcare workers. The Ministry, in its order, invoked provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Chief Secretaries of States/UTs are directed to ensure compliance with the order, the Ministry said, adding that violation would be treated as an offence and action would be taken against defaulters. The Supreme Court on Wednesday gave the Centre a day to issue an order to ensure that the States pay their doctors and healthcare workers full salaries, provide them with appropriate accommodation and implement quarantine guidelines uniformly among medical staffers and doctors regardless of the nature of their exposure to COVID-19 patients.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Attributes of Nathamuni||In his Stotra Ratnam, Alavandar begins by paying tribute to his grandfather Ranganatha muni, popularly known as Nathamuni. That a salutation should be paid to Nathamuni is understandable, considering the greatness of the Acharya. But Nathamuni was not the direct preceptor of Alavandar. Nathamuni’s disciple was Uyyakondar and Uyyakondar’s disciple was Manakkal Nambi. Alavandar was the sishya of Manakkal Nambi. So, why does he start with worship of Nathamuni? There are some rules we invariably follow. If one is in a temple, one does not prostrate before any Acharya. Suppose one meets one’s Acharya outside the temple, one must at once fall at his feet. Suppose one meets one’s Acharya when he is with his Acharya, then what does one do? In such a case, one should offer obeisance to the Acharya of one’s own Acharya. So, the praacharya takes precedence over the Acharya in such cases. Thus, offering worship to the praacharya is observed in practice. Therefore, Alavandar’s salutations to Nathamuni was correct, said Valayapet Ramachariar in a discourse. Through three slokams, Nathamuni is praised, and this is because he had three important attributes — jnana, bhakti and vairagya. There have been many with jnana. So what sets Nathamuni apart from others? If one’s jnana benefits one to the extent that it earns moksha for the person, then there is not much reason to praise him. He has attained liberation. That is all. But Nathamuni’s jnana benefits all of humanity, and so he deserves praise. The number three has a further significance. It is to denote the three hurdles in our oath, when we seek liberation. We should use mano, vAk and kAyam — mind, speech and body — to praise the lord and to serve Him.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||SCCL launches special portal to promote use of local coal||Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) has launched a separate portal for better convenience of customers on Thursday following the instruction of the Central government to encourage use of indigenous coal by reducing its import. The portal was launched by Directors of the company B. Bhaskar Rao (Planning & Projects) and S. Chandrashekar (Operations &PAW) here on Thursday. According to the two directors, the portal was launched to improve the customer-friendly transactions by easing out the process of purchasing of coal. As per the new system present, prospective and new customers can easily access the portal for procurement of required quality and quantity of coal from any of the rail and road loading points of Singareni. They clarified that as per the requirement of the customer, quality would be given utmost importance, and the company is ready to supply any quantity of coal. Towards that end, efforts would be made to increase the production of coal as well, if need be. Executive Director (Coal movement) J. Allwyn, General Mangers K. Ravishankar (Marketing & CDN), K. Nagabushan Reddy (CPP) and G. Venkateshwar Reddy (Quality), Deputy General Managers N.V. Rajashekar (Marketing), T. Srinivas Rao (Marketing) and M. Venkateshwarlu and others officials were present during the portal launch. In tune with the changes in the coal marketing in the country, the SCCL had simplified coal sales and started the portal, the Directors said and added that G-8 grade and G-15 grade coal is ready for despatch at all the coal handling plants (CHPs) of Singareni. Along with the present customers who have coal linkage from Singareni, prospective customers who have no linkage and also new customers can procure coal by registering on the portal. Stating that the Centre had taken a decision to reduce import of coal and promote use of local coal, the SCCL executives said coal companies in the country had relaxed the processing of coal purchases by customers since the import of coal is resulting in a distinct advantage to the industries that are solely dependent on coal.
19 June 2020||MANGALURU,||502 passenger trains to get express tag||In a sweeping decision, the Railway Ministry has decided to convert 502 passenger trains that run beyond 200 km into express trains by speeding them up and curtailing halts. In a communiqué to zonal railways on Wednesday, the Ministry asked them to speed up the identified trains and curtail halts if required. The action taken should be advised by 4 p.m. on Friday, the Ministry said. The move comes soon after Ministry’s recent decision to introduce ‘Zero Timetable’ from July 1 wherein the zones were asked to cancel trains with low patronage and eliminate commercially unviable halts. The zones, besides recommending cancellation of several trains, had also recommended elimination of hundreds of halts. Travellers fear the decision will have a far-reaching impact and that it is a step forward towards commercialisation of the Indian Railways. The fares will be nearly doubled, they said, pointing out the maximum fare on a passenger train for 900 km travel was just Rs. 135, while on an express, it would be Rs. 283 in second-class sitting and Rs. 409 in a sleeper coach. More than the fares, lakhs of people who have built their life on the passenger train network would be left with no option if halts were curtailed, they said. The rail network through passenger trains had provided an affordable mode of commute for people from weaker sections of society, including farmers and daily-wagers. Kundapura Gautam Shetty, a frequent traveller, said the Railways appears to be moving away from its social obligations and concentrating on commercial aspects. A particular train or a halt could be commercially unviable for the Railways, but it would be the sole means of livelihood for many, he said. Yogendra Swamy from Mysuru Grahakar Parishat said while converting passenger trains into express and eliminating halts, the Railways should provide alternatives in the form of short-distance trains on the same route and timing. People, though prepared to pay more, would lose their livelihood if alternative arrangements are not made, he said. In South Western Railway, some of the prominent passenger trains, including Bengaluru-Hubballi-Bengaluru (three pairs), Ballari-Dharwad-Ballari, and Hosapete-Bengaluru-Hosapete, and Bengaluru-Shivamogga-Bengaluru (two pairs) were being converted into express. A senior railway official, however, said the Ministry intended to offer speedy journey for passengers by eliminating halts. ] The Ministry was analysing commercial aspects of operations and pointed out that even fares on express trains were cheaper than road transport. Passenger trains were severely affecting the Railways’ finances, he added.
19 June 2020||Srinagar,||Farooq for diplomacy to ease tensions||National Conference (NC) president and Member of Parliament Farooq Abdullah on Thursday called for “employing sober diplomatic channels” to ease the tensions on the Line of Actual Control between India and China in Ladakh. Expressing concern over “the perilous and worst clashes” between the Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, Dr. Abdullah said, “War is no solution; it will only aggravate the predicaments of the people living in Southeast Asia. Both countries should engage in a profitable dialogue and congregate their efforts to bring long-lasting peace to the entire region.” “I pray for lasting peace to the entire region. I also extend my sympathies to the families of jawans who have lost their lives on the LAC following a deadly face-off with Chinese troops,” he said.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks damages from China||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused a plea to direct India to drag China to the International Court of Justice (ICJ) and demand $600 billion in damages for “deliberately creating” the novel coronavirus. Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde flipped through the pages of the case file before putting it aside with a comment, “we cannot do all this”. Advocate Jaya Sukin, for Madurai resident and petitioner K.K. Ramesh, asked the court to convert the petition into a “representation” to be placed before the government. Justice Bobde said he could “very well do that on his own.”
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Reply to plea on postal ballots: SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Election Commission (EC) to reply to a petition filed by Gujarat Legislative Assembly Opposition leader Paresh Dhanani, challenging the use of postal ballots in the elections to the Rajya Sabha on June 19. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde heard the urgent oral mentioning made by senior advocate A. M. Singhvi and advocate Varun K. Chopra on behalf of Mr. Dhanani and initially asked them to approach the Gujarat High Court. However, the lawyers persisted that a direction issued by the poll body on June 17 allowing postal ballots dated June 17 issued by the EC allowing postal ballots in the Rajya Sabha elections was violative of various provisions of the Conduct of Election Rules of 1961. The court scheduled the case for hearing in July.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||States seek extension of grains scheme||Ten Chief Ministers, from both the BJP and the Opposition, have demanded an extension of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, which was announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman as part of the first rescue package to deal with the economic crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic The scheme covers the 80 crore ration cardholders provided 5 kg of rice or wheat each month and one kg of pulses, for each of the households. The States that are demanding an extension include Assam, Karnataka, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Punjab, Kerala, Mizoram, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. They have demanded an extension of three months. “The demands made by these States have been forwarded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I have written to him too. We are all aware of the situation and a decision will be taken at an appropriate time,” Union Food Minister Ramvilas Paswan said after a meeting with Food Ministers and Secretaries of 14 States and Union Territories who are yet to enrol under the One Nation One Ration Card scheme. According to sources, an extension of three months will cost the government Rs. 46,000 crore. “The States have argued that the purchasing power of people, those who returned to their villages have reduced drastically. They are now largely dependent on 100 days of work promised under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act,” a senior Ministry official said.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Last journey||
19 June 2020||BENGALURU,||Vikasa Soudha staff to work from home for a day||The government on Thursday ordered all its employees at the Vikasa Soudha here to work from home on Friday to allow for sanitising the entire building by the BBMP. Employees of both the Vikasa Soudha and the adjoining Vidhana Soudha will undergo screening for COVID-19. The order to work from home is first for State government employees, though Central Ministries had ordered work from home during lockdown. On Tuesday, an employee of the Food and Civil Supplies Department located in the Vikasa Soudha tested positive. In a circular, the government said the BBMP would undertake sanitisation on all floors of the building in order to control the possible spread of the novel coronavirus. With this, hundreds of official and clerical cadre staff of various departments would work from home on Friday. Besides chambers of Ministers, offices of principal secretaries of various departments are located at the Vikasa Soudha. Meanwhile, additional police force has been deployed at the Vikasa Soudha and the government has banned the public from entering the building. In another circular, the government has instructed all its employees in the Vidhana Soudha and the Vikasa Soudha to undergo test at their respective workplace. Screening will be done on Friday, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday. Nearly 5,000 employees have been working in these two buildings.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Section of Waqf Board sealed after employee tests positive||A day after an employee of the Telangana State Waqf Board tested positive for coronavirus, the administration on Thursday sealed a section of the office where the patient used to work. On Wednesday night, a 62-year-old man working as attender, was reportedly admitted to the Gandhi Hospital after he tested positive. TSWB officials on Thursday said that the COVID-19 positive patient used to work in the Establishment section, which has a total staff strength of eight people. While this section was sealed, the board administration began to disinfect and sanitise the premises. “The board operates from three floors – first, second and third. All of these floors are being sanitised. Today, apart from the Chief Executive Officer, there were a few staff who came to office,” said an official who did not want to be identified. Staff said that on Thursday, the death of a contract worker, who was a senior citizen, triggered a sense of unease at the board. However, it was later clarified to them that the deceased tested negative for COVID-19. “There are around 150 workers here. Out of this, around 60% are reporting for work. The rest have taken day off. Of course, people are worried here, especially after the senior citizen tested positive. Haj House is a building that is like a mini Minorities Welfare Department as it houses several of its agencies. There are a lot of people who come here,” a source said. When contacted, TSWB chairman Mohammed Saleem said, “The entire office is being sanitised now. Physical distancing is also being maintained and we have already given masks to employees here. There is no need to panic.”  The entire office is being sanitised now. Physical distancing is being maintained and we have already given masks to employees here. There is no need to panic. Mohammed Saleem TSWB chairman
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,||MLC polls: all 7 candidates file papers||All seven candidates of three major political parties — BJP, Congress, and JD(S) — have filed their nomination papers on Thursday for elections to the State Legislative Council from the Legislative Assembly constituency. In total, nine candidates have filed papers. Thursday was the last day for filing nomination papers. Four BJP candidates — two former Ministers N. Nagaraju (MTB) and R. Shankar, former MLA Sunil Vallyapure, and former Dakshina Kannada district president Pratap Simha Nayak — have filed their nomination papers in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and other party leaders. AICC general secretary and Rajya Sabha member B.K. Hariprasad and MLC Naseer Ahmed of the Congress filed their papers in the presence of Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar. Accompanied by former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and other party leaders, Govindaraju of the JD(S) filed his papers. With no major political parties fielding an additional candidate, all seven candidates are expected to be elected unopposed. Yadavanahalli Krishne Gowda filed nomination papers as an Independent candidate. Mandikal Nagaraj has filed papers as BJP candidate but has not produced ‘A’ and ‘B’ forms of the party. Papers of both candidates are likely to be rejected during the scrutiny since they have not been signed by MLAs of any political parties while filing nominations. Elections are necessitated following the scheduled retirement of seven elected MLCs on June 30. The ruling BJP with its 117 members would ensure victory of all its four candidates, while the Opposition Congress (68 MLAs) and JD(S) (34 MLAs) would ensure victory of two and one candidate, respectively.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Inform migrants to report at mustering centres: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government to specifically inform all migrant workers that they must report at mustering centres to make use of the facility to travel home in Shramik Special trains. Referring to the simplified policy of the State government for helping migrant workers registered in the Seva Sindhu portal and others, the court said the policy does not specifically mention the need for assembling at mustering centres, though during the argument such a claim was made onbehalf of the government. The court directed the government to ensure that the concerned district authorities specifically inform migrant workers that they should report at mustering centres to travel in special trains. Arrangements for food and stay will be made at such centres till they board the special train. The government had stated that 80 mustering centres have been set up across the State. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the direction during a videoconference hearing of PIL petitions. On deadline Also, the court asked the government to take a relook at the deadline of June 24 to arrange special trains for migrants. It pointed out that the Supreme Court had not stated that the special train arrangement cannot be made after June 24. The apex court had only stated that the process of transportation of migrant workers “may” be completed within 15 days, and hence the State government’s policy of fixing June 24 as the deadline was erroneous, the Bench observed.
19 June 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses case filed by ITC against Nestle India in 2013||The Madras High Court has dismissed a suit filed by ITC against Nestle India, seeking to restrain the latter from using the expression ‘Magical Masala’ on their noodles product which was similar to ‘Magic Masala’ used by it. The plaintiff, ITC, argued that the expression ‘Magic Masala’ was introduced in 2010 for one of the varieties of noodles launched by it. The dispute arose after Nestle India in 2013 introduced an instant noodles product with the expression ‘Magical Masala’. While ITC said the adoption of a similar name amounted to passing off, Nestle India argued that monopoly could not be claimed over the expression ‘Magic’ as it was a laudatory expression. Pronouncing the orders in the suit filed in 2013, Justice C. Saravanan observed that the word ‘Magic’ was commonly used in the food industry and the terms ‘Magic’ and ‘Magical’ were common to the trade. ‘Magic’ was laudatory and a laudatory epithet could not be given monopoly or protection. The term ‘Masala’ signified a mixture of ground spices used in Indian cooking and it could not be appropriated. Neither the plaintiff nor the defendant could claim monopoly over the expression ‘Magic’ or ‘Magical’ along with the common word ‘Masala’.  ‘Only laudatory’ Therefore, even though there was a phonetic similarity between ‘Magic’ and ‘Magical’, they were incapable of being monopolised, as they were not only laudatory but also common to the trade, the judge said. The court said proprietors were expected to wisely choose their marks, which were either arbitrary, fanciful or at best suggestive of their products/goods/services of their market. A descriptive term which directly and clearly conveyed information about ingredients, qualities and characteristics of the product or services was not protectable at the first instance, but might qualify for protection if it had assumed a secondary meaning and was identified as a particular product or as being from a particular source. On the other hand, a suggestive term used as a mark which indirectly suggested the qualities and characteristics of a product might be registrable and protected. However, words might become distinctive on account of their long and uninterrupted use, as a result of which they might get a secondary meaning and the consumer might begin to associate them with the goods of such proprietors. In the present case, the defendant had intervened at the earliest occasion, the court said.
19 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Erode textile firm accused of encroaching government land||Whenever government land is unauthorisedly trespassed and occupied, apart from initiating proceedings for recovery of the land, authorities are expected to impose compensation or penalty for unauthorised use of the land as per law, the Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) said. The bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta made the observation while hearing a case relating to encroachment of government land by a private textile processing company at Suriyampalayam in Erode district. An applicant had approached the NGT seeking an order to restrain the unit from discharging untreated effluent into the Cauvery river and take action against the unit for encroaching government odai poromboke land and building an Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP). After a joint committee was appointed to look into the issue, the NGT was informed that currently the unit has revamped the ETP and Zero Liquid Discharge System and that ETP components constructed on government poromboke land have been demolished. The NGT was informed that the new ETP components have been constructed on patta land. TNPCB had imposed an environmental compensation on the company to the tune of Rs. 1.2 lakh, according to the TNPCB’s report. However, the NGT said in the subsequent order passed by the Tribunal after the submission of the report, the bench had made it clear that till the directions are complied with, it will be deemed that the violation still continues and the violator is liable to pay Environmental Compensation as per the formula provided by the Central Pollution Control Board. The Tribunal said the committee has not considered this aspect despite specific directions being given. The bench also said the issue of compensation or penalty for encroaching on government land too has not been considered by the Committee that includes the District Collector who is expected to implement the provisions under law. “Mere demolition of the ETP constructed in the encroached land and the compound wall at the expenses of the unit alone is not sufficient to meet the damage caused to the environment as he not only encroached into the government land but discharged unauthorisedly the untreated effluent into the public drain (Odai) as well,” the bench said and directed the committee to file a report incorporating steps taken by them after electricity was disconnected to the unit.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||To stem exodus, police step up e-pass checks||With just hours left for the complete lockdown norms to be enforced, people have been attempting to leave Chennai. However, persons without e-passes are being stopped at Chengalpattu border check-posts and sent back to the city. The Chengalpattu police have seized over 1,000 vehicles of persons trying to enter into the district without valid passes, over the last three days. After the State government announced the implementation of the complete lockdown from June 19 to 30, many people started leaving the city. “Since my wife and I have been working from home, we thought of doing the same after getting to our hometown. Hence, I applied for an e-pass to go to Salem,” said Ravikumar, who works for a private company in Chennai. Mayilsamy from Karur, who sells plastic wares on railway platforms in Chennai, said that his livelihood was affected as people were not buying the commodities due to safety concerns. “Our landlord had also asked us to vacate. So we decided to return to Karur,” he said Over the last three days, hundreds of vehicles have lined up at nearly six checkposts on the Chennai-Chengalpattu border. “The main checkposts are in Muttukadu, OMR, Vandalur, Paranur toll plaza and there is one near the town,” said D. Kannan, SP, Chengalpattu. While those with valid e-passes were allowed to enter the district, vehicles of those without such passes were seized. On an average, around 400 vehicles, including motorcycles and cars, were seized. “If it is a family, we slap a fine and ask them to return to the city. There are a few who try to sneak in through smaller roads. We have teams to nab them too,” added another police officer. He said that each check-post was manned by a team headed by a deputy superintendent of police. “We don’t want people travelling out of the city unnecessarily. If they try to do so without a pass, their vehicles will be seized,” the officer explained. He said that the police were also checking the passes thoroughly to verify if they were genuine. “We have information about people trying to leave the city using photoshopped passes. We are monitoring them too,” he added. Meanwhile, in Tiruvallur district, over 1,000 vehicles without e-passes were seized, over the last two days. “This time, the lockdown will be very strict. People must not travel in two-wheelers or cars, unless it is a medical emergency,” said a senior police officer. There are also allegations that e-passes for vehicles are not being checked. “Many are allowed to cross the border without proper checking. Many vehicles are also entering Chennai without e-passes,” a police source alleged.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police set up 288 vehicle checkposts in city||The Chennai police have established 288 vehicle checkpoints and will deploy camera-fitted drones to effectively implement the complete lockdown from June 19 to 30, City Police Commissioner A. K. Viswanathan said on Thursday. “Drone cameras will be used to monitor the movement of people who roam around without any purpose. Vehicle checkpoints have been established in 288 places within the city limits. These are in addition to the checkpoints established in border areas,” he said. The Commissioner warned of stringent action against those attempting to move out of the city without valid passes or with fake passes. “Residents must only walk to shops located within two km of their homes to buy groceries and essentials. They should avoid travelling by vehicles,” Mr. Viswanathan said. Employees of organisations permitted to function during the period must carry their company identity cards. There was no need for any special pass. Outside city limits He pointed out that employees would not be allowed to travel daily to workplaces outside city limits. Managerial and supervisory-level employees, who have been provided with an e-pass by the Industries Department, will alone be allowed to move in and out of city police limits. As per the Government Order, autorickshaws and taxis will be allowed to ply only for medical purposes and to ferry passengers from railway stations and airports. Arterial roads such as Anna Salai can be used only for medical emergencies. Mr. Viswanathan said people should compulsorily wear masks in public places and maintain physical distancing while shopping. Shopkeepers should ensure this and operate within the prescribed timings and must have sanitisers. Shop staff must follow safety protocols and must not use air-conditioners. Crowd management If people thronged markets or crowded shops, those places would be closed. The Commissioner said e-passes would be issued only for marriages or medical emergencies and all passes obtained earlier must be revalidated through the government portal. On June 21 and 28 (Sundays), only milk supply and medical services would be allowed. Barricades would be put up at critical locations and public address systems would be used to ensure people obeyed the lockdown rules, he added.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Notice to hand over hostels lands Anna varsity in a fix||On Thursday, Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) Commissioner G. Prakash issued a notice to Anna University to hand over all hostels under its purview. The notice cited the prevailing emergency situation of COVID-19 pandemic and added that the Corporation was searching for places to be used as quarantine facilities. The Commissioner said that the Corporation would bear the cost of maintaining the premises in the event of taking over. The notice further said, “So you are hereby directed to remove students’ belongings from the rooms and hand over the building before June 20 to the GCC... failing which the authority will take appropriate action to take over the building without any prior notice.” Two buildings given The notice has put the university officials in a dilemma. Already two buildings — the Knowledge Park academic complex and the yet-to-be inaugurated PG students’ hostel — were given for being used as quarantine facilities. So far, over eight batches of 200 people have been treated and sent out of the facilities. The premises was used for people arriving from outside the State. The university’s 15 hostels can accommodate around 4,000 students. At present, students are housed four in a room and provided bunker beds. “The students have left their valuables like laptops and project work. We don’t understand how we can enter their rooms,” said a senior official. Another official said, “We cannot break open the doors of rooms in students hostel. It would be unethical. I have to be fair to the students.”
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SCs victims of violence even during lockdown||The COVID-19 lockdown, per se, may not have led to heightened violence against Scheduled Castes (SCs), but this has not deterred offenders of law from committing crime against members of the community, according to a cross-section of officials and activists. In fact, the pandemic appears to have provided a pretext for making trouble, feels K.S. Kandasamy, Collector of Tiruvannamalai, where six cases were booked under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, since March 25. This included two cases of murder. One of the cases pertains to the instance of a college-going SC youth, wearing a T-shirt with an image of B.R.Ambedkar, becoming a target of attack allegedly by a police officer in Thokkavadi village of Chengam taluk. The officer, suspended after the incident, gave an explanation to the authorities that he found that the youth was not wearing a mask, the Collector explains. According to information compiled by the State government, more than two dozen instances of violence against members of the community were reported in 16 districts during March 25-May 31.  Double stigma D. Ravikumar, Villupuram Member of Parliament, says the lockdown had created an opportunity for imposing “double stigma” on SCs. A large number of workers at the Koyambedu market, who are all members of the community, on returning to their villages faced “enormous hardship” in buying provisions or fetching water, he said. In a village in Villupuram even access to a fair price shop was denied, forcing the MP to take up the matter with the district administration, which acted swiftly. Referring to the instance of a girl having been beaten by a group of persons in a Samuthuvapuram colony in Pilippaikuttai of Namakkal district, I. Pandian, a Madurai-based activist, says this may have been caused by a perception in certain sections that the SC community is not known for maintaining cleanliness and hygiene, as the alleged assailants are all residing in the colony. As for the incident in Thoothukudi, where three persons were reported to have murdered in two instances, Sandeep Nanduri, District Collector, however, points out that though his district [and neighbouring Tiruneveli district] had seen a number of caste clashes in the past, cases of violence have “gone down” during the lockdown. At present, Thoothukudi is one of the districts enjoying relaxation of conditions in general. Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan discounts the contention that the lockdown has anything to do with violence. A senior government official points out that first information reports (FIRs) have been filed in all cases and officials concerned are inquiring into them. Also, the official, not willing to commit himself about the presence of any trend in the absence of statistical evidence, adds that there is a view even among sections of officials that lack of occupation among people during the lockdown is the primary cause of violence.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,000 job seekers register on govt. portal||Several job seekers have already registered on a web portal launched by the State government on Tuesday to facilitate employment opportunities in the private sector. The online job portal,www.tnprivatejobs.tngov.in, hosted by the Department of Employment and Training, will serve as a platform to match the job aspirations of youngsters with the needs of the industrial sector. According to sources in the Labour Department, about 1,000 candidates have already registered their details on the portal, within a day of its launch. Moreover, about 45 employers have put up vacancies in different sectors, including automotive, food processing, electronics and logistics. The portal will provide localised job opportunities for the candidates. They can also browse for vacancies by sector and locations. Details pertaining to salary and top companies are also available. Job offers are also being made available for persons with disabilities, officials said. Help for aspirants Such initiatives will help both job aspirants and micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sectors, particularly during the lockdown, when mobility is restricted, an official said. The Directorate of Employment and Training also plans to host an online job fair for non-resident Tamils who have recently returned from other countries, through the portal, this month-end. “We have collected data from 1,100 non-resident Tamils who have returned from abroad in the last two or three months. We have also asked job aspirants whether they want any skill training. The next step will be to introduce a mobile application for the private job portal,” said an official.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industries to function with skeletal staff during lockdown||A majority of industries and MSMEs in and around Chennai will operate with skeletal staff, who have been provided accommodation close to the company premises, during the complete lockdown, commencing on June 19. Many firms have even cut their production by 20-30%, for the next two weeks. The companies that The Hindu spoke to said that they would run their plants with as many workers who turn up for duty, as shutting down completely would lead to huge losses and orders might get diverted to neighbouring States where firms are operational. “We are going to be operational. There will be some reduction in production due to constraints such as a lack of availability of parts and direct workforce within Kancheepuram,” said Arul Selvam Hari Krishnan, general manager- Vehicle Production Operations and Manufacturing Engineering, Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV). “We have arranged air-conditioned accommodation for employees coming from other districts. We are also planning on providing them free COVID-19 testing and immunity kits,” he added. “As requested by the District Collector, we will restrict inter-district movement of employees by moving critical resources to hotels near our campus to keep our production and warehouse operational. We have learnt that the government has permitted senior staff to travel with e-passes, and hopefully, this should help us operate the plant safely,” said P. Ravichandran, president, Danfoss India. He added, “We are doing as much as we can to balance customer delivery commitments, even though it is costing us more to run production.” Construction industry representatives said that work would be carried out during the next 12 days. Padam Dugar, vice-chairman and managing director of Dugar Housing Limited and president of CREDAI- Chennai Chapter, said: “Arrangements have been made for workers’ stay in the sites.” Around 60%-70% units are expected to operate in the Ambattur Industrial Estate. A.N. Sujeesh, president, Ambattur Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said, “Those who have space are accommodating workers inside their units. The rest will be functioning with resources available in the vicinity.” R. Selvam, secretary of the Thirumudivakkam Industrial Estate Manufacturers’ Association, said, “We can give a clear picture only on Friday. Many units here have lodged workers in nearby apartments and dormitories. Those residing within a 2-km radius have been asked to come for work.”
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infection widens beyond just Chennai and neighbouring districts||In the last one week, there has been a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in several districts other than Chennai and its neighbours. The movement of persons from Chennai, a COVID-19 hotspot, has led to an increase in the number of indigenous cases in many districts, like never before. Chennai, followed by its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram, contribute a major chunk of the indigenous cases, reported every day. But districts like Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet, Vellore, Thoothukudi, Madurai and Ramanathapuram have also been experiencing an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases. Take Tiruvannamalai district for instance. Witnessing an upswing, the district, that presently has a total of 843 cases, added close to 300 cases in the last week. Likewise, cases have started to pick up in Ranipet and Vellore too, said officials. A health official said that the situation was challenging in a few districts. “However, we are prepared to handle it, and are monitoring the cases on a day-to-day basis. There is an expected rise in cases. We have identified six to seven districts where cases are on the rise. The movement of people could be one of the reasons. We will be deputing officials from the headquarters in these districts to take preventive measures and build up capacity,” he said. Some of the districts have never recorded COVID-19 cases to the extent seen in the past week, an official source said, adding that it was important for districts to gear up with preparatory measures. “COVID-19 cases are increasing in Tiruvannamalai. Incoming people have been the main source of infection. The number of contacts of the index cases are high,” a district official said. Many people, who were natives of Tiruvannamalai and were working in Chennai, moved their families back to the district due to the COVID-19 crisis in the city. “When persons are stopped at check-posts, they are screened and we manage to control the further spread of the infection. But there have been instances in which persons have come without e-passes, reached the district through various routes and gone home. This was the biggest challenge for us,” he said. Vigilance committees Every day, at least 300-350 persons enter the district. The district administration went on to put a monitoring mechanism in place at the village-level. Village vigilance committees were formed and asked to keep track of persons returning from Chennai and send them to medical camps, he added. A health official said that cases have started picking up in districts such as Vellore and Ranipet. Going by the Health Department’s bulletin, Ranipet has recorded 180 cases and Vellore 106 cases, from June 15 to 18. “In the last 10 days, cases have been gradually increasing, with a majority of the index cases being from Chennai, while their contacts — family members residing in the district — are testing positive after their return,” he said. He added: “Anyone coming from Chennai is invariably testing positive for COVID-19. There are challenges of early detection.”  Anyone coming from Chennai is invariably testing positive for COVID-19 Health official
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||33 IAS officers to monitor districts||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday appointed 33 IAS officers, including former Health Secretary Beela Rajesh, as monitoring officers for 33 districts to oversee containment and relief measures being carried out in the fight against COVID-19. While senior officers and field support teams have already been deployed in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, which have reported a high number of cases, the monitoring officers will keep a check on the remaining districts regarding the COVID-19 situation. The IAS officers appointed as monitoring officers in the 33 districts are: E. Saravanavelraj (Ariyalur), Anil Meshram (Perambalur), Harmander Singh (Coimbatore), Supriya Sahu (The Nilgiris), Gagandeep Singh Bedi (Cuddalore), Santhosh Babu (Dharmapuri), Mangat Ram Sharma (Dindigul), Kakarla Usha (Erode), B. Jothi Nirmalasamy (Kanniyakumari), C. Vijayaraj Kumar (Karur), Reeta Harish Thakkar (Tiruchi), Beela Rajesh (Krishnagiri), Dharmendra Pratap Yadav (Madurai), Shambhu Kallolikar (Pudukkottai), Pradeep Yadav (Thanjavur), Dayanand Kataria (Namakkal), Md. Nasimuddin (Salem), S. Madumathi (Virudhunagar), Kumar Jayant (Thoothukudi), C. Munianathan (Nagapattinam), B. Chandra Mohan (Ramanathapuram), Mahesan Kasirajan (Sivaganga), K. Manivasan (Tiruvarur), A. Karthik (Theni), Dheeraj Kumar (Tiruvannamalai), Selvi Apoorva (Tirunelveli), K. Gopal (Tiruppur), Rajesh Lakhoni (Vellore), N. Muruganandam (Villupuram), S. Nagarajan (Kallakurichi), Anu George (Tenkasi), T.S. Jawahar (Tirupattur) and G. Laxmi Priya (Ranipet).
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2,000-plus cases take COVID-19 tally to 52,334||For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported 2,000-plus cases of COVID-19. The State’s recovery rate stood at 54%, while its mortality rate was 1.2%. The State added 2,141 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking its tally to 52,334*. The number of active cases stood at 23,065. Another 1,017 persons were discharged from hospitals. With this, the total number of recoveries in the State increased to 28,641. However, the State’s toll climbed to 625 with 49 more fatalities (36 deaths in government and 13 in private hospitals). As Chennai reported 1,373 fresh cases, its tally climbed to 37,070. Of this, 16,882 persons are undergoing treatment. The city’s toll touched 500. The number of samples tested in the State so far crossed eight lakh. In the last 24 hours, 26,736 more samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 8,00,443. Three deaths, that occured at a private hospital, at the Raja Muthiah Medical College Hospital and at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, last month and early this month, were reported by the Health Department. This included a 69-year-old man who died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 31. Among the 49 persons who died, 42 had co-morbidities. Four of the deceased were aged in their 30s. A 34-year-old man, admitted with Old Pott’s spine at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), died on June 17 due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 35-year-old man with newly-diagnosed diabetes died at the Government Villupuram Medical College Hospital on Thursday due to respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 36-year-old man with systemic hypertension, diabetes and morbid obesity died at the Stanley hospital on June 16, while a 37-year-old man, who had no co-morbid conditions, also died at the Stanley hospital due to bronchopneumonia and type-I respiratory failure. A 70-year-old woman from Chennai with old pulmonary tuberculosis and old cerebrovascular accident died at the RGGGH due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia and codeine overdose. Other districts Both Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur reported over 100 cases each, while nine other districts reported more than 20 cases each. Tiruvallur reported 123 new cases, taking its tally to 2,155. Chengalpattu, with 115 new cases, now has a total of 3,285 COVID-19 cases. There were 55 cases each in Kancheepuram and Vellore, 28 cases in Ramanathapuram, 27 cases in Tiruvannamalai and 26 cases each in Thoothukudi and Villupuram. Fifty of the new patients were returnees from abroad and other States. This included 23 persons who had arrived from Maharashtra. Two private laboratories — Aarthi Scans and Labs in Vannarpet, Tirunelveli, and Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute, Anuppanadi — have been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are now a total of 81 testing facilities in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flyer count doubles as thousands leave||Hundreds of people have been leaving the city through various flights in the last two days ahead of the lockdown. Chennai airport’s passenger traffic has doubled since Wednesday. “We used to have about 3,500 passengers travelling in and out of the airport every day for the last three weeks but on Wednesday we had about 6,500 passengers and of them, nearly 4,000 persons are departing passengers. On Thursday too, we estimate about 6,500 passengers would have departed and arrived in the city,” a source said. Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials say a majority of the flyers had been travelling to cities like Delhi, Guwahati and Kolkata now. “These are not just workers. We have seen plenty of families, senior citizens and working professionals too. They may have been stranded in the city and are leaving now. May be, because of the lockdown, we are witnessing a reduced number of persons arriving in the city,” an official said. An additional space had to be created to speed up checking and move the queues quickly on Thursday, sources said. In-bound traffic falls The number of persons arriving in the city has been quite less too; there have been only around 1,000-1,500 coming to the city for a few days now. The arriving passengers are from several cities, including Delhi, Bengaluru, Madurai, Tiruchi and Kolkata. For the next two weeks, the passenger traffic may dip again owing to the lockdown. There has been a sharp rise in the number of flights this week. Earlier, there would be only 45-50 flights a day but the number has shot up to 64-66 a day now. There are some more flights to districts within the State like Thoothukudi, Madurai and Tiruchi.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation forms 200 response teams for better management of patient care||The Greater Chennai Corporation has come out with a micro plan by forming a COVID-19 Response Team for each of the 200 divisions in the city. The micro plan has been worked out after a meeting held by senior officials with the assistant engineers/junior engineers and assistant executive engineers at the Ripon Buildings last Saturday to evolve strategies to contain the spread of the pandemic. A senior official of the civic body said the Response Teams had been formed due to the steady rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city since the lockdown imposed on March 24. The focus of these teams, each headed by the respective AE/JE, is to appropriately manage and improve the preventive actions to contain the infection in the community. Sharing details of the micro plan, the official said data as on June 13 showed that more than 50% of the COVID-19 active cases were in 46 divisions with the bulk of them coming from eight divisions, namely Koyambedu (Division 127) having 540 cases, Periamet (Division 58) 378 cases, Georgetown (Division 59) 366 cases, Pulianthope (Division 77) 341 cases, Nerkundram (Division 145) 339 cases, Royapuram (Division 52) 332 cases, Krishnampettai (Division 120) 313 cases, and Seven Wells (Division 55) 298 cases. The division-level Response Team, to be headed by the respective AE/JE, would consist of Divisional Health Officer, medical officer of the Urban Primary Health Centre, sanitary inspector, tax collector, licence inspector and conservancy inspector. The team would meet every day and analyse all the issues related to pandemic management, including clinical care of the patients, contact tracing, quarantine, intensive disinfection, containment measures, intensive door-to-door surveillance for fever and distribution of Kabasura Kudineer , zinc and vitamin C tablets and provision of masks. Secondary team The official said a second-line response team to monitor the effective functioning of the division-level response team has been formed at the unit level to be headed by the jurisdictional assistant executive engineer. The team would have unit health officer, sanitary officer, assessor, conservancy supervisor, and a police official from the particular police station for enforcing home isolation and home quarantine. The Corporation has, under the micro plan, issued a Standard Operating Procedure for clinical care of positive patients, quarantine measures, intensified disinfection and fever and influenza like illness surveillance.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC ends seven-year-old battle over the use of ‘Magical Masala’ in Maggi noodles||A seven-year-old legal battle between Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) manufacturers Nestle India Limited and ITC Limited over the use of the expression ‘Magical Masala’ in the former’s Maggi brand of instant noodles has finally come to an end with the Madras High Court dismissing a suit filed by ITC Limited which owns Sunfeast Yipee brand of noodles. Justice C. Saravanan held that a suggestive expression such as ‘Magic Masala’ used in Sunfeast Yipee noodles since 2010 could have become a distinctive mark entitled for protection and monopoly only if it had been used uninterrupted for a long number of years. Whereas in the present case, Nestle had pre-empted such a move by using ‘Magical Masala’ in Maggi in 2013 itself. The judge pointed out that the instant noodle industry in the country was valued at over Rs.2,000 crore even during 2013 when the civil suit was filed. Nestle was the leader in the business holding about 75% of market share since it had entered the business as early as in the 1970s. It’s annual turnover from Maggi rose from Rs.0.02 crore in 1972 to Rs.2,377 crore in 2012. On the other hand, ITC Limited, originally engaged in tobacco business, had diversified its operations into hospitality, paper and agri-based industries before foraying into FMCG in 2010. It began selling Sunfeast Yippee brand of noodles in two varieties Classic Masala and Magic Masala and the latter turned out to be a runaway hit in the market. The turnover of Sunfeast Yipee Noodles Magic Masala rose from Rs.23.09 crore in 2010 to Rs.251.49 crore by 2013 thus capturing 12.5% of the market. “Though the defendant (Nestle) is the undisputed leader in the instant noodles segment… it must have felt threatened by the plaintiff’s rapid inroad into the food industry… and therefore decided to use ‘Magical Masala.’ “However, such adoption of the expression cannot be said to be malafide. It was a legitimate adoption by the defendant as no person can appropriate common and laudatory words… Laudatory epithet cannot be given monopoly or protection,” the judge said and pointed out that the words Magic and Masala were used widely by many in the FMCG industry. Though Sunfeast was the first to use the expression ‘Magic Masala’ for instant noodles, Pepsico had been using the same expression for its Lay’s brand of chips even before 2010, the judge pointed out. He also said that the Annual Reports of ITC Limited clearly show that it had not conceived the expression, under contention, either as a brand or sub-brand. Further, after comparing the wrappers of Sunfeast Yippee Noodles Magic Masala and Maggi Xtra delicious Magical Masala, the judge found them to be completely distinctive without any scope for confusion between them. Hence, the charge levelled against Nestle of misrepresentation and misleading the consumers stands disproved, he ruled.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘G.O. on Tamil name changes withdrawn, new G.O. in 3 days’||The Tamil Nadu government has withdrawn the G.O. changing anglicised names of 1,018 cities and towns in the State closer to their Tamil names, after the changes were criticised by a large section for being inconsistent with the change of names of places like Vellore to Veeloor, drawing widespread condemnation. A new G.O. with a standard transliteration applied to the names will be issued in three days after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami approves the new changes, Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Development, Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan told The Hindu . ‘Changes criticised’ “The changes were criticised for being inconsistent. That is because three different transliteration protocols were used. Also, the central committee went by the names suggested by the Collectors, who had a Tamil expert each guiding them on the names. Although there is criticism, 90% of Tamil community were happy with the revised names and the feedback was positive. Only 10% of the people, who are English speaking and don't speak in Tamil generally, are criticising,” he said. Mr. Pandiarajan said that a humongous amount of work has gone into the name changes. “Pulling back is really not an option. The transliteration protocol needs to be fixed. We have an agreement on which among the three are best, which will need the minimal number of changes. The CM will decide which one,” he said. One of the models that the government is looking at is the transliteration tool of lyricist Madan Karky,Olingoa. “Themodel we have used now is the one used by Jayadevan and other die-hard Tamil experts,” he said.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant, aged govt. staff exempted from duties||The State government has exempted its employees who are pregnant or aged above 55 with co-morbidities from attending official duties during the COVID-19 lockdown. The exempted period will be treated as duty “on producing medical certificates”. A government order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said that “the period of absence of government employees during the lockdown from March 25 to May 17 be treated as duty, since no transport facility was available”. Officials who applied for eligible leave prior to March 25, but were not able to rejoin duty up to May 3, will be treated as “deemed to have joined duty on their date of completion of the leave.” Those who did not attend office as per 50% roster drawn on May 18 (after the arrangement of minimum transport) even for a day, shall submit leave applications, the G.O. stated. The government order said that staff on medical treatment other than for COVID-19 infection may be sanctioned “UEL on M.C.” if applied (medical certificate must). For those who tested positive for COVID-19 or were quarantined due to infection of family members or were staying in containment zones, the entire period of treatment/quarantine, as certified by appropriate medical authorities, will be treated as Special Casual Leave. For differently-abled employees, the exemption granted by the Welfare of Differently-abled Persons Department from time to time will be considered and will be treated to have been on duty. These guidelines will be applicable to employees of commissions, boards, corporations, universities, companies, institutions and societies of the State government till the end of the lockdown.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4 CMO staff test positive||Four staff members who frequent the Chief Minister’s Camp Office and his chamber in the Secretariat have tested positive for COVID-19. Soon after the death of a senior private secretary in the Chief Minister’s Office on Wednesday, all those frequenting the premises were tested for COVID-19, said sources. “Four of them have tested positive,” a senior official confirmed to The Hindu . About 40 people were tested. Another source said that the four persons had been advised home quarantine. “None of them have any symptoms,” he added.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only fresh e-passes valid during complete lockdown, says govt.||E-passes issued earlier for movement within the Greater Chennai police limits stand suspended from June 19 to 30, the Tamil Nadu e-Government Agency (TNeGA) said on Thursday. Those with e-passes in permitted sectors such as essential goods manufacturing, continuous processing industries and essential services “should apply for fresh passes.” However, for movement into or from Greater Chennai police limits, passes already issued under individual/groups category for death, marriage or medical emergencies “will be revalidated automatically”. A new link to download the pass would be sent to the registered mobile number automatically, the agency said in a tweet. A senior government official told The Hindu that even for movement in parts of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, which will go into complete lockdown mode, people have to apply for passes afresh. The e-passes could be applied under two categories – by employers and individuals. Individuals can apply only for marriage, medical emergency, death of a close relative or if the applicant is stranded. Exempted categories Officials indicated that employees of exempted sectors would be allowed to travel to workplaces using ID cards provided by employers. “They could apply for passes in the TNeGA portal or they could use their office ID cards. If there are problems with their ID cards, then we will issue passes later,” an official said. The official indicated that ID cards of government departments, media and judiciary among others would be considered valid for movement but employees of other exempted private sector would need e-passes from TNeGA.
19 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Policeman who died of COVID-19 honoured||Police personnel from across the State led by Director General of Police (DGP) J.K. Tripathy on Thursday observed a two-minute silence to honour Mambalam inspector S. Balamurali, who died of COVID-19 on Wednesday. His body was laid to rest at the Kannamapet burial ground with a 30-gun salute by the Armed Reserve Police. Mr. Tripathy said Mr. Balamurali sacrificed his life in the line of duty. Policemen observed the two-minute silence wherever they were on duty. The DGP, Chennai Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan, other senior officers and additional commissioners participated. On Thursday, a portrait of Mr. Balamurali was decorated with flowers and placed at the Mambalam police station, where he was stationed before his death. The deceased officer was the first victim among many police personnel who tested positive. Afflicted officers Mr. Viswanathan said over 788 tested positive for COVID-19 in the police forces and of them, over 300 had been discharged and rejoined duty. As many as 248 personnel were in institutional quarantine, while 216 were in home quarantine. As many as 39 personnel were being treated at city hospitals, he added. He also said there was no shortage of manpower in the city police since over 18,000 personnel were on duty.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Make public testing details’||DMK president M.K. Stalin has asked the government to place in public domain the details of the number of COVID-19 testing centres in the State, the number of tests that can be carried out per day and contact tracing district-wise. Mr. Stalin said only then, people will get to know the government’s planning. The DMK president questioned the AIADMK government as to why only a few thousand test kits were given to all the districts other than Chennai. “It is because of this that there is a situation where only a few hundred tests can be conducted per day in some districts. Even these test kits are being used only on people who are arriving at airports, railway stations and bus stations,” Mr. Stalin said. “Why isn’t the government ramping up testing facilities across the State?,” he asked. Mr. Stalin reminded the government that it is its duty to protect the people and it should act fast.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP withdraws plea||DMK MP R.S. Bharathi on Thursday withdrew petitions filed by him in the Madras High Court seeking registration of FIRs regarding alleged corruption in tenders called for laying fibre optic cables in all villages in the State at a cost of Rs. 1,950 crore and for road maintenance in Thanjavur district at a cost of Rs. 1,165 crore. Justice N. Sathish Kumar permitted him to withdraw the cases after he was served with copies of closure reports submitted to the government by the DVAC which did not find any substance in the complaints. State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan claimed the petitions had been filed only for gaining publicity. He also filed two separate counter affidavits on behalf of the DVAC pointing out that the complainant ought not to have rushed to the High Court without having moved the jurisdictional magistrate court. under Section 156(3) of the Cr.P.C.
19 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meat markets to stay shut till June 30||The Greater Chennai Corporation on Thursday ordered the closure of slaughterhouses and meat markets from June 19 to June 30. According to a press release, all meat retail outlets will remain closed during the lockdown. Slaughterhouses in Perambur, Saidapet, Kallikuppam and Villivakkam will remain closed. Officials said 2,700 meat shops would be closed during the lockdown. “The decision on closure of meat shops has been taken to prevent crowding. There is no clarity on online meat sales. Online meat sale is not possible for the 2,700 shops because they do not have deep freezer facilities,” said an official. Officials would not prevent online sale of meat by agencies that have proper facilities. The Corporation failed to inform shops in advance, causing a loss to many of them. “The birds may die in a few days. We may lose money,” said a trader, whose shop had already stocked chickens to sell in the coming days.
19 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More king cobras slither into human habitations in Coimbatore||Coimbatore Forest Division is witnessing an increase in the sighting of king cobras (Ophiophagus hannah) , the longest of all venomous snakes, in human habitations. Four king cobras were rescued from human habitations in Coimbatore district in the last eight months which were later released in natural habitats. Experts cite varied reasons, including fragmentation and increased human activity in their habitats, behind the straying of the elusive snake species. Latest in the list of king cobras found in human neighbourhood was a 13-foot-long female snake that was rescued by snake handler K. Santhosh Kumar from a place on Narasipuram – Poondi Road near Coimbatore on June 14. “A 16-foot-long male king cobra rescued from a farm at Narasipuram in November last year was the biggest one I ever handled. A female snake of about 14 feet was rescued from Narasipuram area in April this year,” says Mr. Kumar. The king of snakes is protected under Schedule II of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 and its rescue, handling and release are done only with the consent of the Forest Department, he adds. Snake handlers A. Ameen and R. Sanjay rescued another King Cobra from Chinnampathy, near Walayar, in November 2019. According to Mr. Ameen, a few other King Cobras were also rescued from places near Walayar coming under Madukkarai forest range in the past. Another snake handler Ranjith had also rescued a few ones that slithered into human habitations. All these sightings were reported within the limits of Madukkarai, Pooluvapatti and Mettupalayam forest ranges of Coimbatore Forest Division that have places ideal for the habitat of king cobras, scientific name of which derives from its eating habit ( Ophio - snake and phagus – eating). “More human activity in forests and peripheries is the reason for interactions between humans and animals. Same is the case with king cobras,” says king cobra expert and herpetologist P. Gowri Shankar of Kālinga Centre for Rainforest Ecology, Agumbe. According to P. Kannan, assistant professor of wildlife biology at Government Arts College, Udhagamandalam, lack of prey base in forests could also be a reason for the straying of king cobras to human habitations. “King cobra’s favourite prey is rat snake. Rat snakes are now-a-days seen mostly in human habitations as they feed on rats which thrive when waste disposal practices are improper,” Mr. Kannan says. “King cobra is called the tiger of reptile kingdom as it is the top-most predator among snakes. It is a flagship species which indicates the health of the herpetofauna around it. More focus is needed on the protection of the habitat. In Karnataka, king cobras are revered and protected unlike in other parts of the country,” says Mr. Gowri. In August 2018, a king cobra that was found in a hotel on Kallar – Mettupalayam Road was killed by people before rescuers could reach the spot. “We have rescued at least seven kinga cobras in the Kallar region. Apart from farms at Kallar, they are often seen on the track of Nilgiri Mountain Railway and on ghat road to Udhagamandalam,” says Jeonald Wilson, a volunteer of Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust, which assists the Forest Department in the rescue of animals, snakes and birds.  Lack of prey base in forests is one the reasons for the straying of king cobras to human habitations   P. Kannan  Assistant professor of wildlife biology
19 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||R.G. Pudur turns a cluster of cases in Coimbatore||With four more persons from R.G. Pudur near Chinniyampalayam testing positive on Thursday, the locality has turned into a cluster of COVID-19 cases; 11 positive cases were reported from that area on Wednesday. All those tested positive over the last two days were the contacts of a 28-year-old man from the locality who died of suspected COVID-19 infection on Sunday. The Health Department is yet to announce, officially, if the man died of COVID-19. Health Department staff collected swab samples of more persons from R.G. Pudur, which is now a containment zone, and Chinniyampalayam on Thursday. Elsewhere across the district, 14 others tested positive for the disease on Thursday. They were from Ramanathapuram, Mylampatti, Telugupalayam, Podanur, Sidhanapuram, Kanuvai, Samathur, Nadupuni, Sungam near Anamalai, Subbe Goundenpudur, Saravanampatti and Udayampalayam. The two cases from Mylampatti were of a 40-year-old man and his 35-year-old wife. One of the cases from Udayampalayam was a three-year-old boy. A 70-year-old man from Samathur, a 67-year-old man from Sungam near Anamalai and an 82-year-old man from Subbe Goundenpudur tested positive for the disease when their swab samples were lifted at hospitals where they had gone for the treatment of non-communicable diseases. Three others had come to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital with complaints of influenza-like illness and later tested positive for the disease.  District crosses 200 mark On Thursday, the number of total COVID-19 cases reported in the district crossed 200 mark. As per the COVID-19 media bulletin issued by the Health Department on Thursday, the total number of positive cases reported in the district increased to 211. The district had 48 active cases of the disease. As many as 161 persons recovered from the disease.  14 air passengers test positive Fourteen passengers of Wednesday’s Delhi - Coimbatore IndiGo flight tested positive, said Health Department officials. They belonged to Tiruvarur, Madurai, Salem, Tiruppur, Virudhunagar, Tenkasi, Karur and the Nilgiris. Officials said these cases were cross-notified to those districts.
19 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Enforcement of precautionary measures to be intensified||Workers are back at workshops, textile mills, and engineering industries in Coimbatore district, some of them from other districts and States too. Though industrial associations have asked their members to take precautionary measures, there are reports of workers who have tested positive for COVID-19, at least in one unit so far. Following this, District Collector K. Rajamani chaired a meeting on Thursday with representatives of industrial associations and hotels and warned of action against industries that fail to take the precautions. He urged them to not only check temperature and ensure workers maintain physical distance, but also suggested use of oximeters. Officials would visit industries and hotels from Friday and action would be taken against establishments that did not follow the precautionary measures, he said. “The Collector told us not to engage any more new workers or those returning from other districts and not to permit visitors into the campus. People who arrive from Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, and Tiruvallur districts should be quarantined for seven days even if they test negative,” said Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy, who participated in the meeting. If any person comes from the four districts that are under complete lockdown, the industries should inform the Deputy Director of Health, Coimbatore, or the toll free number (1077/108). The associations are sending out messages to their members asking them to comply with the standard operating procedures strictly. “Textile mills are working with just half the strength and even in that there are absentees. They are aware that if there are positive cases among the workers, the unit operations will be affected. So most of the mills are careful,” said Southern India Spinners Association president N. Murugesan. “We have given code of conduct. Every mill has labour or welfare officers. The units should take responsibility and cooperate with the government. The workers should also be cautious,” said T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry. A release from the Collector said, 17,938 people were home quarantined so far and in June alone 41 people tested positive. Those under home quarantine should not come out of their house. If they do so, action would be taken. Those coming into the district from other States and districts should call up the toll free number and inform the officials. Enforcement of precautionary measures would be tightened, the Collector said.
19 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Case registered||The Race Course police have registered a case in connection with the missing of 77 oxygen and nitrogen gas cylinders from the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The case was registered based on a complaint lodged by B. Asokan, former Dean of CMCH, in January this year.
19 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Air India’s Delhi service from June 22||Air India will commence its services in the Delhi – Coimbatore – Delhi segment on June 22. The flight will operate on four days a week - Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Sources with Air India said that the flight would leave New Delhi at 7.40 a.m. and reach Coimbatore at 11 a.m. The return flight will leave Coimbatore at noon and reach Delhi at 3 p.m. Though other operators namely SpiceJet and IndiGo started services when domestic flight services resumed nationwide on May 25, Air India did not operate. SpiceJet and IndiGo are currently operating flights to and from a few cities - New Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Repatriation flight from Sri Lanka A repatriation flight carrying Indians from Sri Lanka is scheduled to arrive at Coimbatore airport late on Thursday. As many as 175 persons were to travel on the SpiceJet flight from Colombo, said sources.
19 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mettupalayam GH gets digital X-ray lab||A digital X-ray lab and post-operative unit were opened at Government Hospital, Mettupalayam, recently. Rotary Mettupalayam collaborated with the Government hospital under its ‘Project CARE’ for these facilities. The digital X-ray facility will reduce the time taken for processing of X-ray imaging of patients, said S. Cheralathan, Chief Medical Officer of Mettupalayam GH. “The new machinery takes hardly three seconds to transfer the image from the X-ray machine to the computer or to the mobile of the doctor concerned. This facility will reduce the waiting time and offer X-ray imaging services to more people,” he said, The post-operative unit is equipped with 15 post-operative care beds, two ECG machines and 15 cardiac monitors. Rotary Mettupalayam also supported the hospital by providing a surveillance camera system for the digital X-ray lab.
19 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for issuing fake e-pass||The Sulur police have booked a man, who forged an e-pass issued by the district administration for inter-district travel. The accused has been identified as M. Balu, proprietor of a photostat shop at Sulur. He had issued a forged e-pass to a customer who wanted to travel from Coimbatore to Virudhunagar. Revenue officials had sealed the shop on Wednesday.
19 June 2020||Coimbatore/Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Four test positive in Tiruppur, 4 in the Nilgiris||Four persons, of which three were below 30 years of age, tested positive in Tiruppur district on Thursday. Health Department sources said the first two cases were women aged 28 and 29 who returned to their homes at Nallur and Muthu Nagar within the Tiruppur Corporation limits on Wednesday. Both of them came on a flight to Coimbatore from Chennai and skipped the airport quarantine, sources said. The third case was a 27-year-old doctor from Ganapathipalayam near Palladam who was staying in Coimbatore for nearly a year. His elder sister was working at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and he used to pick up and drop her in his vehicle, according to the sources. Although it is suspected that he might have contracted the virus from his sister, she tested negative, the sources said. A 61-year-old woman from Udumalpet was the fourth patient. She was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore on June 12 with fever and was tested negative. Two days later, she was again admitted to CMCH, where her swab samples were lifted and the results returned positive, the sources said. All four were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Tiruppur district went up to 120 on Thursday, of which five are active cases. In the Nilgiris, four more people tested positive on Thursday. With this, the total number of active cases in the district now stands at 12. The four cases include a family of three – a 30-year-old man and his parents from Mel Vannarapettai in Coonoor, and a 36-year-old woman residing in the Wellington Cantonement area. The 30-year-old man and the 36-year-old woman patient had returned by flight from Chennai. The man was in home quarantine and infected his parents. All four persons are undergoing treatment at the ESI hospital in Coimbatore. Seven areas have been designated as containment zones in the district. They are Kulisholai in Udhagamandalam, Thaimalai in Melur, Coonoor, Bharathi Pudur in Bikkatty near Manjoor, Aravankadu near Coonoor, Nondimedu and Raj Bhavan area in Udhagamandalam as well as Mel Vannarapettai in Coonoor. Till date, 26 persons tested positive in the district of which 14 have recovered.
19 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||15 stolen vehicles seized, two held||The police here recovered 15 stolen four-wheelers, including trucks and tipper lorries, and arrested two persons. Following complaints of vehicle thefts, Superintendent of Police R. Sakthivel formed three special teams to nab the culprits. After zeroing in on two suspects with the help of CCTV footage, the police closely monitored their movement. When the two were moving in a stolen car on Palani bypass road, the police intercepted them. Investigations revealed that the two - Suresh, 45, of Kulithalai in Karur district and Mayil alias Vijaykumar of Mettupatti in Dindigul district - were wanted in 35 vehicle theft cases in different police stations. They were produced before a Judicial Magistrate court here which remanded them in judicial custody. Mr. Sakthivel told The Hindu that the key accused, Suresh, a history-sheeter, used to smuggle rectified spirit from northern States to Kerala and other parts. He was jailed five times in the past. It was hard to keep track of him as he used to change his SIM cardfrequently. As many as 20 SIM cards were seized from him, he said. An officer in the team said Suresh stole only high-end cars, trucks and tipper lorries. There were 11 non-bailable warrants pending against him.
19 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farmers suspect fraud in kudimaramathu work||Alleging shoddy work and misappropriation of kudimaramathu fund by a contractor, villagers of Sevugampatti near Batlagundu on Wednesday demanded the State government to order for a probe and reconstruct the work at a check dam. Marudam Makkal Kazhagam general secretary G. Kanagaraj led the protest. The villagers said the Perumalkoil check dam kudimaramathu work was taken up at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh. It received water from Marudanadhi reservoir. It met the drinking water and irrigation needs of villagers in M. Vadipatti, Sevugampatti, Mariyayipatti, Muthalapuram and Mallanampatti. Construction materials of inferior quality were used by the contractor for the kudimaramathu work. With southwest monsoon having set, the region would receive rains soon. While the officials claimed that the work was completed at a cost of Rs. 60 lakh, the farmers suspected misappropriation of fund. They demanded inspection of the tank by high-ranking officials, reconstruction of the tank and legal action against the erring contractor. A PWD official, however, told reporters that the allegations were baseless and the farmers-users association had executed the work as per the tender document.
19 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle checking stepped up at check-posts in Erode||To prevent vehicles from Chennai and other zones entering the district without e-pass, vehicle checks have been intensified at the check posts here. With complete lockdown being announced in four districts including Chennai from June 19, and motorists could enter the district without e-pass, the police have stepped up vehicle checks at check-posts at Karungalpalayam, Vendipalayam, Noyal, Parisal Thurai junction, Bhavani and Vijayamangalam. All the drivers of four-wheelers and lorries are questioned and documents are verified and allowed into the district. Two-wheelers are also allowed after ensuring that they are not from other zones. Health workers are also posted to check for fever in persons entering with e-pass. On Wednesday, Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the check-post at Lakshmi Nagar at Bhavani where vehicles from Kumarapalayam in Namakkal district enter the district on the Salem – Kochi national highway.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  The Salem Corporation through the Salem City Police has registered cases against 17 persons who returned to Salem from other places without e-pass. In a release, Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh said the civic body had mandated the government’s e-pass for people to enter the district. Persons returning to places within the Corporation limits were initially quarantined at facilities set up in Karuppur Engineering College, Indian Institute of Handloom Technology and Government Arts College for Women here. Their swab samples were taken and based on the results, positive persons were taken for treatment and persons who tested negative were advised home quarantine for 14 days. However, based on information from the public, the Corporation had identified persons who travelled into Corporation limits without e-pass and without undergoing health checks at check-posts. Officials said that until Wednesday, cases had been registered against 17 persons, seven in Suramangalam zone, six in Ammapet and four in Kondalampatti. Among the 17, four had tested positive and more than six persons had contracted the disease from them. Corporation officials advised the public to inform them about persons who travelled to their neighbourhood without passes and said that stern action would be taken against them. The Salem Corporation is also collecting fines from persons venturing out without masks. Between April 16 and June 14, the Salem Corporation had collected fine of Rs. 44,47,385 from 49,699 persons, officials said.
19 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||MPs seek release of funds||Eight MPs in the western districts of the State have condemned the Central government’s decision to withdraw the Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) fund scheme due to COVID-19 pandemic and urged the government to release the funds immediately. MPs A. Ganeshamurthi (Erode), K. Subbarayan (Tiruppur), P.R. Natarajan (Coimbatore), K. Shanmuga Sundaram (Pollachi), S.R. Parthiban (Salem), A.K.P. Chinraj (Namakkal), P. Velusamy (Dindigul), S. Jothimani (Karur) held a consultative meeting here on Monday in which major issues affecting the people in the districts were discussed and resolutions were passed. A resolution said that only by using the funds, they were able to fulfil the needs of the people in their constituencies.
19 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Plus Two results in July first week: Minister||Results of the Class XII board examinations will be declared in the first week of July, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said at Gobichettipalayam on Thursday. After inspecting Kudimaramathu works at Elathur village, the Minister told presspersons that evaluation of answer scripts are over and work is on to prepare mark sheets. “Results will be declared in the first week of July,” he said. The Minister said Chief Educational Officers have been asked to prepare a list of Class XII students, who did not write the board examination, and a decision will be taken regarding these candidates when the lists are received. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that due to COVID-19 lockdown, printing of textbooks are delayed and work has been expedited and will be completed by the end of June.  Distribution of books “Decision to distribute books to the students will be taken up later,” he said. The School Education Department is yet to receive any complaints regarding admissions by private schools to Class XI and action will be taken, if there are complaints, he said.
19 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Plus 2 results in July first week’||Results of Plus Two examinations will be declared in the first week of July, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said in Gobichettipalayam on Thursday. He told reporters that evaluation of answer scripts was over and work was on to prepare marksheets. He said the Chief Educational Officers had been asked to prepare a list of Class XII students who did not write the board examination.
19 June 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Water released from KRP reservoir for irrigation||Over 118 cusecs of water was being released from KRP reservoir here for irrigation even as the storage levels in the reservoir was maintained at below 30 feet in view of the repairs works currently under way in the dam. On Wednesday, water was released from the left canal and the right canals in the wake of demands by farmers for release of water to Barur lake for irrigation in its watershed areas. The water level at the KRP dam was being consistently maintained at 30.55 feet since the works for the installation of new shutters commenced early this year.  Storage level With the works expedited in time for the monsoon, the storage level in the reservoir was maintained at the sill level of 30 feet, from the total reservoir capacity of 54 feet. The past two days witnessed release of 720 cusecs of water from Kelavarapalli dam into Thenpennai river. This had increased inflow into KRP reservoir that received 422 cusecs of water. In the light of increased inflow into the reservoir, water was being released for irrigation into the left and right canals of the reservoir after farmers made representation to the officials. The outflow included 118 cusecs in the left and the right canals and 390 cusecs into Thenpennai river. The reservoir’s shutter installation works is currently being sped up to meet the completion scheduled for July end. The reservoir’s storage capacity was cut short after a breach in the first shutter that brought down the capacity of the reservoir till repair works commenced in a phased manner.
19 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plan to convert passenger services to express trains||In all probability, 17 pairs of long distance passenger trains running across Southern Railway would be converted into express trains when normal train operations resume after the COVID-19 lockdown. The Railway Board has issued an order, dated June 17, to all zonal railways to immediately initiate action to convert all passenger trains, MEMUs and DEMUs that travel more than 200 km into express trains. The exercise involves speeding up the trains and curtailing halts, if required. “The action taken report should be submitted by Friday,” the communication said. “This is nothing but implementation of Bibey Debroy Committee report that was against running passenger trains due to poor returns,” charged R. Sankaranarayanan, Madurai divisional secretary, Dakshin Railway Employees Union. Passenger trains are mostly used by poor people. “Generally people prefer passenger trains to road transport for the comfort and toilet facility, besides the low fare,” said Southern Railway Mazdoor Union divisional secretary J.M. Rafi said. . “The fare will be increased exorbitantly once it becomes an express train. If so, a majority of the people cannot afford train travel,” he added. Passenger trains stop at small stations and cater to several small villages. Upon conversion into express trains, to speed up the services, many halts would be done away with. Thus the trains would become urban-only services,” said Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. Even the Amritha Express that was extended from Palakkad up to Madurai does not stop in many important stations like Oddanchathiram, a major market for southern districts, a railway official said. “The railway authorities are ready to run the train empty rather than helping the passengers to make use of it,” he added. Being a public sector, railways always worked with the motto of providing service. “But now service is being overlooked for commercial viability. This is only the first step towards privatisation of train services. After the trains are converted into expresses and fares raised, it would become attractive for private players to operate the trains,” Mr. Venkatesan said. The fares would also be on the higher side, with superfast charges and dynamic fare. “If this is allowed, then train journey that has been a fascination for the young and old, would become a dream, like air travel, for the poor people,” Mr. Rafi said.
19 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘11,016 tests done in 15 days’||A total of 11,016 samples were tested for COVID-19 in Madurai district from June 1 to 15, said Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar on Thursday. Addressing mediapersons here, he said this number included 6,422 samples lifted from those who travelled from Chennai, and 1,014 samples lifted from those who arrived from other States and countries by road, train or flight. The remaining tests were conducted on samples lifted from local residents who displayed symptoms and the contacts of infected persons. He said village-level vigilance committees were formed in all taluks to inform the district administration of the entry of people without e-passes so that they could be screened for COVID-19. The Minister said the opposition leaders must help boost the morale of the public during a pandemic and cooperate with the government in overcoming it. He distributed packs containing protective gear like helmets, glasses and gloves, along with kabasura kudineer packets and zinc tablets to around 980 construction workers.
19 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Many old people abandoned in Madurai during lockdown’||Social workers and NGOs rescuing and rehabilitating elderly destitute people say there has been a rise in the number of people above 60 years of age being abandoned during COVID-19 pandemic. V.P. Manikandan, a social worker with Nethravathi Pain Palliative Care and Rehabilitation Centre, says he receives 10 to 12 calls each day during lockdown from people who find elderly people on streets as against the five or six calls he used to get earlier. Many ask for paid shelters too and are willing to pay up to Rs. 3,000 a month for the care of their parents, he says. R. Balagurusamy, who heads the centre, says most of those abandoned, however, are women. “We have 45 bedridden patients, 40 of whom are women,” he says. Both say the lockdown has dented the income of many families. “People are unable to provide them three meals a day. Those who can are unable to pay medical bills and engage in caregiving,” Mr. Manikandan says. Dr. Balagurusamy says women are perceived as ‘useful’ till they contribute to housework or take care of children. “After that, they are considered a burden,” he says. Founder and head of New Creations Trust C. Glory says they have rescued 110 people from Palanganatham area. She says the lockdown has also made the elderly dependent on their children. Earlier, she says, she has seen many elderly men working at parotta shops and hotels in the evenings. But the shops that are open now do not need help. “These men tend to enter into arguments with their children and leave their homes. They don’t beg, but simply sit outside temples, expecting someone to give them food,” she says. She, however, says many destitutes now seem more visible on the roads due to lesser activity. Director of Idhayam Trust G.R. Sivakumar, who worked with Madurai Corporation and rescued 355 people during the initial phase of the lockdown, says the Corporation and the district administration took efforts to ensure that all the elderly who were rescued were reunited with their families. Collector T.G. Vinay says the district administration’s initial intervention helped many abandoned people meet their families. The district administration has been providing space and financial assistance to a few NGOs. “We have provided space in two buildings. The State government is aiding them financially. We still have a periodic inflow of elderly people but are equipped with the infrastructure,” he says.
19 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Helping gestures beget acceptance||When the lockdown started, hundreds reached out to Priya Babu, head of the Transgender Resource Centre (TRC) in Madurai for help. Some called, some sent messages through their inter-connected networks and some others were recognised as ‘people in need’ by TRC volunteers. What surprised her was that these callers were not transgender women alone. “Even until two years ago, we would only get calls of help from the transgender community. However, through the lockdown, we helped HIV positive women, single mothers, women in sex work, daily wage labourers and street vendors too. This is a huge and welcome attitudinal change,” she says. Since March, Ms. Priya Babu has mobilised funds and provided close to 7,500 kg of rice, basic provisions and kitchen condiments worth lakhs, besides creating a care package for women with sanitary napkins and masks- dire necessities in today’s times. Several organisations, including corporates, have come forward to help, she says. Until recently, Ms. Priya Babu says that they have had to battle uncomfortable conversations and looks while distributing aid. “In the past years too, there were occasions when people have been in need. During those times, we have gone out of the way for distribution of aid but never twice to the same area. People have looked at us differently and caused some hostility. This time, though, we have finished providing aid for 750 transwomen and women twice. We see this as an important moment. The acceptance has been overwhelming,” she says. Ms. Priya Babu says that volunteers from the Transgender Resource Centre have not just focussed on Madurai city but have also travelled to villages where small pockets of transgender people live including villages in Alanganallur, Sholavandhan and Tirupparankundram blocks. Apart from distributing food packages, Ms. Priya Babu says that volunteers have procured phone numbers to follow up on their mental well-being. “We have a small team that calls these women regularly just to speak to them. Sometimes, they just want to pour out their grief due to the lack of income. We believe that listening helps them,” she says. Ms. Priya Babu hopes that kindness remains and empathy increases in the future. For now though, she says she is happy with the acceptance and trust. “I am called ‘Amma’ and ‘Madam’ now,” she says.
19 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Livestock farmers interested in getting Kisan credit card||The Department of Animal Husbandry has collected details of around 4,000 livestock farmers since March for the first time for issuing Kisan credit card issued by the Central government. On Wednesday, Regional Joint Director D. Suresh Christopher said that several farmers were interested in getting the credit card as it was being issued for the first time. The department had been liaising with banks since June 1 to offer easy credit. “Unlike the usual Kisan Credit Card which is issued based on land holdings, livestock farmers must be vouched by veterinarians at government clinics or hospitals that they had livestock holdings. Only then will they get the card,” he said. Interest in the credit card was kindled among farmers during the mass vaccination programme for close to 2.3 lakh cows in Madurai. Livestock rearers who earlier had problem with getting credit from banks will not have any issue now. Cattle rearers could contact the department for further details, he said.
19 June 2020||P.A.Narayani,TAMIL NADU||FPGs sell vegetables for Rs. 53 lakh during lockdown||Fifty Farmer Producer Groups (FPGs) in the 13 blocks of the district have sold 2.21 lakh kilograms of vegetables for Rs. 53.08 lakh to people at their doorstep so far during the lockdown. Indian Bank, as part of its corporate social responsibility, gave Rs. 3,000 each to five best performed FPGs formed at Pottapatti (Kottampatti block), Sivarakottai (Kallikudi), Periya Ilanthaikulam (Alanganallur), Thathampatti (Vadipatti) and Pappapatti (Chellampatti). Collector T.G. Vinay distributed the cash award to the FPG members here on Thursday. Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani was also present. Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan said the lockdown had brought out the best of the FPGs and expanded their role. He said the role played by them had tremendously helped farmers, who were struggling to sell their produce during the initial days of the lockdown as markets were shut and traders did not buy their produce. “The FPGs procured the produce at reasonable prices and sold them to people at their doorsteps through mobile vending outlets,” he said. This also helped the people a lot at a time when there were restrictions in movement, said an official from the Agriculture Department. M. Ramalingam, president of the Sivarakottai FPG, said during the initial days of lockdown they received phone calls and messages on Whatsapp groups from farmers expressing their predicament of not being able to sell their produce. “In one of the videos, farmers from Theni district said they were not able to sell ‘Nendran’ variety of bananas. Our FPG procured them from the village and sold them to people,” he said. The official said the department had provided e-passes for the movement of the FPG members. Apart from vegetables, a few FPGs, including those at Periya Ilanthaikulam and Pappapatti, procured groceries and sold them to people. Mr. Vivekanandan said many FPGs were motivated to continue performing this new role post-lockdown. “Since the FPGs comprised farmers, they will procure the produce from farmers at good prices. They will also be able to make some profit,” Mr. Vivekanandan said.
19 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Will not hesitate to take stringent measures to contain COVID-19’||The government in Puducherry will not hesitate to take more stringent measures to contain the rise in number of COVID-19 cases, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said. “We will wait for two or three days to see the effectiveness of latest restrictions on entry of vehicles, including those with e-pass, from Chennai and neighbouring districts before taking more steps. If the restrictions are not helping in any way, we will not hesitate to take more stringent measures to restrict movement of people,” Mr. Narayanasamy told The Hindu . Expressing concern about the rise in cases, the Chief Minister said that his government would have to balance between “protecting life and livelihood” of the people. “Sustaining economic activity is also important to generate revenue. But the priority will be to protect life,” he added. Ever since Central assistance had come down, the Chief Minister said the administration was solely dependent on its meagre resources for salary and welfare works. The revenue generation which had dropped to 18% in March-April had now risen to 40% due to the lifting of lockdown. Follow norms, says Bedi L-G Kiran Bedi on Thursday appealed to the people to follow the norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
19 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Two deaths, 27 new cases||Puducherry recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 27 new cases on Thursday. With this, the deaths have gone up to seven while the active cases stand at 149. The deaths of a 52-year-old patient at IGMCRI and a 37-year-old patient marked the first fatalities in the age segment below 60 years. “This dispels the notion that COVID-19 deaths happen only among elderly,” Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. The cumulative total is 271 cases with 116 discharged.
19 June 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||More check-posts come up||The Pudukottai district administration has stepped up surveillance and vehicle checks to monitor those entering the district from Chennai where there has been a spike in COVID-19 cases. In addition to 10 check-posts functioning on the district border, three more check-posts have been established in the district to keep a round-the-clock vigil to monitor those entering the district. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari in an official release said instructions have been given to officials to initiate action against those entering the district without obtaining e-pass. She indicated that such vehicles could be seized. Vehicle checks, headed by an official in the rank of a Deputy Collector, has been intensified in every check-post in the district to monitor those entering Pudukottai from Chennai via Tiruchi, the Collector said. Instructions have also been given to the officials to slap fine amount of Rs. 100 on those found not wearing mask while venturing out. Action under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act would be initiated against those found involved in such repeated violations, the Collector further said. Meanwhile, a couple of areas in Karaiyur and Maagalipatti villages in the district have been cordoned off and made containment zones since three persons each from the two places were tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Ariyalur With the arrival of people from Chennai ahead of the total lockdown in Chennai and its peripheries that begins on Friday, the district administration has set up 12 check-posts at various entry points to check persons entering the district without e-passes. “It is essential to possess e-pass for those coming from Chennai or other zones to enter the district limit. We get reports that people without e-passes are making attempts to visit their natives by two-wheelers and other means. Cases will be booked against those defying the restriction,” Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan told The Hindu.  He said that policemen across the district had been alerted to check those travelling without e-pass. As many as 12 check-posts had been established at various locations. Policemen would man the check-posts round-the-clock. Mr. Srinivasan said that besides filing of cases, persons without e- passes would be put in institutional quarantines being set up at 12 locations. They would be subjected for COVID-19 screening. Positive patients would be transported to the Government Hospital in Ariyalur. Karaikal In the wake of five Chennai returnees testing positive for COVID-19 virus within a week, apprehensions of influx of people from the State capital and neighbouring districts has galvanised the Karaikal administration into stepping up vigil at the check-posts. The district administration has also directed Revenue department staff to create awareness on sealing of interior porous borders at nine locations in Thirunallar and 21 in Karaikal taluk. Accompanied by Superintendent of Police Veeravallavan, District Collector Arjun Sharma inspected the Vanjur Check-Post on Wednesday. Public welfare organisations have, for long, been demanding tighter vigil at the border check-posts to prevent spread of the virus. The Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption, in a representation to the district administration, copies of which were also addressed to the Puducherry Government and the Prime Minister's Office sought an explanation on how entry of a dead body by a group was permitted for last rites without e-passes, and the reason behind issue of thousands of e-passes in a gap of few days. The district administration was lifting samples from people at the check-posts sparingly. Samples from asymptomatic patients were not being taken for testing, S. Anandkumar, president of Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption, said. An audit of deaths in the district must be made, he added. Meanwhile, on Thursday, the district administration sealed a gift shop at Church Street for not observing COVID-19 guidelines on social distancing.
19 June 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient found dead||A 52-year-old man, who had tested positive for COVID-19, and was undergoing treatment at the Ranee’s Government Hospital was found dead on Thursday evening. Hailing from Ayangudi village, Aranthangi Block, he had tested positive for the viral infection on June 16 and had been undergoing treatment over the last three days. AL. Meenakshi Sundaram, Dean, Pudukottai Government Medical College told The Hindu that the patient had not shown any signs of distress during his treatment. He was found dead in the bathroom of the COVID-19 ward by hospital staff. “We have not found any suicide note and the motive behind his extreme step is still not clear. Investigations are under way,” a senior police officer from Pudukottai said. Dr. Sundaram said that the body has now been shifted to the mortuary of the hospital while the family members have been informed. “Following a post-mortem on Friday, the body will be buried. We will not be able to hand over the body to the family as he is a COVID-19 positive patient,” he said. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
19 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Soldier killed in border clash laid to rest||The mortal remains of Indian Army Havildar K. Palani, who was killed in a “violent face-off” with the Chinese Army personnel in Galwan Valley in Ladakh, were buried at his native village Kadukalur in Ramanathapuram district with full military honours on Thursday.  At Madurai airport The body, which was air-lifted from Chandigarh, reached Madurai airport late on Wednesday night. Military officers, senior officials and elected representatives laid wreaths on the body, following which it was taken to Kadukalur past midnight. The villagers were emotionally charged when they had a glimpse of the body, which was wrapped in the tri-colour. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao, Ramanathapuram MP Nawaz Kani, MLAs S. Karunas (Tiruvadanai), Malaysia S. Pandian (Mudukulathur) and N. Sathan Kumar (Paramakudi), DIG of Police Rupesh Kumar Meena, SP V. Varun Kumar, INS Parundu (Uchipuli) Commanding Officer Venkatesh Iyer and Sub-Collector N.O. Sugaputra paid homage by placing wreaths on the body. On behalf of the Tamil Nadu government and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the Collector handed over a cheque for Rs. 20 lakh to the legal heirs of the deceased soldier as solatium. The 10-year-old son of the soldier performed the rituals aside, while the military personnel laid the body to rest as the gun salute rent the air. It was an emotional moment when Vanathi Devi, wife of the slain soldier, was given the national flag that covered the body by the military officers.
19 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Soldier laid to rest||The mortal remains of Army soldier K. Palani, who was killed in a “violent stand-off” with the Chinese Army in Galwan Valley, were laid to rest at his native village Kadukalur in Ramanathapuram with full military honours on Thursday. The body, which was air-lifted from Chandigarh, reached Madurai airport on Wednesday night. Paying tributes, military officers, senior bureaucrats and elected representatives laid wreaths following which the body was taken to the native village past midnight. In Ramanathapuram, the villagers were emotionally charged when they got a glimpse of the body, which was wrapped in the tricolour. District Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao, Lok Sabha MP Nawaz Kani, MLA Karunas and Sathan Kumar paid homage by placing wreaths. On behalf of the Tamil Nadu government and Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, the Collector handed over a cheque for Rs. 20 lakh to the legal heirs as solatium. Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday condoled the death of Palani. The people of the country and especially in Tamil Nadu would “always be indebted” for his supreme sacrifice in protecting the sovereignty and integrity of the nation, he said.
19 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patients complain of poor facilities at GH||Some of the patients admitted to the isolation ward for COVID-19 at the Government District Headquarters Hospital here complained about poor infrastructure and lack of care by doctors through video on social media which went viral on Thursday. The patients said they were not given face masks every day and that some of them were wearing the same mask for two days. They also complained that physical distancing norm was not followed in the COVID-19 ward. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao visited the hospital and inspected the outpatients ward and pointed out certain lapses and absence of physical distancing. A check on the attendance register showed that nine employees had not reported for duty. He instructed the Medical Superintendent to issue notice to the absentees. The hospital has 150 beds for COVID-19 patients and steps have been taken to double the bed strength. The Collector also inspected the isolation ward which was getting ready. Later talking to reporters, Mr. Rao said that doctors and nurses were doing a good job of handling the COVID-19 patients in such an emergency situation. Still, it was their responsibility to turn up for work on time. He said care would be taken not only in COVID-19 ward, but those in other wards.
19 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||BJP pays tributes to martyred jawans||Members of the Bharatiya Janata Party paid tributes to Army personnel who were killed in action at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday. The partymen and public paid respects to portraits of martyred soldiers placed at Ashoka Pillar near District Collectorate.     The Hindu as part of its knowledge series will organise an online meeting on “Small and medium enterprises in Coimbatore post-lockdown” on Friday. V. Lakshminarayanasamy, President, Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Coimbatore, will be the chief guest. The meeting will be held via the video conferencing platform Zoom at 4 p.m.
19 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Court Complex inauguration on June 20||The combined court complex constructed at Thanjavur will be inaugurated on Saturday by Chief Justice of Madras High Court, Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi. The new court complex constructed at a cost of Rs. 39.56 crore near the Rajarajan Memorial will be inaugurated through video-conference at 11 a.m. on Saturday from Chennai. Justice Sahi will also be declaring open the court building at Orathanadu constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.44 crore and a travellers bungalow for the judges at Thanjavur at a cost of Rs. 1.08 crore. Justice Amreshwar Prata Sahi will also inaugurate an Additional District Munsif Court and an Additional Mahila Court (Judicial Magistrate Grade) at Thanjavur on the occasion.
19 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Telangana folk art troupe invited||A folk arts group from Telangana has been invited to participate in the online music and dance programme series jointly organised by the Ministry of Culture and the Samarpana, a non-governmental organization, Chennai to raise funds for folk artists. The online fund raising series was organised to extend financial help to folk artists who used to perform as many programmes as possible during the summer months so as to make up for their livelihood for the rest of the year. Earning affected Their chances of earning have been affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic and hence the Ministry of Culture and the Samarpana had joined hands to raise funds by presenting music and folk arts programmes through the social messaging platform, according to release from the South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur. The type of events in this fund raising series which commenced with the performance by the Carnatic musicians and other classical arts has now been extended to the folk arts also. Already, the folk art groups in Tamil Nadu had presented their programmes in this series. Now, the Hyderabad-based Janapada Geethalu troupe was invited to take part in the event by presenting a 40-minute performance recorded in video format. They were directed to forward the video recording to the Samarpana, Chennai which is coordinating the event, the release added.
19 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||PDS rice seized||Periyasamy of Pattukottai was arrested on charges of acquiring and hoarding the rice distributed through the public distribution system (PDS) shops, on Wednesday. Around 5 tonnes of polished PDS rice was seized from his shop. According to police, the Pattukottai police received a tip-off that the culprit used to acquire the rice distributed through the PDS shops in the area and re-sell them after polishing it. Thus a team of policemen landed at the rice shop owned by Periyasamy at the Big Bazaar Street, Pattukottai, and found gunny bags containing the polished PDS rice kept ready at the shop for transportation. Subsequently, 110 gunny bags of rice and two goods carriers in which the gunny bags were loaded have been seized and the seized materials were handed over to the Civil Supplies CID, Thanjavur unit along with the culprit.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Social distancing proves to be a challenge on city buses||Crew of city buses are finding the going rather tough after the partial restoration of transport services in the midst of the COVID-19 lockdown. To a considerable extent, over-crowding in town buses could be brought down after the private operators started plying their buses. Yet social distancing requirement remains to be a tough proposition, according to Rajavel, a conductor of a private bus operating between Chathiram Bus Stand and BHEL Township. “With business and commercial establishments resuming operations, the number of passengers only keeps growing by the day,” he said. Kalaiarasan, another conductor of a city bus on the Thuvakudi-Tiruchi Junction route, observed that unlike in the case of mofussil buses, it is rather difficult to make people maintain distance from one another in the city buses. He also feels that collection of ticket fares through cashless transactions was impractical for city buses.. On their part, officials of the Transport Department have been undertaking surprise checks to ensure that buses do not operate with more than 60% of the seating capacity. The bus crew constantly insist passengers to wear their face masks. But, many passengers are unable to comply with all the safety norms. For instance, though there are sanitiser dispensers, many passengers fail to use them as they board and alight in a hurry.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||66 more test positive as central region goes on alert||A total 66 people tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Thursday. Of them, 21 hailed from Thanjavur, 14 from Tiruchi, 10 from Nagapattinam, seven from Pudukottai, eight from Tiruvarur, three each from Karur and Ariyalur. In Thanjavur district, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases reported so far crossed 200 on Thursday. With the 21 fresh cases, the tally increased to 204. All the 21 persons had either arrived in Thanjavur from other areas or those who remained in contact with the persons who have already been infected with COVID-19 virus and recovered from it. At Tiruvarur, eight new cases were reported taking the total of positive cases to 184, sources said. In Tiruchi, 14 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Of them, three hailed from Thillai Nagar, one from Tiruverumbur, and one from Krishnamoorthy Nagar while the others belonged to villages outside city limits including Manapparai and Thuvakudi. Two patients who had taken part in the meetings organised by the Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale and Retail Traders Association also tested positive. All patients are undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and are responding well to treatment. In Nagapattinam, of the 10 patients who tested positive, eight patients had travelled to the district from Chennai while one had returned from Pudukottai. One woman who hails from Nagapattinam has also tested positive in Chennai itself and is undergoing treatment at a COVID-19 hospital in the city. “Of all the patients testing positive in the district, most cases are imported. There is no spread within the district itself,” a senior health official in the district said. Meanwhile, district officials are screening travellers returning to the district from Thiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Chennai and Kanchipuram. “So far, we have isolated 120 people from these districts in the State. People have also returned from New Delhi, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh,” a senior health official said. In Pudukottai district, seven patients have tested positive for the virus. Six men and one women all hailing from Pudukottai town were tested after they showed symptoms of the virus. They have all been admitted to the Ranees Government Hospital. Meanwhile, according to district reports, a 20-year-old woman hailing from the district has tested positive in Coimbatore. She has been admitted to the Coimbatore ESI Hospital where she is undergoing treatment. Three patients, all men aged 26, 47 and 32 tested positive for the virus in Ariyalur district. Two of the three returned from Chennai and they had been living in Guindy and Mambalam respectively. The third patient is a family member of a patient who had tested positive in the district earlier this week. Including the three new cases in the district, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Ariyalur is 400. Of the 400, 361 patients have been discharged after recovering completely from the infection. A total of 16 are undergoing treatment at the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital, two have been admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH while one is undergoing treatment in Chennai. A total of 267 new samples have been lifted in Ariyalur and have been sent for testing. Meanwhile, in Karur, three patients- one who travelled from Delhi to Salem, one returning from Chennai and another residing in Salem tested positive for the virus.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Upkeep of public parks to go to private players||The Tiruchi City Corporation has decided to hand over the public parks developed in the city to voluntary organisations or private firms for maintenance. S. Sivasubramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation, told The Hindu that 32 public parks were in the city. Most of them were recently established or renovated under the smart city initiative and the Atal Mission for Urban Rejuvenation and Transformation (AMRUIT). Most of them had pathways and children playing equipment. They had been getting steady stream of visitors, prior to their closure in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The parks were currently being maintained by the Corporation. To involve the public in maintenance of the parks, Mr. Sivasubramanian said that it had been decided to hand over them to interested and reputed welfare and voluntary associations. Priority would be given to the resident welfare associations of the areas, where the public parks were located. Rotary and Lions clubs could also take up the maintenance of the parks. If interested, industrial and business houses could also run the parks. The Commissioner said that the Corporation would bear the electricity and water supply charges of the parks. The voluntary organisations or firms would have to bear the salary of caretakers and security guards of the parks. If needed, the organisations could collect entry fee to be fixed by the Corporation. However, business houses would not be allowed to collect entry fee from the visitors. Minor repairs would have to be borne by the organisations. However, the Corporation would take up major repair works. “We are of the view that if welfare organisations are involved, they will take special interest in maintenance of the parks and services offered to the visitors,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. He said a park established at East Boulevard Road had already been handed over to Lion Dates company on a trial basis. It was being maintained well. The Assistant Commissioners of Srirangam, Golden Rock, Ariyamangalam and K. Abishegapuram have been asked to identify potential voluntary organisations in their respective areas to maintain the parks.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown alters paradigm of academic events||The COVID-19 lockdown has altered the very paradigm of seminars, workshops and conferences, much to the relief of academic institutions in the Tiruchi region. The concept of finding sponsors for meeting expenditure towards travel and hospitality of invited dignitaries is passé. While the expenditure is nil, the quality of knowledge-sharing has gone up many notches, as speakers of high calibre could be arranged for online academic programmes, said A. Megala, Principal, Government Arts College, Tiruchi. The college’s Department of Chemistry organised two webinars by roping in speakers from prestigious institutions from India and abroad. Faculty of other departments have also conducted e-quizes involving participation of students from various colleges, she said. Conduct of these events will stand the institution in good stead to improve rating by National Assessment and Accreditation Agency, she said. “The webinars have brought colleges with varying economic mite on a common pedestal,” Prof. Megala observed. More importantly, there is vibrancy among prominent speakers to play instrumental roles in knowledge-sharing on the virtual platform in the lockdown situation, said N. Sivakumaran, chief coordinator of AICTE's Margdarshan Scheme for knowledge sharing being implemented by the National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi. Other organisations in the academic arena are also deriving the best out of the situation. The Institution of Engineers, Tiruchi, for instance, has been able to enlist quality speakers for its periodic lecture programmes. The online lecture through Zoom application scheduled for Tuesday at 5.30 p.m., is to be delivered by Ignacio Camarillo, Director and Associate Professor, Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University. Thanks to the advisory issued by the University Grants Commission to higher educational institutions to embrace online platform for academic activities, webinars have become the watchword. On its part, the Higher Education Department of the State Government had also encouraged government colleges to strengthen expertise for online teaching-learning, by conducting an online workshop for principals during May.  The webinars have brought colleges with varying economic mite on a common pedestal A. Megala Principal, Government Arts College, Tiruchi
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Homage paid to Army jawans||Homage was to paid in Tiruchi, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts to army personnel who died in the violent clash with Chinese forces at Galwan Valley recently. A group of ex-servicemen and general public paid floral tributes to the deceased jawans near the Rajagopuram at Srirangam here and raised slogans to remain united for the country. Later, a group attempted to burn a photo copy of Chinese President Xi Jinping and the country's national flag. However, police personnel foiled their attempt. The group broke Chinese made products on the road to express their protest. No case was registered in this connection, said police sources. In neighbouring Perambalur, a group of seven Hindu Munnani members paid homage at Palakkarai area to the army jawans. Hindu Munnai members led by their state executive committee member Balamurugan also paid tributes to the army personnel at Jayamkondam in Ariyalur district.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New services launched at HPO||The Department of Posts on Wednesday launched on pilot basis a slew of citizen centric services at the Head Post Office in the city. The department had recently introduced citizen centric services in about 6,000 post offices in the country using the CSCs Digital Seva Portal. Using the portal, one can avail more than 100 services including e-filing of taxes (GST & TDS), FastTag recharge and all kinds of bill payments such as insurance, DTH, mobile and landline phones and booking of bus or flight tickets, according to a press release. The Aadhaar enabled payment system which facilitates withdrawal of money from any Aadhaar seeded bank account through postmen has also received a good response from the public during the lock down. The Department had also a tie up with the Tamil Nadu government to provide COVID-19 relief amount for construction workers and 90,561 India Post Payment Bank(IPPB) accounts were opened for the workers in the central region and the relief amount was directly transferred by the government to the respective IPPB accounts. A sum of Rs. 19.88 crore was disbursed by way of 1,06,396 AePS transactions in Tiruchi Region, since the lockdown started. Also more than 3,000 articles containing essential items, including medicines, were booked and 1,500 articles, including medicines/equipment, were delivered, even at night and odd hours, through post offices in Central Region in the months of April and May. At present, all the post offices in central region were operating with full strength and providing services to the citizens, including Aadhaar enrolment and updation, the release added.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Those not wearing face mask penalised||Nearly two weeks after the Tiruchi City Corporation announced that a penalty would be levied on public and commercial establishments where people were found not wearing face masks, over Rs. 2 lakh has been collected in fines. Officials of the civic body has collected Rs. 2,71,546 from June 4, when the rule came into force, to June 17. Officials at K. Abishekapuram zone collected Rs. 1,23,428, in Ponmalai Rs. 50,710 was collected, Rs. 53, 200 in Ariyalmangalam and Rs. 43,208 in Srirangam zone. Officials of the civic body said that stringent action was being taken on those who venture out without wearing face masks and also on those shop owners who allowed individuals without wearing face masks to enter their premises. “We have asked the shop owners to appoint a person to stand at the gate and to allow those wearing masks only to enter,” an official at the civic body said. Speaking to The Hindu . S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner said that 35 special teams including health officials of the civic body have been appointed and have been deputed at important locations in the city to keep a check on the public. “These people will monitor locations such as the Railway junction, Central Bus Stand, grocery shops and vegetable markets and will immediately levy a fine of Rs. 100 for violating the norm,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. Since the penalty was announced, the public has begun following the rules, the Corporation Commissioner said. “We are noticing a drop in the amount of fines collected over the last few days. Even if they are wearing the mask out of fear of paying the fine, we will continue to enforce it so as to ensure that they are safe,” he said.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Clock tower begins to chime again||The historic clock tower at the century-old Tiruchi District Court building which had remained non-functional for several years has begun to chime once again. Thanks to technical personnel at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here, the clock manufactured by W. Potts & Sons Limited, Leeds England in 1921 began to run successfully atop the historic court building from Wednesday. A dedicated clock repair team of the railway workshop here meticulously executed the task with great precision in about 40 days. The workshop which also has a clock tower atop the Armoury Gate took up this task on a request from the District Court authorities, said Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram. The work started on February 25 when several parts including gears and rotating parts of the tower clock were dismantled and brought to the workshop. However, the servicing work had to be suspended from March 21 when the lockdown was clamped . The work was take up again from June 2 and a 10-member team was assigned with the task, said the workshop’s Assistant Production Engineer P. Subramanian. The workshop also had to manufacture some new items such as drum bushes, ratchet wheel, button bushes and support rod assembly to make the clock functional, said Mr. Subramanian adding that the steel wire rope also had to be renewed. The clock which functions on gravity escape mechanism had remained non-functional for more than a decade, he added. As part of the overhauling work, support bush rod was provided to the clock dial to arrest the vibration and deflection due to wind, he said. Mr. Subramanian said one of the specialities of the historic court tower clock was that the bell would ring every 15 minutes, 30 minutes and 45 minutes and every one hour. Mr. Subramanian said repair of the clock was indeed a challenging task for the team.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure timely loans for cultivation’||With the release of water from Mettur dam, farmers organisations here have called upon the State government to ensure expeditious and liberal sanction of loans to farmers by cooperative institutions and banks. While welcoming the opening of Mettur dam on time, Puliyur A. Nagarajan, president, farmers wing of the Tamil Maanila Congress, however, observed that it was imperative that farmers were sanctioned timely crop loans. “This year kuruvai paddy crop is expected to be raised on five lakh acres, thaladi on 10 lakh acres and samba on 25 lakh acres. But all this will hinge on sanction of loans,” he said reiterating the demand to waive all outstanding crop loans. He also urged the government to make sure that adequate quantity of paddy seeds, fertilizers and pesticides were made available to farmers. Besides, workers employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Guarantee Scheme should be allowed to be deployed for agricultural operations such as transplantation of nurseries, removal of weeds and harvest and not just be restricted to building field bunds. Mr. Nagarajan also urged the Centre to raise the Minimum Support Price for paddy to Rs. 3,000 a quintal from the current price of Rs. 1,958. Underlining the importance of immediate sanction of loans, P. Ayyakannu, president, Desiya Thennidia Nadigal Innaippu Vivasayigal Sangam, said farmers were facing a severe cash crunch now.Mr. Ayyakannu also demanded waiver of all crop loan dues. He also contended that the Rs. 20 lakh crore COVID-19 stimulus package announced by the government did not offer much for farmers. He also criticised the Centre for making a paltry hike of 0.53 paise per kg of paddy while revising the minimum support price for the season. The MSP should be hiked to Rs. 37.76 per kg from the current Rs. 18.88 per kg, he demanded after chairing a meeting of the State office bearers here on Wednesday.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Urban PHC in Tiruchi opens after being disinfected||The health authorities of Tiruchi City Corporation disinfected the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) at Edamalaipattipudur on Wednesday after a staff nurse tested positive for COVID-19. The 28-year-old nurse from Rayampatti near Manapparai had fever a week ago. Her swab and blood samples were lifted at the Government Hospital at Manapparai. Since she felt better, the nurse had reported for duty. However, she had subsequently tested positive and was admitted to the K.A.P.Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. Following this, the health officials carried out a disinfection drive at the UPHC. It was shut for a day, and was opened on Thursday. Swab samples of doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff members were collected for COVID-19 test.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday in the following areas of the city owing to maintenance work to be taken up by Tangedco at Tiruverumbur,Thuvakudi and Ambikapuram substations: Tiruverumbur, Malaikovil, Prakash Nagar, Vengur, part of Balaji Nagar, Koothaipar, Krishnasamudiram, Pathalapettai, Kiliyur, Tiruverumbur Industrial Estate, Mela Kumaresapuram, Cholamadevi, Cholamanagar, Pudutheru, Navalpattu, Burma Colony, Nehru Nagar, Anna Nagar, Police Colony, Poolangudi, Suriyur, Kumbakudi, Pazhankanankudi, Kanthalur, MIET and Guntur; BHEL Township A, D, E, R and PH, and a part of C sector, AOL, Nehru Nagar, Anna Arch, Akbar Salai, MD Road, Government Polytechnic, National Institute of Technology, Rowthanmedu, BHEL Nagar, Indira Nagar, Thuvakudi, Thuvakudi Industrial Estate, Burma Nagar, Devarayaneri, Asoor, Thaeneerpatti and Poikaikudi; Ariyamangalam, Nehruji Nagar,SIT, Golden Rock Military Colony, Keezha Ambikapuram,Venkateswara Nagar, MGR Nagar,Mela Ambikapuram, Anna Nagar, Golden Nagar, Cauvery Nagar,Andal Nagar, Rajappa Nagar, Rail Nagar, Kamaraj Nagar, Malaiyappa Nagar, Kattur, Pappakurichi, Kailash Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Mela Kalkandarkottai, Keezha Kalkandarkottai, Alathur, Thiru Nagar, Adaikala Annai Nagar, Nathamadipatti, Keezhakurichi, Ponneripuram, part of Ponmalaipatti, Senthaneerpuram and Sangiliandapuram. Power supply will also remain suspended from 10 a.m.to 5 p.m. on Saturday in view of the shifting of electricity poles and transformers on Karur By-pass Road in the city: Karur Bypass Road, Malar Salai,Thamarai Salai, Tajmahal Salai and Alli Salai. Ariyalur Power supply will remain suspended from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday in the following areas in the district in view of erection of new high tension lines: Orathur, Nagamangalam,Udaiyavar Theeyanur, Vikramangalam, Aalavai, Keezhanatham, Gunamangalam, Kadambur, Kovil Seemai and Adhanur.
19 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pricey nungu still has many takers||Blame it on the lockdown; seasonal nungu vendors were out of sight during April-May, depriving eager buyers of the most sought-after summer fruit. The presence of the fruit vendors is now getting noticeable, thanks to the government's lifting of travel restrictions. The crowd thronging the sellers reflects their longing for the fruit notwithstanding the cost factor. Irrespective of the size, the sellers charge Rs. 70 for a package of 10 fruits. “More often, the buyers transact with a grudge. But I have not come across any customer so far who has stopped from buying due to the cost. Most of my customers are repeat buyers,” says Mahendran, a nungu seller at Kattur. The palmyra fruits, the sellers say, are being supplied by wholesalers based in Tuticorin for a premium. “We have no say over the cost, and the price becomes higher when it reaches the seller as we need to make a margin. Why else would we be braving the sun for the hottest duration of the daytime,” Chandraseker, another seasonal seller at Thuvakudi said. These seasonal traders also sell ‘pathaneer’ , the delicious, highly nutritious and unfermented fresh beverage from palmyra palm tree. “We source pathaneer from sellers in Nagapattinam,” Chandrasekar said, adding that a cup containing about 200 ml is sold for Rs. 30. The beverage is also kept in one litre bottles for customers desiring to take it home, he said. “ Nungus and pathaneer used to sustain our livelihood for four months in a year from April to July. This year, we have lost two months of livelihood due to the lockdown. Nevertheless, we derive solace from the increased volume of sales now,” Mahendran said, predicting that the higher demand could be due to children remaining at home. According to the sellers, there are a good number of doctors among their customers. Probably, it is so because they know better about the health benefits of nungu, Mahendran observed. “We also draw our energy to stand for several hours by consuming pathaneer and nungu at periodic intervals. On some days, it would take a few hours more, but the entire stock gets sold,” he said.
19 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul man dies at Tiruchi GH||A 63-year-old man who hailed from Dindigul district died of complications due to COVID-19 early on Thursday morning. The man was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) on June 15 when he experienced difficulty in breathing, sources at the hospital said. The man had been suffering from co-morbid conditions including diabetes and hypertension, R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH said. He had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) and was immediately admitted to the COVID-19 ward. A test was carried out and the result returned positive. On Wednesday, he was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit where a team of doctors fought to resuscitate him but he died at around 2 a.m. early Thursday morning. Collector S. Sivarasu said that the man hails from a town between Tiruchi and Dindigul in Natham block. He had been brought to MGMGH as it was the closest COVID-19 hospital. The patient’s family was informed. “We also informed the Collector and the health officials in Dindigul district,” he said. The family members and office bearers of the Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam received the man’s body on Thursday and buried him at a burial ground in Palakkarai. “The man’s son and son-in-law were able to witness the burial,” Abdul Raheem, a member of TMMK said.
19 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Desilted Radhapuram channel to receive dam waters soon||Farming operations in Radhapuram taluk is expected to move to top gear during the ‘kar’ paddy season as water is likely to be released in the completely desilted Radhapuram channel before this month-end. After the then Chief Minister K. Kamaraj saw the Tamirabharani waters going waste at Kuzhithurai, he raised the level of Pechipparai dam from 42 feet to 48 feet so that the surplus water going waste into the sea beyond Thengaipattinam could be diverted to the dry regions of Radhapuram taluk in Tirunelveli district through a 28.80 km-long Radhapuram channel from Nilappaarai in Kanniyakumari district to meet drinking water and irrigation needs of 25 village panchayats. Whenever the reservoirs in Kanniyakumari district – Pechipparai, Perunchaani and Chittar I and II - had a cumulative storage of 1,300 million cubic feet and level in the Petchipaarai dam reached 48 feet, water would be released into the Radhapuram channel. The channel, with a capacity of 150 cubic feet, carried water from Pechiparai dam to irrigate paddy cultivated on 1,012.25 acre wetland and rain-fed crops on16,000 acres through 52 irrigation tanks in the taluk. So, the 7,000 to 10,000 million cubic feet water going waste into the sea every year is being used judiciously by ensuring active farming operation. Silt in channel Since the Radhapuram channel was completely clogged by silt and thorny bushes, Tirunelveli MP S. Gnanathiraviam submitted a petition to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish on May 30 and she released Rs. 13 lakh for desilting the entire channel. The PWD started the work on June 2 and it is almost complete and the new-look channel is ready to receive water from Pechiparai dam. Mr. Gnanathiraviam said 150 cusecs of water should be released into the channel. “Desilting and other repair works carried out in the channel have strengthened it. If 150 cusecs of water is released for 20 days, it will fill all 52 irrigation tanks, having a cumulative capacity of 218 mcft. Hence, the Kanniyakumari district administration should ensure the release of surplus water into the channel,” Mr. Gnanathiraviam said. If the water is released, cultivation of paddy and other rain-fed crops and floriculture would move to top gear during this ‘kar’ paddy season. Farmer Esakkiappan of Pazhavoor near the Tirunelveli – Kanniyakumari district border said the Pazhavoor Periyakulam, which is just 10 metres away from Radhapuram channel, did not have feeder canal. “If it is also included in this irrigation system, floriculturists of this area will be much happier,” Mr. Esakkiappan says.
19 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Online training for lawyers||For the first time in Tamil Nadu, the District Legal Services Authority of Tirunelveli organised online training for legal aid panel lawyers in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The DLSA, under directions from National Legal Services Authority, New Delhi, and Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority, Chennai, is regularly conducting legal awareness camps and training programmes for various stakeholders. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, it was decided to conduct an online training programme for Legal Aid Panel lawyers. The online training programme was conducted on the topic ‘Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.’ Principal District Judge and DLSA Chairman A. Nazir Ahamed inaugurated it. Assistant Professor of Tirunelveli Government Law College Ramapiran Ranjith Singh delivered a special address.
19 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Three with fake e-pass held||Three persons were arrested for preparing fake e-pass for their travel from Chennai to Tirunelveli and their car was seized. A police team was conducting vehicle check at Kaikaatti Junction at Thirukkurunkudi on Thursday, the team intercepted a car, which was coming from Chennai with two persons who were identified as Simeon, 34, and Sivaraman, 45, and car driver Lakshmanan, 31, all from nearby Chengalaakurichi. As their e-pass was found to be fake, the police arrested the trio and seized the car. Police say that panic-stricken people were leaving Chennai to escape from COVID-19 infection. “As the officials have apparently chosen to turn blind eye on those fleeing Chennai and the surrounding districts, the southern districts are feeling the heat. Consequently, the number of fresh cases are on the rise,” said a police officer posted at Gangaikondan check-post. He said the fleeing population that did not have the mandatory e-pass was cleverly avoiding the check-posts by taking alternative routes to reach their native places. “However, the local surveillance teams deployed by the Collector in the villages or locals track them and inform us to take samples from them,” said a health official.
19 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi records 2 more deaths||Even as Thoothukudi district added 27 more COVID–19 positive cases, including 26 indigenous cases, to its tally on Thursday, two men undergoing treatment at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital died. One of the victims was a 70-year-old homeless man from Ervadi in Tirunelveli district and the other was a 37-year-old labourer from Muthiahpuram. Now, Tirunelveli district’s death toll stands at five. A Philippines national on board a coal ship from Indonesia had symptoms of viral infection as the ship was berthed at the V.O. Chidambaranar Port on Wednesday. After he tested positive, the was admitted to the hospital on Thursday. A pregnant woman who returned from Chennai and was admitted to hospital a couple of weeks ago after she tested positive, delivered a baby through caesarean section and was discharged on Thursday. Tirunelveli reported 30 fresh cases. Its tally is 552 and the number of active cases 154. The new cases included three workers involved in the construction of a building on the Collectorate premises. Tenkasi Tenkasi recorded 34 new cases, including 33 indigenous cases. Its tally went up to 196 and the number of active cases to 98. Kanniyakumari recorded 19 new cases – 10 of them indigenous – that took its tally to 149 and the number of active cases to 67. Ramanathapuram Twenty-eight fresh cases were reported in Ramanathapuram. Its tally rose to 222. All new cases had returned from Mumbai, Andhra Pradesh, Chennai and Coimbatore. Theni reported six cases on Thursday. Three among them had travel history. The fourth patient had been living in Chennai and had come here recently. The other cases reported from Cumbum and Thenkarai had no travel history. Sivaganga recorded seven new cases from Sivaganga, Tirupattur and Nattarasankottai. A GH lab technician too tested positive. Dindigul recorded one fresh case – a pregnant woman from Palani. Virudhunagar Thirteen new cases – four of them were cross-notified from other districts – were reported in Virudhunagar. Seven of the new cases had returned from Chennai. With this, the district’s tally rose to 181 and number of active cases to 46. Madurai Nine persons tested positive in Madurai, bringing the tally to 495. A Health Department official said the fresh cases included two doctors from Madurai, who were working at Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. The fresh cases were reported from Karimedu, BB Kulam, Villapuram, Kamarajar Salai, Theppakulam and Vandiyur. One case had been cross-notified to Tiruchi. The district has 159 active cases.
19 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 spread within Tiruppur district: Minister||The recent COVID-19 positive cases in Tiruppur district are those who came from other districts and there is no spread within the district, said Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan here on Thursday. He chaired a review meeting presided over by District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on the COVID-19 precautionary measures undertaken in the district. After the meeting, the Minister said all those, who were coming to Tiruppur district by road, were screened at the 42 check-posts on the district borders. “Many from Chennai and its neighbouring districts wish to return to their hometowns and we are allowing them only after screening,” he said. A total of 1,850 beds in government hospitals were ready for COVID-19 patients in the district, Mr. Radhakrishnan said. Mr. Radhakrishnan also launched a mobile application developed by college students to track those under house quarantine. Titled ‘Tiruppur Health Heroes’, the application was developed by N. Gokul and S. Aswath, final-year computer science engineering students of Sri Ramakrishna Engineering College, Coimbatore, in three weeks. Using geo location, the application would track the individuals placed under quarantine and alert the officials if they violated the quarantine norms, Mr. Gokul said. This was developed upon the request made to the college by the Tiruppur district administration in May for aiding in quarantine management, he told The Hindu . “The data will be disclosed with only a set of individuals and not with anyone else,” Mr. Gokul said when asked about any potential privacy issues in the application. The app would also allow those quarantined to place orders for groceries and access helpline numbers, he noted.
19 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur GH sees 676 deliveries in May||Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital saw 676 deliveries in May, which is the highest number the hospital has seen in recent years. According to the Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, the hospital sees around 450 to 500 deliveries in a month. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, as doctors in primary health centres and private hospitals were not available to attend to childbirths, the government hospital saw 555 deliveries in April and 676 in May .  Out of the 676 patients, 544 were high-risk cases. Lower segment Caesearan section surgery was performed for a patient with heart ailments and another patient with eclampsia (seizures due to high blood pressure). “We managed all such life-threatening cases and saved their lives,” Dr. Valli told The Hindu. In May, 135 babies were admitted into the neonatal intensive care unit. The hospital has four full-time obstetricians and four more were employed on deputation from government hospitals in taluks. A total of nine anaesthesiologists are available, according to the Dean. “Infrastructure-wise, we are still only a district headquarters hospital,” Dr. Valli noted. The hospital is being upgraded into a medical college at a cost of Rs. 336.96 crore and construction works are under way. “Despite the COVID-19 situation, many came forward to donate blood in May,” said Priya Visuvasam, Chief Civil Surgeon and In-charge of the Department of Paediatrics. About 632 units of blood were transfused for patients in May, she said.
19 June 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||300-bed quarantine facility in Thorapadi||With the surge in COVID-19 cases from Vellore and its neighbourhood towns, one more quarantine facility is coming up at the Thanthai Periyar Government Institute of Technology at Thorapadi, Vellore. The adjacent Thanthai Periyar EV Ramasamy Government Polytechnic College has been taken over to set up a 300-bedded quarantine facility. The capacity could be further increased, officials of the Health Department said. Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram said that all facilities will be in place at the quarantine facility.
19 June 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 survivor volunteers to donate plasma||The CMC Blood Centre had an unusual visitor on Thursday. Emmanvel Ganana Zion, who recovered from COVID-19, volunteered for screening and was found fit to donate convalescent plasma. He expressed his gratitude to the medical team that cared for him during his stay at CMCH.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani members burn Chinese flags, destroy smartphones||Members of Hindu Munnani burnt Chinese flags and destroyed Chinese brand smartphones during a protest on Thursday here condemning the killing of 20 soldiers by Chinese troops in Galwan Valley of Ladakh. The protest was led by State president of Hindu Munnani Kadeswara C. Subramaniam. Nearly 50 members gathered outside the Tiruppur Corporation office. The protesters first paid homage to a photo of soldier K. Palani, who was among the 20 soldiers killed in the face-off on Monday. Following this, the protesters began tearing photos of Chinese President Xi Jinping and throwing smartphones on the road. Defying attempts by the police personnel to stop the protesters, a group set fire to Chinese flags at the protest site. Mr. Subramaniam alleged that the opposition parties have not adequately condemned China following the face- off. He said that the Central government must ban the import of Chinese goods and that the public must boycott Chinese products henceforth. Tiruppur South police said that a case was registered against the protesters under Sections 285 (Negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code.  Coimbatore  Hindu Munnani members staged a similar demonstration and burnt Chinese flags and destroyed Chinese smartphones in Coimbatore. Over a hundred members participated in the demonstration, which lasted for about 30 minutes, a spokesperson said.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Hosur man who died of heart attack was COVID-19 positive||A 40-year-old man who had died of myocardial infraction in Hosur was COVID-19 positive, a post-mortem has revealed. A cook in a private company, he had collapsed and died while on job. The body was sent for autospy, which said the death was caused by myocardial infraction. Deputy Director of Health Services V. Govindan told The Hindu the deceased was suffering form morbid obesity, which causes myocardial infraction. The employer of the deceased wanted a COVID-19 test to be carried out, and it returned positive, Dr. Govindan said. In Krishnagiri, the Sub Registrar office was sealed after the Superintendent tested positive. On information that the Superintendent had visited the Sub Registrar’s offices in Shoolagiri and Kaveripattinam, these offices were also closed and disinfected. Salem district reported 16 positive cases on Thursday, and the patients are undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. Twelve of them had travelled to Salem from Chennai, including five air passengers, and remaining had come from Thiruvanamalai, Rajasthan, Goa and Dharmapuri. According to officials, a jail warden who came to Salem on Wednesday from Thiruchendhur to join duty, tested positive for the disease on Thursday. Officials said the warden returned to his native, Thoothukudi, on Wednesday night due to a personal emergency and was reportedly undergoing treatment there. Three persons --two women and a man -- tested positive in Erode district on Thursday and were admitted to the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Health officials said a 45-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman who works at an eatery, both residents of Valayakarar Street in the Corporation limits, tested positive. A 29-year-old woman who came by a flight to Salem and went home to Lakshmi Nagar at Bhavani also tested positive. On Thursday, Erode Corporation officials turned Valayakarar Street into a containment zone and closed the eatery at which the 50-year-old woman worked. The eatery too was on this street. On June 14, a 20-year-old woman, wife of a taxi driver on this street, tested positive. Swab samples of 30 residents of that area were taken immediately, but all these tested negative. Some more swab samples were lifted from others on Wednesday, and the woman worker and the man, a daily wager, tested positive. The apartment where the 20-year-old woman lives has also been brought under quarantine. The total number of positive cases so far in Erode district is 76.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Restore partial open court hearing, says bar association||Pointing out that advocates residing in rural areas were finding it difficult to take part in video conferencing due to connectivity issues, Madurai Bar Association of Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has sought restoration of partial open court hearing. In a letter addressed to Madras High Court Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Administrative Judge of High Court Bench Justice P.N. Prakash, the members said administration of justice could not be dispensed with and the functioning of constitutional courts could not be kept in abeyance. The present situation of closing the courts placed litigants and advocates in a fix. The advocates suggested that a safe distance could be maintained between judges and advocates during the hearings. Alternatively, the judges could hear the cases from their chambers while the advocates presented the case from the court halls and once the hearing was over, the advocates would leave the halls, to ensure there was no crowding, they said.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers encouraged to cultivate millets||The Virudhunagar district administration has allotted Rs. 68.49 lakh for promoting among farmers cultivation of minor millets like sorghum (cholam), pearl millet (kambu) and barnyard millet (kuthiraivaali). In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said certified seeds for the crops would be given with a subsidy of Rs. 30 a kg. Consumption of millets would increase nutrition-value and also improve immunity. Millets could be cultivated in all types of lands as they were drought-resistant. They require lesser water. Cultivation of millets would also fetch fodder for the cattle. Virudhunagar district was raising 41,100 hectares of millets – sorgum:14,000 ha, pearl millet: 1,300 ha, sorghum: 24,000 ha, and barnyard millet: 1,800 ha. Bio-fertilizers, micro-nutrients, weed killers and crop protection chemicals were available at 50% price. A subsidy of Rs. 750 for spraying machines would be given to small and marginal farmers and Adi Dravida and women farmers. It would be Rs. 600 for others.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two hacked||Two brothers were hacked by an unidentified gang at Desiyagapuram on Thursday. Brothers R. Sathivel, 40, and R. Dharmaraj, who are tailors, were going for work on a motorbike. The gang waylaid and hacked them around 8.15 a.m. and sped away. Dhalavaipuram police rushed them to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The police said Sakthivel was an accused in the murder of his relative Thangavel in January. So the police suspect it to be a revenge attack.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore||Hindusthan Institute of Technology: Webinar on ‘Career Scope in Aeronautics’, 11 a.m.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 18   Persons tested +ve so far: 211 Domestic cases: 200 Imported cases: 11 Persons recovered: 161 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 48    House quarantined: 1,403 Positive: 120 (Four fresh cases on Thursday) Discharged: 115 Active cases: 5
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Task force revises proposed cost for COVID-19 treatment in pvt. hospitals||The State’s COVID-19 task force, which met here on Thursday, slightly modified and approved the cost of treatment in private hospitals recommended by an eight-member committee set up by the government on June 4. The revised rates have been referred to the State Cabinet for ratification. The eight-member committee, set up to do a costing study, had on June 5 discussed the proposal submitted by the Federation of Healthcare Associations of Karnataka (FHA-K) and recommended that the proposed rates were “reasonable” and hence could be adopted. However, the ceiling of the rates proposed for non Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) patients (cash and private insurance patients) should be slashed by 20%, the committee had said. Sources said the task force revised the rates based on this recommendation so as to make it more “feasible” for the government, private hospitals, and patients. “The task force was of the opinion that there should be no room for private hospitals to fleece persons not covered by any insurance and those paying in cash. Hence, the rates for such patients have also been revised and fixed,” a source said. Health Minister B. Sriramulu said that the committee’s recommendation was discussed at the task force meeting on Thursday. “It [revised rates] will be placed at the next Cabinet meeting and a final decision will be taken. The rates will be notified after that,” the Minister said.  The committee, headed by N.T. Abroo, executive director of Suvarna Arogya SurakshaTrust, which implements the State’s health insurance schemes, had made its recommendation after studying the costing models adopted by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, and Punjab. The committee had recommended that the proposal of the FHA-K for AB-ArK patients was “acceptable” as it included PPE and other consumables, apart from bed charges and routine investigations. The FHA-K had proposed a daily rate of Rs. 5,200 for Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) patients and Rs. 15,000 for other insurance and cash patients for the general ward. For treatment in a ward with oxygen, a rate of Rs. 7,000 was fixed for AB-ArK and Rs. 20,000 for other insurance and cash patients. For isolation ICU, the FHA-K proposed Rs. 8,500 for AB-ArK patients and Rs. 25,000 for other insurance and cash patients. For treatment in isolation ICU with ventilator, the proposed rate was Rs. 10,000 for AB-ArK patients and Rs. 35,000 for other insurance and cash patients. The task force has now made a few changes to these daily rates ( see box) .
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC: Don’t take steps based on wildlife board recommendation||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed that no further steps should be taken based on the recommendation, made by the State Board for Wild Life (SBWL) headed by the Chief Minister, on proposal for diversion of 595.64 hectares of forest for the new Hubballi-Ankola broad gauge railway line project. The court said the decision-making process in the 14th meeting of SBWL held on March 11 calls for closer scrutiny as the decision was taken by allowing non-member Ministers to participate in the meeting, which was held merely 11 days after the 13th meeting, held on March 9, 2020, in which it was unanimously decided to reject the proposal. A Division Bench cassed the interim order on a petition filed by the Project Vruksha Foundation, Bengaluru. The Bench noted that Chief Minister B.S. Yeddyurappa, as the chairperson of the Board, had agreed with the unanimous decision but convened the another meeting within 11 days and invited his Cabinet colleagues — Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Large and Medium Industries, and Shivaram Hebbar, Minister for Labour and Sugar — as special invitees to the meeting. One of the Ministers, Mr. Shetter, addressed the meeting though he was not a member, and the State Chief Secretary, T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, who was also a special invitee, had requested the Board to recommend the project for the National Board for Wildlife, the Bench noted. Former Minister and Haliyal MLA R.V. Deshpande was another special invitee.  It was contended in the petition that participation of non-members of the Board vitiated the decision making process as it violated the provisions of the Karnataka State Board for Wild Life Rules, 2006. Also, it was pointed out in the petition that the chairperson of the Board has no power under the Wildlife (Protection) Act to overrule the unanimous decision taken in the previous meeting of the Board. The petitioner contended that the unanimous decision taken in the 13th meeting of the Board was lawful and was in the interest of protecting the Western Ghats and wildlife.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ACB searches co-op bank||Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday searched the offices of Sri Guru Raghavendra Co-operative Bank and its office-bearers in connection with an alleged fraud. The corporate head office and a branch office, both at Basavanagudi, the office of Guru Sarvabhouma Co-operative Society, residences of bank chairman Dr. K. Ramakrishna, and former CEO Vasudeva Maiya were searched. ACB sources said that while they have recovered incriminating documents, the searches are yet to conclude. Problem of NPAs The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had stopped all new banking activity and even imposed withdrawal limits for depositors in January this year owing to large Non-Performing Assets (NPAs). A probe by the RBI and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies had indicated irregularities up to Rs. 1,400 crore in the bank, including diversion of deposits by the bankers, loans to the tune of Rs. 150 crore being granted to 60 fictitious customers. The bank had consistently claimed the NPAs of around 1% in all its brochures and on its website. However, the actual NPAs were in the range of 25% to 30%, according to the RBI and the Registrar of Co-operative Societies. Hearing a PIL by the depositors, the Karnataka High Court had recently pulled up the State police for a delay in probing the case.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Pandemic not just a public health emergency’||The COVID-19 pandemic is not just a public health emergency, but has also aggravated societal challenges such as unemployment and hunger, and highlighted the huge inequalities in the country that have impacted the ability to handle the crisis, according to a new white paper. The paper, ‘India Journey Beyond COVID 19’, was brought out this month by Echo Network, a social innovation partnership between multi-disciplinary organisations steered by the Principal Scientific Adviser to the Government of India. The network includes representatives from the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment, the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, and World Resources Institute India, among others. The network has its headquarters at C-Camp, University of Agricultural Sciences GKVK campus, Bengaluru. Need for change Listing out the challenges before India now, the paper says given the country’s “susceptibility to infectious diseases” and the link between environmental health, preventive health, and disease burden, what is needed is a “one health approach” to simultaneously address the health of humans and wildlife. This will also call for multi-sectoral intervention from decision-makers, implementers and academia, it says. The paper also calls for widespread access to hygiene and sanitation, decentralised and accessible healthcare, and immediate social protection for the urban poor. Among the recommendations made are activating the Interstate Migrant Workmen’s Act with State registration and contractor responsibility, conducting a skill- and livelihood-mapping exercise, and promoting nature-neutral and climate-responsive agriculture.  Shannon B. Olsson, director of Echo Network and associate professor, NCBS, said the idea behind the network, which was initiated in December 2019, was to try and better embed science in society. “As you can see from the pandemic, science lies at the heart of it. But different stakeholders like industry, governments and scientists often work in isolation to solve problems, rather than together. Through the network, we want to create a platform for these stakeholders to tackle current issues through collective exchange of ideas,” she said. The paper’s recommendations are a starting point for establishing science-based projects to tackle the challenges raised, and there will be a need for further discussions with lawyers, farmers, doctors and other stakeholders, she said. The four main takeaways from the paper, put together by economists, lawyers, journalists, public healthcare professionals and others, she explained, are a need for preventive and responsive public health systems, promoting communities with dignity and equity, establishing sustainable livelihoods, and securing human and environmental ecosystems, which are at the heart of everything.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FIR in Rs. 702 cr. borewell scam||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) has registered an FIR against a host of civic officials in connection with an alleged corruption scandal in digging borewells and putting up water purifier plants during 2016-19. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had ordered an ACB probe into the alleged scandal following a petition last year by former BJP councillor N.R. Ramesh demanding a CID inquiry. Took place in 2016-19 Between 2016-19, a total of Rs. 702 crore has been billed to dig borewells and put up RO plants in 66 wards in R.R. Nagar, Yelahanka, Dasarahalli, Bommanahalli and Mahadevapura zones. Mr. Ramesh had alleged inflated and bogus billing. The ACB, which conducted a preliminary probe, has now registered an FIR against officials who served as joint commissioners, chief engineers and executive engineers in these zones during 2016-19.
19 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP high command refuses to give ticket to Vishwanath||The Bharatiya Janata Party high command has intervened in the selection of candidates by its State unit yet again. The party central leadership has rejected the recommendation by the State core committee to give ticket to former Minister A.H. Vishwanath to contest the elections to the Legislative Council from the Assembly constituency. Instead, it has chosen to field party’s former Dakshina Kannada district president and senior worker Pratap Simha Nayak as candidate for the MLC polls. At the same time, the central leadership has accepted the State core committee’s recommendation to give ticket to two former Ministers N. Nagaraju and R. Shankar, who had joined the party along with Mr. Vishwanath; and former BJP MLA Sunil Vallyapure who had given up his seat. This is being seen in the party circles as a message yet again to the State core committee, particularly Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, to adhere to “party discipline and norms.” Though Mr. Vishwanath had made a “sacrifice” by quitting the Assembly membership won on the Janata Dal (Secular) ticket to join the BJP, the party leadership is said to have advised him against contesting the bypolls as it was not confident of his victory. But he contested against the advise of the party and lost the bypolls, sources said. The high command is not in agreement with the Chief Minister’s camp which is trying to equate Mr. Vishwanath’s case with that of Mr. Nagaraj and Mr. Shankar, a senior leader said. While it was clear that Mr. Nagaraj lost the bypolls due to the contest of party MP B.N. Bachhe Gowda’s son Sharat as a rebel, Mr. Shankar fell in line by going by the party’s suggestion against contesting, he explained. Not giving ticket to Mr. Vishwanath to contest the MLC polls would mean that he cannot be accommodated in the ministry as the Supreme Court has made it clear that those who migrated from other parties should contest and win election to get ministerial post, sources noted. In this context, the issue may turn out to be tricky for Mr. Yediyurappa as he has to placate the veteran leader and his supporters, a leader close to Chief Minister said.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||12 fatalities in State||The State recorded 12 COVID-19 deaths on Thursday — the highest on a single day so far. With this, the toll touched 114, apart from four non-COVID deaths. The earlier daily highest was eight (on Wednesday). While eight of the deaths were from Bengaluru Urban, one each was reported from Koppal, Bidar, Vijayapura, and Kalaburagi. Except for one death — that of a 31-year-old ILI patient at a designated hospital in Bengaluru, who died on Thursday — all the remaining deaths occurred from June 6 onwards but were not recorded by the surveillance unit on time. The 12 deaths included five women — two ILI and three SARI patients. As many as 51 of the total deaths in the State are from Benagluru Urban; there was also one non-COVID death in the district. Eighteen deaths were reported in Bengaluru in the past three days alone. With Thursday’s deaths, the State’s average Case Fatality Rate (CFR) increased from 1.2% on June 14 to 1.43%. Bengaluru’s CFR has almost doubled since June 14 — up from 3.95% to 6.04%. Meanwhile, 210 new cases were reported on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 7,944. This includes 4,983 discharged cases and the deaths. While 21 of the 210 new cases were returnees from the UAE, 58 were inter-State passengers. One more patient was shifted to the ICU, taking the total number of ICU admissions to 73. Among the new cases, 48 each were reported from Ballari and Kalaburagi. Although Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike authorities confirmed that a 54-year-old sub-editor of a Kannada daily died after suffering a cardiac arrest at a hospital on Thursday, soon after his test reports came back positive, the death did not figure in the bulletin.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govindaraju is JD(S) candidate for Legislative Council polls||The Janata Dal (Secular) nominated Govindaraju as the party candidate for election to the Legislative Council scheduled to be held on June 29. Sitting member T.A. Saravana and Rajya Sabha member Kupendra Reddy, who is set to retire on June 25, were strong contenders for the seat. At least three dozen former legislators were also eyeing the seat. However, Mr. Govindaraju’s name had been doing the rounds over the last couple of days after the meeting of legislators with party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda. On Thursday, accompanied by former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, party State president H.K. Kumaraswamy, former Chairman of the Legislative Council Basavaraj Horatti, former Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Krishna Reddy, and Kolar legislator Srinivas Gowda, Mr. Govindaraju filed his nomination papers at the Vidhana Soudha. Mr. Govindaraju has business interest in Kolar and is also a poultry farmer. The JD(S) with 34 legislators in the Assembly can elect one member as the required number of votes per candidate is 29. Party sources said that Mr. Govindaraju’s name had been suggested by the top leadership with an eye on the next Assembly elections, and the leadership feels that his candidature will help the party grow in Kolar and Chickballapur, which have a sizeable Vokkaliga population. Mr. Govindaraju, party sources said, is respected and has a good clout in the community and the party expects to gain ground in these two districts.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||This examination was a litmus test: Minister||Taking a cue from problems faced at examination centres, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that the government will address them while conducting the class X SSLC examinations later this month. “We came across a few practical problems like crowding in front of notice boards. Hence, we will send information of seating arrangements and classrooms to the registered number of SSLC students,” he said, adding that more notice boards on the same would be placed at multiple spots.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC disposes plea on fixing PG medical fees||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday disposed of a PIL petition as the State government appointed retired HC judge Subhash B. Adi as chairperson of the fee regulatory committee to fix fee structures for professional courses. A Division Bench passed the order on the petition filed by Vinod G. Kulkarni of Late G.B. Kulkarni Memorial Trust, Hubballi. On the court’s query about thje proposal to increase fees for PG medical courses, the government said consensual agreements had been signed with the associations of private medical colleges as per Section 4A of the Karnataka Professional Education Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Determination of Fee) Act. Following this, the Bench disposed of the petition while giving liberty to the petitioner to challenge the legality of the consensual agreement in a separate proceeding as the present petition had limited plea.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress plans ‘jail bharo’||The Congress has decided to embark on ‘jail bharo’ movement against hike in fuel prices by the Centre, and the State BJP government’s decisions to introduce amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and Agricultural Produce and Marketing Committees. The party will announce dates for holding protests soon. A Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting chaired by former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Thursday decided to launch protests in all district headquarters and Bengaluru against “anti-farmer” policies of the State government. The CLP attended by KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar and other legislators have discussed the adverse implications of amendments to the Land Reforms Act, 1961, which would enable non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural lands without any income limits.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Call centre||A call centre has been set up to help with the process of removing unnecessary data from the Quarantine Watch app. Call centre personnel are now getting in touch with people who have given their contact numbers and following up with them on whether they have complied with quarantine regulations. “We also want to have a common 8-digit number with multiple lines for the call centre. We have already raised this issue with BSNL,” an official said.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Transferred||Six IAS officers and one IFS officer have been transferred. N. Nagambika Devi, who was Additional CS, Cooperation Department, has been posted as ACS, Department of Women and Child Development and Empowerment of Differently Abled and Senior Citizens. Tushar Giri Nath, who was chairman, BWSSB, replaces her. Another IAS officer N. Jayaram replaces Tushar Giri Nath. Harsh Gupta has been posted as Commissioner, Survey, Settlement and Land Records. H. Basavarajendra, who was CEO and Executive Member of KIADB, has been posted as Commissioner, Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences. N. Shivashankara will replace him. IFS officer S.R. Natesha has been posted as Director, Project Elephant.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||FKCCI unhappy with hike in fuel prices||The Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) has expressed unhappiness over the hike in petrol and diesel prices by the Union government though there has been a steep fall in oil prices globally. The COVID-19 pandemic has had disastrous consequences for citizens and wealth creators, the trade body said, adding that industry and trade establishments have already suffered severe losses and many MSMEs were not in a position to operate any more. The federation said that all such establishments were of the view that the trial run attempts to restart operations had become a futile exercise due to various reasons, including want of orders for products/services, non-availability of raw materials, and finances. In addition to this, the fuel price hike will be another burden, said C.R. Janardhana, president, FKCCI. FKCCI said in the statement that the hike in fuel prices would have a cascading effect on industries, which in turn will increase product costs and have an adverse impact on airfare.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||English examination proves to be a testing time for authorities||Over 5.72 lakh second pre-university (PU) students – all wearing masks, and some even gloves – gathered at 1,016 centres across the State on Thursday morning to write the last paper (English) as their parents waited anxiously outside. However, despite the government issuing strict rules on social distancing, there were cases of students and parents flouting them, especially once the examination was over. At many centres that The Hindu visited, students were seen standing in groups outside the centres catching up with friends and discussing the paper. “We are relieved as we have finally finished the exams. It was a long wait of almost three months. I had not met my friends for a long time and, hence, I am quite excited,” said a student at a centre in K.R. Puram in Bengaluru. There was crowding at noticeboards listing the seating arrangements, a problem that the government aims to rectify in the future. In Mysuru, some parents took objection to the lack of arrangements to ensure that students could maintain social distancing while entering Government Maharani’s PU College. This was resolved after the college authorities intervened and ensured students’ safety. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that most of the centres had adhered to the SOPs issued by the department. “However, it has come to our notice that there were some problems in around 25 centres across the State. The department will service notices to the officials concerned and take necessary action,” he said. The examination was scheduled to be held on March 23, but was postponed on account of the pandemic. Across Karnataka, around 20 students reported to their centres with cold, cough and/or fever, and were assigned separate rooms to write the paper. Around 220 students from containment zones were assigned separate rooms. Around 23,630 students did not appear for the examination on Thursday. However, officials said COVID-19 was not the reason. In 2019, over 36,000 students did not appear for the English paper despite registering. Many students complained that the masks were a distraction. “As we are not used to wearing a mask for three hours continuously, it was irritating,” said one student.
19 June 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Result in 1st week of July||If all goes as planned, results will be declared in the first week of July. According to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, of the 39 subjects, evaluation of papers of 26 subjects had been completed.
19 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||II PU examination passes off smoothly||The examination for the second year PUC English paper passed off smoothly in Dharwad district. According to Deputy Director of PU Education, out of the total 20,198 candidates, 19,281 appeared for the examination in 38 centres in the district and 917 remained absent. Though the COVID-19 situation had posed tough challenges, the authorities had made elaborate arrangements for the safe conduct of the examination. The candidates were seen lining up outside the examination centres at 8.30 a.m. wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. They were allowed to enter the premises after thermal screening and sanitisation with the police assisting the examination centre heads. Face masks were made compulsory and students had a tough time sitting three hours in the examination halls wearing them. No case of malpractice was reported in the district during the examination. In Belagavi, around 5 % of students remained absent for Thursday’s paper. Of the 48,171 students who were to take the examination, only 45,740 students appeared. They included 737 from outside the district. Some of them were from Maharashtra. The English examination was held in 79 centres across Belagavi district. There were no reports of malpractices. Officials said that the number of absentees was slightly more than usual, due to the prevailing COVID-19 situation. In Kalaburagi, a total of 21,308 appeared for the examination. Deputy Director for Pre-University Education Shivasharanappa Mulegaon said that of the 23,058 students that were to write the exam, 1,750 remained absent. As many as 446 students who appeared were from other districts and five from outside the State also wrote the exam. There were 47 centres across Kalaburagi district. In Vijayapura, the total number of students registered was 23,562 and 22,086 appeared. As many as 1,476 remained absent. The officials said that most of the students who remained absent were repeaters who will be given a chance to write exam again in July. As the government had directed the department to arrange for isolated rooms for students coming from containment areas, five students from containment areas were allotted an isolated room. This was done to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The exam was held in 41 centres in Vijayapura district. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 were imposed in an radius of 200 m from the exam centres. All photocopy shops and internet centres coming under the limits were directed to remain shut till the end of exam. In Raichur and Yadgir districts, the examination went off in a smooth manner. As many 17,881 students appeared for the examination. A total 19,228 students had registered and of them, 1,347 remained absent. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar, ZP CEO Lakshmikanth Reddy and Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy visited the examination centres and checked the precautionary measures taken and security arrangements made. In Yadgir, a total of 5,890 students had registered and of them, 5,322 students appeared for the examination. As many as 568 remained absent. Of the 548 students who were from outside the district and unable to write the exam at their home centres, 540 appeared for the exam and eight remained absent. Two students from outside the State appeared for the exam. ( With inputs from Belagavi, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Vijayapura )
19 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Yettinahole phase 1 will be done by April 2021’||The first phase of the Yettinahole project will be completed by April 2021, said Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah on Friday. Mr. Gopalaiah, who is also Minister in-charge of Hassan district, visited the project site at Sakleshpur along with senior officers of the district. Speaking to presspersons, Mr. Gopalaiah said the project work suffered because of the lockdown. “Again, the speed of work has been hampered by the rains now. However, officials have been told to complete the first phase by April next year,” he said. Sakleshpur receives heavy rain for about three months in a year. There will be sufficient water in the area to ensure the project succeeds, he said. “The dry areas of Bengaluru Rural, Kolar, Chickballapur and other districts will benefit from the project,” he said. He also said the farmers who parted with their land for the project would get compensation.
19 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Join hands with the govt. in fighting COVID-19’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district in-charge Jagadish Shettar has urged people to join the fight against COVID-19 pandemic by strictly following the advisory pertaining to mandatory wearing of masks, use of soap or sanitisers for hand wash and social distancing. He was speaking after inaugurating the Mask Day programme and a padayatra organised jointly by the Dharwad district administration, the Hubballi taluk administration and the Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation at the Kittur Chennamma Circle for sensitising the general public on the use of masks for fighting the pandemic. Mr. Jagadish Shettar appealed to the public not to unnecessarily panic over the pandemic situation but follow the precautionary measures without fail.
19 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Three COVID-19 deaths in Kalyana Karnataka||Koppal district, which had remained in the green zone for a couple of months after the COVID-19 pandemic struck the country, has reported its first fatality with the death of a 50-year-old woman (P-7,105) on Thursday. The patient was admitted to hospital in Koppal for SARI on June 13 and died on June 17. In Kalaburagi district, a 50-year-old man (P-7,907) died of the infection on June 15. The patient was admitted to hospital on June 13 with complaints of fever and respiratory issues. A bulletin also noted that the patient had a history of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. Bidar district reported its ninth COVID-19 fatality with the death of a 55-year-old man (P-7,776). Having no specific source of infection, the patient, a resident of one of the containment zones, was admitted to hospital in Bidar on June 8 with complaints of respiratory problems and died on June 17.
19 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||1,140 students from Kerala write examination in DK||As many as 1,140 second-year pre-university students from Kerala, including 760 from Kasaragod, who are studying in colleges in Dakshina Kannada, appeared for the English examination. The students from Kasaragod and other areas came with their hall tickets to the border checkposts at Talapady and seven other places in the district. After thermal scanning and registration, a nodal officer at these checkposts brought these students in 32 KSRTC buses to examination centres in Mangaluru, Vitla, Sullia and Puttur. After the examination was over, students were dropped back at the checkposts. “Despite all efforts, we could not prevent crowding near Talapady checkpost,” said an official.
19 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||466 absent in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 1,140 second pre-university students from Kerala, including 760 from Kasaragod in Kerala and who are studying in colleges in Dakshina Kannada, appeared for the English examination on Thursday. These students were among the 26,486 students who wrote the examination in 51 centres in the district. As many as 466 students were absent, said a press release. Students from Kasaragod in Kerala and other areas came with their hall tickets to the border check-posts at Talapady and seven other places in the district. After thermal scanning and registration, a nodal officer each at these check-posts brought these students on 32 KSRTC buses to the examination centres in Mangaluru, Vitla, Sullia and Puttur. After the examination was over, these students were dropped back to the check-posts. Services of buses of private colleges and mini vans were also put to use on some routes. “Extensive preparation was done to carry out the task. Despite all efforts, we could not prevent crowding near Talapady check-post in the morning where 22 KSRTC buses and 11 private buses were used,” said an officer involved in the task. As many as 88 KSRTC buses were arranged for students in distant areas to reach their examination centres, he added. There were 47 students from other districts who had chosen Mangaluru as their examination centre. Of these, 11 students were absent on Thursday. A student each from Lakshadweep and Bengaluru wrote the exam in Mangaluru.
19 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Not many availing OPD services at Wenlock||Despite the outpatient department at the Government Wenlock Hospital here being open for the past one week, not many patients are availing its services. “There were only around 100 patients at the OPD on Thursday,” said a doctor at the hospital. This is just one-tenth of the number of patients who used to come to the hospital, he added. When the lockdown was lifted, there was a demand for resumption of non-COVID treatment as the poor were finding it hard to avail the same services at private hospitals. Hence, the district administration restarted OPD services on June 11.
19 June 2020||MANIPAL,KARNATAKA||Arogya Card launched||H.S. Ballal, Pro-Chancellor of MAHE, launched the Manipal Arogya Card here on Wednesday. A card holder can avail himself of 50 % discount on consultation fee meant for specialist and super-specialist doctor, 30 % discount on diagnostics and laboratory investigation and 20 % discount on radiology investigation. For details, call Ph: 9980854700 or 08202923748.
19 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Work on canal crossing bridge of upper Bhadra dam completed||A major canal crossing bridge of the upper Bhadra dam between Shivani and Ajjampura on the Bengaluru-Hubballi railway line section was completed in 26 days against the stipulated time of 90 days, due to the COVID-19 lockdown and suspension of regular train services. The work was completed on Wednesday and entailed construction of precast RCC twin box and insertion by box pushing method at a cost of Rs. 14.72 crore. A release said the project was necessary to supply water to the districts of Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Tumakuru, and Davangere for irrigation. This canal irrigates 2,25,000 hectares of land besides helping replenish 367 tanks in the downstream covering four districts, it added. Though the work was initially launched last year, it was stopped due to the soil condition and the terrain which threatened the safety of the embankments. Narayana Swamy, MP, had appealed to the Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi, to complete the work in the shortest possible time before the onset of monsoon so as to facilitate agriculture. The work was first proposed to be taken up by suspending train services on this line. Following an inspection carried out in the second week of May, it was decided to lay a temporary track and divert the train so as to keep the movement of freight traffic unaffected.
19 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Indoor yoga for Mysureans this year||With a ban on public gatherings in place due to COVID-19, the famed single-venue mega yoga session to mark International Day of Yoga on June 21 this year has been discontinued. Yet, organisers are expecting about one lakh yoga enthusiasts to make it happen by performing ‘asanas’ at the same time staying indoors on Sunday morning. Mysuru has been celebrating yoga day in a big way since 2015 and entered the Guinness Book of World Records in 2017 for the largest show in a single venue. Thereafter, crowds assembled at the Mysore Race Club ground every year and made headlines. However, this year, the Mysuru district administration and the Mysuru Yoga Federation decided to restrict the celebrations to homes, with an appeal to enthusiasts to do yoga on the terrace or balcony. The video of the session can be uploaded on social media. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar said Mysureans do not want to miss the celebration owing to the pandemic. At least one lakh people are expected to perform yoga from their homes to celebrate the occasion, he said. Pratap Simha, Mysuru MP, in a video message, said people could do ‘asanas’ of their choice staying indoors. Those performing yoga on June 21 in their homes will get a certificate acknowledging their participation. Yoga federation convener and yoga exponent Srihari said there are plans to hold a Facebook live with a few professionals performing yoga at a centre for the benefit of those performing at home.
19 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Landslip in Kodagu: 13 families to be shifted to safer places||Thirteen families have been identified for relocation from a hillock in Madikeri town after a minor landslip was reported on Thursday morning. As a precaution, five families had been shifted to safer places following the incident and others living in the locality have been asked to be on alert. Rescue team Panicked residents of Chamundeshwari Nagar near the famous Raja Seat in Madikeri called the district control room after the landslip, seeking help. A rescue team rushed to the spot along with a team of officials led by Assistant Commissioner Jaware Gowda. The locality had witnessed major landslips in the last two years, causing damage to a few houses, and the residents living in the vicinity were shifted to a relief centre. The area was out of bounds for many weeks as a safety measure. The district had witnessed floods and landslips in 2018 and 2019 and the district administration had geared up to tackle rain-related incidents. The NDRF team have been monitoring the situation since the onset of monsoon. Some residents of Chamundeshwari Nagar had been promised houses in the residential colonies being developed for the flood victims as their houses suffered damage in the previous calamities. The residents had been identified for allotment in the second list and the houses are under various stages of completion. Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy has said there is no need for panic since it was a minor incident.  Mr. Gowda told The Hindu that not all the houses in the locality were in danger and 13 families whose houses appeared to be at risk had been identified for relocation to newly-constructed houses. “The allotment issue in the newly-developed colonies will be discussed with the Deputy Commissioner,” he said. Several parts of Kodagu had reported moderate rain since the onset of monsoon and there was heavy downpour recently in a few areas. Kodagu recorded a cumulative rainfall of 245 mm from May 25 to June 18 this year. Last year, in the same period, the district had recorded 186 mm rain, and 819 mm in 2018.  Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy has said there is no need for panic since it was a minor incident.
19 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Veteran leader has few options other than being in saffron party||The BJP central leadership’s refusal to field former Minister A.H. Vishwanath in the forthcoming elections to the Legislative Council appears to have put a question mark over the political future of the veteran politician, who has already burnt bridges with the Congress and the JD(S). His last-ditch effort to become a part of the B.S. Yeddiyurappa-led BJP government, which he helped prop up last year, through a nomination to the Legislative Council after losing the byelections to the Assembly, now lies in tatters. Yet, Mr. Vishwanath’s career choices remain narrowed down to the saffron party particularly in view of his running feud with senior leaders in the JD(S) and Congress in the State. After his decades-long association with the Congress, Mr. Vishwanath quit the party three years ago in June 2017, blaming former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah among others, to join the JD(S) and become its State unit president only to join forces with 17 other coalition MLAs a year ago and bring down the H.D. Kumaraswamy-led government in the State. Mr. Vishwanath himself gave an indication about continuing in the BJP on Thursday when he said he had faith in the leadership of Mr. Yeddiyurappa even though his fellow defectors had “reached the shore while he remained stranded”. He acknowledged the efforts made by Mr. Yeddiyurappa to include his name in the list of candidates recommended by the BJP’s core committee in Karnataka for the elections to the Legislative Council, while accusing the leaders of Congress and JD (S) of nursing “political grudge” against him. Standing by Mr. Vishwanath is the Dalit strongman from his native Mysuru V. Srinivas Prasad, the BJP MP representing Chamarajanagar. Refuting suggestions that it was the “end of the road” for Mr. Vishwanath, Mr. Prasad said the onus was on Mr. Yeddiyurappa to “suitably rehabilitate” the veteran politician, who had played a key role in the installation of the BJP government in the State. “Mr. Vishwanath is a senior politician. It is Mr. Yeddiyurappa’s responsibility to find out from him how best he can be rehabilitated in the interest of the party. I will also remind him [Mr. Yeddiyurappa],” Mr. Prasad said. While Mr. Vishwanath said he would take the setback in his stride as he was “unable to fathom the depth and breadth of the BJP to which he is new,” his camp followers in Mysuru are unable to digest the denial of ticket to their leader when N. Nagaraju, who too had lost in the bypolls to the Assembly last year, enjoyed the backing of the BJP’s central leadership for ticket to the Legislative Council.
19 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Varsity wants bar on distance courses lifted||Kuvempu University has requested the State government to repeal its recent decision barring conventional universities from offering distance education courses. At present, Kuvempu University offers 30 postgraduate programmes in Science, Humanities, and Commerce streams under distance learning mode. More than 30,000 students have enrolled for these courses. B.P. Veerabhadrappa, Vice-Chancellor of the university, said at a press conference here on Thursday that traditional universities have played a commendable role in providing access to higher education for students from deprived sections of society through distance education courses. “Kuvempu University has got approval from the University Grants Commission (UGC) and our statutes on running distance education courses are approved by the office of the Governor.” The university has been getting Rs. 20 crore annually in the form of fee from offering distance education courses. The amount is used to meet the administrative expenses related to the Directorate of Distance Education of the university and the salary for 150 staff serving there on contract basis. “The withdrawal of permission to offer distance education courses will result in loss of revenue for the university and the workers serving here on contract basis will be rendered unemployed,” the Vice-Chancellor said. Mr. Veerabhadrappa said that a delegation, headed by him and comprising senior officers of the university and members of the Syndicate, met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Wednesday and apprised him of the need to allow the university to continue to offer distance education courses. To a query on holding examinations for undergraduate degree and postgraduate students, he said a decision would be taken as per directions from the UGC and the State government.
19 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Gajanur reservoir almost full after downpour||The water level in Gajanur reservoir, constructed across Tunga river, almost reached the brim on Thursday owing to heavy rain in the catchment areas. The inflow into the reservoir on Thursday was 5,549 cusecs. The water level was 587 ft., just under the maximum of 588 ft. Of the 22 gates, four have been lifted and 4,785 cusecs of water is being released. There was downpour in Sagar, Sorab and Hosanagar talukson Thursday.
19 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Mask Day in Udupi||A procession was taken out to mark Mask Day organised by the district administration here on Thursday. The procession was flagged off by Raghupati Bhat, MLA. The procession began from the CMC Office and culminated at the Old Taluk Office Circle.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Citizen Quarantine Squads to be formed to stem COVID-19||Micro management at all levels seems to be one of the strategies adopted by the government in its attempt to stem the spread of COVID-19 in Bengaluru. The special task force formed by the State is looking to rope in citizens to form a ‘Citizen Quarantine Squad’. Their job will be to ensure that those in home quarantine comply with rules. According to a senior IAS official, nearly half of the people who came to Bengaluru from other States did not register on ‘Seva Sindhu’. “This means that they not only entered the city without going through the proper channels, but also that there is no record of their address or contact through which they may be traced,” said the official. In the past, too, there have been cases of people failing to quarantine themselves at home. “A large percentage of those who came in using ‘Seva Sindhu’ have either provided wrong information or incomplete information. This is a serious threat to public health, as we don’t know how many of them have COVID-19,” said the official, This is where the Citizen Quarantine Squad plays an important role. “We want to have one citizen enrolled in the squad for every 50 to 100 houses in a locality. This person will be responsible for monitoring movement (inter-State/inter-country) within his/her limits, ensure those who are placed in 14-day mandatory home quarantine are following it and report to the booth level officer in-charge,” the official explained. Such local level monitoring will prevent a repeat of what happened in Delhi or Chennai. “There are around 9,000 polling booths in the city, each with 300-500 houses. We will need at least 25,000 citizens to join hands with the government,” the official said and added that they were also coordinating with HAM radio operators, several non-profit organisations and residents’ welfare organisations. An announcement was made on social media platforms. More than 500 citizens have already signed up to be a part of the squad. This is not the first time that citizens are being roped in for COVID-19 efforts. Earlier, a volunteer group ‘Corona Warriors’ had been formed. They worked with different departments. However, with relaxations of lockdown restrictions, the group was disbanded. Earlier in the day, squads for monitoring at the Assembly level were flagged off by Mayor M. Goutham Kumar and BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, who also head the special task force. These squads include booth level officials with whom the citizens’ squad will have to coordinate.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hold workshops on value of jayantis instead of declaring holiday: Doreswamy||M.R. Doreswamy, advisor (education reforms), has recommended to the government to celebrate various jayantis (birth anniversaries), including Mahatma Gandhi Jayanti, meaningfully by conducting workshops and seminars on the values advocated by those leaders instead of declaring holidays. In a report submitted to Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, former MLC and Chancellor of PES University Dr. Doreswamy said that instead of declaring holidays on birth anniversaries of saints and freedom fighters, the government should conduct workshops/seminars/events on such personalities to inform the younger generation of their contributions. In seven recommendations made to the government, he suggested early conduct of final semester examinations of engineering students since many students had got jobs in various industries. He recommended establishment of a separate university for physically-challenged persons and a separate educational policy for six districts in the Kalyan Karnataka region. Mr. Narayan said the recommendations would be discussed with the Chief Minister.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Aren’t you missing something?||
19 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||9 imported cases in Alappuzha||The district on Thursday reported nine more COVID-19 cases. According to officials, all the fresh cases are imported — one from abroad and eight from other States. One patient, a youth from Kayamkulam, reached the district from Kuwait on June 12. Two persons, a 42-year-old man and his daughter, hailing from Pattanakkad, came in a private vehicle from Maharashtra on June 7. A mother-son duo from Mavelikara came on board a flight from Mumbai on June 7. At MCH    The sixth patient, a youth from Ambalappuzha, came from Mumbai by train on June 6. All six have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. A youth hailing from Kuttanad reached Ernakulam by flight from Delhi on June 10. He was admitted to a hospital there after showing symptoms of the disease on arrival. An 83-year-old man and his wife from Thakazhi came on board a flight from Delhi on June 10. The couple were admitted to a hospital in Pathanamthitta district. Active cases Meanwhile, 10 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have been tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 92.
19 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||First cyclone shelter opened at Mararikulam||A multipurpose cyclone shelter (disaster relief shelter centre), touted as the first-of-its-kind facility in the State for providing refuge to people during natural calamities, was opened at Janakshemam Colony in Mararikulam North grama panchayat on Thursday. Inaugurating the shelter, Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan said the construction of 13 more shelters across the State would be completed this year. “Two more shelters are under construction in Alappuzha. The construction of the shelter at Cheruthana has made good progress,” the Minister said. Cost Rs. 3 crore The 830-sq-m structure has facilities to accommodate around 1,000 people at a time. It consists of halls, kitchens, a ramp for the differently abled, toilet blocks, a sick room, store, and generator. The three-storey shelter was constructed by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project of the Union government at a cost of around Rs. 3 crore. The project was funded by the World Bank and the State government on a 75:25 basis. Besides cyclones, the facility will be used during floods, coastal erosion and other natural calamities. Although meant to be used as a shelter during natural calamities, the facility would be provided to public functions, marriages, and so on during other times. The centre will be under the control of the District Collector. A committee with Mararikulam North grama panchayat president as chairman and panchayat secretary as the chief executive officer has been constituted for the functioning of the shelter. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman, A.M. Ariff, MP, district panchayat president G. Venugopal, and District Collector A. Alexander spoke. Not the first: KPCC Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran has refuted claims of the government that the facility at Mararikulam was the first cyclone shelter in Kerala. In a press note, Mr. Ramachandran said the State’s first cyclone shelter was constructed at Vadakara when he was the Minister of State for Home Affairs.
19 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Gap Road stretch destroyed in landslip||Nearly 200 metres of the Gap Road on the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway in Munnar was destroyed on Wednesday night in a major landslip. Thirteen acres of a cardamom plantation was also wiped out in the incident. Two buildings on a slope near the road at Kallan Guha were destroyed and another one was damaged in the landslip which occurred around 7.30 p.m. Similar incidents had been reported in the area in the past two years after road-widening works were taken up there. People living at Komalikkudy, Societykada, Kakkakada and Changanacherry Kada were shifted to safer areas. The district administration had suspended traffic on the Gap Road on June 5 in view of the monsoon season. Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan said an expert team from the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C), would inspect the site on June 30. The road-widening works would resume only after the study report, he added.
19 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||WAPCOS to prepare DPR||The Central agency Water and Power Consultancy Services (WAPCOS) has been selected as the consultant to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the second power house of the Idukki reservoir at Moolamattom. The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will soon issue an order, Kerala State Electricity Board sources said on Thursday. WAPCOS has quoted the lowest rate in the tender. The Chief Engineer, KSEB Civil Investigation and Construction Central, had invited the tender for preparing the DPR for the project, aimed at reducing the peak load requirement.  Project details The DPR included the location of the new power house, estimated construction cost, area requirement, route of the tail water released from the power house, and the environmental issues it raised. A report on the commercial possibilities should be submitted within a month and the feasibility study report in four months as per the tender agreement. The detailed project report and the environmental impact report should be submitted in 18 months. The estimated cost of the project, termed the largest under the KSEB, is Rs. 2,500 crore.
19 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||6 cases in Idukki||Six COVID-19 cases were reported Idukki on Thursday — a 37-year-old man who reached Kochera from Kuwait on June 13, a woman (51 years) who came to Karunapuram from Chennai, a man (32) who reached Vellayamkudi from Kuwait, a man (36) who reached Adimali from Saudi on, a man (44) who reached Thodupuzha from Haryana, and a man (56) who reached Thodupuzha from Chennai.
19 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Search on for man-eater in Wayanad||Camera traps have been set up, a rapid response team has been employed round-the-clock and a cage is to be erected to capture the man-eater at Basavankolly near Pulpally in Wayanad district. As many as 98 tribal families, including Kattunayakka and Paniya tribal communities, are living in the Basavankolly tribal settlement adjacent to the Kathavakkunnu forest under the Chethalayath forest range in the South Wayanad forest division where a 24-year-old youth of the tribal hamlet had been killed and partially devoured by a carnivore on Tuesday. The incident triggered panic among the tribal families as many locals had reportedly seen two tigers in the area. Moreover, a cow of a farmer in the settlement was attacked by a carnivore four days ago, villagers said. No fresh pug marks were seen at the site or no images were captured in camera traps set up in the area after the incident, South Wayanad Forest Divisional Officer B. Ranjith Kumar told The Hindu . Seventeen camera traps have been set up by the rapid response team of the forest department in and around the spot and more may be installed, Mr. Ranjith Kumar said. Three teams, each one consisting of seven to nine frontline forest staffers, have been constituted for round-the-clock search and tribal trackers have been asked to assist the search teams, Mr. Ranjith Kumar said.. “Though we have searched around 5 sqkm of the area we were yet to spot the big cat,” T.Sasikumar Forest Range Officer, Chethalayath range, said. “A cage will be set up soon after we get the image of the elusive big cat in the camera traps,” he said. The heavy undergrowth in the forest and intermittent showers are adversely affecting the operations.
19 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur district on high alert||With reports of more people contracting COVID-19 through contact with unknown sources, the district administration and Health Department are on high alert to prevent community spread of the disease. On Thursday, following orders from District Collector T.V. Subhash, all shops and establishments were closed down and vehicles to Kannur town and Thaalikkavu, Payyambalam, and Kanathoor in the Corporation limits were diverted in the wake of a 14-year-old testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. The death of excise driver Sunil Kumar at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, also put health authorities in overdrive. He had been hospitalised with severe pneumonia and respiratory problems. In both these cases, the source of their infection is yet to be ascertained. Similarly, health officials are unable to trace the possible sources through which a pregnant tribal woman from Ayankunnu and two remand prisoners contracted the disease last month. Adding to their concern is the case of another patient, who visited Kannur town for purchases. Besides, several Kerala State Road Transport Corporation employees were put in quarantine after a driver of bus that ferried people who reached the Kannur airport visited the depot before his test results came out.  Primary contact Health officials said 63 people had acquired the disease in the district through primary contact with patients so far. The Collector also declared more divisions in the Kannur Corporation as containment zones. Total lockdown will be in place in divisions 5, 11, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, and 53 until further orders.  Increased risk In addition, the Collector announced that wards of Madayi-6, Kottayam-Malabar-11, and Vengad-12 will be containment zones in the wake of people returning from abroad and other States testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. People moving out of their houses unnecessarily and not taking enough precautions after the government relaxed the lockdown are at increased risk of contracting the infection through contact, K. Narayana Nayak, District Medical Officer, said. “In most cases, the sources had been identified. But there are chances that a few affected patients, who may not have initially shown the symptoms of the disease, could spread the disease. Unless people take responsibility and follow preventive measures there is every possibility of a community spread of the disease,” he said.
19 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Excise driver dies of COVID-19||A driver of the Excise Department who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 died at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kannur on Thursday morning. With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths in the State has increased to 21. Sunil Kumar, 28, a resident of Balathur, was working as driver at the Excise Department office in Mattanur. District Surveillance Officer Shaj said Kumar was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital on June 15. He had visited a private hospital in Kannur after suffering from high fever and respiratory problems. After he showed symptoms of COVID-19, he was referred to the medical college hospital, where his samples were taken for a test, he said. Dr. Shaj said Kumar’s condition had been critical when he arrived at the private hospital. He was suffering from pneumonia and was put on ventilator support. He succumbed to the disease at 7.15 a.m. on Thursday. Officials quarantined How he contracted the disease is yet to be traced. After his test results turned positive, 18 officials at the Excise office at Mattanur were immediately sent in home quarantine. The Health Department also managed to trace 60 primary contacts. The health officials said more people might have come in contact with the primary contacts and the department was in the process of tracing them. Deputy Excise Commissioner P.K. Suresh said before he showed symptoms of the disease, Kumar had accompanied the Excise team on various raids and checks within Mattanur limits. Since the work of the Excise Department required physical contact during checks and raids, the employees were at a higher risk of contracting the disease, he said.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Policeman tests positive for SARS-CoV-2 at Kalamassery||A civil police officer (CPO) of the Kalamassery police station within the Kochi city limits was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, sending his 59 colleagues into quarantine on Thursday. The cop was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, around 1 p.m. He had been deployed for monitoring quarantined people to ensure that they complied with the protocol. The others were either sent into home quarantine or the institutional quarantine facility at Eda Kochi. The Police Cooperative Credit Society and police associations have volunteered to bear all their expenses. Of the 60-strong workforce at the station, one CPO alone was spared as he had gone on leave sometime ago. He is not expected to be back till next month. Incidentally, a driver attached to the Police Academy at Thrissur too was asked to go into quarantine after it emerged that his wife worked at the Kalamassery station. The officer who contracted the disease used to have lunch at the Armed Reserve camp mess at Kalamassery and frequently dropped in at a nearby tea stall, which implies that frequent visitors to these facilities may also have to be monitored in the coming days. The station, which was shut down for disinfection was up and running by noon. Metro station Inspector A. Ananthalal has been given charge of the station with enough personnel drawn from other stations in Thrikkakara and Ernakulam sub divisions. “People are advised to lodge petitions online and visit the station only in unavoidable circumstances. We will continue to monitor 161 persons in home quarantine within the station limits,” said Mr. Ananthalal. The area is yet to be declared as a containment zone or hotspot.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Deadly cocktail of anxiety and stress staring at men in uniform||The news of a civil police officer (CPO) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday has left the police force in the district in deep shock. The infection, according to ground-level police personnel, is the manifestation of the extremely vulnerable conditions in which they work. This was the latest such incident after similar ones were reported in Wayanad and Thiruvananthapuram. Though the State Police Chief had issued a circular introducing a duty arrangement by which only half of the force was to be deployed on a day, while the rest was to be rested in a weekly cycle, it was not fully implemented as the lockdown was lifted. “Had the system been complied with, the present situation of having to sent the entire team of the Kalamassery police station into quarantine could have been averted. Also, the cops deployed for keeping a tab on quarantined people should be ideally kept away from the station and other routine work,” said an office-bearer of a police association on condition of anonymity. Cops deployed at the airport under a special control room for arranging transportation and escort of returning expatriates remain the most vulnerable along with those from the Armed Reserve camp who are assigned guard duty at institutional quarantine facilities. “Considering their extreme stress levels, it is imperative that police personnel be given counselling,” said N.V. Nishad, district secretary, Kerala Police Association. A mask and at best a pair of gloves, though even that, cops lament, are often in short supply, remain the only shield to men and women on duty.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||At this library, catch up on lockdown news||A library near Aluva has a unique offering for readers on Reading Day on Friday. It has set up a separate section for readers to leaf through newspapers they may have missed out on during the lockdown. Sevana Library and Reading Room along the Aluva NAD route has arranged back issues of 13 vernacular and English newspapers for the entire stretch of the lockdown dating from the last week of March. “A reader who regularly uses our reading room for daily newspapers evinced interest in going through news and photographs published by papers during the lockdown. This triggered the idea of arranging the separate section for back issues in compliance with physical distancing norms. Since we had subscribed to newspapers even during the lockdown, this was one way of making use of those papers, which otherwise would have gone waste,” said M.P. Nithyan, the librarian. Initially, the library had arranged for some Hindi newspapers, but had to stop that soon after a large number of migrants turned up to read them, threatening physical distancing norms. The distribution of those papers also became increasingly erratic. Mr. Nithyan said The Hindu was one of the most sought after newspapers, with many turning up specifically to read the editorials published during the lockdown. Shortly after the announcement of the lockdown, the library had opened for a few days. “We had facilitated newspaper reading by allowing just five persons at a time inside. But the number of readers increased and during patrolling the police found eight persons inside at a time and requested us to close the library as a safety precaution,” said Mr. Nithyan. Readers may access the special section during the operational hours of the reading room from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. The library with 700-odd members has been categorised as ‘A Plus’ grade by the Kerala State Library Council and is set to celebrate its golden jubilee next year.  Since we had subscribed to newspapers even during the lockdown, this was one way of making use of those papers, which otherwise would have gone waste M.P. Nithyan Librarian Sevana Library and Reading Room
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Amicus curiae told to report on abattoir||The Kerala High Court has directed the amicus curiae to inspect the slaughterhouse at Kaloor and find out whether the allegation that animal waste is being discharged from the abattoir into the Thevara-Perandoor canal is true. Justice Devan Ramachandran issued the directive when a writ petition on the cleaning of the canal came up for hearing. The court observed that if the allegation was true, it “presents an extremely deleterious situation,” because the court had been ordering time and again that the discharge of any kind of sewage or waste into the canal directly would not be permitted. Besides, slaughterhouse waste contained different bacterial, viral and parasitic pathogens, which could threaten the general health of the public. Therefore, the discharge of the waste directly into the canal could not be countenanced or allowed when the High Court had already directed the Kochi Corporation to clean up the canal. The court also noted that the District Collector had issued orders prohibiting the discharge of waste into the canal. It observed that it appeared, at least prima facie, that the corporation was operating the slaughterhouse without a fully functional sewage treatment plant at present. Therefore, it was a matter that the amicus curiae would have to assess by making a personal visit to the abattoir. In another order, the court directed the District Collector to convene a meeting of officials of the Kochi Corporation and the Kerala Water Authority to take a call on the removal of unused poles installed by the KWA at the Perandoor mouth of the canal.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Accused in Abhimanyu murder case surrenders||Sahal, the 10th accused in the murder of SFI leader Abhimanyu of Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, surrendered at a trial court in Ernakulam on Thursday. With the surrender of Sahal, who had been absconding for nearly two years, the stage has been set for the resumption of proceedings in the case. All the other accused who were picked up by the police are out on bail. Sahal is said to be a Campus Front activist. According to the case, it was Sahal who stabbed the SFI leader. The police will seek Sahal’s custody in the case to complete the investigation. The presence of the accused at the crime scene was confirmed by witnesses. The confessional statements of the other accused also confirmed Sahal’s presence at the scene and involvement in the crime. The police had obtained the mobile tower location of the accused to confirm his presence at the scene of the crime, said G. Mohanraj, the Special Prosecutor in the case.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Collector issues order on use of glass doors||All commercial and financial institutions functioning in Ernakulam district, including shopping malls, must ensure that glass panes used in doors, partitions, and as walls conform to specified standards to prevent injury and death, District Collector S. Suhas has said. The order was issued invoking provisions of the Disaster Management Act in the wake of the death of a woman customer at a bank in Perumbavoor earlier this week after she unknowingly crashed into the glass door. Only toughened or tempered glass must be used. Moreover, steps must be taken to ensure that the presence of glass is made known by using stickers or symbols on them. Under no circumstance must the presence of transparent glass panes be unknown to people. The direction in which doors are opened must be communicated in bold letters in both English and Malayalam. All these must be adhered to within 45 days. The secretaries of local bodies must ensure that none violates the rules.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two killed in road accident||Two youngsters died reportedly after a car rammed their motorcycle on the Aluva-Munnar Road at Manjapetty near Perumbavoor on Wednesday around 6.30 p.m. The deceased were identified as Bilal, 21, and Arafath, 21, residents of Marampally near Aluva. According to the police, the youngsters were on their way to Perumbavoor when the car rammed them while overtaking a KSRTC bus. Bilal died of the injuries at a private hospital on Wednesday while his friend succumbed to the wounds on Thursday. The Perumbavoor police have registered a case.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Six more positive cases in Ernakulam||Six persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. A 25-year-old Perumbavoor resident who came from Qatar, a 37-year-old Bihar native, two 37-year-old Tamil Nadu natives who arrived here on June 7 from Kazakistan, a 49-year-old Alangad native who came from Kuwait on June 16, and a 32-year-old civil police officer from Vengola are those who tested positive. All those who were immediately known to have been in contact with him were asked to go into quarantine. Meanwhile, 775 persons were placed in quarantine in the district.
19 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||13 more test positive in Kollam||The district reported 13 more COVID-19 cases and eight recoveries on Thursday. The patients include three members of a family from Nedumbana who had travelled from Abu Dhabi on May 31. The father, mother and their one-year-old daughter were in home quarantine after completing seven days of institutional quarantine. Others who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include residents of Mayyanad, Mundakkal, Thevalakkara, Mynagappally, Munroe Thuruthu, Perinad, Sasthamcotta, Pathanapuram, Njarakkal and Nilamel. While 10 persons came from abroad, one arrived from Chennai. The Mayyanad resident is a primary contact of a person who tested positive on June 8. The 25-year-old woman working in a private institution at Parippally had visited Kalluvathukal, Varkala, Pallikkal, Kottiyam, Kallambalam and Attingal as part of her job. She had also visited Mayyanad Sheya Hospital on May 28 and NS Hospital on June 15. Another patient, a 23-year-old Mundakkal resident reached Kollam from Malappuram on a two-wheeler.
19 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Boat services to Kottayam hit by defunct lift bridge||The all-too-familiar issues of unscheduled diversions and termination of services are back to haunt the boat services to and fro from Kottayam town after a brief interval. Six months after full-scale restoration of its flagship service connecting Kottayam and Alappuzha towns, operations on the route has once again been hit by a defunct lift bridge at Chungathu 30. The disruption has forced the boats to wind up the services about 3.5 km off the town at Kanjiram or take a diversion through Pallam. Besides turning away commuters, the move has brought to a standstill the lives of those residing in the backwater region. Collector approached State Water Transport Department (SWTD) station house officer in Kottayam K.K.Najeeb has now approached the District Collector seeking to fix the lift bridge on a war footing. “Smooth operation of the boats along the boat channel will be crucial in rescuing people from the backwater areas in case of floods during this monsoon as it happened in 2018,” said Mr. Najeeb. The operation of boats to Kottayam town faced its first major disruption eight years ago when work on a bridge began at Kanjiram. For about five years, boats were forced to wind up service at the Kanjiram jetty and though the bridge was opened to traffic three years ago, restoration of boat service has been further delayed with the bridge at Chungathu 30 remaining defunct. The mechanised bridge, which can be raised vertically up to 85 degrees to permit passage of vessels underneath, had turned defunct in the absence of periodical maintenance. Despite repeated demands, it took the Kottayam municipality over one-and-a-half years to complete the works. Commenting on the issue, a senior SWTD official said, “the bridge, which often turns defunct for some unknown reasons, is standing in the way of our operations to Kottayam. The municipal authorities, who are responsible for maintaining the bridge, have always turned a blind eye to the problem,” he said. Municipal chairperson P.R. Sona was not available for comments despite repeated attempts.
19 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Highest daily spike in Kottayam||Kottayam on Thursday recorded its biggest spike in new COVID-19 cases with 11 persons testing positive for the virus. At the same time, two persons who were under treatment for the infection were discharged from the hospital. Of the new cases, six landed from abroad while the five returned from other States. Among those who returned from abroad, four men, a 28-year-old from Erumely, 34-year-old from Changanassery, a 36-year-old from Nedumkunnam, and a 53-year-old from Malakunnam, returned from Kuwait. The other two returnees were a 41-year-old woman from Vijayapuram and a 33-year-old man from Neendoor, who returned from Dubai and Riyad respectively. A 53-year-old Chirackadavu native, a 20-year-old woman from Neendoor and a 27-year-old woman from Chingavanam had returned from Maharashtra. The remaining two are a 32-year-old woman from Thrikkodithanam and a 32-year-old man who came back from New Delhi. Sentinel surveillance Of the positive cases reported on Thursday, only five persons had shown symptoms, while others were tested as part of sentinel surveillance. With this, the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has jumped to 67.
19 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU to hold doctoral defence online today||Research scholars under Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) can now attend their doctoral defences online. Starting from Friday, the university will conduct the open defence and public viva voce examination through videoconferencing using electronic means for PhD and MPhil students under it. S. Sreedhanya and C.S. Shalu Mon who pursue their doctoral degrees with the School of Environmental Sciences will be the first to appear for the online defence. Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas on Thursday issued an order to this effect, which is being initiated in view of the widespread disruptions in the conduct of viva voces due to the COVID-19 crisis. To attend the process, the research guides should arrange the online conferencing facility in consultation with the heads of the study departments concerned. Fee of Rs. 2,500 The candidates registering for online viva voce will have to remit a fee of Rs. 2,500 to the university fund at least a day before the conference. The conferences should be organised with the support of the university technical staff and video copy of the same should be handed over to the Controller of Examinations. 25 should sign up The candidate and the guide should be present in the classroom while the dean and the chairman are allowed to attend the event online. At least 25 persons should sign up for the open defence and can pose queries on the permission of the chairman. The research supervisor or the dean is required to testify the number of attendees while the entire event should not be less than an hour. For the MPhil students, the candidate, chairman and internal examiner are required to be present at the classroom. The external examiner may sign up online. Following the viva, the chairman should prepare the mark list in association with the external and internal examiners.
19 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local bodies to be the first line of defence against pandemic||Local self-government institutions (LSGIs) and private hospitals are expected to have a major role in the government strategy to control possible community spread of COVID-19 in the State. The number of COVID-19 cases is now in two digits almost every day and often it is crossing the hundred mark, with some districts reporting over two dozen new patients every day. The Health Department is foreseeing a continuation of the trend for the next couple of months.  According to sources, local bodies have now been asked to identify buildings that could be converted as first-line treatment centres to treat asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms within a 48-hour notice given by the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority. Preferred buildings Buildings under the Health Department would be given preference as it would be easy to set up the facilities there. Ayurveda hospitals and community halls too could be considered for the facility. As the government has cut down on the number of people under institutional quarantine and suggested home quarantine for expatriates, some of the centres identified by local bodies for the purpose could be converted as first-line treatment centres. They should be close to primary health centres, community health centres, and taluk hospitals whose medical officers and superintendents will be in charge of their functioning. It is learnt that each local body should have at least one first-line treatment centre. More doctors and health staff could be appointed on temporary basis in such places and volunteers could be recruited. Ground-level staff in the department had already been given two rounds of training and personal protection equipment would be made mandatory for them. Confusion There is, however, confusion over finding funds for running these centres though the government has said that block panchayats and grama panchayats can utilise up to Rs. 10 lakh and local development funds and disaster relief funds can be used. Contribution can be sought from different sources too. Some of the local body heads in Kozhikode The Hindu spoke to claimed that they were yet to figure out how to go about it. Apart from this, private hospitals too will be opened up for COVID-19 treatment. The government recently had held discussions with managements on the issue. Private hospitals in Kozhikode district are already treating such patients, some of whom were from other districts. It is, however, yet to be clarified who would foot the bill, especially for those from poor families.
19 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut varsity accused of violating UGC norms||The Kerala Parallel College Association has accused Calicut University authorities of flouting University Grants Commission (UGC) norms by granting university sub-centre status to parallel colleges. As many as 3.6 lakh undergraduate students who have registered with the School of Distance Education (SDE) of the university study in various parallel colleges across five districts. It is learnt that the decision to grant sub-centre status to 65 institutions was taken by the Syndicate at its meeting on May 22. Lack of facilities In a letter to the UGC, association functionary P. Rajesh Menon pointed out that some of the parallel colleges, among which there are some run by cooperative institutions, do not have required facilities. Most of the sub-centres do not have 10 cents of land as mandated by the UGC. They do not have their own land and function out of rented buildings. Some of the colleges have placed advertisements using the emblem of the university to attract students, which is against rules. “The reason cited by the Syndicate was that aided or self-financing colleges were not available to conduct contact classes and exams for students under the SDE and for distributing study material to them. While registering themselves with the university, these aided and self-financing colleges had agreed that their buildings and facilities would be made available for the university’s requirements. If they violate the agreement, the university can easily take action,” Mr. Menon told The Hindu . “The university is also reported to have claimed that UGC’s approval was not necessary as these sub-centres were directly under the SDE main centre. The permission to grant any centre under a university should be ratified by the Senate and approved by the UGC,” he said.
19 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medical students sent into quarantine to get stipend||Officials at Government Medical College, Kozhikode, have reportedly decided to release the stipend for final-year postgraduate students who had gone in quarantine in May after attending COVID-19 duty at the hospital, following protests by the college union and the Kerala Medical Postgraduate Association. According to college union sources, eight final-year postgraduate students were denied the stipend for 14 days. Official stance Officials reportedly claimed that the government order on releasing salaries to doctors did not specifically mention the case of postgraduate students. The students chose to protest because there might not be any way to release arrears as their course was supposed to end soon. Meanwhile, the authorities have also decided to release the stipend for all final-year postgraduate students for the period between May 28 and June 7, which was denied on technical grounds. Their course was supposed to end on May 28 and the government extended it in view of the COVID-19 situation. However, an official order came only on May 7. In between, the postgraduate association had withdrawn from duty for a day on May 6, pointing out that there had been no official communication on the extension of the course though they had sent a letter on June 2 and an online meeting was held with the Director of Medical Education. The students pointed out that though they gave a notice only on June 5 and withdrew from duty from the next day, the stipend for the period between May 28 and June 7 had been cut. In a related development, the denial of stipend hike for post-diploma senior resident doctors too has been sorted out, it is learnt. Though their stipend had been hiked from Rs. 55,000 to Rs. 77,000, these doctors had claimed that the college authorities were not releasing the hiked amount.
19 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||11 new cases in Pathanamthitta||Eleven Non-Resident Keralites quarantined in Pathanamthitta tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday, taking the number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 107. Fifty-two persons have been cured. The patients include an eight-year-old girl and a 57-year-old woman who came from Delhi on June 11. A 61-year-old man who came from Bahrain in June 7, a 68-year-old man who arrived from Kuwait on June 13, a 28-year-old man who came from Kuwait on June 11, a 43-year-old man who came from Kuwait on June 12, a 32-year-old man who came from Riyadh on June 10, a 56-year old man who arrived from Maharashtra on June 3, a one-year-old child who arrived from Dubai on June 1, and a 52-year-old man who came from Kuwait on June 13 are the other NoRKs who tested positive on Thursday. Two patients from Pathanamthitta being treated at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam were cured of the disease on Thursday.
19 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five positive, nine cured in capital||Five people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Bringing much relief, the recovery rate also continued to be high with nine people, including a Kollam native, recovering from the illness. Thirty-three people have convalesced in the past three days in the State capital. Among those who were diagnosed with COVID-19, four came from abroad and one from Mumbai. A Kallambalam native, aged 31 years, arrived in Kochi from Saudi Arabia on June 11 and has been quarantined at his home. He was shifted to a COVID-19 first-line treatment centre (CFLTC), the Government Homoeopathic Medical College Hospital, Iranimuttom, here. Two others, a 33-year-old Manacaud native and a 58-year-old Parassala native, were shifted to the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital after displaying symptoms upon their arrival from Saudi Arabia on June 15. A 40-year-old man from Vilappilsala has been under observation in an institutional quarantine facility since his arrival from Doha on June 9. He was shifted to the CFTLC at the Homoeopathic Medical College Hospital after his swab sample returned positive. The fifth patient, a 66-year-old Poovar native who came from Mumbai on a train on June 8, has been admitted to the General Hospital after testing positive. Route map Meanwhile, the district authorities released the patient flow-charts of the Malappuram native who worked in a mobile shop at Manacaud and the KSRTC driver attached to the Pappanamcode depot, both of whom tested positive earlier. The Malappuram native travelled to various places, including Marine Drive in Kochi, before reaching Thiruvananthapuram after commencing journey from his home town on May 31. The administration is yet to identify all the persons who visited the mobile shop. A few passengers who travelled on the bus driven by the KSRTC driver have been identified. Over 15 KSRTC employees who came in close proximity with the patient were identified a day ago. He operated five trips on the Mangattukadavu-Thachottukavu-Malayinkeezhu route and also transported migrant workers from Nemom police station to Thampanoor. 898 more in quarantine The district administration placed 898 people in quarantine on the day, taking the number of people who are being closely monitored to 18,349. Twenty-six people have been hospitalised with various symptoms. The City police registered cases against 59 people under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 for violating lockdown norms. Fifteen people were also booked for travelling without adhering to the government guidelines. As many as 282 people were fined for failing to wear masks.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exams or assessment? students in a fix||A Class XII Science student of an ICSE school in the city has only one paper pending in this year’s board examinations. Just when the uncertainty over the dates for the remaining examinations seemed to be over, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) told students they must choose between appearing for the examinations or be graded according to an alternative assessment. The student says the option given by the council does not sit well with her. It must be uniform – either cancelling the examinations or going ahead with it – for all students. She raises concerns about transparency if pre-board or internal assessment marks awarded by schools are factored in. “How will the board ensure that all schools are playing fair,” she asks. Better prepared Many students also looked to the board examinations to do better than the pre-boards. The long gap between the examinations will have helped them prepare better, she points out. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) too has been asked by the Supreme Court to make a choice. Student’s concern A CBSE Class XII student of a city school said she was hoping to do well in Computer Science to make up for the tough Physics paper, but that would not be possible if the exams were cancelled. Many students were unlikely to be happy about evaluation based on the pre-boards because they either skipped it or took it lightly, keen to focus on the boards. However, she did not think that exams would be possible going by accounts from friends in other places in the country, she said. Disadvantageous The Principal of an ISC school says conducting the examinations in Kerala would not be a huge problem, but the CISCE would have to consider the situation in other States too. He feared the grading plan could be disadvantageous as schools went in for strict evaluation during the pre-boards so that children could get their act together. It had also been his experience that students tend to score more during the boards. A CBSE school Principal was also of the opinion that the State could pull off the examinations without any hitches. The State government, he pointed out, had conducted the examinations for State school students smoothly with all safety precautions in place. Fr. George Mathew Karoor, CISCE member, said the assessment option, in case students did not want to sit for the examinations, would be made public. Students need not panic as the council would keep their interests in mind. The council, he said, was working on a system that would held them understand a child’s performance not solely based on written marks. The final decision, though, rested with the court, he pointed out.
19 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||52.85 lakh rural houses set to get piped water||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) rural water supply programme in the State on Thursday. The government envisages piped water connections to 10 lakh rural households in 2020-21 fiscal. In all, 52.85 lakh rural households will be covered by 2024. At a function held at the Secretariat, Mr. Vijayan handed over the Malayalam version of the JJM operational guidelines to Local Self-Government Minister A. C. Moideen. Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty and senior officials were present. The outlay for 2020-21 is Rs. 1,525 crore, which will be borne equally by the Central and the State governments. Panchayats will have the lead role in the implementation and maintenance of water supply projects under the JJM.  Priority norm In the first phase, panchayats which are prepared to contribute 15% of the project cost as grama panchayat share and 10% as beneficiary contribution will get priority. For implementing the programme, the government has formed the State Water and Sanitation Mission, the District Water and Sanitation Mission, and, at the panchayat level, the Village Water and Sanitation Committee.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. for TrueNat test for NoRKs||The State government has sought the cooperation of the Union Ministry of Foreign Affairs, airline companies and Indian embassies in the Gulf to provide ‘speedier and cheaper’ TrueNat beta CoV test kits to rapidly examine passengers bound to Kerala for possible COVID-19 infection before they are permitted to board their flights home. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that those seeking to return home were finding it challenging to furnish medical testimonials proving that they were COVID-19-free. Some nations were reluctant to test persons who were not overtly symptomatic. Test results were often delayed. Indian embassies should set up facilities to test passengers. Non-Resident Keralites’ forums had complained that the PCR test was expensive and slow. The UAE and Qatar had easy accessible testing facilities. However, expatriates seeking to come home from Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain and Oman needed to be tested before boarding flights to Kerala. The government had said it would give operational clearance only to flights consisting entirely of COVID-19-free certified passengers from June 20. However, Mr. Vijayan said the State had not shut its doors on Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) afflicted with the disease. They could fly home in separate flights having only COVID-19 passengers on board. Health authorities had confirmed the flu in 1,172 persons out of the 2,79,657 who had entered the State from within the country and abroad. The State has kept transmission of the virus from returnees to a bare minimum by a vigorous policy of test, trace, treat and quarantine. The Chief Minister said the State appeared to drop its guard. Employees on COVID-19 duty should ideally not mix with family members at home. They should opt for room quarantine during their break from work.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to underwrite up to 50% of household power bills||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that the government would underwrite up to 50% of the additional charge incurred by households during the stay-at-home phase of the lockdown period. At his customary COVID-19 news briefing here, Mr. Vijayan said defaulters need not fear that their power connections would be severed. They could pay the February-May electricity bill by instalments spaced over an extended period of five months beginning in July.  He said power would continue to be free for consumers who drew less than 40 units of energy monthly irrespective of the increase in their electricity usage during the lockdown. However, the connected load capacity of such beneficiaries should be less than 500 watts. Households that utilise up to 40 units of power a month and have a connected load capacity less than 1,000 watts would be billed Rs. 1.50 per unit irrespective of their extra usage if any.  Less than 50 units The government would bear 50% of the cost of the extra bill incurred by households that consumed less than 50 units a month. Domestic consumers who tap up to 100 units a month from the grid would get a 30% cut on their extra usage bill. Consumers in the more than 150 units a month slab could expect their additional usage bill to be slashed by 20%. The subsidies would set the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) back by an estimated Rs. 200 crore. More than 90 lakh families would benefit from the decision. Mr. Vijayan said that the assistance was only for households. The power tariff remained unchanged. Several commercial establishments had also received huge power bills despite remaining closed for the better part of the past three months. The government would consider their case sympathetically at a later stage.
19 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rail Mitra to limit contact with COVID-19 patients||Railways have developed Rail Mitra, a robot, to distribute medicines, food, water and other supplies to COVID-19 patients, limiting chances of direct contact with them. Besides, the remote-controlled trolley can collect used plates, bottles, masks and other things to be discarded from patients or those in quarantine. A UV disinfection chamber equipped with UV light will disinfect the used items. Rail Mitra can also disinfect contaminated floors with the help of a targeted spray system fixed on it. An automatic hand sanitiser dispenser is also provided. UV lamp-based room disinfection system, disinfectant fume generator for room disinfection and 360-degree IP camera for remote monitoring and communication are the other features of the robot weighing 6 kg. The UV light in the chamber will turn off automatically when the chamber is open. Designed and developed by R. Nidheej, Junior Engineer, Signal and Telecommunication wing of the Thiruvananthapuram railway division, the robot was assembled in 20 days. Rail Mitra has come in for appreciation from Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, railway top brass, doctors and nurses. The camera helps to see and talk to COVID-19 patients from a distance. The operator can use an RF remote controller with a range of 500 metres to control.  Reduced risk “Rail Mitra can be used at railway stations and hospitals and quarantine centres. It will minimise the contact and reduce the risk to caregivers. A contact-less temperature gadget will sense the wrist temperature from 5 cm away,” says Mr. Nidheej. Railways have gone for commercial production of the gadget at the Signal and Telecommunication workshop at Podanur. Divisional Railway Manager Shirish Kumar Sinha said the robot could be produced at Rs. 20,000. “We are ready to transfer the technology and many have evinced interest,” he said.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC to make Wakf Board recruitment||The State Cabinet on Wednesday decided to recommend the Governor to promulgate an Ordinance to make appointments to the Wakf Board through the Public Service Commission (PSC). The recruitment to the board has been mired in charges of corruption and nepotism, with the issue having figured in the Assembly several times.  The Cabinet resolved to release funds from the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund to procure TV sets for neighbourhood study centres catering to the needs of students without mobile phones and TV sets at home to access online classes. It also approved an assistance of Rs. 5 lakh for the family of Surendran who died of cardiac arrest at the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation bus stand at East Fort here during the lightning strike by KSRTC employees. The post of Circle Inspector in the general executive category will henceforth be known as Inspector of Police, it was decided at the meeting. Transfers Water Resources Secretary B. Ashok will be transferred to Supplyco as Chairman and Managing Director. He will replace P.M. Ali Asghar Pasha who is being appointed as general manager, Supplyco.
19 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Biometric system revived for ration supply||The government has directed retail ration dealers to distribute foodgrains without any hitch using the biometric system, Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman has said. On citing reports about disruption in ration distribution owing to technical snag, Mr. Thilothaman told The Hindu on Thursday that grain distribution in only 254 shops was disrupted. The Minister, who reviewed the situation at 3.30 p.m., found that 5,200 shops were functioning without any hitch and 10,000 cardholders had procured their rations from these outlets. Distribution using the biometric system was suspended following the spread of COVID-19 and an OTP system was introduced. This is suspected to be one of the reasons that led to the system failure. Now, the government has directed to use the e-POS machines after sanitising the hands of consumers. Mr. Thilothaman said retailers had no right to down shutters on their own.
19 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Safe corridor commissioned||The 80-km safe corridor demonstration project in the Vettu Road-Thycode to Adoor on the MC Road as part of the ongoing Phase II of the World Bank-aided Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) was commissioned by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday. Zero accidents The Rs. 146.6-crore project is aimed at zero accidents in the busy two-lane two-way corridor spread over Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Pathanamthitta districts, through enhanced road safety, engineering, education and enforcement measures. Commissioning the safe corridor thorough videoconference, the Chief Minister said the safe corridor stresses on the State’s thrust to road safety while developing road corridors. Improvement of 33 junctions, gateway treatment in 36 school zones, solar lighting, road markings, hitherto unused in the State, sign boards and crash barriers have been introduced in the safe corridor.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Selected for national programme||G.V. Raja Senior Secondary Sports School here has been selected a State centre of excellence for the Khelo India national programme in a bid to improve India’s performance in the Olympics. The school, located at Mylam in the capital, is one of the eight government sporting institutions chosen in the first phase of the programme.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Madhuvani for easy Sanskrit||Learning Sanskrit just became easier for students with Madhuvani, an interactive DVD. Developed by the State Council of Educational Research and Technology (SCERT), in association with the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology (C-DIT), the DVD is aimed at helping achieve excellence in Sanskrit studies against the backdrop of school education going high-tech. State schools where Sanskrit is taught will get the DVD and handbook. It can also be downloaded from the websitescert.kerala.gov.in Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath released the DVD.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Testing facilities||COVID-19 testing facilities have gone up in the State in recent times and with non-COVID care picking up, the private health sector has found it necessary to invest in testing to rule out cross-infections. In the private sector, only laboratory facilities accredited to the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) are being given approval by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to do COVID-19 testing. According to the ICMR, the number of laboratories which have initiated independent testing in Kerala and are reporting to ICMR is 34. They include all RT-PCR, TrueNat and CB-NAAT testing sites in the State in both government and private sector. There are 15 RT-PCR testing sites in the government sector and six in the private sector. TrueNat Beta CoV testing is available in six government facilities. As for CB-NAAT, while there is only one government facility, there are six facilities in the private sector.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BJYM protest||Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists staged a protest in front of the Secretariat here on Thursday against the intrusion by Chinese troops into Indian territory in Ladakh and the killing of 20 Indian soldiers. Inaugurating the protest, Morcha vice president J.R. Anuraj said India had the capability to repulse any act of aggression by the Chinese army.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Shiv Sena campaign to boycott Chinese products||The Kerala unit of the Shiv Sena will observe June 19 as ‘anti-China day’ to mark the launch of a campaign to boycott Chinese products. A press note issued by the party called for a silent war in protest against the death of Indian soldiers in a clash with Chinese troops in the Galwan valley in Ladakh. It said any efforts to attack India, taking advantage of the COVID-19 crisis, should be countered effectively.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Please accommodate, request item Exam postponed||The written test for selection to various posts in the Ernakulam Regional Cooperative Milk Producers Union scheduled to be held by the Centre for Management Development on June 24 has been postponed.
19 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress faults Centre and state for dropping Sivagiri tourism circuit||K. Muraleedharan, MP, said here on Thursday that the State and Central governments were equally responsible for scuttling the Sivagiri tourism circuit project. Flagging off a Yatra organised by the OBC Department of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee at Aruvippuram, he said both the Centre and State had let down the people of Kerala. Chairman of the OBC Department Sumesh Achuthan is leading the yatra that will culminate at Sivagiri on June 20.
19 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Six cases in Thrissur, five in Kozhikode||Six more COVID-19 cases were reported from Thrissur district on Thursday. Of the new cases, three patients arrived from Kuwait, one from Dubai and two from Gujarat. As many as 12,604 people are under observation and 131 persons are undergoing treatment in various hospitals.Twenty-two patients, including 18 at the Government Medical College Hospital and four at the Irinjalakuda taluk hospital, recovered from the disease on Thursday. A chartered flight arranged by T.N. Prathapan, MP, for Non-Resident Indians in the UAE reached the Kochi airport on Thursday with 215 passengers. There were 150 people from Thrissur in the flight. The flight was arranged as part of ‘Athijeevanam MP’s Pravasi Care’ project with the joint support of Pravasi Care UAE Chapter and Thrissur District INCAS (Indian Cultural and Arts Society) Committee in Dubai. The Indian Association at Ras Al Khaimah and INCAS UAE also supported the project. “We are trying for permission for one more flight from the UAE at the end of this month,” said Mr. Prathapan. In Kozhikode Five more persons were declared positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday, even as one person recovered from the infection. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the COVID-19 patients are from Feroke, Thuneri, Moodadi, Chelannur, and Chelavur. Two of them had returned from Dubai, one each from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait and another from Odisha. The recovered patient is a 46-year-old woman from Koduvally, who had been at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. There are 101 active COVID-19 cases in the district at present. The number of people under observation is 11,716, among whom 4,233 are expatriates.  (With inputs from Kozhikode bureau)
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||100 days of no show||
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In action mode||
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fishing in small boats||
19 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||9,584 VVPATs to be sent from Anantapur to Patna||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has asked the District Election Officer to send 9,584 voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPATs) to Patna district in Bihar where Assembly polls are likely to the held in October. The ECI allotted 10,000 VVPATS to Anantapur district during the 2019 general elections. A large number of container lorries carrying the VVPATs started their journey from Anantapur to Patna on Thursday. As part of its preparatory exercise, the ECI is shifting EVMs and VVPATs from various places in the country to Bihar. The VVPATs were sent from Anantapur after their serial numbers were checked and tallied with the list sent by the ECI. The VVPAT slips collected during the 2019 elections were erased after the mandatory period of six months, the officials said. The entire process of checking and loading of VVPATs to the containers was videographed as per the instructions in the Section 12 of the manual.
19 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||J.C. Prabhakar and his son Ashmit denied bail||Second Additional Judicial First Class Magistrate T. Hussein on Thursday heard the arguments in the petition filed by the Anantapur police seeking custody of the former Tadipatri MLA, J.C. Prabhakar, and his son Ashmit Reddy in the case pertaining to registration of BS-III lorry-trailers as BS-IV vehicles using fake documents at Kohima and later transferring them to Anantapur district with fake police NOCs. The bail application filed before the Magistrate on Monday was rejected. While the Magistrate conducted the proceedings through video-conference on Thursday, the details of the final order regarding the police custody was not known. The Anantapur police were expecting a two-day custody of the duo to further investigate the 27 cases filed against them, along with five new cases filed on June 12 and 13, in which the Prisoner’s Transit Warrants were issued for taking them to the Kadapa prison.
19 June 2020||B. Madhu Gopal VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online classes: students complain of eye and ear problems||Online classes, no doubt, provide students to catch up on the classes lost due to the prolonged lockdown as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Attending classes online without a break is said to be causing problems like dry eye syndrome, burning sensation of eyes, and ear problems. Educationists and doctors have their own reservations on online classes for primary classes. Doctors suggest use of laptops and external speakers, instead of earphones, to avoid eye and ear problems. “During the last two weeks, a few schoolchildren in the age group of 8-10 came to my clinic with complaints of dryness in their eyes and frequent blinking of eyes. Prolonged reading on the mobile screen and watching it from close range may result in this type of problems,” says G. Hanumantha Rao, an ophthalmologist, who runs his clinic on MVP Double Road. He suggests that a laptop or a desktop with a large screen should be preferred. It also ensures that proper viewing distance is maintained, at least to some extent. “Prolonged use of earphones can result in noise-induced deafness. It can also cause tinnitus and the child may experience ringing sounds in the ear. Severe exposure may cause inability to hear certain frequencies. The problems depend on the duration and intensity of the sound,” says B. Ramachandra Rao, an ENT surgeon at the Government ENT Hospital in the city. ‘Stress on brain’ “Online classes for young children may cause stress on their growing brains. In the actual classroom scenario, they get breaks, interact with friends and the surrounding atmosphere would be conducive to the learning process. Sitting for long hours watching the mobile screen or laptop is not advisable for them,” says P. Venugopal, Head of the Department of Paediatrics, Andhra Medical College. “Earphones increase the chances of ear infections as they are placed directly into the ear canal. They block the passage of air, which enhances the chances of ear infections. Their regular and long-term use increases the growth of bacteria and sharing the earphones increases the risk of transfer of bacteria from one person to the other,” says S.K.E. Appa Rao, an ENT Surgeon. Students attending online classes should preferably use external speakers and over the ear headphone. It is preferable to use headphones over earphones as the latter is closer to the eardrum and causes greater damage when used for a long period of time, says Susruta, an ENT surgeon.
19 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mango farmers in Chittoor earn decent profits||Despite lockdown, mango farmers in Chittoor district have earned a decent income. Though the yield stood at 35%, most varieties could hold their demand, bringing guaranteed profits to the growers. There were no gales from March till date, with hardly 10 days left for the season to close. The rains of 2019 helped sustain the soil moisture, and inordinate delay in flowering did not have any impact on the yield. While the total acreage of mango plantations is 1.10 lakh hectares, the crop was grown in about 80,000 hectares. Officials of the horticulture and marketing departments said the yield was pegged at 35% this year, while it was just 20% in 2019. Assistant Director (Marketing) P. Gopi said that daily about 700 metric tonnes of mangoes, including the prime varieties of Benisha and Rumania, are arriving at the markets of Chittoor, Bangarupalem, Tiruchanur, and Puttur. “Compared to last year, the price for all the varieties is high. A kg of Benisha is fetching Rs. 40-45, while Rumania is getting Rs. 20 a kg. Coming to the predominant variety Benguloora, it is being sold for Rs. 13-20 per kg. Coming to other premier varieties, the yields are very low and are managed by the farmers privately,” he said. What brings happiness to farmers is that the mangoes meant for the pulp industries are sold at Rs. 13-20 a kg this year, while the price stood at Rs. 7 and below last year. In 2018, the farmers saw unrest, blocking roads demanding support price. The then TDP government had to intervene to provide a minimum price to them, when the price plummeted to Rs. 4 a kg. Dhananjayulu, a mango grower of Tavanampalle mandal, said that compared to the last four years, the current year was 'not bad'. “The season just went off exactly as we expected. When it was delayed flowering, we are very much aware that we don’t need to worry till May. There were no gales and rains and this helped us escape from the effect of damage to the crop. Last year, I suffered a loss of Rs. 2 lakh. This year, I could pocket Rs. 6 lakh, after all expenditure,” he said. Exports The officials said that despite the lockdown effect, the exports remained strong in May and June. It was observed that though Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are reeling under the COVID-19 impact, the exports to these two states remained stable. However, small stocks could find their way to the northern States of Delhi, West Bengal and Haryana. Unfortunately, the table varieties, which fetch good profits to the small farmers, missed exports to Europe and Gulf this year due to COVID-19 scenario.
19 June 2020||G Venkataramana Rao,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pumping of water begins at Pattiseema scheme||The Water Resources Department of Andhra Pradesh started pumping 1,050 cusecs of Godavari River water by running three of the 24 pumps of the Pattiseema Lift Irrigation Scheme to the Krishna Delta on Thursday. Irrigation Chief Engineer Sudhakar Babu and executive engineer Nagireddy performed puja and switched on the motors. More pumps will be switched on as the flood in the Godavari River increases until the scheme pumped a maximum of 8,500 cusecs into the Polavaram Left Main Canal that carries water to the Krishna River upstream Prakasam Barrage. In the first year, the scheme lifted 4.20 tmcft using only four pumps that were operational in 2015. The very next year, all 24 pumps became operational and ever since there has been no dearth of water for farmers of Krishna delta notwithstanding the actual availability of water in the Krishna River. The scheme worked for 165 days in 2018 pumping 96.4 tmcft and it managed to pump 151 tmcft in 2017 in just 161 days. In the second year, the scheme pumped 55.57 tmcft in 137 days. It pumped 42.99 tmcft in 90 days in 2019, according to the data with the Water Resources Department. The power consumed by the scheme is proportional to the water pumped. The scheme utilised the maximum of 29,98,17,000 kilowatt hours of power to lift 151 tmcft in 2017 and 27,10,80,000 kilowatt hours of power to lift 96.4 tmcft in 2018.  YSR’s promise Former Chief Minister Y. S. Rajasekhara Reddy had promised Krishna delta farmers that water be released latest by June 15 for the kharif season. His government often fulfilled the promise by managing to release water from the dead storage of Nagarjuna Sagar. After bifurcation, the release of water for Krishna Delta from the dead storage of the project that had to be shared by the Telugu States became a thing of the past and the Telugu Desam Party, which came to power after that, came up with the Pattiseema scheme to ensure that Krishna Delta farmers got their water in time.
19 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan vows to stand by tobacco farmers||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday said the interests of tobacco farmers would be taken care of in these difficult times. Addressing a review meeting on tobacco, Mr. Jagan said the government would intervene to help distressed tobacco farmers in purchases. In two-three days, a special committee headed by an IAS officer would be constituted to look into the challenges being faced by tobacco farmers and the government would fix minimum sale prices for high, medium and low quality tobacco, the Chief Minister said.  Tough message The list of rates approved by the government would be available at all purchase centres during auctions, he said and made it clear that the licensed traders and companies should participate in the auction process. During the meeting, the officials listed the challenges being faced due to COVID-19 and farmers present in the meeting spoke in detail about the impact of the lockdown on the tobacco business. Price fixation “This year, 20 million kg of low and medium grade varieties of tobacco, which accounted for a majority of the produce, has been rejected by the traders, “ the officials said. Representatives of farmers told the CM that they were asked to harvest the crop and when it was ready to be sold, but it was not reaching the auction centres. They complained that companies registered for purchases did not participate in the process. Mr. Jagan said the board and the companies should work together and fix a minimum rate to be laid for all the three grades of tobacco. Purchases should be made in accordance with the State prices, else licences would be revoked. Ministers Kurasala Kannababu, Adimulapu Suresh, and Balineni Srinivas Reddy, and TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy were among those present.
19 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP misused its majority in Council: Botcha||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana on Thursday lashed out at TDP MLCs for trying to stall the government’s functioning by blocking the passage of crucial Bills in the Council. Mr. Satyanarayana told the media that while having a discussion under Rule 90, notice has to be given a day in advance, but TDP members intentionally utilised it to halt the Bills They purposely created disturbance in the House and even the Deputy Chairman was seen biased towards them. It was clearly witnessed that the TDP MLCs were aggressive and misused their majority to stall the proceedings, he said. The Minister criticised N. Lokesh for taking videos of the proceedings on his cell phone and circulating them on social media. “In the past, Mr. Lokesh was warned. However, he repeated it despite orders from the Chair. When the Ministers tried to tell him, they were attacked both physically and verbally,” he alleged.
19 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||RS nominee meets Jagan||Parimal Natwani, who is in the fray for Rajya Sabha polls from Andhra Pradesh, on Thursday called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Natwani is among the four candidates fielded by the YSRCP. Voting will be conducted on the Assembly premises on Friday.
19 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man wanted in 15 theft cases held||The police arrested a 24-year-old man on Thursday in connection with 15 theft cases registered in nine police stations across East Godavari district since 2018. Addressing the media at Rayavaram, East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi said that Kodi Chennakesava, wanted in the 15 theft cases, was arrested. Booty recovered Around 310 gm of gold, 1.8 kg silver and a two-wheeler had been recovered from the possession of the accused. The total worth of the valuables recovered from him has been put at Rs. 13.5 lakh. The police have registered a case and investigation is on.
19 June 2020||KANCHIKACHERLA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed, two injured as roof of old house collapses||One person died and two others suffered injuries when the roof of a house collapsed due to heavy rain at Gottumukkala village in the district late on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as Pathuri Sattaiah (74). The injured, P. Manikyamma (wife of Sattaiah) and daughter-in-law P. Shiva Parvathi, have been admitted in a private hospital in Vijayawada. On receiving information, the Kanchikacherla police and fire personnel rushed to the spot and rescued four other family members trapped in the dilapidated house. “The building was constructed in 1946 and it got soaked due to the rain and developed cracks. Around 10.30 p.m. the roof of a portion of the house caved in and Sattaiah died on the spot,” said Kanchikacherla SI G. Srihari. Nandigama Fire Officer Ramesh said the condition of the injured was stated to be stable, and the remaining escaped unhurt. “The building is in a dilapidated condition and unfit for living. The firemen and police removed the rubble and shifted Manikyamma and Shiva Parvathi to hospital,” Mr. Ramesh said.
19 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress pays tributes to valiant soldiers||The Congress party workers are ready to provide physical support to the Indian Army as and when the need arises, APCC president S. Sailajanath has said. Paying floral tributes to the 20 martyred soldiers in the face-off with the Chinese forces at Galwan Valley, at the DCC office here on Thursday, Mr. Sailajanath said, “The Congress party and Indian citizens are with the Indian soldiers.” He questioned the Prime Minister for “keeping quiet” for six weeks while the stand-off was taking serious turns. He took objection to the “delay in calling for an all-party meet on the issue.”
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC row: SC admits two more appeals||The Supreme Court on Thursday admitted separate appeals filed by Andhra State Election Commission and BJP leader Atluri Ramakrishna challenging the Andhra Pradesh High Court order reinstating N. Ramesh Kumar as the State poll panel chief. The High Court had struck down an ordinance, which retrospectively cut short the tenure of the State poll panel chief from five to three years. Mr. Ramesh Kumar was the incumbent in the office at that point of time. A Bench, led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, issued notice to Mr. Ramesh Kumar on both the appeals and tagged them to an earlier appeal filed by the Andhra Pradesh government. On June 10, the court declined the State government's interim plea to stay the High Court order setting aside the ordinance which amended the Andhra Pradesh Panchayati Raj Act of 1994. Now all three appeals on the issue would be heard together. The amendments had included restricting State Election Commissioner post to only retired High Court judges. Prior to the amendment, retired bureaucrats were also in the zone of consideration. The curtailment of the tenure of the Election Commissioner to three years had compelled the then incumbent to step down. Subsequently, a new Commissioner was appointed. The High Court, on May 29, set aside the amendments as retrospective legislation. It said the State did not have the power to appoint State Election Commissioners under Articles 243K and 243 ZA. The power to make the appointments vest personally with the Governor. It had found the reduction of the tenure from five to three years arbitrary and in violation of the right to equality under Article 14, the High Court had observed. HC verdict The High Court had delivered the judgment on a batch of writ petitions, including the one filed by Mr. Ramesh Kumar against the amendments and the subsequent appointment of a new SEC. The YSR Congress government on April 10 abruptly removed Mr. Ramesh Kumar from the post following the amendments in the 1994 Act.
19 June 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Undertrial tests positive for virus||A 24-year-old youth, accused in a rape case, has tested positive for coronavirus in the Rajamahendravaram Central Prison on Wednesday. Jail Superintendent S. Raja Rao said the undertrial arrived in the prison on the night of June 16 after a Vijayawada court remanded him in judicial custody. The next day, the Vijayawada police informed that the accused had tested positive for the medical tests conducted in Vijayawada. Mr. Rao said the undertrial had been admitted to the GSL hospital in Rajamahendravaram on the night of June 17. The prison authorities on Thursday conducted medical tests for the staff on the prison campus.
19 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam tops North Andhra region in positive cases||Srikakulam, which remained free from coronavirus till April 25, has made it to the top spot among the three north Andhra districts in the number of positive cases. The number of positive cases in Srikakulam district went up to 418 on Thursday, surpassing Visakhapatnam (352 cases) and Vizianagaram (116 cases). Officials said that the situation might turn for the worse in the coming weeks as many positive cases were being reported on a daily basis. As many as 84 cases were reported on Wednesday alone. Man dies at Mandasa Around 30,000 people have returned from various places to the district in the last one month, which is being largely attributed to the spurt in the infection count. A 37-years-old man without any known travel history died of COVID at Mandasa village, 70 km away from the district headquarters. With the steep rise in the positive cases in Srikakulam town, the district administration has declared ten streets including PN Colony and Mahalakshmi Nagar as containment zones. ‘Many cases asymptomatic’ Collector J. Nivas has been inspecting the sanitation and implementation of COVID-19 protocols in the containment zones. “Many persons who have been tested positive are asymptomatic. This is a big challenge as without symptoms, people do not even know that they have contracted the infection,” said Mr. Nivas. The district administration have instructed all the doctors working at government hospitals to conduct tests on the people with respiratory problems. “Isolation wards will be arranged in all community hospitals. The doctors and medical staff have been told to wear protective gear without fail,” said the Collector. District Medical and Health officer M. Chenchaiah advised people to be careful during the rainy season. “Every person must wear mask and maintain social distance,” he added. Meanwhile, senior citizens and differently abled people have complained that they are facing problems with the stringent norms in the containment zones. ‘Relax norms’ “With the restrictions in place, we are unable to buy even medicines. Senior citizens and differently abled people also need help as some areas have been under stringent restrictions for the last two months. The authorities should ensure smooth supply of essentials in the containment zones and relax the norms if possible,” said Art of Living coordinator K.S.N. Murthy from PN Colony which has been declared as a containment zone.
19 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD doubles quota of special darshan tickets||In a heartening news to the devotees of Lord Balaji, the TTD on Thursday doubled the online quota of Rs. 300 special entry darshan tickets from June 19 till June 30. At present, about 6,750 darshan tickets are made available to devotees on a daily basis. While 3,000 tickets (Rs. 300 special entry darshan) are made available online, the rest 3,750 tickets are issued offline across the TTD counters at Tirupati. With the latest decision, the online quota has swelled to 6,000 tickets a day. For the convenience of devotees, 250 tickets have been additionally made available on an hourly basis which can be availed on TTDs websitehttps://tirupatibalaji. ap.gov.in.
19 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘No horn zone’ campaign launched at Tirumala||Tirupati (Urban) Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy officially launched ‘No horn zone’ campaign here on Thursday. Speaking to the media, Mr. Reddy urged the visiting devotees to develop ‘self restraint’ and refrain themselves from (unnecessary) honking of horns and thereby contribute their part in maintaining the spiritual ambiance of the sacred town. The department would work in tandem with TTD in setting up parking lots at certain identified locations and regulate local cabs and jeeps in such a way that it turns advantageous for the teeming public. “Though imposing of hefty penalties on erring drivers is an option to prevent them from the habit of blaring horns, I am just averse to the very idea as I want them to realise the noble intention behind the campaign and wish them to voluntarily contribute to the cause as it will alone have a lasting effect in the years to come,” he said.  Battery-operated cars To bring down the noise pollution atop the town, the department was also toying with the proposal of introducing battery cars, which he said can be easily pooled by appealing to the donors.“If everything goes on expected lines, plans are also afoot to replicate the Tirumala model even at Tirupati.” Mr. Reddy, who welcomed a suggestion for organising periodical awareness programmes to APSRTC bus drivers who are the major players on both ghat roads, exhorted his officials to convene a meeting with the authorities concerned.
19 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP educates people on Centre’s achievements||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders created awareness among people in Chittoor district about the achievements of the Central government as part of the ‘Jan Jagran’, a mass contact initiative marking one year of the party at office. A team led by BJP’s district president B. Chandra Reddy and state executive member G. Gopinatha Reddy urged the people the strengthen the hand of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure the development o the country. “The BJP government at the Centre has taken several pressing issues that had been remained unaddressed since long to logical conclusion. Apart from putting up a good fight against the coronavirus, the Centre is committed to resurrecting the economy amid the pandemic,” said Mr. Chandra Reddy. The BJP leaders and activists distributed pamphlets to the people, highlighting the achievements of the NDA government. “After coming to power for the second time a with huge mandate, Mr. Modi has taken many path-breaking decisions for the development of the country and public welfare,” said Mr. Gopinatha Reddy.
19 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Santosh Babu||Rich tributes were paid to Col. Santosh Babu, the brave soldier from Suryapet who was among the several martyred at Ladakh due to Chinese aggression. Former MP Chinta Mohan garlanded to the martyr’s portrait and called him a ‘proud son of the Telugu soil’. Tirupati Urban SP Avula Ramesh Reddy paid tributes to the departed soldier at the Armed Reserve parade grounds. All the police personnel stood in silence for a few minutes as a mark of respect.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 425 new cases, curve continues to climb steeply||The growing incidence of COVID-19 infection among locals and those coming from abroad and other States during the past few weeks has more than doubled the total number of cases in the past 18 days. During the past 24 hours, 425 new cases and two deaths due to it were reported in the State, taking the tally to 7, 496 and the toll to 92, according to the State’s bulletin issued on Thursday. During ‘Unlock 1.0’— between June 1 and June 18 — the State reported 3, 925 cases which are 52% of the total cases. The remaining 3, 571 cases were reported between March 12 and May 31 and account for 48% of the total cases. Both the deaths occurred in Krishna district which has the highest mortality rate of 3.42%. Of the total 7, 496 cases, as many as 3, 772 persons have recovered, including the cases of 131 new recoveries during the past 24 hours, and 3, 632 persons are undergoing treatment in the State. As many as 5, 854 cases (78%) of the total cases are of locals and the remaining 22% are of foreign returnees (289) and migrant returnees and other State people (1,353). Most of the new local cases were reported in Anantapur (62), Kurnool (50) and West Godavari (38) districts. They are followed by Krishna (28), Nellore (26), Kadapa (23), Chittoor (18), East Godavari (18), Guntur (14), Prakasam (11), Srikakulam (4), Visakhapatnam (4) and Vizianagaram (3). Among foreign returnees and other State people, 26 and 100 cases respectively were reported.  District tallies The district tallies of local cases are also follows: Kurnool (1,201), Krishna (849), Guntur (708), Anantapur (642), Nellore (451), East Godavari (422), Chittoor (406), West Godavari (386), Kadapa (292), Visakhapatnam (233), Prakasam (128), Vizianagaram (77) and Srikakulam (59). Meanwhile, the State has crossed the six-lakh-mark in tests, including the 13, 923 conducted in the past day. So far, the State has tested 6, 12, 397 samples and in the past 18 days, nearly 3 lakh samples were conducted. The State’s tests per million population ratio is at 11, 468. The positivity rate is 1.22% and the mortality rate is 1.23%. The recovery rate fell to 50.32% due to the huge number of new cases reported in the recent past.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLCs seek action against YSRCP leaders||Telugu Desam Party MLCs P. Ashok Babu and G. Deepak Reddy on Thursday condemned what they called “uncivilised” behaviour of YSR Congress Party leaders in the Legislative Council and urged the Chairman to initiate stringent action against them. In a letter addressed to the Chairman, they said on Wednesday, the TDP had given a notice seeking a discussion under Rule 90 and the Chairman had given permission for it. But going by the importance of the Appropriation Bill, it was decided to take it up first before Rule 90, but the discussion did not happen. They said 18 Ministers, including those who did not have any role in the Council’s agenda, came to the House and targeted the TDP members by using abusive language. Condemning the “provocative” behaviour of Ministers Anil Kumar and Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, the TDP leaders alleged that Mr. Srinivasa Rao tried to attack TDP member Beeda Ravichandra, who retaliated in self-defence. At the same time, a few other Ministers targeted TDP leader Nara Lokesh which was opposed. The TDP leaders said the ruling party’s attempt to table the Bills pertaining to three capitals and CRDA that were in court purview, was tantamount to gross violation of constitutional norms. Reminding that the ‘capital’ Bill was referred to the Select Committee by the Council in the past, they said no meetings had been conducted so far to discuss the issue. ‘Release video footage’ The TDP leaders asserted that their party members had acted in self-defence when the Ministers tried to attack them. They said the Chairman should take a stand after viewing the video footage of the proceedings to identify the persons who had instigated such violence. They also found fault with the government policy of not telecasting the proceedings of the Council and demanded that video footage of Wednesday’s attack be released to the media so people could decide who was at fault.  Telugu Desam Party members had acted in self-defence when the Ministers tried to attack them P. Ashok Babu & G. Deepak Reddy TDP MLCs
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Botcha blocked Appropriation Bill in Council’||TDP State president K. Kala Venkata Rao accused Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana of stalling the passage of the Appropriation Bill in the Legislative Council by obstructing Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy when he got up to move the Bill. In a press release on Thursday, Mr. Venkata Rao said priority was given to the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills as per the YSR Congress Party’s political agenda, which clearly took precedence over important legislative business. He also took objection to the winding up of the proceedings in the Assembly without giving a chance for the Leader of the Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu to speak. ‘Arbitrary decisions’ Thirteen Bills were rushed through in just two days devoid of any discussion as the ruling party was bent on taking arbitrary decisions, he said. Mr. Venkata Rao questioned what were 18 Ministers who had no voting right, doing in the Council and expressed regret that the entire sessions were like shrouded in secrecy.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC services resume between AP, Karnataka||With inter-State bus operations resuming between Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka from Thursday, there is a surge in online bus ticket enquiries by passengers on the popular routes, according to Abhibus.com, an online bus ticketing aggregator. On the first day, the APSRTC and KSRTC operated more than 100 services, connecting 28 cities and towns of Andhra Pradesh with Bengaluru and more than 30,000 people made use of the services to reach their respective destinations. The private bus operators meanwhile, have been plying, connecting the towns and cities of Andhra Pradesh with Bengaluru, Mysore, and Bellary etc. While Andhra Pradesh operated 481 buses to Karnataka, the latter plied 529 bus services, the highest ever inter-State services in a route in the country after Unlock 1.0.  Self-registration must “The public response is overwhelming,” said Rohit Sharma, Chief Operating Officer, Abhibus. As a proof of identity, the passengers are advised to carry Aadhaar cards during the journey. The Karnataka-bound passengers should mandatorily register in the Seva Sindhu Portal (https://sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in) of the Karnataka government and they need to show the proof of self-registration to the RTC officials and the Karnataka police. Otherwise, boarding will be denied, as per Karnataka government orders.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC’s water supply project gets green light||The project of replacing drinking water pipelines under the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) Scheme which has been shelved previously, is now going to be implemented with the State government according revised administrative sanction for the project worth Rs. 100 crore. Following the recommendation by VMC Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh, the government has accorded sanction to the project, according to a GO issued by the Municipal Administrative and Urban Development Department. As per the order, old distributing pipelines would be replaced and new technology would be used to regulate flow and avoid wastage. Of the Rs. 100.07 crore, Rs. 24.17 crore would be borne by the Centre under AMRUT, Rs. 14.50 crore by the State government, Rs. 57.24 crore by the VMC from 14th Finance Commission grants and Rs. 4 crore by the VMC for the tendering process. The VMC had earlier planned to bring in water meters by providing 24x7 drinking water supply in select areas of the city.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna’s plea to Governor on quota||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has requested Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to direct the government to implement 10% reservation for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) among the upper castes in recruitment and admissions to higher and professional educational institutions. In a letter to the Governor on Thursday, Mr. Lakshminarayana said the youth belonging to the EWS were deprived of 10% reservation provided by the Central government due to its non-implementation by the State. This 10% quota was a historic decision taken by the Centre, he observed. Appeals made to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to implement the 10% quota for the EWS among the upper castes fell on deaf ears, Mr. Lakshminarayana alleged seeking the Governor's intervention.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex gratia given to kin of road accident victims||Krishna Collector A.Md. Imtiaz along with Nandigama MLA M. Jagan Mohan Rao gave away ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh to the kin of each of four persons killed in the road accident at Vedadri , on Thursday. Twelve persons, including eight from Telangana and four from Krishna district, died in the accident involving a tractor and a truck on Wednesday.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buses to Telangana in a week||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) may start bus services to Telangana by next week, according to the Corporation’s Executive Director (Operations) Brahmandanda Reddy. The APSRTC officials held preliminary round of discussions with their Telangana counterparts on Thursday on resuming bus services between the two Telugu-speaking States after a prolonged lockdown on account of the prevailing pandemic. The buses will be operated in four phases and in the first, the APSRTC will ply 256 buses to Telangana, said Mr. Reddy, adding that the all operations would be in strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held for selling gutkha, cigarettes||Commissioner’s Task Force sleuths arrested three persons in possession of a huge quantity of gutkha and foreign cigarettes worth Rs. 30 lakh in the city on Thursday. The accused were identified as Pilla Srinivasa Rao (40) of Kanuru, Gangeti Narasimha Rao (30) and Jangala Nagendra Babu (30) of Ramalingeswara Nagar in the city. Brought from Bidar They had sourced the contraband from Bidar and stacked it up in two cars parked in Kanuru area. Police said that the accused were selling the illegal goods to various shops in the city. Police seized various brands of prohibited gutkha and cigarettes and the cars used to store them.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu takes ‘violations’ to notice of Governor||Telugu Desam Party national president and Leader of the Opposition in Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly N. Chandrababu Naidu met Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Thursday and complained against the alleged violations of the Constitution by the government during the just- concluded two-day session of the State Legislature. Speaking to mediapersons later, Mr. Naidu took strong objection to the moving (in the Council) of Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills, which were supposed to be referred to a select committee as recommended by the Council Chairman. He alleged that the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) MLCs had vitiated the proceedings in the Council and attacked TDP members. It was a repeat of the unruly scenes witnessed in the Council during the session in January when the YSRC MLCs went to the extent of threatening Chairman Md. Shariff with dire consequences if he did not toe their line. Mr. Shariff did not buckle under pressure and resolved that the said Bills be referred to a select committee. Notwithstanding that, the government brought the Bills again in the Council on Wednesday. Mr. Naidu said he took the chaos in the Council, cases foisted on four TDP leadersand other anti- democratic actions to the Governor's notice.
19 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLCs get pat from Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said his party MLCs bravely fought back against members of the YSR Congress (YSRC) in the Legislative Council as the latter attacked them, and exhorted them to be vigilant to such acts of intimidation by the ruling party. Addressing party leaders through a video-conference on Thursday, Mr. Naidu said some TDP MLCs attended the session in spite of being aged and unwell. It showed their commitment to service of people. He exhorted the party leaders to continue with the same spirit and thwart “the evil designs” of the YSRC which was trying to bulldoze its opponents.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No Rath Yatra for first time since 1864||The 188-year-old Sri Jagannadha Swamy temple at Kotha Road in Old Town will not be organising the annual Rath Yatra this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. This will be the first time in 156 years that the car festival will not be celebrated at the temple, which has been organising it every year since 1864. According to the head priest of the temple, P. Jagannadha Acharyulu, the temple was built and consecrated in 1832 and the annual festival started to be held from 1864. “However, the festival had to be suspended this year due to the outbreak of COVID-19,” he said. The temple was built by the Vysyas, which was the predominant community in Old Town at that time. Since then, Mr. Acharyulu’s family has been performing the pujas and rituals at the temple. The Rath Yatra begins on June 23 and will be observed till July 3. Earlier, the chariot carrying the idols of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra was pulled by devotees from the temple up to the Indira Jamuna temple located near Poorna Market. However, since the last four decades, the chariot is being pulled up to Turner’s Choultry, where the ‘Gundicha Ghar’ has been set up. “The present chariot, built with solid wood and weighing several tonnes, has been in use for the last 80 years,” said Mr. Acharyulu. Only darshan Keeping the pandemic in mind, temple authorities have confirmed that devotees will be allowed to only have darshan of the deities. Speaking to The Hindu , Executive Officer of the temple K. Sirisha said that no one will be allowed to bring any kind of puja material inside the temple and will be allowed only for a brief darshan. According to her, all devotees will have to bring at least one identity proof. “Wearing a mask is compulsory and no one will be allowed without it. We also advise senior citizens and children below 10 years not to come to the temple,” she said. The temple will be open from 6.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. and two lines will be created for entry and exit. Though the festival begins from June 23, entry of devotees will commence from June 24.  The Lord will be brought out of the sanctum sanctorum and kept in a specially erected ‘Mandapam’ for the darshan of the devotees. “Except for the Rath Yatra, all other rituals will be observed during the period and the pujas will be performed only by the priests,” said Mr. Acharyulu.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Urban areas report spurt in positive cases||A few urban areas in the district that have reported COVID-19 cases, such as Anakapalle, Madhurawada and Appughar, have seen a spurt in cases after the lockdown was relaxed post June 1, and have contributed 40% of the total active coronavirus cases in the district. In Anakapalle, both the Town and Rural limits have been the worst-hit as they have reported the maximum number of cases in the district. While Anakapalle Town has reported 23 COVID-19 cases alone, the rural area has seen 12 COVID-19 cases were reported from four clusters - Kundram, Rebaka, Bowlavada, and Bhatlapudi. In the case of Anakapalle Town, the COVID-19 graph started on June 5 when a family of five, who run an electrical appliance shop at Chintavariveedhi, tested positive. Later, 14 workers in their shop tested positive, followed by five more persons from the zone. Though according to the new rules, the containment zone should not be spread over a radius of 200 m, the district administration has decided to form the containment zones with a radius of 700 m from the epicentre of the cluster, as officials from the Health Department, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) have identified that a large number of people from five localities including Chintavariveedhi, Dibbaveedhi, Kota Veedhi and two others have visited the shop when they announced a sale. Tests are being conducted on a massive scale. “Since the containment zone came into force, nearly 900 tests have been conducted. Another 300 reports are yet to come. Around 30,000 people reside in the containment zone. We have been making all efforts to make sure residents face no problem in getting essential commodities. Sanitation activities are being conducted without fail,” said Sriram Murthy, GVMC’s Anakapalle Zonal Commissioner. The Health Department has also decided to conduct tests for people aged above 60 years in the containment zone without fail. Densely populated area Appughar from Zone II has been the cluster with the maximum number of cases after the relaxation was announced. On Thursday evening, the cluster reported 18 more COVID-19 cases, taking its tally to 34. Similar to Anakapalle Town, police have increased the containment zone here too, in order to prevent movement of people in the densely populated area. Inspector of MVP police station Ch. Shanmukha Rao said that the containment zone has been extended to 500 m. “Apart from the cases from Appughar, another case was reported from MVP Colony. Suspecting movement of people to relatives houses from Appughar, the containment zone has been extended towards Cancer Hospital road and parts of Beach Road,” he said. A few areas like Sai Ram Colony and Gayatri Nagar from Zone I have been contained after an increase in COVID-19 cases. While Sai Ram Colony has reported 15 COVID-19 cases till Wednesday, two more cases were reported on Thursday, taking the tally to 17. Similarly, Gayathri Nagar has reported six cases. The two areas in Kommadi and PM Palem have reported 21 cases. The entire stretch has been blocked by the officials. Door-to-door surveillance is being actively conducted in the cluster areas. Zone I in GVMC limits conducted nearly 3,000 tests, which is the highest,” said Zonal Commissioner-I B. Ramu.
19 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Masks and sanitisers available aplenty, but quality remains suspect, say experts||When the coronavirus started spreading its tentacles in the city there was heavy demand for sanitisers and masks. One found it difficult to get them as medical shops and other stores put up ‘no stock’ boards. Now, it’s a problem of plenty. Sanitisers and masks are being sold on almost every street. With substandard ones flooding the market, the public are in a dilemma whether they are buying the right one or not. While some complain of uneasiness while walking wearing masks, experts say only quality masks and sanitisers serve the purpose. Moreover, use of substandard masks may lead to health problems, they say. Senior citizens were overheard discussing near a rythu bazaar that the use of a substandard mask purchased at a roadside stall had resulted in skin rashes among their family members. There is a possibility of the cloth from discarded clothes being used in the making of masks in the absence of any vigilance on their sales. This apart, the effectiveness of these masks is also doubtful. Coming to sanitisers, the less said the better. Some unscrupulous traders are said to be making them locally without adhering to the right mix of ingredients. The raw materials are purchased at local shops and mixed by watching the process on YouTube. “The other day I purchased a bottle of disinfectant used for sanitisation of electronic gadgets like electronic watches and mobile phones at a roadside stall. I used the disinfectant a few times after coming home on my electronic wristwatch. I realised that the disinfectant had water content only after the digital display was damaged,” said Ch. Srinivasa Rao of Madhura Nagar area in the city. “Disinfectants, without water content, that do not damage electronic gadgets are available and one has to be careful in selecting the right one. Same is the case with masks and sanitisers. Apart from choosing the right ones, proper handling and storage of masks is important. Using a substandard sanitiser can cause skin problems and storing a reusable mask in a dusty place and reusing it may cause more harm than good,” he said.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP criticises relocation of horticulture research centre||The shifting of the Horticulture Research Centre from T. Venkupalem village near Anakapalle reflects the commitment of the YSRCP Government towards the development of Visakhapatnam and north Andhra, TDP rural district general secretary and MLC Buddha Naga Jagadeeswara Rao said. Criticising the decision of the State Government to close the research centre, which was sanctioned by the TDP Government in 2017 as there was no such centre in the three districts of north Andhra, Mr. Naga Jagadeeswara Rao told reporters on Thursday that Mr. Naidu had sanctioned 100 acres of land for its establishment and pending construction of the buildings, it was being run from an existing building at the market yard for the last two years. While stating that the TDP has no objection to the sanctioning of an additional horticulture centre at Pulivendula by the YSRCP government, the MLC said that it was wrong to close the existing one near Anakapalle, and sought its continuation. “The spread of coronavirus in the State is due to the opening of liquor shops amidst the pandemic. All the good work done by the police, doctors, revenue officials and NGOs for 42 days was undone with the opening of the liquor shops. The failure to comply with the safety norms at the liquor shops has contributed to the rapid spread of the virus. It has also caused a hindrance to the spraying of disinfectants and supply of rations in containment zones due to the long queues at the liquor shops,” he alleged. Mr. Rao claimed that the government failed to keep its promise of filling vacant teacher posts, and the assurance on supply of fine rice in pouches through volunteers under the Public Distribution System. He deplored the unruly behaviour of Minister Anil Kumar Yadav towards former Minister N. Lokesh and alleged that false cases were foisted against former Ministers K. Atchannaidu, Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, China Rajapppa and MLA V. Ramakrishna Babu.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scrap SSC exams, appeals outfit||The Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) has sought the scrapping of SSC examinations in the State and promotion of students based on internal marks obtained in the past. In separate letters to the Chief Minister and the Minister for Education, PAV State general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and president M.V. Ramanayya said the proposal to go ahead with the examinations was nothing but playing with the lives of children at a time when medical experts are warning that children and senior citizens are at greater risk of contracting COVID-19. They appealed to the Chief Minister to reconsider the decision and spare the parents and teachers of their anxiety.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police seize ganja worth Rs. 80 lakh||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Narsipatnam arrested three inter-State smugglers who were allegedly transporting 800 kg of ganja from the Agency areas to Uttar Pradesh, in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth more than Rs. 80 lakh. According to sources, the three persons – one from Odisha and two from Punjab - procured the ganja from some persons at Chitrakonda (Odisha) and G.K Veedhi in Visakhapatnam Agency. Sources said that the accused from Odisha was escorting them till the National Highway. The SEB intercepted the vehicle between Chintapalle and Narsipatnam and nabbed the accused.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh passes off peacefully in Visakha Agency||The 48-hour bandh called by the Girijan Joint Action Committee in the Visakha agency concluded peacefully on Thursday without any untoward incident. It was total and everything had come to standstill in all the 11 mandals in the agency area. Since the issue pertained to the welfare of girijans, the response to the bandh was spontaneous and voluntary, said a senior police officer from Visakhapatnam district. The tribals have taken a strong objection to the Supreme Court quashing GO 3 of 2000, that provided 100% reservation to the Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates for the posts of teachers in the schools in the Scheduled Areas and the bandh call was given against it, said Kilo Surendra, president of the JAC.  After over two decades of struggle, G.O. 3. was passed in 2000. Since then tribal youth were getting recruited as teachers for the schools in the Schedule areas. Now with the quashing of the order by the Supreme Court, the tribals had lost the right that was enshrined in the Constitution, said V.S. Krishna of the Human Rights Forum. Mr. Surendra told The Hindu that the judgement was detrimental to the development of tribals in the Schedule areas. “We demand that the State government should file a review petition in the apex court and see that GO 3 is safeguarded,” he said. Meanwhile, the Tribal Advisory Committee held a meeting at Amaravati on Thursday, and the outcome of it is yet to be known.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 new cases in district||Twenty-five new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Thursday, taking the total count to 353. Out of the 25 cases, 18 were reported from Appughar area in MVP Colony. It may be noted that Appughar area alone has reported 31 cases within the last 48 hours. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district as of Thursday is 185. Meanwhile, three more COVID-19 patients were discharged after testing negative. The total number of discharged persons stands at 167. One person had died of COVID-19 in Chengalraopeta. Apart from the 18 new cases from Appughar, two COVID-19 cases with a travel history to Hyderabad were reported from Seethammadhara, while two more cases were reported from Sai Ram Colony in Kommadi. The other three cases were reported from various areas of the city. Health officials are on their toes due to the COVID-19 outbreak in Appughar area.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UV-based coronavirus cleaner for gadgets arrives||A device manufactured by a couple of young entrepreneurs from the city with a technology developed by a Delhi-based firm founded by two IITians seems to have made some progress in preventing certain baggages like cameras and smartphones from transmitting coronavirus into homes, workplaces and clinics. The youngsters claim that they had entered into a ‘knowledge sharing partnership’ with TestRight Nanosystems Private Limited, which invented the product Micrcobial Ultra Violet-C Disinfection Casket under the brand name Corona Cleaner. According to Nilesh Agrawal and Mritunjay Khemka, promoters of startup Vitalyse Meditech Company, they have started manufacturing it at their workshop at Autonagar in the city and have been selling the device pan India after lockdown norms were relaxed. German material They are using the UVC technology in the device. UVC rays disintegrate the RNA of a virus thereby eliminating the risk. They claim that they are using quality German radiators along with all sorts of safety features to ensure no leakage of UVC rays. They say the product has been approved by the CSIR-National Physical Laboratory and the Defence Research and Development Organisation. It also has the Quality Asia Certification and CE certification. “COVID-19 got us glued to the news like many others and subjected us to stress over adapting our lives to deal with the changes the pandemic will have in our homes, schools and workplaces. We constantly discussed all kinds of good that we could do to society and were fortunate to get in touch with our friends who were working on the Corona Cleaner technology just at the right time,” Mr. Nilesh tells The Hindu . The device comes in a size which is ideal for home, office, retails, clinics and a number of locations, he says.
19 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 held for ‘bootlegging’||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted raids at three places and arrested four persons for allegedly selling liquor without possessing a valid licence, in the city on Thursday. The CTF teams seized 117 liquor bottles from their possession. Meanwhile, the CTF also arrested seven persons from Kerala while they were allegedly transporting 10 kg ganja, near Naidu Thota area.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Website launched for sand supply||A website –www.ap.gov.in– has been launched to ensure transparency and streamline the supply of sand, under the new sand policy, Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy said. Mr. Reddy gave a PowerPoint presentation on applying online for sand to the officials of various departments and government and private contractors. He said that 40 lakh tonnes of sand was available in the State and 1.5 lakh tonnes was available at stockyards in the district. He also clarified doubts raised by the participants on sand supply. At a meeting with officials of agriculture and allied departments, Mr. Reddy said that the benefits under Rythu Bharosa should reach farmers by June 20. The distribution of 28,000 quintals of the 36,929 quintals, has already been completed and the remaining should be supplied to the farmers within the next few days, he said.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SC puts brakes on car festival||Utkal Sanskrutika Samaj has decided not to take out any Rath Yatra procession in the city following a directive from the Supreme Court that the festival not be held in Puri this year. While the nine-day annual ritual is observed across the world, the showpiece event is held in Puri, Odisha. “We may celebrate the festival inside the temple symbolically, subject to consent from the authorities,” USS president J.K. Nayak said. The yatra is celebrated separately by temple committees of VSP, Hindustan Shipyard Ltd and ISKCON.
19 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSEZ units pay homage to fallen soldiers||The officials of Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone, which has 510 units spread over Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Chhattisgarh, on Thursday observed two minutes’ silence to pay homage to Col. Santosh Babu and his team of 20 soldiers, who laid down their lives at the Line of Actual Control fighting Chinese troops in Ladakh. Keeping in view the COVID-19 pandemic, Development Commissioner A. Rama Mohan Reddy held a virtual video-conferencing with all the units, Customs officers of all the States under his jurisdiction from the administrative building of VSEZ located at Duvvada here. Mr. Reddy hailed the soldiers for making the supreme sacrifice.
19 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation stone laid for skill centre||Officials of Andhra University, along with Avanthi Feeds Limited, laid the foundation stone for the AU-Avanthi Aquaculture Skill Development Centre at AU Marine Living Resources Building, on the university campus on Thursday. AU Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D Prasada Reddy said that the centre, set up at a budget of Rs. 1.25 crore, will be useful for youth from the fisherfolk community to upgrade their skills and secure employment. He said that three more skill development centres are going to be set up in the varsity, including one with Hoon Maritime Institute and another Centre-State collaborated IoT skill development centre. Expressing happiness on their collaboration with Andhra University, Avanthi Feeds managing director A. Indra Kumar said that they would extend complete support to the centre.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reduced seating capacity impacts APSRTC revenue||The occupancy rate in the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) buses as per the COVID-19 protocol is 83% in the Anantapur region, but the reduced seating capacity and lack of patronage from the rural areas, have affected the revenue of the corporation. Against an average daily revenue of Rs. 1.10 crore from bus operations, currently Rs. 25 lakh is being realised as the occupancy accounts for only 54% of actual available seats during normal time. Currently the region is running 327 services against a normal of 873 in the intra-district and intra-State segment and with the State government permitting services to Karnataka from June 17, another 58 services have been added. “We have been allowed to operate inter-State buses only to Karnataka, while Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Maharashtra are still out of bounds for us,” Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni told The Hindu . He said in the first phase of the inter-State operations out of the regular 160 buses, 58 would be operated to Bellary, Sira, Bengaluru and Pavagada, which account for 98 services a day from both directions. “Currently the RTC is operating from 12 out of 13 depots in the region due to total lockdown in Hindupur. The Hindupur depot used to run between 40 and 50 buses on a daily basis within the State and to Karnataka.” Buses would be run to destinations in Karnataka from Guntakal, Kadiri, Penukonda, Anantapur, Tadipatri, Puttaparthi, Rayadurg, Kalyandurg, and Uravakonda. COVID restrictions The Kurnool region, meanwhile, has planned to run 20 services -- 16 to Bengaluru and four to Bellary from Srisailam, Mantralayam, Kurnool, Adoni, Nandyal, and Yemmiganur, said Kurnool Regional Manager T. Venkataramam. “We are operating around 300 buses daily, transporting 22,000 passengers and earning around Rs. 20 lakh despite COVID restrictions. The current daily revenue accounts for 15% of the normal earnings in the Kurnool region,” he added.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven arrested, 1,064 kg ganja seized from lorry in Chittoor||The Tirupati Urban police have arrested seven persons and seized 1,064 kg of ganja which was being transported in a lorry from Odisha to Chittoor on Wednesday. According to the police, the contraband packed in 36 bags was hidden under a load of jackfruit in the lorry and its estimated market price would be around Rs. 1crore. “A car was moving ahead of the lorry as a pilot to alert the accused about any checking by enforcement agencies. The police tried to stop the lorry at Ramachandrapuram Junction on Puthalapattu-Naidupeta highway during a routine check. But, the lorry and the car tried to speed past the junction. However, both the vehicles were intercepted after a distance,” said Tirupati Urban SP Avula Ramesh Reddy while producing the accused before the media on Thursday. Three absconding The accused have been identified as Srinivasulu (45), Veera Babu (30), Vempa Sridevi (35), Pattem Sekhar (24), car driver Janapureddy Ramkumar (30), truck drivers Shaik Khaja Hussain (45) and Shaik Hussain Alam (27). Three more accused are absconding. According to police, the contraband was allegedly loaded to the lorry in Mamilla Agency area and the consignment was supposed to be delivered to Kumar Raja from M. Bandapalle village in Puthalapattu mandal in Chittoor district.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Growing resentment||
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Go green||
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre of attraction||
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gutkha worth Rs. 10 lakh seized||The Kadapa police have arrested five people and seized banned chewing tobacco products worth Rs. 10 lakh from various locations across the city. Following the instructions of Superintendent of Police K.K.N. Anburajan, the special branch police conducted raids at Yerramukkapalle, ITI Circle, Vinayaka Nagar, Akkayapalli, Nakash and other locations. The accused have been identified as Meda Ramesh (42), Kambham Anki Reddy (42), Shaik Irfan (28), Charu Vishnukanth (27), Shaik Mahammad Ali (35). Mr. Anburajan congratulated the personnel of the special branch police for the drive.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transplantation time||
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New record set at Vizag Port||A new record was set at Visakhapatnam Port after 9,490 tonnes of steel slabs of Steel Authority of India Ltd were loaded on to a ship named MV Emil Selmer at East Quay-6 on Monday. This surpassed the previous record of 8,864 tonnes at EQ-3 on July 28. Orissa Stevedores Limited was the stevedoring firm while Seaways Shipping & Logistics was the steamer agent for MV Emil Selmer.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||(Power shutdown)||Due to maintenance work, there will be no electricity supply in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. — P&T Colony, Gandhinagar, parts of Nakkavanipalem, MRO office area and Satyam Computer Junction area, on Friday.
19 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Backward KB Asifabad tops||The backward Kumram Bheem Asifabad district stood first in State in the second year Intermediate results declared on Thursday, the pass percentage being 76. Students in this district, which is part of united Adilabad district, have performed well consistently in the Intermediate exams for the last three years. First year results The district stood second in the State so far as Inter first year results were concerned with a pass percentage of 71. Girls outperformed boys in the district in both first and second years. Adilabad slid to ninth position from last year's fourth in Inter second year with a pass percentage of 62 and to 28th place in the first year exams from third place. Nirmal district stood at 21st position with a pass percentage of 56 and Mancherial stood at 25th position with a pass percentage of 55 in the second year. In the first year Nirmal stood at 15th position with a pass percentage of 53 and Mancherial stood at 25th position with a pass percentage of 47.
19 June 2020||B. Pradeep,TELANGANA||Sentiment and respect override COVID-19 measures||Hundreds of residents and visitors from the town were at Telangana Talli centre here, expecting the arrival of the mortal remains of Col. Bikkumalla Santosh Babu. The time read 11.25 p.m. on Wednesday, and the police radio sounded, “Jangaon crossroad”. As the night was empty, screams of Bharat Mata ki Jai and Jai Jawan Jai Santosh Babu resonated the streets. Standing opposite in rows, men and women held candles and waited the 500-metre distance from the residence. More than 100 police personnel in the rope party and with barricades, controlled the crowd and regulated movement of media persons. But at 11.45 p.m., with the arrival of the ambulance led by the Military police and State representative G. Jagadish Reddy, situation turned crowded. Immediate measures such as an opening for visitors 12.05 a.m. onwards, hand sanitisation and entry and exit ways managed the crowd. However, on Thursday, all rules of social distancing went for a toss. With the visiting of each leader and their group, more violations occurred and general public who waited in long queues also missed the chance to catch a final glimpse of the Colonel. State Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy and TRS MLAs paid their tributes. From the BJP, its State president Bandi Sanjay, Nizamabad MP D. Arvind and Sankineni Venkateswara Rao were present. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy paid his homage and later walked with the convoy, and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy was also on foot with the chief mourner. Only the grieving family and the Indian Army stuck to the ‘only 50 persons on each side rule’ and other measures, which the District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy stated earlier. Suryapet had the second-most COVID positive numbers in the State last month. Officials, leaders and the people themselves expressed helplessness. “It is purely sentiment and respect for the martyr over the pandemic,” they said.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||5% rise in Intermediate 2nd year pass percentage||Pass percentage of second year Intermediate students saw an increase this year with 68.86% of students clearing the exams, which was around 5% above the last year’s percentage of 64.93. Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy, who released the results here on Thursday, said girls yet again outperformed boys securing 75.15% as against 62.10% of the boys. The first year results were also released along with the second year results and the pass percentage was 60.10. Results can be accessed at www.tsbie.cgg.gov.in/, http://results.cgg.gov.in/ and http://examresults.ts.nic.in/. Around 9.65 lakh students appeared for the Intermediate examination 2020 in both first-year and second-year examinations. Kumaram Bheem district recorded the highest number of pass with 76% followed by Medchal district with 75% in the second year while the two districts exchanged their positions in the first year results. Out of the 4.45 lakh regular candidates who appeared for second year examination, 1.54 lakh secured A Grade (Greater than or equal to 75% marks) and 71,800 secured B Grade (Greater than or equal to 60% and less than 75% marks) while 27,000 secured C Grade(Greater than or equal to 50% and less than 60% marks). In case of any complaint students can lodge online complaint through www.bigrs.telangana.gov.in. Keeping in view last year’s issues related to suicides of students, the BIE engaged the services of clinical psychologists to help the students overcome any problem related to stress, strain, tension, anxiety, nervousness etc. Students can call up the psychologists from 9 am to 9 pm. They can be approached on their phone numbers - Dr. Anitha (7337225803), Dr. Mazher Ali (7337225425), Dr. Rajini (7337225364), P. Jawaharlal Nehru (7337225360), S. Sreelatha (7337225083), Sailaja Pisapati (7337225098) and Anupama Guttimdevi (7337225763). There is a provision for recounting and seeking scanned copy-cum-reverification of the valued answer scripts. Candidates who wish to avail these facilities have to pay Rs. 100 per paper online for recounting and Rs. 600 per paper for scanned copy-cum-reverification of answer book, through http://tsbie.cgg.gov.in. The last date for payment of fee towards recounting and scanned copies is June 24 and there is refund of fee.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||As banks turn their back, farmers turn to money lenders||Notwithstanding investment support extended by government for agriculture in the State, the farmers have relied heavily on bank loans and private finance to fund their operations. But, the banks were found wanting in extending loans which drove farmers to borrow from private lenders at interest rates ranging from Rs. 2 to Rs. 5 per month for every Rs. 100 borrowed. For a borrowing of Rs. 10,000 from private lenders, the interest works out to Rs. 5,000 per month. On the other hand, the bank interest would not have been more than Rs. 1,000 per month for the same scale of borrowing. That the banks were lax in extending loans in Telangana was highlighted by none other than the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture. It said the banks fell short of the targeted loans by Rs. 10,000 crore in the last three years.  Low releases In none of the six years since formation of Telangana State, the banks have achieved their target of loaning. The State-level bankers committee had set a target of loaning Rs. 30,649 crore for the current year (2020-21) which is supposed to go up to Rs. 33,713 crore on Central government’s instructions to hike the payout to farmers by 10 % in view of coronavirus. But, the actual release so far was only Rs. 500 crore. The banks have always insisted that the farmers clear their outstanding before claiming fresh loans. But, the waiver of crop loans up to Rs. 25,000 by government this year has stopped farmers from repaying to banks. They were in the hope that the government will fulfill its election promise of waiving loans up to Rs. 1 lakh and, hence, not inclined to borrow afresh. Where the farmers repaid part of their old loans with interest, the same were being renewed but fresh loans were not sanctioned till the entire amount was recovered.  Letters written In these circumstances, the State Commission for Debt Relief to Small Farmers, Agricultural Labourers and Rural Artisans wrote to the State government that the farmers were neither getting crop loans in time nor for entire area of cultivation. Thus, they were forced to approach money lenders at an interest rate of 36 to 48 % per annum. The Commission has also written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman stating that nearly 40 % of farmers have not availed crop loans. The farming activity should be considered on par with micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and security free loans given up to at least Rs. four lakh on long-term basis. This way, farmers can save up to Rs. one lakh per year on interest portion of their private loans. Commission Chairman Nagurla Venkateswarlu told The Hindu that the need for stepped up bank loans was all the more important this year because the government has decided to promote cotton cultivation which needs higher investment.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A chance discovery of black buck habitat||A chance discovery by a wildlife photographer in the backwaters of Godavari near Nandipet (Nizamabad) may soon become wildlife lovers’ new favourite destination. Kyatham Santhosh Kumar spotted an exclusive ‘home’ for the endangered black bucks in the backwaters of Godavari near Nandipet in Nizamabad and went on to share them on social media. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted the pictures, praising Santhosh whose joy knew no bounds at being the one to discover the locale. The 49-year-old who works as the correspondent of Navyabharathi Global School in Nizamabad says he first spotted the black bucks about a decade ago but mistook it as a routine sighting in any fringe forest area. “It was only when I started dabbling in photography, especially bird watching in the past two years, that I realised the importance of these wonderful species. It was a terrific experience when I saw them jump over my car on the vast dried-up bed of the river project. Then, I decided to freeze them in my camera. I am glad to have discovered the amazing locale,” he says. Interestingly, the whole terrain will be inaccessible except during summer because of the water level which keeps rising through the monsoon and the dried-up bed is visible only from February, says Santhosh. “I must say thanks to my respected good friend and DFO Sunil S. Hiremath (IFS), for creating massive awareness in the last couple of days in his circles across India. In fact, I got a call from a senior IFS officer and he couldn’t believe there are so many black bucks in Nizamabad,” he said. “Now, the onus is on all of us — nature lovers, Forest officials and villagers — to ensure that the numbers of the black bucks here only grows and that we make this a destination for all nature lovers,” says Santhosh, adding that he also found 200 species of birds in and around the same place.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plasma therapy at Gandhi working: hospital head||Five coronavirus patients, who were administered plasma therapy at Gandhi Hospital, were recovering, its superintendent Raja Rao told the Telangana High Court on Thursday. Explaining precise details of every aspect related to COVID treatment in the hospital, Mr. Rao told the High Court, during a video-conference hearing, that 11 patients were on ventilator support while 168 in ICU. He informed the HC Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy that 12 doctors and six healthcare workers of Gandhi Hospital contracted the infection so far. He said that none of the family members of the doctors and health workers of the hospital contracted the virus. “The hospital doctors and staff have been battling the virus to the best of its capacity,” the superintendent said. Mr. Raja Rao also said that with PPE kits and N-95 masks, there was no need to conduct tests on doctors and para-medic staff everyday. It was found that doctors and staff of Gandhi Hospital, who contracted the virus, got it from outside and not from the contacts in hospital, the superintendent said. Fortunately, there was no casualty among the infected doctors and para-medic staff, he said. Counsel for one of the PIL petitioners, Sriranga Pujitha, told the Bench that tests conducted in Telangana were among the lowest vis-a-vis other states. Referring to the government’s claims that embarked upon conducting 50,000 tests in 10 days, the lawyer said that can be achieved only if 5,000 tests were done daily. But the government’s bulletins say only 1,251 and 1,096 tests were conducted on June 16 and 17 respectively. This was far below the ideal average of 5,000 tests a day, she said. Public Health Director Srinivasa Rao contended that the government decided to collect samples and conduct tests only when a positive case is reported. In the districts, there are no cases and hence very less number of tests were conducted whereas in GHMC areas maximum tests were held, he said.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cabs missing on the roads||As traffic flows freely in Hyderabad, missing from the roads are the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation buses. Also missing are the cabs that have tie-up with aggregators like Ola, Uber, Prydo and other companies. “There is no business. I am getting very few requests. Earlier, there was no time to breathe. Now, my cab is idling most of the time,” says Ravi who has listed his cab on two of the biggest aggregators in the city. “I will have to pay an EMI of Rs. 19,900 next month. I don’t know how I will do it,” says the owner-driver who hails from Mahabubabad, which is about 200 km from Hyderabad. Industry estimates According to industry estimates, Hyderabad has between 1 lakh and 1.3 lakh cabs operated under various ownership patterns. A large number of drivers hails from surrounding areas of Hyderabad and even Bidar who are either employed by vehicle owners or hire the vehicles for a fixed rate per month. The lockdown imposed to curb the spread of COVID-19 has upended their plans. The Unlock 1.0 has not helped as customers are still wary of using public transport. “I used to spend between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 7,000 on cabs for travelling to different locations for photo shoots. Now, I have stopped my work. I don’t want to take any risk,” says Kalyan Kumar, who does architectural photography. This cutdown in spending and trust-deficit has had its impact on cab drivers and drivers for hire. Some cab owners have created a bespoke plastic bubble that isolates the driver from the passengers. But such vehicles are few. “Between the lockdown and now, I have been hired only once to drive from Lanco Hills to Nalgonda and back. I keep waiting for people to call me so that I can make a living,” says Syed Muhammad Ozair who drives on a per-hour or per-day basis. “We have become dependent on help from others. We missed getting rations for April. How can you live with Rs. 1,500 that we got for two months?” says Mr. Ozair, who lives with his mother in Toli Chowki area.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Need for oxygen-aided beds for every 30-50 km’||COVID-19 should be considered a watershed moment and governments should invest heavily in public health skills and services because preventing deaths by providing adequate supportive care is the primary responsibility, says Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad director G.V.S. Murthy. Clinical evidence shows only a minority of patients needs ventilation while 15-20% need oxygen supplementation. Efforts should be made to provide oxygen-supported beds spread across a distance of every 30-50 km so that patients requiring such facilities do not need to travel too far, asserts the public health specialist. “Providing such facilities only at a few hospitals will be counter-productive as the risk of hospital transmitted infections will be higher. We see that most of the clustering of cases is urban-centric and therefore, a proper geographical spread of services is critical so that low-risk populations risk is not increased,” he warns. Considering 80% of all infected are asymptomatic and evidence shows that the risk of transmission is low from them yet it will be impossible to trace such persons except those who are in very close contact of an infected person. So, a high level of preparedness is essential both at the individual and government level, he affirms. Dr. Murthy calls for strict norms of “physical distancing, hand sanitisation, coughing and sneezing etiquettes, universal mask use and increased personal and family hygiene to be ensured by all individuals”. Most important measure is there should be no congregation of people with partying and religious congregations be strictly avoided as all the major outbreaks in the country have been linked to clustering of people, he adds. Testing is crucial to improve performance but no country has taken up universal testing for all people, hence a targeted testing approach yields better results. It means testing those at high risk of COVID-19 and their immediate contacts. Using a severe respiratory illness surveillance or an influenza-like illness surveillance as the first step and then doing an antigen test on those who have these symptoms is a better use of resources than testing blindly, he advocates. Antibody testing helps to identify what proportion of the population has already been infected to help classify the stage of the pandemic only but will not directly help in controlling the pandemic. A targeted testing approach is the optimal solution and for it to succeed, robust symptom surveillance mechanism is vital. If people are identified early in the disease they can be prevented from dying or from serious complications. “We can see this in our country where number of COVID-19 deaths among those identified as positive has decreased to 2.3% from 3.4%. This is because more RT-PCR tests are being done compared to the early stages,” Dr. Murthy points out. Governments should also initiate a public health cadre to tackle outbreaks for surveillance, rapid response and containment. They can act as community physicians to manage outbreaks and advise governments, he adds.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man-nature clash behind zoonotic diseases: WWF||The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has cautioned the world that new zoonotic diseases are emerging at an alarming rate due to the humanity’s ‘broken’ relationship with nature. The emerging zoonotic diseases have the potential to wreak havoc on health, economics and global security and the COVID-19 crisis demonstrated the devastating costs of global pandemics. The latest pandemic also reconfirmed how people and nature were interlinked and a negative impact on the natural world could increase the risk of future pandemics. The WWF released a special report on “COVID-19: Urgent call to protect people and nature” with several key findings. In the recent decades due to escalating levels of contact between humans, livestock and wildlife, the frequency and number of new zoonotic diseases originating in animals and transmitted to people had risen drastically. Giving out the reasons for emerging zoonotic diseases, the report said that unsustainable food systems and large-scale conversion of land for agriculture was increasing ‘interaction’ between wildlife, livestock and humans. “The problem is set to worsen as the challenge of feeding growing population increases and diets shift. Secondly, poor food safety standards, including permitting the trade and consumption of high risk wildlife species are increasing human exposure to animal pathogens,” it said. The COVID crisis exemplifies the devastating costs of global pandemics. Between December 2019 and May 2020, the report said that 3.7 lakh people died due to COVID-related causes in more than 200 countries, which is three times the number of people killed by armed conflict and terrorism every year. The economic impact has been estimated at between US$ 2.4 and US$ 8.8 trillion in lost output. About half of world’s workforce is at risk of losing their livelihoods, with social and economic effects, affecting already marginalised groups more, including women and indigenous communities. COVID may also impact food security — people at risk of acute hunger could rise from 135 million to 265 million by end of 2020, impact global stability with tensions escalating in volatile areas and geo-political rivalries between countries predicted to worsen, the report warned. Call for global action WWF called upon governments, all companies and industries, civil society organisations, general public to tackle the key drivers of pandemics, land use change, expansion and intensification of agriculture and animal production and consumption of high risk wildlife. It urged governments to protect and restore natural habitats, halve the footprint of production and consumption, eliminate deforestation, implement global biodiversity framework. It called upon all industries for credible action to promote sustainable production, encourage consumers to make sustainable dietary choices, and appealed to the civil society organisations to work with governments and industries to develop sustainable solutions and high risk wildlife exploitation, increase accountability of governments, international institutions.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Social, tribal welfare students do well||Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) registered 5.07% increase in average pass figurese from 84.31 in 2019 to 89.38 this year. The Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society too registered 2.72% increase in average pass figures from 82.36 in 2019 to 85.08 this year in the Intermediate examination results, said secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar. Minister for Social Welfare Koppula Eeshwar and Minister for Tribal Welfare Sathyavathi Rathod congratulated students on their outstanding results. Of the total candidates who appeared, 10,747 from 148 institutions passed, 8,594 with average pass percentage of 79.97 as against State average of 60; 10 institutions secured 100% results and 30 institutions secured above 90% results. In MPC group, Shiva Kurva got 464 marks, IIT Gowlidoddi; Ch. Akila 464 marks, V Mounika 464 marks and V Ashwini Kumar 464 marks. S Harshitha, Bi.PC 434 marks, TSWREI Narsingi; G. Chandana, MEC, 488 marks, TSWREI Gowlidoddi; D Yashwanth Kumar CEC 486 marks, TSWREI Cheriyal, S. Prasanna HEC 466 marks, TSWREI Left Pochanpadu. In the senior Intermediate results, of the total candidates who appeared, 10,064 from 141 institutions passed. The average pass percentage 89.38 as against state average pass percentage of 68.86. The average pass percentage increased to 89.38 (5.07% increase) from 84.31 last year. About 21 institutions secured 100% results and 17 institutions secured above 90% results: MPC group - 988 marks, Naresh IIT Gowlidoddi; Niranjan 988 marks IIT Gowlidoddi. Bi.PC – 987 marks S. Srija, TSWREI Nallakancha; MEC 977 marks, D Saikiran, TSWREI Ibrahimpatnam; CEC 958 Swamy, TSWREI Ibrahimpatnam - HEC 897 Ch Vanitha TSWREI Ingurthy. In Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TTWREIS), in junior Intermediate, 6,324 from 92 institutions appeared for the exam, 4,585 students passed, average pass percentage is 72.5 as against State average of 60 with two institutions securingd 100% results and 17 institutions above 90% results. Among the MPC group, 464 marks, Shiva Kumar, TTWREI IIT Rajendra Nagar; Bi.PC – 433 marks Jaya prakash, IIT Rajendra Nagar; CEC 479 marks, Raju PVTG, Mannur; HEC 464 marks Sumalatha, Sudimalla. In senior Intermediate results: 4,492 candidates from 65 institutions appeared and 3,822 passed. Average pass percentage is 85.08 as against State average of 68.86. The average pass percentage increased to 85.08 (2.72% increase) from 82.36 last year with four institutions securing 100% results and 20 institutions above 90% results. Vinod and Ganesh - MPC group 982 marks from TTWREI Rajendra Nagar, K. Pradeep Kumar, Bi.PC 977 marks from Centre of Excellence College Khammam, Venkat Ramana, CEC 938 marks TTWREI Adilabad; Sukanya, HEC., 929 marks TTWREI Chivemula.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Newly-married woman found dead at Trimulgherry||A newly-married woman was found dead at her house in Trimulgherry on Thursday. Police said the victim, Benny Priyanka Paul (25), who got married to Benny Andrew in March, committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. Last week, the couple moved into a new house in Chinnakamela in the area, as Andrew’s mother was allegedly harassing her by comparing her with his brother’s wife. “Yesterday, she confronted Andrew after she noticed him talking to his ex-girlfriends, following which the couple had a heated argument,” Tirmulgherry inspector S Ravi Kumar said. On Thursday, they again entered into an altercation when the husband physically assaulted her and left home. “An hour later, when Andrew returned home, Priyanka did not open the doors even after repeated knocking. Then, he broke open the doors and found her in a shocking state,” the officer said. She was rushed to a private hospital in the area, where doctors declared her dead and the body was shifted to Gandhi Hospital for autopsy. Following a complaint lodged by the victim’s parents, a case was booked against Andrew and his parents under Indian Penal Code.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +914066202000 or 66661117)
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Punjaguttta steel bridge to be launched today||The much-anticipated steel bridge at Nagarjuna Circle in Punjagutta will be launched on Friday by Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali. Though the contract period is six months, the bridge has been completed in a record three months since the commencement of work on February 29. Lockdown since March 23 and absence of vehicular traffic aided the speedy completion of works. Opening of the unidirectional bridge for the public will enhance the thoroughfare by widening the bottleneck stretch near Punjagutta graveyard, and facilitating free flow of traffic from TV9 junction and NFCL junction. This is the first steel bridge to be inaugurated in the city. Two more steel bridges are in the offing, one at Indira Park and the other as part of the elevated corridor between Nalgonda crossroads and Owaisi Hospital junction. Of the 100-metre length, a span of 43 metres of the bridge constitutes main girders and cross girders in structural steel. All the remaining portion is cast in RCC, including abutment and retaining walls, a statement by GHMC said. Steel is opted for the bridge, as it was obligatory to use a single span over the graveyard, which would not have been possible with RCC. Steel plate girders which were light-weight were used so as not to disturb the tombs in the graveyard, the statement said. Width of the bridge is 9.6 metres, inclusive of metre-wide footpath. Work for the widening of the approach road on the graveyard side of the bridge are progressing at a rapid pace, while the same on the other side has been completed, it said. The cost of construction of the bridge is Rs. 5.95 crore, and funds for this have been drawn from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) General Fund. Funds to the tune of Rs. 17 crore for approach road and road widening, however, are drawn from SRDP funds.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Early pattern of sowing indicates adoption of regulated farming||The farming community across Telangana appears to be owning up the regulated farming system introduced by the State Government from the current crop season as the early rains have fast-tracked the sowing of vaanakalam crops with about 11.5 lakh acres covered already. As suggested by the government, farmers have restricted the cultivation of maize as it has been sown in less than only 8,000 acres so far and the cultivation of redgram has also been on the lines expected by the government with its sowing completed in about 1.02 lakh acres, just half-way through June. Early sowing “As expected, farmers across the State have taken to cotton farming in a big way with sowing completed in nearly 8.8 lakh acres already. Early sowing of not only cotton but every crop would have an advantage of facing lesser pest and insect attacks and improved yields”, a Joint Director monitoring the sowing operations said. The senior official pointed out that sowing of crops was completed only in about 65,000 acres by the same time last year, but the early rains have helped farmers take up sowing on a large scale. According to officials of the Agriculture Department, other major crops whose sowing has been off to a good start include soyabean (about 61,000 acres), jowar (41,000 acres), paddy (19,500 acres) and greengram (15,000 acres). With 542 out of 563 rural mandals receiving either normal rainfall or above including excess rain in 154 mandal and large excess rain in 277 mandal as on Thursday, the sowing operations are expected to gain further momentum. Ryot’s reaction Asked whether they are comfortable with the regulated farming being promoted by the State government S. Manik Rao, a farmer of Sirgapur mandal in Sangareddy district, said: “When there is an assurance from the government that it would procure the crops raised as per its advice, there’s hardly any apprehension. Most of the farmers in our area are taking up cotton cultivation this season. Good returns realised in cotton last year have also encouraged some farmers to go for the crop, apart from other advantages of its cultivation such as no threat of crop damage from wild animals.”  Farmers across the State have taken to cotton farming in a big way with sowing completed in nearly 8.8 lakh acres. Joint Director, Agriculture Department.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man attacked by cousin over financial disputes||A man allegedly attacked his cousin with sharp weapons due to financial disputes in Dundigal here on Thursday. Two police officers were said to have remained mute spectators when they came across the attack. Police said that Jilani (24) attacked his cousin Mohammed Zaved (34) with a knife and axe on the main road. The two persons were business partners. Both of them recently had an altercation following some financial disputes. Zaved is a resident of Rajeev Gandhi Nagar in Kukatpally, police said. “At 11.30 am Jilani called Zaved over the phone and asked to meet at Gandimaisamma crossroads for some work. When he reached the spot, Jilani attacked him, as a result Zaved suffered severe injuries on his right leg and left hand,” police said.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Shift power billing to telescopic system’||Congress MLC T. Jeevan Reddy has appealed to the government to shift the electricity billing from the existing non-telescopic system to telescopic billing system that existed in the combined Andhra Pradesh as the power charges burden would be less on people. In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, he explained how shifting to the non-telescopic billing system has heavily burdened the common man after the formation of Telangana and demanded that it be immediately abolished. Citing an example, he said if a consumer had utilised 606 units during three months of lockdown, the department has divided it into three months average of 202 units. As per the present non-telescopic system, he would be paying Rs. 1,014 per month while in the combined Andhra Pradesh people were only paying Rs. 696.90 for consumption of the same units due to the telescopic system. Mr. Reddy said when people were suffering from lack of employment and resources, they are forced to pay more power bills and the government should be considerate. He demanded that the bills be allowed to be paid in three instalments of 30%, 40% and 30% for the next three months and that too without any penal charges. He felt that pushing people into higher slabs of billing without their fault is unfortunate and the Chief Minister should consider giving concessions on the payment mode.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Forest College and Research Institute gets recognition||Telangana Forest College and Research Institute (FCRI) won A+ Category Institute recognition from the Central government for maintaining the highest standards in forest education and research. The Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), which examines the Forest Colleges, their standard of education and facilities, has given the coveted recognition. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao congratulated the officials of the Forest Department, college management, staff and students and said it is good validation for the efforts put in by the State government. The decision to set up FCRI was taken by the Chief Minister in the initial days of State formation with an objective to give more importance to the protection of forests and environment. It was his directive that the Forest College should be on par with the Mettupaleyam College in Tamil Nadu. The college was started in 2015 with the first batch of four-year B.Sc (Forestry) course. The final year students would complete their course this year. The college moved to its own campus with state-of-the art facilities and hostels in December 2019 at Mulugu, which was inaugurated by the Chief Minister. The college is also offering two-year M.Sc (Forestry) course and three year Ph.D course. Initially, admission into B.Sc course was based on Intermediate marks but later on the basis of the Eamcet rankings. The college signed MoUs with Columbia University and Auburn University. The Auburn University offered a free M.Sc seat recently to a girl student from this college. With the A+ recognition now, the college may get more national and international recognition. There will also be an opportunity to collaborate with other institutions in the academics and research, according to a release.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC official reported to be positive||A young IAS officer from GHMC is reported to have tested positive for COVID-19, as per unconfirmed news reports on Thursday. A zonal commissioner, the officer is said to have toured areas with heavy spread of COVID-19, thereby contracting the virus. While the news was confirmed by other sources from GHMC, Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar said that he was not aware of it, and unless he gets a report from the hospital, he cannot confirm anything. He said the officer concerned was attending duties. Other sources from the corporation said that the officer has been sent to home quarantine along with his colleagues from the same zone. Meanwhile, a section officer from the Town Planning wing of L.B. Nagar zone is reported to have tested positive. He had been ill for the last 10 days. His condition worsened two days ago, after which officials sent him for a test and he was found positive.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sarvail college students excel||Students of the Telangana Residential Junior College, Sarvail, in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district achieved 98.58% passes in the second year of Intermediate with 139 out of the 141 clearing the exam. Among those who passed 137 secured A grade. In the first year results too, the college recorded impressive performance with 96.12% passes. Out of the 155 students, 149 cleared all the papers and among them 142 secured A grade.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two Inter students found dead||Hours after the results were announced, a senior intermediate student was found dead at his residence in Old Hazepet of Miyapur here on Thursday. The victim, U Sandeep (19), who failed in Mathematics paper-II, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan, Miyapur police said. The incident took place between 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. when his father went out for some work, while his mother and elder brother were away at their native place. “He failed the examination with two marks difference,” the investigators said. The incident came to light after 7 p.m. when his father returned home. After the results were announced, he called his father and informed him the result. “The boy told his father that he will apply for revaluation and was confident that he will pass. Later, his friends came to see him,” they said. The body was shifted to Gandhi Hospital morgue for autopsy. Meanwhile in Medak, another Inter student committed suicide at Chegunta on Thursday. The girl, studying in first-year Bi.P.C. feared failure in examinations and frequently expressed the same before parents. Though parents assured her not to worry, in the morning, when parents went for work, she hanged herself. (Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporate hospital heads meet Minister||Three days after the Telangana government issued an order capping prices that can be charged to treat COVID-19 patients at corporate hospitals, heads of around four super speciality hospitals located in the city met Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday to inform him that the rates were not viable for them. However, Mr Rajender asked them to provide treatment in ICU at rates fixed by the government. According to the government’s order issued on Monday, the charges for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals range between Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 9,000 depending on the ward and if mechanical ventilator support is provided. If a COVID patient is admitted in ICU without mechanical ventilator support, the price is capped at Rs. 7,500 per day, and it is Rs. 9,000 per day if ventilator support too is provided in ICU. A few services such as Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and CT-Scan, are excluded from charges. Head of a corporate hospital said they could operate on ‘no profit-no loss’ basis if the charges for treatment in ICU along with ventilator support were increased to Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 a day. Regarding charges for PPE, medicines, the Minister said the rate should be as per government’s rules.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pillion-rider falls off two-wheeler, succumbs||A 50-year-old woman pillion-rider died after she accidentally fell off a two-wheeler near Mirjalguda railway underbridge on Thursday. The victim, Thodkar Sangeetha of Mettuguda, was going to her daughter’s place. Her younger son, Jayaram, was riding the bike, when she fell off the bike around 2 p.m. and suffered a severe head injury. Sangeetha was rushed to OGH where she died at 6.30 p.m. “Jayaram told us that his mother fell off the bike due to his negligent driving,” Malkajgiri police said. A case was registered.
19 June 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Results of TSWREIS backlog seats today||The results of Backlog Vacancies CET for admission into 8th class in Gowlidoddi and Karimnagar Centre of Excellence Colleges, 6th class in Social Welfare Sainik School, Rukmapur, and for other backlog vacancies in social welfare residential schools in the State will be released on June 19. R.S. Praveen Kumar, Secretary, TSWREIS, said that 27,277 candidates appeared for 1,933 seats. The candidates are requested to visit the TSWREIS website www.tswreis.in for results and other details. The selected candidates will be intimated on the registered mobile numbers and the principals will intimate the date of joining at a later date as per the directions of the government.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State Page - briefs Backlog vacancies||Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society (TSWREIS) has announced that the results of BLVCET-2020 (Backlog Vacancies CET) for admission into Class VIII in Gowlidoddi and Karimnagar COEs (Centre of Excellence Colleges), Class VI in Social Welfare Sainik School, Rukmapur, and for other backlog vacancies in Social Welfare Residential Schools will be released on Friday. A total of 27,277 candidates appeared for 1,933 seats. The candidates are requested to visit the TSWREIS websitewww.tswreis.infor results and other details. Selected candidates will be intimated on the registered mobile number. The principals will inform the date of joining at a later date as per the directions of the government.
19 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four IPS officers promoted as Addl. DGP||Four IPS officers of 1995 batch were empanelled for promotion to the rank of Additional Director General of Police by the State government here on Thursday. The four senior officers include, TSWREIS Secretary R.S. Praveen Kumar, State Level Police Recruitment Board chairman V.V. Srinivasa Rao, IGP (Law and Order) and in-charge Women Safety wing Swati Lakra and Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh M. Bhagwat. They will be retained in the same posts till further orders.
19 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Last rites of victims of road mishap held||Grief engulfed Pedda Gopavaram village in Yerrupalem mandal on Thursday as the last rites of the seven victims of Wednesday’s horrific road accident near Vedadri in Andhra Pradesh were performed amid heart-wrenching scenes. Four members of an agricultural family including an elderly couple and their granddaughter were among those who perished in the ghastly road mishap that claimed as many as 12 lives while returning from a visit to a famous temple in the neighbouring State. A host of leaders cutting across the political spectrum visited the village to pay their last respects to the deceased. Former Khammam MP Ponguleti Srinivas Reddy handed over Rs. 20,000 financial assistance each to the bereaved families. Madhira MLA Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka consoled the kin of the victims at Pedda Gopavaram and Venkatapuram later in the day.Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar announced Rs. 2 lakh ex gratia each to all the 12 road mishap victims.
19 June 2020||P Sridhar,TELANGANA||SSCL expediting work on new solar power plants||Setting its sights on optimally tapping the inexhaustible solar energy, the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) is fast-tracking the construction of the proposed solar power plants in Yellandu, Manuguru and Kothagudem towns. The State-owned coal mining giant made a successful foray into generation of green energy with the commissioning of two solar power plants of 5 MW each on the premises of Singareni Thermal Power Plant (STPP) in Jaipur mandal of Mancherial district early this year. SCCL Chairman and Managing Director N Sridhar has rolled out an ambitious plan to propel the company to reach 300 MW solar power generation capacity by setting up solar power plants at various places in the coal belt region of the State. The project is primarily aimed at augmenting power generation capacity of the State and also catering to the electricity needs of some of its coal mines. Two solar power generation plants are fast coming up at Yellandu and Manuguru in the district in the first phase. Work on the 30 MW plant in Manuguru is fast nearing completion. A 39-MW solar power plant is being constructed on a sprawling 200 acres in Yellandu, considered as the birthplace of Singareni Collieries company. Work on installation of solar panels in the large tracts of the SCCL’s lands in Yellandu got delayed due to the coronavirus forced lockdown, sources said. The SCCL authorities have laid renewed focus on speeding up the solar panel works in the post-lockdown period to make the solar power plant operational soon. The 30 MW solar power plant at Manuguru is likely to be synchronised with the grid within one month, SCCL sources added. The SCCL’s solar power generation project envisages setting up of two solar power plants of 37 MW and 23 MW near Kothagudem town and Garimellapadu in Chunchupalli mandal in the second and the third phases respectively.
19 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||Three-day strike in Singareni coal mines||All the national trade unions of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited have decided to go on a three-day strike from July 2 to 4 (72 hours) in protest against the privatisation move of the Central government and other demands. However, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi affiliated Telangana Boggu Ghani Karmika Sangham (TGBKS), the recognised trade union of the Singareni has refused to participate in the strike. Representatives of the national trade unions — AITUC, INTUC, BMS, HMS, CITU and IFTU — met at the BMS union office in Godavarikhani on Thursday under the leadership of BMS president Kengerla Mallaiah and signed the strike notice and served it to the management of the Singareni Collieries and issued a copy to the Labour Department in Delhi, Hyderabad and the districts where the SCCL coal mines operate. The trade union leaders demanded that the Centre withdraw its proposed move to privatise the coal mines and e-auction of fifty blocks of coal mines across 0the country. They also demanded that the government withdraw the amendment to the labour laws and demanded the payment of 50 % deferred wages the coal miners of the March month.
19 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Good rain raises hopes of farmers in Sangareddy||Kohir mandal in the district has received as much as 7.2 mm rainfall on Thursday . This is the highest rainfall registered on this day. On June 11, Nyalakal mandal registered 44 mm rainfall. Drought conditions were witnessed since 2018 due to lack of rains not only in the district, but also in the catchment area. This year rains commenced from June first itself, while usually it used to be from second week of the month. With early rains the farmers have also commenced their activities early. Half of the 26 mandals in the district have received excess rainfall. These mandals include Kangti, Srigapur, Kalher, Nyalakal, Zaheerabad, Kohir, Jarasangam, Andol, Sadashivapet, Sangareddy, Patancheru, Ameenpur and Ramachandrapuram. Zaheerabad had the highest number of rainy days — 10 days — in the month so far, followed by nine days in Andol, Kohir and Jinnaram mandals. Nine mandals received normal rainfall, three mandals received below normal and one mandal Watpally has received scanty rainfall. This has resulted in the increase in groundwater levels. “We are able fill our 15,000 litre capacity sump within an hour instead of waiting for morning to evening,” said A Venkatesh, resident of an apartment. The excess rainfall has also reduced the monthly expenditure for many buying water.
19 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||T. Jayaprakash Reddy’s supporters to join TRS||Close followers of Congress MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy have decided to join the ruling party. Congress councillors Shaik Saber and Chandrasekhar, sailing with Mr Jayaprakash Reddy for long, have decided to join the TRS. They met Finance Minister T. Harish Rao in Siddipet on Thursday. They were led by former MLA Chinta Prabhakar. It was stated that in the next couple of days they will join the party in the presence of Mr. Harish Rao in Sangareddy.
19 June 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Five boys drown in two incidents||Three boys belonging to Bheemaram of Warangal Urban district drowned in Puttalamma reservoir here on Thursday. The boys went to swim in the reservoir and accidentally got drowned. They were identified as D Manvith (11), D Mahesh Babu (14) and M Vishnu Teja (14), residents of Bheemaram village. According to police, the three children came on cycle for swimming in the reservoir and they accidentally fell in the reservoir. They did not know how to swim and drowned. The locals who spotted the bodies floating in the reservoir informed the police. In Jangaon district, two boys died when they accidentally fell into a village tank at Gundala village on Thursday. They were identified as D Karthik (12) and D Naga Chaitanya (13), both brothers. According to the police, the boys who took the cattle for grazing cattle near the tank did not return till afternoon and their bodies were floating in the water as they did not know how to swim and drowned.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Monsoon blues||
19 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Pall of gloom in soldier’s village in Kandhamal||As a tribute to soldier Chandrakant Pradhan, all business establishments remained closed at Raikia in Odisha’s Kandhamal district on Thursday. Chandrakant’s parental village Biarpanga, at a distance of about 8 km from Raikia, remained in a pall of gloom waiting for the arrival of his body. Raikia have residents urged the administration to construct a memorial at his village. Chandrakant was among the 20 Indian soldiers who laid down their lives during a face off with the Chinese Army at Galwan Valley in Ladakh on Monday night. The 28-year-old soldier had joined the Bihar Regiment in 2014. He was posted in Ladakh around a year ago. In the last week of December 2019, he had visited his home for the last time. His family had started to plan for his marriage during his next visit in December this year.  ‘Proud of my son’ He was the eldest son of Karunakar Pradhan, a marginal farmer. His father said he was proud that his son had laid down his life for the country.
19 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. to check movement of people||The Haryana government on Thursday decided to regulate inter-State movement of people coming to Haryana from other States for a stay of more than three days in the wake of increasing cases of COVID-19 during the past few days. An official statement said that self-registration on web portal Saralharyana and downloading of Aarogya Setu App has been made mandatory for all travellers entering Haryana for a stay of more 72 hours. Health screening of all such people at border check-posts, railway stations and bus stands would be made, it added. The statement added that people visiting the State for a period of three days for business activities and all those who have been commuting to Haryana due to their official duties on a daily basis need not follow the stated procedure unless they develop symptoms.  Fair cancelled Meanwhile, the government has decided not to organise the solar eclipse fair, which was scheduled to be held in Kurukshetra on June 21 this year. Orders have been issued to impose Section 144 from June 19 to 21 within a one-kilometre radius of “Brahma Sarovar” and “Sannihit Sarovar” in Kurukshetra, a separate statement said. The State government decided not to organise the fair this year due to the prevailing pandemic.
19 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||2 Punjab bravehearts consigned to flames||People paid a tearful adieu to Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh (40) and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh (42), two of the four Punjab soldiers killed in Ladakh, on Thursday. Mandeep’s mother, wife, son and daughter saluted him as the body was consigned to flames at Seel village in Patiala district. Mandeep’s son lit the funeral pyre.  Shower of flowers As the mortal remains of Mandeep, draped in the Tricolour, arrived at his village, slogans of Bharat Mata Ki Jai and Shaheed Mandeep Amar Rahe were raised. Several villagers holding flags showered flowers on the vehicle carrying his body. In Gurdaspur’s Bhojraj village, Naib Subedar Satnam Singh was cremated with full military honours. People in large numbers paid their last respects.  Memorial gate “Since his childhood he always had a dream of joining the Army and serving his country,” said Jasbir Kaur, his inconsolable mother. Gurdaspur Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Ishfaq announced that a memorial gate will be constructed in his name. The bodies of two other soldiers — Sepoy Gurtej Singh of village Bire Wala Dogra in district Mansa and Sepoy Gurbinder Singh of village Tholowan in Sangrur — are expected to arrive on Friday, an official said.
19 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Nation expects befitting response: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday described the killing of 20 soldiers by Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in Ladakh as “horrendous and barbaric”, and demanded accountability for the loss of precious lives in the violent clash. “The whole nation was expecting a befitting response from the government to this horrific attack on its men. Our soldiers at the front should be clearly told that if they kill 1 of ours, you kill 3 of theirs,” said Captain Amarinder in a statement. Questioning why no orders were given to fire at the Chinese troops in the attack, the Chief Minister said, “Somebody failed to do his job out there, and we need to find out who that was.” “If the unit was armed, as is being claimed now, the second-in-command should have ordered firing the moment the commanding officer fell to the Chinese treachery,” he said, adding that “the nation wants to know why our men did not retaliate in the way they are trained to do.” “What were they doing sitting out there while their colleagues were getting killed,” he asked. ‘Intelligence failure’ “I want to know, every soldier wants to know, and every Indian wants to know what happened,” said the Chief Minister, adding that he feels very strongly about the incident, which exposed a “gross intelligence failure”. “Those boys sitting out there on the mountains deserve answers and expect a hard-hitting response,” he said. “What happened out there was not a joke, and the message has to go out strongly to China that India was no longer prepared to take their deceit.”
19 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Lal accused of inaction against hatemongers||Deputy Leader of the Opposition in Haryana Assembly and Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed has accused Chief Minister Manohar Lal of doublespeak and not initiating any action against the TV channels and organisations conspiring to disturb communal harmony in the region by spreading “lies”. Mr. Ahmed said that he, along with Punhana MLA Muhammad Ilyas and Ferozepur Jhirka MLA Chaudhary Mamman Khan, had in a closed-door meeting with Mr. Lal had brought up the matter about a few news channels and social organisations conspiring to disturb the communal harmony and spreading lies about atrocities on Hindus and Dalits in Nuh. Mr. Ilyas said that there was not a single incident of attack on any community in Nuh. Mr. Ahmed said that they demanded action against those conspiring to spread communal hatred and the Chief Minister assured them of action. “He said one thing during the meeting and did the opposite later,” said Mr. Ahmed.
19 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Galwan Valley effect: BJP defers virtual rally in Assam||The Bharatiya Janata Party in Assam has deferred all its political activities, including virtual rallies aimed at the 2021 Assembly elections, in view of the death of Indian soldiers in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley. The party’s national president Jagat Prakash Nadda was to have addressed six virtual rallies in Assam — one each in Dibrugarh, Barak Valley, Barpeta and Guwahati and two in northern Assam. Such rallies had been planned because of the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to maintain social distancing, BJP leaders said. “In solidarity with our armed forces, we have decided to postpone all political activities that include a virtual rally today (June 18),” BJP’s Assam unit president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said on Thursday. He did not specify which of the six digital rallies was to have been organised first. A note from Mr. Nadda shared by the State BJP said: “The supreme sacrifice of our brave soldiers while guarding our motherland in Galwan Valley will always be remembered... The BJP has decided to postpone all its political programmes including virtual rallies for the next two days.” The elections to the 126 Assembly seats are slated to be held by May 2021. The BJP, which had won 60 seats in 2017, has set a target of 100 in a bid to decrease dependence on regional allies. The majority mark in the House is 64.  Party allies The BJP’s allies are the Asom Gana Parishad with 14 seats and Bodoland People’s Front with 12. Apart from the virtual rallies at the State-level, the BJP had planned smaller rallies through videoconferencing across its 39 organisational districts and 390 mandal committees for the next three months.
19 June 2020||JAIPUR,||‘Rajasthan to focus on health infrastructure’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said the State government was utilising the present crisis to strengthen health infrastructure and had created a huge testing capacity for COVID-19 infection. He regretted that the challenges and limitations of the Centre and States were not discussed in the videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Gehlot said the efforts initiated by Rajasthan for “ruthless containment” of virus, door-to-door screening, testing and treatment of non-corona diseases, OPD services through 550 mobile vans, institutional deliveries and regular vaccination were widely praised. “When the first infection was reported here, we did not have any facility to test. Today, we have offered the neighbouring States to conduct 5,000 tests per day,” Mr. Gehlot said, while affirming that the Centre's steps to help the States overcome hardships after the COVID-19 lockdown should have been discussed in the videoconference. In a letter addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr. Gehlot said since the States had to spend extra for medical resources to deal with the pandemic, the Centre should provide additional support for this. The Centre should also focus on measures to increase demand and transfer funds directly to the needy families, besides providing financial assistance to industries suffering from recession, he said. The State was ready with enough backup to treat thousands of patients at a single time with 407 hospitals and care centres, Mr. Gehlot said. 43,704 beds The total number of beds in these health facilities is 43,704, out of which 8,090 are with attached oxygen, 1,672 are intensive care unit beds and 882 are with ventilators. Additional Chief Secretary (Medical & Health) Rohit Kumar Singh said the projections of active cases in different districts were estimated based on rigorous and intelligent algorithms to plan for any eventuality. “The active cases in the State are below 3,000 for the last 10 days, indicating a flattening of the curve,” he said.  Free medicines The State government has also launched a campaign, Nirogi Rajasthan, for providing free medicines to the needy and revamping health infrastructure with time. Along with the creation of bedding capacity, the government has kept the supply of PPE kits, N-95 masks and sanitisers intact with no district reporting shortage of equipment. Mr. Singh said more than 5.84 lakh tests had been conducted in the State so far and the doubling rate had reached 26.57 days, against 19 a few days ago.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Shah calls for unified COVID-19 strategy for Delhi-NCR at meet||Union Home Minister Amit Shah chaired a meeting on Thursday to devise a unified strategy for Delhi and its neighbouring cities that comprise the National Capital Region (NCR) to tackle the pandemic. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was also present in the meeting held at North Block. The meeting was also attended by Chief Secretaries of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and other senior officers from Delhi-NCR. “In view of the structure of Delhi-NCR region, all concerned bodies need to unite and work on a common strategy against the [novel] coronavirus pandemic. In this context, I met with Delhi Chief Minister and senior officials of Centre and Delhi-NCR today to discuss how to evolve a strategy as soon as possible,” Mr. Shah tweeted. Authorities of Haryana, U.P. and Delhi have imposed restrictions at different times during the COVID-19 lockdown over movement of people between the States, causing to inconvenience to many. According to a statement issued by the Home Ministry, Mr. Shah said that if the price for COVID-19 tests are higher in the States of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana compared to the Rs. 2,400 fixed for Delhi by an expert committee under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul, then the State governments could decide to lower the prices after internal consultations. Mr. Shah said the committee had also decided on rates for COVID-19 beds and treatment, and these rates could also be applied to hospitals in the NCR region after consultations. Mr. Shah directed officials from U.P. and Haryana to submit information about COVID-19 beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, ICU and ambulances available with them and their plan to augment these resources by July 15 to devise a common strategy for NCR. The Centre has imported around 50,000 rapid antigen detection test kits from South Korea as it aims to conduct 6 lakh tests in Delhi to detect and stop the spread of COVID-19.  Ministers visit centres Ministers of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and Nityanand Rai inspected some of the 169 testing centres set up in Delhi that will give results in 30 minutes and help in detecting and isolating the patients breaking the chain of transmission. “As many as 50,000 kits from Korea have reached here and will be used in 169 centres. Delhi has 431 ventilators and an additional stock of 500 ventilators is being procured. An additional fleet of 650 ambulances, up from the current 350, is also being arranged by the Centre,” Mr. Reddy said after visiting one of the centres in Basant Gaon, south Delhi.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Distraught parents rue loss of 8-month-old to virus||In the tiny room of a house they share with four other families in congested Paharganj, Jagdish Kashyap (32), his wife Vineeta and their six-year-old daughter are in mourning. They had just lost their eight-month-old son, Prince, the latest entry to the swelling dossier of COVID-19 deaths in the city. It’s been just 11 days since Prince died, the second time they are enduring the agony of losing a child. The first being their six-months-old daughter who died of pneumonia in 2016, but they are yet to grapple with the reality. A devastated Vineeta said the past few weeks have been the most difficult time of her life. Especially June 6, when Prince would not stop crying, and when they touched his chest, he began to cry louder. Her husband Jagdish, a housekeeping staff at the Lok Nayak Hospital, vividly recollected the day: “We took him to a hospital in Geeta Colony. The doctor conducted his X-ray and said that there was a swelling on his heart and they have to take him to a cardiologist.” In the next few hours, they ended up running frantically from one hospital to another. They took him to GB Pant Hospital from where he was referred to Kalawati Saran Hospital, from there to the Lady Hardinge Medical College and then finally to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where he was admitted at 2.36 a.m. on June 7. “The hospitals kept referring [to other hospitals] after saying that they don’t have the required facilities. The whole day we roamed around hospitals and finally he was admitted in the wee hours,” Vineeta said. Fever develops A few hours later, around 6.30 a.m., Prince got fever. Then about 11p.m., the doctors told the parents that he died. His COVID-19 test was conducted at RML and he tested positive the next day while his lifeless body remained at the mortuary. “We strongly suspect that our boy contracted the virus because of being exposed to so many hospitals’ environment. He was a toddler and prone to virus,” the mother said. On June 9, Prince was cremated at Punjabi Bagh cremation ground in the presence of his father, grandfather and uncles. Vineeta, wiping her tears, said that she developed depression after she lost her daughter in 2016 and it took her medication and several years to recover. “After I lost my daughter to pneumonia and battled depression, the doctor had told me to not try for a child but we still did thinking it’ll make me happy. I have lost him too. I am unable to forget his face and how he held me,” she cried. Jagdish is yet to overcome his sense of loss. Remembering Prince and choking for words, he said, “Usually, the first word children say is Maa but he said Pa .” Their only strain of consolation is daughter Pihu, but they are concerned of her as well. “She misses him. She used to play with him all day. We have even deleted Prince’s pictures from our phone so that she doesn’t see them,” said Vineeta. Indifferent neighbours It’s been 11 days since the incident, but the family feels they’ve been excommunicated by their neighbours. “Except one woman, nobody talks to us and treats us like we are going to harm them,” Jagdish observed. Add to that their financial strife. “My husband earns Rs. 12,000 and father-in-law, Rs. 5,000. There is no air in the room we live in and the surroundings are dirty. We are prone to diseases anyway,” she said. But none of these, she would say, would amount to the loss of her child.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Rapid antigen testing starts in city||The Capital on Thursday started COVID-19 testing, using the rapid antigen methodology as per the new protocol approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to ramp up testing facilities and for quick delivery of results. Meanwhile, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said Delhi will be getting a priority supply of kits. “This technique is faster and cheaper. As many as 169 testing centres have been set up in the Capital and a priority for supply of kits will be given to Delhi,” announced the Minister. Divisional Commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar said, “We have started antigen testing and around 340 teams are involved in this. The ICMR had given training to our teams yesterday. And till 3 p.m. today [Thursday], about 4,500 tests have been done.” The test is done using nasal swabs and it gives results within nearly 30 minutes, officials said. “I hope that now people of Delhi will not have any problem of testing,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet. Earlier this week, the ICMR recommended the use of Standard Q COVID-19 Ag antigen detection test for diagnosis of COVID-19 in containment zones and healthcare settings in combination with the RT-PCR test. “A positive test in antigen, result for which is available in 30 minutes, should be considered as a true positive and does not need reconfirmation by RT-PCR test. It will show whether the patient is currently infected,” the ICMR had noted. Dr. Vardhan added that in pursuance of decisions taken at the COVID-19 management meetings held on June 14 and 15, chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah, to help improve the situation in Delhi, sample testing has been doubled immediately. “The report of a high-level expert committee headed by V.K. Paul on rates to be charged by testing labs has been received by the Health Ministry and forwarded to Delhi govt. for action,” noted the Union Health Ministry.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 65 COVID-19 deaths||The Capital on Thursday reported 2,877 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 49,979, stated a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. This is the highest number of cases reported in a single day in the city so far. Also, 65 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,969. Of the total cases, 21,341 people have recovered and there are 26,669 active cases. Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who tested positive on Wednesday after he was admitted to government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in the small hours of Tuesday, is currently better, said sources. “His condition was better today [Thursday] morning compared to last night. His fever has come down and oxygen levels are also comparatively better. But he is still admitted in the hospital,” an AAP source said. In a related development, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has taken charge of all departments handled by Mr. Jain, including Health and Public Works Department (PWD). Mr. Jain would continue as a Minister without any portfolio until he recovers.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Consider publishing pictures on how to wear masks, says High Court||The Delhi High Court has asked the Health Ministry to consider publicising in print and electronic media the pictorial presentation of ‘how and when to wear face mask’ during the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said there are already guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on how to use masks by the public during the pandemic. “We see no reason to give further guidance or directions in this regard to the respondents [Centre and Delhi government],” the High Court said. “Nonetheless, the respondent [Ministry of Health], if their experts so advise, may make necessary changes in the pictorial presentation or amend the guidelines,” the court said. The order came while disposing of a petition filed by Pulkit Jain seeking direction to the authorities to frame rules, issue and publicise instructions/ guidelines for proper wearing/ usage/ handling of all kinds of masks during the pandemic.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CM inspects 10,000 beds at COVID-19 care centre||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday inspected the government's upcoming 10,000-bed COVID-19 care centre at the Radha Soami Satsang Beas grounds in Chhatarpur. He said by the first week of July, the facility will cater to patients who have been advised home quarantine due to mild symptoms but cannot isolate themselves at their own homes due to lack of space. “The facility is only for patients who do not have the arrangements at home to isolate themselves due to lack of space or have the luxury of a toilet to themselves,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that by June 30, Delhi will need 15,000 beds and by July 15, 30,000 beds and this was one of the measures apart from using hotels and banquet halls that the government has made to meet the demand. The Chief Minister said some of the hotels appealed to the court for a stay order but the government has won the case and the work of converting the hotels into isolation centers is under way. More ICUs needed “All hotels are connected with a hospital, we will shift a patient directly to the attached hospital if he/she needs immediate medical treatment or becomes critical. But I think, we may need more ICUs in the coming days, I am in talks with doctors and the authorities to figure out how this can be done,” Mr. Kejriwal added.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon likely to reach Capital early this year||The Meteorological Department on Thursday said that under favourable meteorological conditions, there had been steady progress of southwest monsoon during the past week and it is expected to reach the NCR around June 25. The normal date for the arrival of the monsoon in the Capital is June 29. High temperature The Capital, however, continued to experience above average temperatures with the maximum settling at 42.5 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. The minimum was at 28.6 degrees Celsius that was one notch above normal. Weather stations at Palam and Ayanagar recorded maximum temperatures of 44.2 degrees Celsius and 46.4 degrees Celsius respectively. The forecast for June 19 reads “partly cloudy sky with possibility of thundery development towards evening. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to hover between 43 degrees Celsius and 30 degrees Celsius.” Presently, the MeT Department said the southwest monsoon has covered the entire Northeast and East India, most parts of West and Central India and some parts of Uttar Pradesh and has remained at the same position between June 16 and June 18. “Due to the present meteorological scenario, the southwest monsoon is not likely to progress further till June 21. Conditions are likely to become favourable thereafter, for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of U.P. and some parts of Western Himalayan Region during June 22 and June 24,” it said. Heavy rainfall is expected over U.P., Uttarakhand, and Himachal Pradesh between June 22 and June 24 before it hits the Capital.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hemani- brief||A fire broke out at Rohini court on Thursday. No injuries were reported in the incident, a Delhi Fire Service official said. “A call about the fire was received at 9.41 a.m. after which 10 fire tenders were rushed to the spot,” said Atul Garg, Director of Delhi Fire Service, adding that it was brought under control in a little over an hour. The fire department said that the cause of the blaze is yet to be ascertained but is suspected to be a short circuit. Many documents in the record room were gutted in the fire.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Swami Dayanand Hospital to run OPD in two shifts||Swami Dayanand Hospital under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation will soon start running its OPD services in two shifts, chairman of the civic body’s Standing Committee, Sandeep Kapoor said on Thursday. The step is being taken to control excessive crowd gathering and to ensure social distancing, he said. Mr. Kapoor said thermal screening will be done at the entrance of the hospital and patients with fever will be sent to the flu clinic.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||BJP attacks govt. on claims over LNJP hospital||The BJP on Thursday attacked the Delhi government over contradictions in statements made by the Lok Nayak Hospital. While cases of bodies being placed among patients in the COVID-19 ward, lobby and waiting area in the hospital had been confirmed by director of the hospital, the same was denied by the government, the BJP said.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- brief||Minister of Women and Child Development Department, Rajendra Pal Gautam, on Thursday conducted surprise inspections of two children’s homes in the city. The Minister also distributed sanitary napkins. Mr. Gautam said that he was satisfied by the cleanliness and quality of food given to the children at both the homes.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- brief/ inset||A lab technician employed at the pathology department of Hindu Rao Hospital died due to COVID-19, said officials on Thursday. Rakesh Jain (58), a diabetic patient was admitted to the Delhi Heart and Lung Hospital with fever since June 12, they said, adding that he had last come to duty on June 9. While Jain was reportedly getting better, he had a sudden deterioration with hypoxemia, they added. So far, 78 healthcare workers and staff have tested positive for COVID-19 at the hospital and 33 have recovered and returned to work.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘U.P. government is scared’||Ajay Kumar Lallu, MLA and president of the Uttar Pradesh Congress, was released from jail on Wednesday. He spent almost a month in jail in connection with the showdown between the State government and his party over running of buses for migrant workers. Excerpts from a telephonic interview:  You were arrested on charges of allegedly sending a faulty list of buses to the U.P. government. This government is scared, especially the Chief Minister. They have been constantly and unnecessarily misleading people. The 1,000 buses we offered could have been used to ferry 8-10 lakh people home by now. This government is against the workers, poor, Dalits, Backwards and oppressed [people], that’s why it took such a step. The government argued that if it allowed the ‘unfit’ buses to run, it could have led to accidents, jeopardising the lives of migrant workers. The government and its entire machinery lied the entire time. Rajasthan Deputy CM Sachin Pilot had signed and released a list of 1,032 buses verified by their MD. But the Yogi government deliberately mislead people and continues to betray them. This government is hurting workers, the poor and the oppressed and playing with their emotions. When workers were walking on the highways, what did Yogiji do to take them home? This is the same government that used lathi-charge on workers in Mathura, Agra, Noida and Jhansi borders. Why do you think the U.P. government was not willing to accept even some of the buses sent by you, around 800-odd found operatively sound by their own parameters? The Yogi government acted out of nervousness. Every hour they issued a new order (during the exchange of letters in May). This showed they were under pressure. And when buses were standing, waiting, they circulated in the media that they have provided us permission, but on the ground in Agra, the district magistrate clearly stated to us that the order was only visible on television channels and in actuality no such order was provided to them to allow our buses to go to Noida and Ghaziabad. They have been unmasked, that they have resorted to politics of oppression. But I will not be scared. You are saying that there was no sync between the official letters being issued from Lucknow and the version of the District Magistrate on May 20? They only played the orders on media. There was no written order sent to the DM of Agra or Mathura to allow permission to transport the buses. The buses stood at the border for three days. While granting you bail, the Allahabad High Court said this entire episode was “disturbing” and reminded the government as well as the Opposition that they were duty bound to offer solutions and not conflicts to public grievances. Who is to blame more? I would like to thank the High Court for granting me bail. This government wanted to oppress the voice and rights of the poor, the court order has made it clear and shown a mirror to the government.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Kite runners||
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||With over 1,200 new cases, city breaches 62,000-mark||Mumbai reported 1,288 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking its tally past the 62,000-mark. The city now has 62,875 cases, of whom, 31,856 have recovered. As many as 67 more deaths were recorded on Thursday, pushing the toll to 3,311. After an uproar over the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) adding 862 deaths to the city’s tally, following a reconciliation exercise, the civic body issued a statement on Thursday, claiming there has been no attempt to hide deaths. BMC clarification “On June 6, a private hospital reported 17 deaths to the BMC’s epidemiology cell, following which, the Municipal Commissioner conducted a thorough investigation. It was found that only one death had occurred on that day and the other 16 deaths, which had not been announced earlier, were included in that day’s report. In order to get accurate information in this regard, all public and private hospitals were instructed on June 8 to submit details about the past deaths, within 48 hours without any delay,” the statement said. Accordingly, information started pouring in from various hospitals and suddenly, 862 death reports from June 12 to 15 were received by the cell, it said. “The BMC immediately submitted a report on June 15 to the State government and requested it to put the information in public domain in a transparent manner,” the statement added, The statement said it is important to note that the epidemiology cell was unaware of these deaths until June 12. “Therefore, there is no question of hiding this information at the level of the BMC.” The BMC further said doctors and other staff at public and private hospitals, who are responsible for providing this information, are working round the clock. “It should be understood that these records could not be retrieved from these hospitals due to inadequate staff on account of disruptions in many of them at that time and limitations in the means of communication. Of course, in the future, all these hospitals have been instructed to be constantly on alert and send this information within 48 hours of any death,” it said. Besides, the BMC has given all city hospitals one last chance to “come clean and report any COVID-19 death cases if still pending for reporting for more than 48 hours… these are permanent standing instructions applicable to all such cases in future also,” the statement said.  28 cases in Dharavi Dharavi reported 28 new cases on Thursday, pushing the tally to 2,134. Of the total cases, 1,055 have been discharged so far. In Mumbai, K East ward has the highest cases at 4,336. R North ward continues to have the highest case growth rate at 5.3%. The city’s average case growth rate stands at 2.3%, while its doubling rate has been pushed to 30 days. Meanwhile, the BMC is in the process of installing oxygen cylinders in 20 COVID-19 facilities, with a total capacity of two lakh litres. The city has 7,114 oxygen-supported beds for positive patients. The largest oxygen tanks with a capacity of 13,000 litres each have been installed at six jumbo COVID-19 facilities, including NSCI, Worli and Mahalaxmi Racecourse. Besides, six major city hospitals and six other COVID-19 facilities have been provided the oxygen tanks. Most of the oxygen cylinders have been installed, while a few are at the completion stage.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM urges Ganesh mandals to keep celebrations austere||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday appealed to Ganapati mandals to celebrate Ganeshotsav in an austere manner this year, in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “A number of mandals in Pune and elsewhere have decided to observe austerity in this year’s celebrations. All these mandals have said they will support any government decision in this regard. I wholeheartedly thank all of them for this stand,” said Mr Thackeray. He was speaking at a meeting organised to discuss law and order arrangements during the festival. “It is sad, but true, that this year, the festival will not be celebrated in an extravagant manner. The danger of COVID-19 is not over and we cannot allow crowding at one place. We have to take every possible precaution regarding law and order. Therefore, we will have to celebrate the festival in an austere manner,” he said. Mr. Thackeray said the government has launched Mission Begin Again to gradually lift the lockdown, but with utmost care. “We will ensure that tradition is not broken, but celebrations are socially responsible,” he said. The CM sought suggestions from the association of Ganesh mandals on spreading awareness during the festival.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||Chembur locality wakes up to gunfire; three arrested||Residents of the Wazir Baba Chawl in Chembur were jolted awake by the sound of gunshots in the early hours of Thursday, after a history-sheeter allegedly tried to shoot dead a local tailor. The Tilak Nagar police have arrested three accused and one more is wanted. According to the police, the incident occurred around 4 a.m. on Thursday when Sadiq Khan was sleeping in his residence. The main accused, Navneet Singh Rana, knocked on his door to wake him up. As soon as Mr. Khan opened the door, Mr. Rana shot at him twice with a country-made gun. The first round hit Mr. Khan on the hand and the second lodged itself in his back when he tried to run back into his house. “The sound woke up other residents, who rushed out to check. Mr. Rana threatened to shoot them as well, and fled the scene along with three others who were with him at the time. Mr. Khan, meanwhile, was rushed to Sion Hospital, and his wife Mehrul lodged a complaint with us,” an officer with the Tilak Nagar police station said.  Hunt launched The officer said that the Khans had identified and named Mr. Rana as the assailant, and based on their statements, a hunt was launched. Mr. Rana was nabbed from Chembur on Thursday evening and after his questioning two others, Yasin Ansari and Samid Tolkar, were also arrested. Revenge bid The police officer said, “Mr. Rana’s brother Inder was injured by some local residents in May this year during a fight that broke out when they asked him to not walk around without a face mask. The Khans had helped one of the accused, arrested in the case, get bail which infuriated Mr. Rana. Thursday’s attack was a bid to take revenge for that.” The three have been charged with attempt to murder and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of the Arms Act. Efforts are on to trace the fourth person, police said.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||Monsoon finally makes its presence felt||On its first day with heavy showers since the onset of monsoon on June 14, Mumbai received 36.6mm rainfall on Thursday. The eastern and western suburbs received heavy rainfall compared to the island city. Parts of two buildings collapsed, with three people suffering minor injuries. Mumbaikars woke up to overcast skies and it rained through the day. Thane and Navi Mumbai, received the heaviest spells in the region, while rain also lashed central Mumbai, including Worli, Dadar, Bandra and Kurla. There was heavy rainfall in the western suburbs too, from Andheri to Dahisar. After 3 p.m., there was a heavy spell in south Mumbai Between noon and 1 p.m., Chembur received 20 mm rainfall, while between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m., Fort saw 18 mm rainfall, and Malvani 26 mm. In the 24 hours leading up to 7 p.m. on Thursday, Chembur recorded 83 mm rainfall and Dharavi 76 mm. Mumbai received an average of 36.6 mm rainfall as recorded by the India Meterological Department’s (IMD) Santacruz observatory. With this, the city has received 284 mm rainfall since June 1, surpassing 50% of the average figure of 493.1 mm for June. The all-time highest single-day rainfall for the month was 399 mm recorded on June 10, 1991. The IMD has forecast rainfall throughout Thursday night, and light to moderate rain from Friday to Monday. K.S. Hosalikar, deputy director general of IMD, tweeted that there is a circulation over north Konkan and neighbouring areas, and models indicate heavy rain in Mumbai and Thane, and very heavy rainfall at isolated places in south Konkan for 24 hours, that is, until Friday. Akshay Deoras, a Ph.D scholar at University of Reading, U.K., who tracks weather in India and especially Maharashtra, had said the IMD had declared the onset of monsoon too early. On Thursday, he said, “Not a single meteorological factor suggested the arrival of monsoon in Mumbai on June 14. Finally, strong monsoon winds entered the city on June 18 and triggered widespread rainfall. Since the weather system will weaken, Mumbai and MMR will witness a sharp reduction in the rainfall amount during this weekend and only intermittent showers are expected.” Meanwhile, three people were injured when a portion of a chawl collapsed in Jogeshwari (East). They were treated and discharged from Cooper Hospital. A portion of a three-storey building collapsed in Kurla, but no casualty was reported. The BMC also received 18 complaints of trees or branches falling and five complaints of short circuit.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||BJP demands reduction in BEST power bills during lockdown||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded an immediate reduction in electricity bills issued by the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking during the lockdown period. While industries and businesses in Mumbai remained closed during the lockdown starting March 23, they were sent electricity bills generated on the basis of an average of last year’s consumption, the BJP said. “Many of these businesses suffered huge losses due to the closure of shops and offices. The salaries of workers in these businesses were slashed. It is unfair to force the loss-making businessmen and citizens who have lost their income to pay the entire bill amount, that too inflated. Therefore, the Mumbai BJP has demanded that electricity and commercial bills for the period of the pandemic should be levied in a phase wise manner,” BJP city president Mangal Prabhat Lodha said. Mr. Lodha spoke to BEST general manager Surendra Kumar Bagde on the issue on Thursday. BEST officials clarified that for March, consumers were charged an average amount based on past consumption. This was because the undertaking was not able to take meter readings during the lockdown. BEST said all grievances are being addressed, and if a dispute is found to be genuine, the amount will be adjusted in future bills. “For now, we demand that at least some concessions are given in electricity bills to help businesses and citizens recover from these losses,” Mr. Lodha said.  It is unfair to force businessmen and citizens who have lost their income to pay the entire bill amount, that too inflated Mangal Prabhat Lodha Mumbai BJP president
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||Housing societies warned against banning entry of help, vendors||State Cooperation Minister Balasaheb Patil on Thursday warned housing societies against forcefully stopping the entry of domestic help and newspaper vendors, and said such a move may attract legal action. Every member of society has helped in successful implementation of the lockdown in fight against COVID-19, Mr. Patil said. “We are on the path of recovery and have started unlocking various services, based on the Central guidelines. However, it has been observed that a number of cooperative housing societies, through their governing bodies and secretaries, are stopping the entry of help and vendors.” The minister said any such action is illegal. “As restrictions on movement of personnel are getting lifted, economy activity has to resume. No secretary or governing body of a housing society can issue a diktat to stop the entry of individuals. It will attract legal action if reported to the authorities,” he said. A number of cooperative housing societies in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai, and neighbouring areas have banned the entry of domestic help and newspaper vendors, claiming it may lead to the spread of the disease. Kiran Moghe, who works with the CITU on domestic workers’ issues, welcomed the minister’s statement. “Under the Disaster Management Act, it is the Collector who is the final authority. Sadly, the Labour Department is sleeping. Housing societies are behaving as per their whims when in reality, they have no such powers,” she said. Ms. Moghe said there are senior citizens and working women who genuinely need help. “We are also exposed to our class biases when we stop domestic workers from entering buildings. If their employers want a no COVID-19 certificate from them, then they should pay for it. How can you ask those women to produce the certificate?” she said. The Union Home Ministry has already sanctioned resumption of services of domestic help and newspaper vendors.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||Customs told to release parcel with feeding tubes||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the Commissioner of Customs to release a parcel of feeding tubes imported from the U.S. to an oral cancer survivor, within 24 hours. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and N.R. Borkar was hearing a plea filed by Samir Patel. The petition said Mr. Patel was diagnosed with oral cancer in December 2016, and due to remedial surgical operations, he can only consume food/nutrients through feeding tubes. He has to purchase the tubes from the U.S, and recently had four boxes shipped through a courier agency. The Assistant Commissioner of Customs has withheld the parcel. No alternative product is available in India, and the stock with Mr. Patel will last only for a few days, he said. The court directed the Commissioner of Customs to process the documents and ensure the parcel was handed over to Mr. Patel’s lawyers within 24 hours.
19 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Village in Uran flattens the curve with 99% recoveries||Navi Mumbai has reported more than 4,000 COVID-19 cases, with a recovery rate of around 57%. But in the adjoining Uran, one village has managed to bring its recovery rate to 99.2%, with only one patient currently under treatment. Karanja village, which has eight pada s and a population of around 10,000, had reported as many as 134 cases. Now, the sole active patient is likely to be discharged in the next four days. Officials credit the achievement to coordinated efforts between revenue officials, police, and teachers and doctors, to screen residents and simultaneously ensure strict enforcement of the lockdown. On April 24, a 59-year-old woman from the village, who was on dialysis treatment for six years, died at her residence. On May 4, her husband (65) passed away. “It can’t be confirmed if the deaths were due to COVID-19 as neither of them had been tested or had consulted a doctor for any symptoms. The family has a fishing business, and members regularly visited the fish market. Besides, the woman visited hospital regularly for dialysis,” Dattatrey Nawale, sub-divisional officer, Panvel, said. Hundreds of residents had attended the man’s funeral, and on May 8, the first COVID-19 case in the village surfaced from the family of the deceased. Through contact tracing, authorities identified 22 cases in the family. “All 22 people stayed in a two-storey building. After the death of the 65-year-old man, we started testing the family,” Bhausaheb Andhare, Uran tehsildar, said. By May 13, the number of COVID-19 cases in the village had reached 95, and it gradually rose to 134. “The biggest challenge was to get people tested and quarantined. In many cases, people had to be forced by the police to get tested,” Mr. Andhare said. Around 200 people, including teachers and doctors, were divided into 25 teams, who went house to house to screen residents and find symptomatic villagers. Around 40 people from the revenue department, including a tehsildar, six nayab tehsildars, clerks, talathis and mandal officers, coordinated with the teams from a COVID-19 control room set up at the Uran taluka office. The teams made sure the lockdown was followed strictly. People were not allowed to step out even for essentials, which were supplied to them at their doorstep. Medical stores was allowed to reopen and gradually banks, ATMs, and 33 grocery shops were allowed to resume operations. “We used drones to identify people loitering outside during the lockdown. We also put up strict bandobast outside shops that were allowed to stay open. People resisted testing saying they had no symptoms, but would ultimately be found to be COVID-19 positive,” senior police inspector Jagdish Kulkarni from Uran police station said. The 134 cases included a four-month-old baby and an 82-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension. Around 14 patients had co-morbidities. “Even with co-morbidities, there was no death reported. That is our biggest achievement,” Mr. Nawale said. Uran taluka, with a population of 1.66 lakh, has reported 197 cases till now, of which 134 were from Karanja. Of the 197, currently 30 are yet to be discharged. The taluka is spread across 63 villages, of which 14 have reported COVID-19 cases.
19 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai sees highest cases, deaths||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) on Thursday reported its highest single-day COVID-19 positive cases and deaths, at 202 and nine, respectively. The recovery rate, however, has gone down from 59% to 57%. With the 202 fresh cases —120 men and 82 women — the tally has now gone up to 4,391. The total positive cases also include 10 children in the age group of three to 12. Similarly, with nine more fatalities — six women and three men — the death toll is now 138. On Thursday, the NMMC screened 242 people at Sectors 1 and 2, Vashi, during which six suspects were found and of the 138 people screened in Nerul village, two suspects were detected. Swab tests of all the suspects were held. Till now, the civic body has conducted screening of 32,724 people in areas where maximum cases are found and at places with high population density. The NMMC has so far tested 16,018 people, of whom 11,020 were found negative, while reports of 607 are pending. Around 35,930 people within the NMMC limits have completed the quarantine period. The civic body has released a list of 23 containment zones — two in Belapur, seven in Nerul, eight in Turbhe, one in Koparkhairane, three in Airoli and two in Digha. The NMMC currently has 1,734 active cases, with 3% mortality rate.
19 June 2020||Pune,||Pune civic chief requisitions beds at 16 private hospitals||To ensure that private hospitals strictly follow government regulations, Pune Municipal Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad on Thursday directed 16 private hospitals to reserve 80% of their beds for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Mr. Gaikwad told The Hindu that in the next few days, similar directives will be issued to other private hospitals to preclude a shortage of beds like in Mumbai. “These hospitals have been directed to treat patients at government rates. A number of cases have emerged wherein patients have complained of being charged exorbitant rates, running into lakhs of rupees. Such cases are being probed as well,” Mr. Gaikwad said. Late last month, the civic chief had warned that private hospitals refusing to treat or overcharging COVID-19 patients were liable to face legal action under the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. This was in accordance with a State government resolution issued on May 21. Mr. Gaikwad said the fresh directive was issued to make sure private hospitals comply with the government order. “General directives are routinely ignored. Some private hospitals even send their juniors for meetings with civic authorities to discuss intake of COVID-19 patients in their establishments. At other times, they do not correctly disclose their available capacity. We have appointed a team of doctors to verify their facilities and check whether they are under-reporting beds available for COVID-19 patients,” he said. Mr. Gaikwad said the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will secure around 1,700 more beds at these 16 private hospitals, including 900 beds with oxygen supply. The PMC currently has 9,000 COVID-19 beds across different medical facilities. Spike in district Meanwhile, Pune district reported a spike of 450 new COVID-19 cases as the district’s cumulative tally, including deaths and recoveries, rose to 13,685. The district’s death toll has climbed to 540, with eight fatalities reported in the past 24 hours. Pune Divisional Commissioner Dr. Deepak Mhaisekar said of these, only 4,794 cases are active, while more than 8,351 people have been discharged so far. The district’s current recovery rate stands at 61.02%. The total death toll in Pune division, which includes Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur districts along with Pune, has risen to 758. The division’s total case tally stands at 17,342, of which 5,828 are active. In all, 10,756 people in these five districts have been discharged thus far, Dr. Mhaisekar said. A total 296 patients are critical in the division.
19 June 2020||Pune,||PMC taps into CSR reserves to boost screening, testing||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), in a move to ramp up its sample testing capacity and intensify screening in the wake of mounting COVID-19 cases, has tied up with several companies, including Microsoft, to tap into their corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund reserves. Speaking to The Hindu , Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner and chief executive officer of the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited, said the PMC is looking to increase its testing capacity to 4,500 samples a day from its current capacity of 1,000-1,200 samples, in the next three weeks. At present, anything between 1,000 and 1,200 samples are being tested per day in the city at a cost of Rs. 2,200 per sample, she said. “While those who can afford are paying, the PMC is bearing the expenses of ‘high-risk’ cases from slum clusters. We are reaching out to corporates and other establishments for assistance via their CSR activities.” Ms. Agarwal said a number of meetings had been held with local representatives of technology majors like Microsoft and Google as well as agencies like the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to ink deals. “The meetings have been very productive. Microsoft has given Rs. 1.4 crore in CSR funds for testing 36,000 co-morbid patients in Pune city,” she said. Ms. Agarwal said the funds were given as part of a special campaign run by the PMC for early detection to reduce the mortality rate among co-morbid patients. As part of this drive, civic body authorities have prepared a ward-wise list of senior citizens and pregnant women living in the ‘high-risk’ zones. “There 1.25 lakh senior citizens and 3,188 pregnant women living in these zones. We are making efforts to get as many of them tested in the coming weeks,” Ms. Agarwal said. The Microsoft CSR venture will see these co-morbid people being checked for body temperature, oxygen saturation, along with X-Ray and blood tests to enable early identification of the virus. While Google has helped the PMC by supplying pulse oximeters, the civic body is on the verge of finalising a Rs. 1.5 crore proposal with the UNICEF to renovate Naidu Hospital – one of the vital COVID-19 treatment centres in the city. Pune city has been witnessing an average daily surge of more than 350-400 cases in the last few days, taking the total case tally to more than 10,500, of whom around 3,500 are active cases. “We aim to increase the testing capacity at Sassoon General Hospital to 1,500 samples from the current 200. Furthermore, the National Institute of Virology’s testing capacity for samples within the PMC limits, which is currently 900, will be increased to 1,500 in the coming days,” Ms. Agarwal said. She said facilities at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, which was hitherto not being tapped into, will be utilised for testing 200 samples daily. Ms. Agarwal further said the PMC had made an adequate provision of Rs. 69 lakh in CSR funds that would be utilised in the coming days.
19 June 2020||Pune,||State adds 3,752 cases, 100 deaths to its total tally||Maharashtra reported yet another spike of more than 3,000 COVID-19 cases on Thursday. As many as 3,752 fresh cases saw the State’s total tally soar to 1,20,504. Similarly, 100 more deaths took the total number of fatalities to 5,751. Of the total cases, 53,901 are active ones, said State Health Department officials. As many as 1,672 patients were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries till date to 60,838. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the recovery rate currently stands at 50.49%, while its fatality rate is 4.77%. He further said the case doubling time till June 16 had increased to 25.9 days, as against 20.1 days on May 31, 10.2 days on April 30, and 3.5 days on March 31. “The State’s first COVID-19 case was detected on March 9. Since then, over a three-month period, it is observed that the growth rate of cases (weekly average) has been reducing, while the doubling time of the patients has been increasing,” Dr. Awate said. As many as 27 more fatalities were reported from Bhiwandi in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, taking the death toll in the Bhivandi-Nizampur civic body area to 51. Deaths were also reported from Thane and Vasai-Virar, and Nagpur district. “More than 60% of the deaths reported on Thursday had high risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” Dr. Awate said. Pune district’s total tally, as per State Health Department figures, has reached 14,000, with the district reporting a surge of more than 500 new cases on Thursday.
19 June 2020||Thane,||Maha: 92-year-old woman recovers from COVID-19 in Dombivli||A 92-year-old woman from Dombivli has been discharged after recovering from COVID-19. A The woman tested positive on June 8 and was admitted to Neon Hospital, chief of the hospital Dr. Milind Shinde said. She walked out of the hospital on Wednesday under a shower of flower petals.PTI
19 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Sardar Sarovar dam 11 m short of full capacity||Though the monsoon has just arrived in Gujarat, the water level of Sardar Sarovar Dam on Narmada river is rising and has reached 127.46 metres, just 11.22 metres short of its full capacity, officials said on Thursday. With the fresh inflow of upstream water, mainly from Omkareshwar and Indira Sagar dams in Madhya Pradesh, the live water storage of the dam has reached up to 2,700 million cubic metres, the officials said. “The water level of the reservoir has reached 127.46 metres,” Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited Director P.C. Vyas said. In September last year, the water level reached its highest capacity for the first time since its height was raised in 2017. Mr. Vyas said with an inflow of around 40,000 cusecs, both the river bed and the canal head power houses on the dam have been started from Wednesday. The water discharged into the main canal is being utilised to fill up dry lakes.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||State to screen returning migrants||The State government will begin a special drive to screen migrant workers returning to Maharashtra, after leaving for their home towns during the extended nationwide lockdown. The Maharashtra Police have been directed to conduct thermal screenings at border checkpoints, which are recording an entry of approximately 15,000 workers daily. Their registration and quarantine will be made mandatory, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said on Thursday. Senior police officials said a special control room may also be set up to monitor inflow. Around 13 lakh migrant workers, who left the State during the extended lockdown, are expected to return in July. As many as 60,000 industries have reopened in the first phase of unlocking, and the migrants are returning in large numbers to Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Navi Mumbai, and Raigad, officials said. “At present, 4,000 to 5,000 workers are returning daily to Gondia, Nandurbar, Kolhapur, Nagpur, Pune. Another 11,000 to 11,500 are returning to Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai. The number is low due to limited railway services at present, but will definitely increase, the Mr. Deshmukh said. “A list of these workers is provided to us by the respective States from where they are returning. The inflow is being recorded accordingly and workers thermally screened. They are then stamped with ‘Home Quarantine’ on their hands and sent to their residence,” he said. Since May 1, over 3,700 Shramik Specials ferried an estimated 50 lakh migrant workers to their native States. Of these, 695 trains originated from Mumbai.  New initiative Meanwhile, Skill Development Minister Nawab Malik has said the government is making all efforts to provide jobs to unemployed workers and youth, while facilitating availability of labour for the newly opened industry and entrepreneurs. Inaugurating a website www.mahaswayam.gov.in on Thursday, Mr. Malik said, “Through this platform, the unemployed youth and workers will be able to get information about vacancies in government and private offices. They will be able to submit candidature applications, get information about job fairs, participate in employment promotion programs, and participate in various skill development schemes and skill training institutes of the Central and State governments,” he said. Info for job seekers The website will provide entrepreneurs and industrialists with information on registered job seekers, their education, skills, experience, and location. They will be allowed to register for new plants, branches separately, notify vacancies created from time to time, get the list of eligible candidates, publish these posts free of cost, download the list in PDF or Excel, and conduct interviews. They will also be able to send free SMSes to the selected candidates through the system, and online placement of candidates, the minister said.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||Week-long welfare drive to mark Rahul Gandhi’s birthday||The Maharashtra Youth Congress will kick-start a week-longSeva Saptahby distributing over five lakh food packets on July 19, the birthday of former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. State Youth Congress chief Satyajeet Tambe said, “Office-bearers and workers will carry out welfare activities to ease the lives of poor and migrant workers amid the worsening novel coronavirus crisis.” Mr. Tambe said Congress workers will distribute Nyay Kits containing foodgrains and relief material to the needy. “A large segment of the unorganised sector, including daily wage workers, construction labourers, and farmers, do not have the necessary resources to survive. They rely on their daily wages to put food on the table and are on the brink of starvation,” he said. Mr. Tambe said the lockdown had affected the livelihoods of migrant labourers, forcing them to move from urban centres to their hometowns in rural areas. He said, “Migrant workers who have returned to their home States are facing acute unemployment. The government has increased the funding for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Maharashtra Youth Congress teams will review the issues facing MRNREGS labourers and help the needy people secure job cards to avail of employment benefits.” To express their gratitude, the party workers will felicitate doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police personnel, essential service providers and government employees who are risking their own lives and fighting on the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic. The State Congress said that the five lakh food packets will be prepared through community kitchens. State Congress president Balasaheb Thorat said the packets will be delivered to the homes of the poor. Blood donation camps To tackle the shortage of blood during the COVID-19 crisis, 10,000 bottles of blood will be collected by organising blood donation camps. The party will also distribute raincoats to police personnel and personal protective equipment to doctors and nurses. A medical camp will be organised for government employees, and they will be given immunity boosters, masks and sanitisers. Five lakh masks made by the women self-help groups will be distributed among the needy in the State.
19 June 2020||Mumbai,||Meet with CM satisfactory, say Congress leaders||Congress leaders expressed satisfaction after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday held a meeting with State party chief and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat and PWD Minister Ashok Chavan. The Congress leaders had sought time to meet Mr. Thackeray to discuss issues such as the party being sidelined in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s decision-making process and a lobby of bureaucrats working to create a rift in the alliance. The meeting scheduled for Tuesday was cancelled following the death of Mr. Thackeray’s father-in-law. On Wednesday, senior Sena leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anil Desai met Mr. Thorat to discuss the issues. Following the talks, Congress leaders arrived at Mr. Thackeray’s residence, Matoshree, on Thursday. ‘Sought CM’s opinion’ “We wanted to convey our concerns about certain administrative happenings and sought to know his opinion. We also wanted to discuss how welfare schemes can be expanded to help the poor,” Mr. Thorat said. According to sources, one of the major grievances of the Congress was the planned division of the Public Works Department. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana had recently criticised the party over its approach and called it a ‘old creaking cot’. The Congress in response said the editorial was based on incomplete information and sent out a wrong message about the party.
19 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Victim’s quick thinking helps police arrest rape accused||The Panvel City police have arrested a 35-year-old truck driver for raping an 18-year-old woman on the pretext of giving her a lift to Pune. The police said they tracked the accused based on the last four digits of the truck’s number plate, which the woman had dialled on her phone after she was abandoned by the roadside. The woman reached Mumbai on Sunday on a Shramik Special train from Mahuvadi village in Uttar Pradesh. She stayed with a relative and left on Tuesday to meet her husband in Pune. On Tuesday afternoon, the woman reached Kalyan by a local train and took a bus to Panvel. Around 1 a.m. on Wednesday, when she reached Kalamboli junction, the accused, Vikas Singh, offered her a lift to Pune. When they reached T-point in Uran, Mr. Singh raped the woman in the vehicle’s cabin. Senior police inspector Ajay Landge said, “The accused abandoned her after she bit his finger. She then called the police control room and a team took her for a medical examination.” A team led by police inspector Sunil Tarmale found the truck at Western Railway’s warehouse. The woman had said the accused had a beard and wore a turban. The police found him sleeping in the truck, but he started the vehicle and fled when he saw them. 45-minute chase “After a 45-minute chase, he abandoned the truck on realising that he was driving on an under-construction bridge. He tried to run, but we caught him,” Mr. Tarmale said. The accused was an employee of a transport company in Vashi and was heading to Uran for work. “He has no criminal record,” Mr. Landge said. The woman got married seven months ago and hadn’t met her husband in four months. The couple decided to meet in Pune and settle there.  He abandoned the truck on realising that he was driving on an under-construction bridge. He tried to run, but we caught him Sunil Tarmale Police inspector
19 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||CIDCO promises safe abode to Dungi villagers||With the onset of monsoon, the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) held a videoconference last week with Dungi villagers, living near the Navi Mumbai International Airport site, to assuage fears of water entering their homes. Relief package CIDCO has asked them to submit necessary documents to be eligible for 11 months’ rent and a house in a safer place. The rent being offered is Rs. 12 per square feet as per their current house. Of the 122 families that have applied for the package, CIDCO has cleared the documents of 46 families. The remaining 62 need to submit their papers. Of the 122 houses, 51 are on a Gaothan plot and 71 on privately-owned land. To be eligible for the package, the families need to prove that their houses on the Gaothan plot were built before 2013 and the ones on the private land before 2014. A CIDCO officer said, “Forty-six houses on the Gaothan plot met the criterion, while five were built just months before we carried out a video survey of the village in September 2019.” Eligibility certificate Nine families with houses on the private land opted for the package in 2015. To be eligible for the package, families need to produce a consent letter from their owner, procure an eligibility certificate and provide proof that their house was built before 2014. Adesh Naik, a resident of Dungi village, said, “The villagers who shifted last year returned after CIDCO gave them just four months’ rent. This year too we might have to face flooding.” CIDCO officials said they haven’t been able to identify eligible residents as villagers are not allowing them to conduct a video survey.  Villagers who shifted last year returned after CIDCO gave them just four months’ rent Adesh Naik Resident of Dungi village
19 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||ATM break-ins: police hunt accused||The Kalamboli and Taloja police are on the lookout for a man who tried to steal money from three ATMs over the past two days. The Taloja police said CCTV footage showed a masked man breaking into an ATM of GP Parsik Cooperative Bank at 1.15 a.m. on Wednesday. On Thursday, the accused tried to break into ATMs of two banks attached to the compound wall of the Navi Mumbai Police headquarters. Satish Gaikwad, senior police inspector, Kalamboli police station, said, “The same accused used the same method to break into the ATMs, but was unsuccessful. We have written to Axis Bank to deploy a security guard and install a CCTV at their ATM.”
19 June 2020||Panaji,||Goa Board to declare HSSC exam results next week||The results of the HSSC (Class XII) examination held by the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education earlier this year will be announced next week, a senior official said on Thursday. Board chairman Ramakrishna Samant said the date of the Higher Secondary School Certificate (HSSC) exam result will be announced on Monday or Tuesday. “The results will be declared in the coming week as the paper correction process is over,” Mr. Samant said. The exam was held in March, but as the novel coronavirus triggered a nation-wide lockdown later that month, the exams for two HSSC papers could not be conducted then. The exams were later held in the last week of May. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said in view of the rising COVID-19 cases in the State, he was concerned about the students of Classes X and XII, who will be appearing for the board exams in the academic year 2020-21. Talking to reporters after paying tribute to martyrs on Goa Revolution Day, Mr. Sawant, who also holds the education portfolio, said some schools in the State have already started conducting online classes. “I am more concerned about the students who will be appearing for the Secondary School Certificate and the Higher Secondary School Certificate examinations this academic year,” he said. The government was yet to decide when and how to resume the academic year, he said, adding that online classes are not compulsory. Mr. Sawant said mobile network issues in some parts of the State pose hurdles to virtual schooling.
19 June 2020||Washington,||‘Trump asked Xi to help win re-election’||U.S. President Donald Trump pleaded with China’s leader Xi Jinping for help to win re-election in 2020, former National Security Adviser John Bolton writes in an explosive new behind-the-scenes book, according to excerpts published on Wednesday. Mr. Bolton alleges in a blistering critique that Mr. Trump’s focus on winning a second term was the driving principle of his foreign policy, and that top aides routinely disparaged the Republican leader for his ignorance of basic geopolitical facts. In excerpts published by The Washington Post , The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal , Mr. Bolton also claims Mr. Trump repeatedly showed a readiness to overlook Chinese human rights abuses — most strikingly telling Mr. Xi the mass internment of Uighur Muslims was “exactly the right thing to do”. “I am hard-pressed to identify any significant Trump decision during my White House tenure that wasn’t driven by re-election calculations,” Mr. Bolton writes of the real estate magnate-turned-President, who was impeached in December for seeking dirt from Ukraine on his 2020 Democratic election rival Joe Biden. In a key meeting with Mr. Xi last June, Mr. Trump “stunningly turned the conversation to the U.S. presidential election, alluding to China’s economic capability to affect the ongoing campaigns, pleading with Mr. Xi to ensure he’d win,” Mr. Bolton claims in his upcoming tell-all. Bid to block book Mr. Bolton writes that Mr. Trump stressed the importance of U.S. farmers and how “increased Chinese purchases of soybeans and wheat” could impact the U.S. electoral outcome. In a sign of Mr. Trump’s anger over the memoir, the Justice Department filed an emergency order late Wednesday seeking a halt to publication, the second time in as many days it has tried to block the book. Arguing that Mr. Bolton failed to allow completion of vetting of the book as required, the department urged the court to take action to “prevent the harm to national security that will result if his manuscript is published to the world”. Mr. Bolton “broke the law” by divulging “highly classified information,” Mr. Trump said in a late Wednesday interview with Fox News’ Sean Hannity. He also derided his former adviser, a veteran Washington insider, as “washed up,” and mocked Mr. Bolton’s past support for the U.S. war in Iraq. “Wacko John Bolton’s ‘exceedingly tedious’ (New York Times) book is made up of lies & fake stories,” Mr. Trump later tweeted. “A disgruntled boring fool who only wanted to go to war. Never had a clue, was ostracized & happily dumped. What a dope!” ‘Personal favours’ In the released excerpts Mr. Bolton said that by intervening in cases involving major firms in China and Turkey, Mr. Trump appeared to “give personal favours to dictators he liked.” He describes “obstruction of justice as a way of life” in the White House, and says he reported his concerns to Attorney General William Barr. The bombshell book, The Room Where It Happened , is due for release next Tuesday, in the thick of a presidential campaign against Democrat Joe Biden. “If these accounts are true, it’s not only morally repugnant, it’s a violation of Donald Trump’s sacred duty to the American people to protect America’s interests and defend our values.” The conservative Mr. Bolton, himself a controversial figure in U.S. politics, spent 17 turbulent months in the White House before resigning last September. He declined to testify during the December impeachment process in the House of Representatives, then said in January he would testify in the Senate trial if he were issued a subpoena. Senate Republicans blocked such an effort by Democrats. Mr. Bolton did not explicitly say whether Mr. Trump’s newly revealed actions amounted to impeachable conduct, but argued that the House should have investigated them. He also said Democrats committed “impeachment malpractice” by limiting their inquiry to “the Ukraine aspects of Trump’s confusion of his personal interests.”
19 June 2020||Baghdad,||Iraq tells Turkey to stop attacks||Baghdad on Thursday demanded Ankara immediately halt its assault in northern Iraq, where Turkish special forces and helicopters have been targeting Kurdish rebel hideouts. Turkey early Wednesday launched a cross-border operation into the mountainous regions of northern Iraq where the Kurdistan Workers’ Party (PKK), considered by Ankara to be a “terrorist” group, is thought to be hiding out. Iraq’s Foreign Ministry summoned the Turkish Ambassador Fatih Yildiz on Thursday and handed him a “strongly-worded memorandum calling for a halt to such provocative actions”. “We stress that Turkey must stop its bombardment and withdraw its attacking forces from Iraqi territory,” the Ministry said in a statement. “We affirm our categorical rejection of these violations.” Iraq on Thursday also summoned Iran’s envoy Iraj Masjedi in protest over its shelling of Kurdish areas on Tuesday. The Foreign Ministry statement urged Iran to “respect Iraq’s sovereignty and stops these types of actions”. “This Ministry affirms Iraq is keen to maintain and develop the historical ties between the two countries, and also stresses its condemnation of these actions,” the ministry said. Tehran has cultivated close political, military and economic ties with Iraqi leaders over decades, including with top Kurdish officials. Iran, which has its own minority Kurdish population, has also been fighting Kurdish rebels who use neighbouring Iraq as a base to mount attacks inside the country. Its Revolutionary Guards last month mounted an operation against rebels in Iran’s western province of Kurdistan. Turkey doubles down After that meeting, Yildiz said he had told Iraqi officials that if Baghdad did not take action against the rebels, Ankara would continue to “fight the PKK wherever it is”. The PKK has fought an insurgency against the Turkish state since 1984, using the rugged mountains of neighbouring northern Iraq as a rear base.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Juneteenth: when slaves in Texas heard of their freedom||Juneteenth is a holiday to mark June 19, 1865, when slaves in Galveston, Texas, learned — from the Union army — that they were free. The Union army fought to keep the U.S. a union during the American Civil War (1861-65), which was fought between the U.S. and eleven southern States that had seceded from the union, forming the Confederate States of America. The Confederate states were against the abolishing of slavery, on which their economies were built. On January 1, 1863, President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which declared that all who were held as slaves within the “rebellious” states “are, and henceforward shall be free”. There were some four million slaves at the time. It took years for slavery to end in reality. The proclamation did not apply to border States which were loyal to the Union, nor to some parts of the Confederacy. Second, even after the fall of a Confederate State, such as Texas, plantation owners decided to withhold the announcement until after the harvest. Two and a half years after the proclamation and two months after the end of the war, Union soldiers, led by Major General Gordon Granger, marched into Galveston, reading out the proclamation. Texas officially made Juneteenth a holiday in 1980. Forty-seven of 50 States and the District of Columbia either officially observe Juneteenth or have recognised it as a holiday, as per the Congressional Research Service. U.S. Presidents, including George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Donald Trump, have issued messages of observance on the day. Special significance With the recent killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis and Rayshard Brooks in Atlanta by white policemen and the continuing protests over the treatment of African Americans by law enforcement, there is much discussion and introspection about race in America. Consequently, Juneteenth is likely to have a special significance this year. Virginia and New York are giving State employees a holiday on Friday and their Governors said they would propose legislation making Juneteenth a fully paid holiday in their States. Several high profile companies and organisations like Twitter, Nike and the National Football League have also declared Juneteenth a holiday this year. Trump and Juneteenth? Donald Trump had scheduled his first MAGA (Make America Great Again) rally since the lockdown began for June 19 in Tulsa, Oklahoma. The city was the site of one of the worst cases of racial violence in American history and Mr. Trump’s action was criticised as being disrespectful and racist. Up to 300 people had died in Tulsa in the racial violence of 1921 when a white mob burned down more than 1,000 homes and businesses in the well-to-do African American neighbourhood of Greenwood (“Black Wall Street”). The proximate cause for the violence was an unsubstantiated rumour that a white woman, Sarah Page, had been raped in an elevator by the black elevator operator, Dick Rowland. Tulsa city authorities continue to look for mass graves — in search of what happened to the victims’ bodies. After being criticised, Mr, Trump backtracked and said he was postponing the rally by a day out of “respect for this Holiday, and in observance of this important occasion and all that it represents.” “The dog whistle was still heard loud and clear,” Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is a possible Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate, tweeted in response to news of the date change. There is significant opposition to the postponed rally on public health grounds.
19 June 2020||Paris,||France slams ‘provocation’ as U.S. halts digital tax talks||France and the U.S. locked horns on Thursday over taxing digital giants such as Google and Facebook, after Washington said it was breaking off talks aimed at establishing a global framework for making the companies pay larger levies where they operate. “This letter is a provocation,” French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire said, confirming receipt of the announcement by U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin. France, Britain, Italy and Spain have already sent a reply expressing their desire to agree on “a fair digital tax at the level of the OECD as quickly as possible,” Mr.Le Maire said. “We were a few centimetres away from an agreement on a tax for digital giants, who are perhaps the only people in the world to have benefitted immensely from the coronavirus,” he told France Inter radio. In January, 137 countries agreed to negotiate a deal on how to tax tech multinationals by 2020-end, under the auspices of the OECD. European countries in particular say the so-called GAFA — Google, Apple, Facebook and Amazon — are unfairly exploiting tax rules that let them declare profits in low-tax havens, depriving them of a fair share of their fiscal payments. Meanwhile, France as well as U.K., Spain, Italy and others have imposed taxes on the largest digital firms. U.S. officials have slammed the moves as discriminating against American firms, and say any new levies should come only as part of a broader overhaul of international tax rules. Paolo Gentiloni, the EU commissioner for economic affairs, said that he hoped U.S.’s decision to stop the negotiations would not be permanent.
19 June 2020||WASHINGTON,||President can’t shut down DACA, says U.S. top court||The Supreme Court ruled on Thursday that the U.S. government may not immediately proceed with its plan to end a programme protecting about 7,00,000 young immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation. The court’s ruling was a blow to one of President Donald Trump’s central campaign promises — that as president he would “immediately terminate” an executive order by former President Barack Obama that Mr. Trump had called an illegal executive amnesty for hundreds of thousands of young immigrants. Chief Justice John Roberts wrote the majority opinion, joined by the court’s four more liberal members in upholding the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA. “We do not decide whether DACA or its rescission are sound policies,” the Chief Justice wrote. “We address only whether the agency complied with the procedural requirement that it provide a reasoned explanation for its action.” After contentious debates among his aides, Mr. Trump announced in September 2017 that he would wind down the programme. He gave only a single reason for doing so, saying that creating or maintaining the program was beyond the legal power of any president. ‘Swayed by sympathy’ But the justifications the government gave, Justice Roberts wrote, were insufficient. He said the administration may try again to provide adequate reasons for shutting down the programme. In a dissent, Justice Clarence Thomas, joined by Justices Samuel Alito and Neil Gorsuch, said the majority had been swayed by sympathy and politics. The programme was announced by Mr. Obama in 2012. It allows young people brought to the U.S. as children to apply for a temporary status that shields them from deportation and allows them to work. The status lasts for two years and is renewable, but it does not provide a path to citizenship. The ruling means the government will have to provide a lower court with a more robust justification for ending the programme. That process is likely to take many months.NY TIMES
19 June 2020||Beijing,||Chinese county restricts travel||Travel restrictions were placed on nearly half a million people near Beijing on Thursday as authorities rushed to contain a fresh outbreak of the coronavirus with a mass test-and-trace effort and lockdowns in parts of the Chinese capital. Another 21 cases of the virus were reported in the past 24 hours in Beijing, the National Health Commission said, taking the total to 158 since a fresh cluster was detected last week after months of no confirmed local transmissions. One case was also recorded in the neighbouring city of Tianjin and two more in Hebei province — which surrounds Beijing — prompting travel restrictions on Anxin county, home to nearly half a million people, banning most traffic. Essential service vehicles are allowed into Anxin, about 150 km from Beijing, while private and government cars can enter and leave only if they have permission, state media said. Beijing is collecting around 4,00,000 samples a day for testing amid fears the new outbreak could trigger a second wave of infections in China, which had largely brought the contagion under control since it emerged in Wuhan late last year.
19 June 2020||BEIJING,||China moves closer to passing Hong Kong security legislation||China’s legislature on Thursday passed a draft of a National Security Bill for Hong Kong that has been criticised as undermining the semi-autonomous region’s legal and political institutions. It covers four categories of crimes.AP
19 June 2020||Tokyo,||Tokyo, June 18, 2020 (AFP) -||Japanese prosecutors on Thursday arrested the country's former Justice Minister Katsuyuki Kawai, a close ally of PM Shinzo Abe, and his lawmaker wife over allegations of vote-buying during her electoral campaign last year.AFP
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Galwan: Postscript to a tragedy||The night of June 15, 2020 will go down in the annals of Indian history as one steeped in tragedy. Twenty Indian Army personnel, including the Commanding Officer of 16th Bihar Regiment, lost their lives at the hands of Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh. The incident represents a watershed in India’s relations with China and marks the end of a 45-year chapter which saw no armed confrontation involving loss of lives on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The period of bilateral relations that was inaugurated with former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s visit to China in December 1988 also drew to a close in the darkness of that fateful Monday night. The incident has deeply shaken the nation. It had been assumed all along that there would be a de-escalation of the confrontation between Indian and Chinese troops in the area after the Corps Commander-level talks between the two sides on June 6. That things went terribly wrong is more than evident. What is the import and significance of what happened in Galwan Valley on June 15? Can it be business as usual with China after this? That would seem unlikely given the manner in which the whole calculus of relations has been disturbed by the incident.  From 1959 to 2020 Nothing on this scale was witnessed even in the run-up to the conflict between the two countries in 1962. In October 1959, there was a face-off between Indian and Chinese troops at Kongka La. Nine Indian soldiers were killed and three soldiers were detained then, including the legendary Karam Singh, the leader of the group who recorded after his release the ill-treatment he and his colleagues had been subjected to at the hands of their captors. It was after Kongka La that the national mood turned against the Chinese in full measure in an atmosphere already complicated by the revolt in Tibet and the granting of asylum to the Dalai Lama in March 1959. There was very little room for a reasoned, negotiated settlement being reached on the boundary question between the two countries after that juncture. The rest is history. The conflict in 1962 inflicted gaping wounds on the national soul and prestige from which India took time to recover. Is the country at a similar juncture today? 2020 is not 1959. India and China are in a very different place in their history as nations today. They have grown immensely in strength and stature on the world stage and their relations have substance and a diversity of content in a manner absent in the 1950s. To assume that India is on a steep descent from here towards a full-blown conflict with China may therefore be an oversimplification. Both countries must stop that fall despite the terse messaging of statements issued in the two capitals after the incident. The statements are mutually accusatory, with each country disclaiming responsibility for the tragic turn of events. The mood is very sombre. Assessing choices carefully Cool-headed thinking is the need of the hour. All this comes at a time when the COVID-19 crisis demands the full attention of the government, the economy needs to recover from the stagnancy of the last few months, the tensions with Pakistan persist, and a dispute over territory with Nepal in the Lipulekh/Kalapani area has been headlined. There is considerable turbulence generated by all this. Even as we mourn the loss of Indian personnel in Galwan Valley, a reincarnated battlefront with China cannot be blindly embraced, however much national pride and prestige are at stake. The implications of such a choice must be carefully assessed. The instant gratification that an eye for an eye may provide, because we have scores to settle, has its attendant complications. Strong political direction, mature deliberation and coherence are keys to handling the situation. The Army can make tactical adjustments and manoeuvres to deter the Chinese, but a comprehensive China strategy and its determination should devolve on those tasked with national security policy in the highest echelons of the Government of India under the direction of the Prime Minister. The responsibility of effective strategic communication too rests there. A clearer enunciation of the circumstances surrounding Chinese transgressions in Sikkim and Ladakh in the last few months would have been helpful in guiding the scattershot public debate. Were there early warning signs of the seriousness of the situation that could have been defused at the military, diplomatic and political levels so that the disaster could have been averted? We must draw the right conclusions that can help us in the future. The Opposition must not play politics on this issue. Turning to the future It is to the future we must turn. It is India that should take the initiative to insist on a timely and early clarification of the LAC. Pockets of difference of alignment as perceived by each side have to be clearly identified and these areas demilitarised by both sides through joint agreement pending a settlement of the boundary. At the same time, India must stand resolute and firm in the defence of territory in all four sectors of the border. Contacts between the two militaries — joint exercises and exchanges of visits of senior Commanders — should be scaled down for the foreseeable future. A border settlement is not envisaged in the short or medium term. Bilateral relations in other areas will be under considerable strain and soft landings cannot be expected. No leadership-level contact between the top leaders of the two countries can be envisaged in the near term and there is no need for any haste on that front. Diplomatic channels must continue to be open and should not be fettered in any way because their smooth operability is vital in the current situation. Indian businesses in China and Chinese business operations in India can expect the going to be tougher than before. The scenario on trade and investments could encounter similar obstacles. In any case, in areas that impinge on national security, as in the cyber field and in telecommunications, and in technologies that enable spying and surveillance (5G, for instance), stringent controls, exclusions and clampdowns can be expected in the treatment and the entry of Chinese companies in India. Taking the long view But beyond all this is the outside world. India’s leverage and balancing power within the Indo-Pacific and the world beyond stems from its strong democratic credentials, the dynamism of its economy, its leading role in multilateral institutions, and the strategic advantage of its maritime geography — an asset possessed by few other nations, and which must be deployed much more effectively to counterbalance the Chinese ingress into this oceanic space that surrounds us. The events in Galwan Valley should be a wake-up call to many of India’s Asian friends and partners enabling a high-resolution envisioning of Chinese aggressiveness. This is also an opportunity for India to align its interests much more strongly and unequivocally with the U.S. as a principal strategic partner and infuse more energy into its relations with Japan, Australia, and the ASEAN. The time has also come for India to reconsider its stand on joining the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership. If India is to disengage from economic involvement with China, and build the capacities and capabilities it needs in manufacturing, and in supply chains networks closer home, it cannot be a prisoner of the short term. It is time to boldly take the long view in this area as also on its South Asia policy. Good neighbourhood relations are crucial for national stability and well-being. Nirupama Rao is a former Foreign Secretary and Ambassador to China
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Can India decouple itself from Chinese manufacturing?||The border clashes with China and the COVID-19 pandemic have reignited questions about India’s dependence on Chinese manufacturing. India’s imports from China in 2019-2020 reached $65 billion, out of $81 billion two-way trade. Is the pandemic, as Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said last month, a “blessing in disguise” for Indian manufacturing? Will companies be able to move deeply integrated supply chains out of China? In a discussion moderated by Ananth Krishnan , Biswajit Dhar and Amitendu Palit discuss the options and the challenges ahead in India’s efforts to boost manufacturing. Edited excerpts:  It has been more than five years since India launched the Make in India initiative. If we look at India’s dependencies on China as one barometer, how would you assess where we are now? Biswajit Dhar (BD):I think that the Make in India initiative was a good opportunity for us to get our manufacturing sector back on track. I don’t think that we have taken advantage of what we had planned. In the past five years, what we have seen is that the dependency on China has actually gone up. Amitendu Palit (AP):What we are seeing is for a variety of reasons, India’s dependence on imports is getting to be localised, in the sense that there is not a wide diversification of countries from which India is sourcing. For example, if you look at critical medical supplies which India has been importing for frontline healthcare workers in the COVID-19 battle, most of these come from China. Aside from China, there are probably three or four countries on which India’s dependence is increasing. China is by and large widespread across different concentrations. To that extent, it’s going to be a difficult choice for India to get out of this dependence. What are some of the concentrations? AP:First, regarding capital goods, Indian manufacturing is dependent on supplies from China. This includes a wide variety of machineries, including electrical machinery, semiconductor-driven machinery etc. We import fertilizers from China. Limited value consumer goods have flooded the market. Where the criticality actually comes in is when there are a number of imports which are not really a matter of choice but which are essential. For example, if you look at humidifiers, which are being utilised in the COVID-19 battle, China is again the main source. For medical masks, China is the main source. Even for something like liquid soap, which is very much highly required across the country today, China again happens to be the main source of the supplies. We need to look at the whole situation very clearly and probably prioritise in terms of what are the areas where India can relatively more easily move back away from the dependency it has on China, and what are the areas where it will take much longer. The conventional wisdom is we should aim to replicate what China did in the 1990s. But how different is the global environment from 30 years ago when China was opening up? BD:Global value chains today are looking quite different. What the data suggests is global value chains are in fact becoming more local. Countries are depending more on their own economies rather than on global markets. This is an impact of the great recession of 2008. I don’t think that the strategy that China followed, which was a global market-driven industrialisation strategy, an export-driven strategy, is going to be a reality anymore. Policymakers keep making these statements, that we are going to become more open and we are going to be relying more on the global markets. Unfortunately, that possibility has now passed. AP:If one looks at why China is so central to a very large number of global and regional supply chains, there are two elements to it. The first is the fact that China does offer the capacity to businesses to develop the supply chains by considerable lengths within itself. This is not just because of the geography that it has, but also because of the fairly wide broad-basing that it has developed over different sectors, and by and large in most products. China’s biggest value comes as a final stage assembler. China has also become a major consumer for final products. So when we look at value chains today, let’s say in a post COVID-19 situation, the emphasis on the part of businesses is to make these chains shorter, more resilient, more durable, and locate them closer to the final demand markets. Now, this is where I think we often overlook the importance of China. China continues to remain a major source of the final demand market. As a result of which, shifting physically supply chains out of the Chinese geography and its connected arms — I refer to Hong Kong and Taiwan — is going to be pretty difficult because the geography offers a tremendous amount of what in economics we call agglomeration advantages. We have seen companies moving out, although mainly to South-East Asia. Even assuming there is limited relocation that we can absorb, what should be our policy priorities? BD:We need to ask why is it that there has always been a huge gulf between FDI inflows into China and into India, and why is it that we have been attracting so little despite being one of the most open economies, and despite being a country which offers very attractive terms to foreign investors. The Make in India strategy talked about FDI in manufacturing, but if you look at the data and see which sectors have been preferred by the foreign investors, you’ll see it’s the service sectors. And many of these sectors are those where India does not need any investment, for instance IT services. I think the reason is clear, and that is there are skill set problems in India. Foreign investors get into the sectors where there are acknowledged skills, for instance in IT. But we don’t have similar skill sets in manufacturing. The second issue is infrastructure. It’s not just about having a good policy, but you need to have the infrastructure in place so that the foreign investor can make profits. There is a view that since the wage rates are low, investment is going to come here. That’s not true. We all know that it’s actually productivity-linked wages that matter, and productivity in India is pretty awful. We can talk about offering land, but I don’t think that land is an issue because from 2005, after we announced our special economic zones policy, the government of India has gone and acquired land all over the place. There is also the red tape. It’s not enough to say that we are going up the ease of doing business rankings. We know what the situation is on the ground. We often hear industries calling for labour reforms, and complaints that in India labour unions are too powerful and it should be easier to hire and fire workers. Is that the issue, or is it a skills issue? BD:It is actually easy for industries to hire and fire. If one lesson COVID-19 has taught everyone, it is that there’s virtually no labour laws in this country. Labour was retrenched at the drop of a hat. The reverse migration we are seeing is because of this problem. This is a false kind of a narrative that has been parroted time and time again, that we need more flexibility. AP:If you look at the kind of FDI that India has been getting over the last three to four years, and the big ticket FDI, whether it is Walmart’s acquisition of a large stake in Flipkart, or that of Facebook in Reliance Jio, all of these are essentially intending to acquire existing assets. None of these are in the nature of building a boat from scratch in terms of the typical greenfield investment, which is capable of creating substantial jobs. One thing India can probably offer that other countries in South-East Asia cannot to the same degree, is the market. Can we leverage that better? BD:The unfortunate reality is we have not cared to harness the dominant domestic market adequately. And this is linked to our overall strategy of increasing the manufacturing sector, allowing the sector to absorb more labour, especially from agriculture, and so easing the burden of agriculture, and then having a more resilient manufacturing sector, and reducing the dependence on countries like China. What we are finding is that since none of these things have actually fallen in place, we find that the unemployment rate has actually gone up. And the direct implication of this increase in unemployment rate is that the domestic market has shrunk. And we’ve been seeing that growth was tapering off even before COVID-19. At the end of the day, if you have to create your own market, you got to have enough demand on the ground. Is there a contradiction between India aspiring to become a lynchpin in global supply chains and being wary about trading agreements? AP:Even if we go by what India’s stated objective is, that is reduce dependency on China and work towards relocation of supply chains with like-minded partners, countries like Japan, Korea, Vietnam, those are all members of RCEP [Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership], which is going to be concluded without India. And they’re all going to work on the same rules of origin, which this agreement is going to give them. What I am trying to reconcile, and I am unfortunately failing to, are these contradictory sets of objectives, with India looking to position itself as a hub and working to relocate supply chains along with a group of countries, but with countries which are part of a completely different sub-regional understanding. The question India needs to answer upfront is, is it going to stay engaged with the trade agreements or not? There could be two elements to this — reduce dependency on China, and reduce dependency on the rest of the world. Just reducing dependency on China has one set of implications, but reducing dependency on the rest of the world is an approach that will drive you up the road of economic nationalism. BD:I think we are going to go more towards the road of economic nationalism. There have been very clear signals in the last few years. India has gone more protectionist, and the average tariffs have actually gone up. There have been statements made by the major Ministers saying that we need to promote domestic goods, we need to shun imported goods, and even products made by foreign companies. That is very, very disturbing. If for everything, we start talking about indigenisation, that means we are trying to go down the path of import substitution. In this day and age, you can’t really do that. There are practical problems, because in order to go down that path, you have to garner huge resources which India doesn’t have. One thing which is very important for any country today is that policies must be predictable and transparent. Unfortunately, we seem to have neither.  We have not cared to harness the dominant domestic market adequately Biswajit Dhar Professor
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Mediation in the age of COVID-19||We live in strange times. Old certainties have given way to new uncertainties. Down the ages, Lady Justice, sword in one hand and eyes blindfolded, has been pretty much like the Rock of Gibraltar, ensuring stability, but also being resistant to change. One bug, christened COVID-19, comes along and the Lady is reeling. At the heart of the adversarial system is advocacy performed in open setting, in full gaze of clients and fellow lawyers, and that has dictated modes of thought and approach and behaviour, all integral to the system. Justice must not only seem to be done, but judges must also be seen while they are engaged in the task of doing it. But presence in numbers necessitates proximity, and now proximity spells danger. Deprived of their natural setting of the courtroom, judges and lawyers have fallen back to talk of virtual courts, so that the bare essential is achieved — the judge being able to hear the particular lawyer. All other features of the courtroom are eschewed, and thus an essentially public setting is converted to a closed door one. It is, and will remain, unsatisfactory. A new kid on the block There is, however, another tool in the dispute resolution armoury, which is resistant to COVID-19, and perhaps could even thrive on it. That is mediation, which is the polar opposite of the court process. It tries to achieve consensus between parties to come to an amicable agreement, rather than the win-lose verdict of the adversarial system. At its core is confidential discussion between mediator and parties, and between mediator and individual parties. It focuses on uncovering interests, and eliciting suggestions from the parties themselves for practical solutions to end the dispute. As much as the essential attribute of the formal justice system is the open courtroom hearing, mediation’s essence is closed door communication with its guarantee of confidentiality. And, important in the present context, it has an inherent flexibility and adaptability. As a process, structured mediation is a new kid on the block, with an existence of barely two to three decades in India, and just a few more worldwide. Conventional litigation and arbitration are vintage, spanning hundreds of years and generations of judges and lawyers. Mediation, however, is an idea whose time has come and is rapidly gaining ground. Legislation has given it the legal structure and safeguards, and provided the assurance that the courts will implement mediation agreements. India’s judges have been enthusiastic embracers of this process. Lawyers, steeped in adversarial ways, have surprisingly warmed up to a system which is its antithesis. Convenient and cost-effective Online mediation will enable the mediator and the parties to assemble together, each on their computer screens perhaps hundreds of miles away. Discussion can be guided, giving parties and lawyers the opportunity to put forth their views. When separate meetings are required, the mediator can, at the click of a button, move the other party and its lawyer to another virtual room. The great advantage of online mediation is that it is convenient, cost-effective and an efficient use of time. Parties do not have to bear costs, do not have to travel, do not have to wait long hours, and do not have to undergo adjournments and multiple visits to the mediation centre. Much can be done by using this medium to get faster results. What will be missing in this process is the immediacy, directness and complete contact that is possible only in face-to-face meetings. On the other hand, it may also be that in an online process, we are giving the participant a little cocoon of safety, when we create this grainy barrier of two screens and an intermediate world of Internet and WiFi. It will certainly be of benefit in cases where emotions run high and face-to-face confrontation may increase the conflict. That happens often in matrimonial cases, and in family business disputes, where tempers and emotions arising from frayed domestic situations and settings can edge out sensible business logic. Similarly, where parties are located in different countries, we would have done away with difficulties of distance when we adopt this mode. As the new rash of webinars shows, it is easy to get people from different locations on to one platform.  Online mediation has a host of advantages, but also bears some cautioning. Confidentiality can be compromised since hearings could be recorded; service providers have to be vigilant, and rules will have to penalise participants for breach. Technical glitches have to be minimised, and Internet services must gear up for providing screen clarity and uninterrupted feed. But above all, there is the apprehension that online communication will exclude the underprivileged, those who cannot afford access to Internet or do not have the capacity or assistance to use it. Such exclusion will be tantamount to denial of access to justice. If the State and its Courts are going to allow and encourage online mediation to resolve disputes, weaker parties must be assisted and enabled to avail of this facility. As we meander in the dark to find out what the new normal is going to consist of, we may well discover that a good part of the world of dispute resolution has been flipped, and that COVID-19 is the harbinger of change taking online consensual resolution to a higher level. Perhaps, this cloud too has a silver lining. Sriram Panchu is Senior Advocate and Mediator, and President, Mediators India. Email: srirampanchu@gmail.com
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump’s ‘America-first’ policy intensifies in an election year||U.S. President Donald Trump’s move to draw down troops from Germany, months before his November re-election bid, marks the return to a lynchpin of his ‘America-first’ foreign policy rooted in a repudiation of multilateralism. The development shows persistent strains in relations between the two countries. Under the move, 9,500 American defence personnel, about a quarter of those stationed in Germany — home to the largest contingent of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Europe — would be removed by September. The significance of the step may be gauged from the fact that the U.S. Army and Air Force headquarters for Europe and Africa are located in the country, which also hosts major American military training bases. These facilities serve as critical strategic and logistics centres to bolster Washington’s security interests in West Asia and North Africa. A large U.S. presence has, moreover, served as a bulwark of peace in post-Second World War Europe, as well as to strengthen the Western alliance against threats from the former Soviet Union during the Cold War. Its relevance in current times remains undiminished, given Berlin’s reticence to project strategic power, notwithstanding its economic pre-eminence. Trump’s displeasure at Berlin The relocation of troops signals Mr. Trump’s strong disapproval of Berlin, which he has repeatedly singled out for non-compliance with NATO’s stipulation to spend 2% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) on defence. The pressure he has exerted on the bloc has already resulted in substantial increases in expenditure from many member states. However, the German government reported a marginal increase last year and aims to meet the bloc’s target only in a decade. Turning up the heat on Berlin, whose huge trade surpluses with Washington have roiled domestic industrial lobbies, works to Mr. Trump’s advantage in an election year. Its backing for the Paris climate deal, the Iran nuclear agreement and even its domestic 2015 policy to let in immigrants have similarly drawn Mr. Trump’s ire. Washington’s former Ambassador to Berlin Richard Grenell, a close Trump associate, played down the significance of the troop withdrawal when he alluded to similar steps being planned in South Korea and Japan. But there were overtones of Mr. Trump’s stance of an isolationist America when Mr. Grenell remarked that there were costs to U.S. taxpayers from providing security for other countries. Jitters across the Atlantic Washington’s decision has, however, caused consternation across the Atlantic. Leaders from Germany’s ruling conservative Christian Democratic Party have highlighted the absence of consultations over the unilateral move as illustrative of the lack of cohesiveness within NATO. Germany’s left-wing Die Linke party has called on the government to push for a further rollback of U.S. troops. Conversely, over 20 Republicans from the House Arms and Defense Committee have written to the President opposing the troops pull-out, arguing that Russia under President Vladimir Putin continues to pose a real and present danger to the security of Europe and beyond. A potential beneficiary from this stand-off could be Poland on NATO’s eastern flanks, which spends 2% of its GDP on defence and has earmarked some $48 billion to modernise its armed forces by 2026. The ultra-right government has already signed a contract worth billions of dollars for U.S. Patriot missiles and has expressed interest in the F-35 fighter jets. During the signing of a deal last year for the supply of additional 1000 troops to Warsaw, Mr. Trump indicated that they could be redeployed from Germany. Seizing the moment, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has sounded optimistic about Washington’s latest decision. His ultimate aim is for a permanent U.S. military presence on Polish soil to counter Russian influence. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||At the high table||India’s election to the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member is a significant diplomatic victory for the country, which has long been pushing for reforms at global institutions. The victory wasn’t unexpected as India was the only contestant for the Asia Pacific seat. But the Indian foreign policy establishment took no chances as the election would be done by secret ballot at the UN General Assembly and two-thirds of the votes were needed for victory. India secured the seat with 184 votes in the 193-strong General Assembly. Mexico, Norway and Ireland were also elected as non-permanent members. While Mexico won the Latin American seat uncontested, Norway and Ireland emerged victorious from a three-way contest for the Western Europe and Others Group seat. Canada failed to win enough votes in this group. Neither Kenya nor Djibouti, which were contesting the seat from Africa, won a two-thirds majority. They will face another vote. India sought the support of member countries by highlighting its commitment to multilateralism and reforms. Ahead of the vote, India had launched a campaign brochure which highlighted its demand for transparency in mandates for UN peacekeeping missions and push for the India-led Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, and called for joint efforts for UN reform and expansion of the Security Council. A “new orientation for a reformed multilateral system” (NORMS), as laid out by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, would be India’s overall objective during the two-year tenure that will begin next year. Achieving this would depend on how India will conduct diplomacy in the global body, build alliances and raise issues that go beyond the interests of the big five. India has long been of the view that the structure of the UN Security Council doesn’t reflect the realities of the 21st century. It has also got increasing support from member countries for its push for reforms. But the five permanent members of the Security Council have resisted these attempts. The COVID-19 pandemic has already shaken up the global order and sharpened the rivalry between the U.S. and China. It has also opened up fresh debates on strengthening multilateralism and multilateral institutions. In this context, the challenges before India are many. The Security Council is one of the most important multilateral decision-making bodies where the contours of global geopolitics are often drawn. India should avoid the temptation of taking sides at a time when the Security Council is getting more and more polarised. To serve its interests and push for its agenda of multilateralism and reforms, India should adopt value-based positions that are not transactional, aspire for the leadership of the non-permanent members of the Council and be the voice of the weaker nations.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Fleecing fuel users||In just 12 straight days, India’s state-owned oil marketing companies have raised the retail prices of petrol and diesel by Rs. 6.55 and Rs. 7.04 a litre, respectively. A consumer in Delhi would have ended up spending about 9% more on petrol at an Indian Oil Corporation fuel pump on Thursday while those driving diesel vehicles would have found their fuel costs had risen by a little more than 10%. Over the same period, the price of Brent crude oil futures, which contributes a fourth to the value of the Indian crude basket, declined by about 3%. If one drills down to the price buildup data shared by IOC, petrol’s freight inclusive base price as on June 16 in Delhi was Rs. 22.44, a significant 23% higher than the Rs. 18.28 before the refiners embarked on their latest round of price increases. It is disconcerting that between the OMCs, which had frozen their daily resetting of prices for almost 12 weeks following a reduction on March 16, and the Central and State governments, automobile fuels have been targeted for milking revenue. The buildup data shows that Excise Duty, levied by the Centre, and VAT collected by the Delhi government together constituted two-thirds the Rs. 76.73 pump price of petrol as on June 16. On the face of it, the OMCs’ decision to resume daily price resetting would appear to be in broad conformity with the pricing deregulation that the Centre has intermittently committed to ever since the government of the day freed up petrol prices in 2010. However, the timing of the recent moves to raise levies and retail prices by the governments and fuel marketers, respectively, is at odds with logic at a point when the country is grappling with the impact of a pandemic. The aim of maximising takings from fuel products to offset shortfalls in other revenue streams can only bear fruit if petrol and diesel offtake remains unaffected and the rising fuel bill doesn’t end up depleting household consumption budgets. With public transportation yet to restart fully in most urban areas and operating with tight restrictions and at lower frequencies even where some services have resumed, most commuters continue to have little choice but to use personal vehicles. Also, with the lockdowns imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 having severely hit business activity at all levels, the onus is on the governments — both at the Centre and in the States — to facilitate the resumption of economic activity in every manner possible. Given that diesel is the primary fuel for the vast and essential road freight sector, every incremental addition to haulage costs ends up dampening both the transport industry and wider economic revival. It is imperative that authorities remove the speed breakers on the path back to normalcy.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||First the blowout, then the stake-out||As I read reports about the blowout at an Oil India natural gas well at Baghjan in Tinsukia district of Assam, I am beginning to wonder: How are reporters covering a blowout these days? From May 27, a massive fire is spewing out of the well mouth, and may take weeks to be capped. Are reporters waiting at the spot, as I did 25 years ago? It’s not exactly a picnic and may turn out to be a frustrating and seemingly endless assignment. Over three spells in January-March 1995, reporting the blowout became a lengthy stake-out with slow progress and no more than a trickle of information. Three stints The unlikely assignment had come my way one evening as I was typing my reports after another humdrum day in court. I was asked to head to a village in Andhra Pradesh I had never heard of until then. A day or two earlier, there had been a blowout at an ONGC drilling site in the Krishna-Godavari Basin. The next morning, I was on a train headed towards Rajahmundry, en route to Amalapuram. Pasarlapudi-19, as the well was called, would be an assignment that I thought would last a few days. But I had to stay in Amalapuram for 10 days; and return to the blowout scene for a 21-day stint. And then a third visit whose duration I can’t recall. By the time the blowout was capped, over 60 days had elapsed, and I had wriggled out of the assignment and passed the baton to a colleague. Initially, it was a learning experience on what exactly a blowout is and how it is capped. The painstaking process involves creating a shield of water from jet pumps to cool down the area and protect workers going towards the mouth. A relief well had to be dug and efforts made to pump in huge quantities of slurry. If the spew of hydrocarbons was contained to some extent, the well would have to be capped with a metal head flange. If it was not possible, one would have to blow up the well-mouth so that the explosion would suck out all available oxygen and end the blaze. Not much insight As now, then too, foreign experts were called to contain the blaze that was burning gas worth lakhs of rupees a day. Crops for a radius of several kilometres were damaged. Renowned expert Neal Adams arrived amidst great hope of capping the inferno. For the small band of reporters gathered there, working out of nearby lodges and using the local P&T office to send their despatches, there was some expectation that the visiting experts would give us a better insight than the tight-lipped officials. But Mr. Adams and his colleagues were at their taciturn best. Much of the reportage was on local politicians questioning ONGC’s capabilities and farmers lamenting their losses. Neal Adams quit, but we could not confirm the reason why. Ultimately, International Well Control, Houston, succeeded in capping the well. More than the reportage, my memories of Pasarlapudi-19 are the trips to the site on a borrowed bicycle, the upgrade from a lodge that cost Rs. 40 a day to one that charged Rs. 110; and the daily trip with my portable typewriter to the telegraph office. And, yes, it did seem like a picnic sometimes, when we sat at night on the banks of the Gautami, shimmering with the reflection of the towering blaze, well away from its ear-shattering hum.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Veiled Signals from Peking||Veiled signals from Peking, indicating that China is interested in mending its fences with the U.S., as well as other countries, with whom its relationship has not been happy, have been seeping through to Washington in the last few days. The third round of U.S.-Chinese talks, since Mr. Nixon took office here [Washington], was to have been held in Warsaw last month [May] but the Chinese called off that meeting when the U.S. marched into Cambodia. According to a report in to-day [June 18]’s New York Times , the Chinese Premier, Mr. Chou-En-lai is reported to have recently told some East European diplomats in Peking that China looked forward to resuming contacts with the U.S. as soon as the Cambodian crisis quietened down. These East European diplomats also reported that Mr Chou seemed anxious to improve relations with countries everywhere — meaning possibly India also. U.S. officials who believe they detect an “increasing flexibility and agility” in Chinese foreign policy of late, interpret it as flowing from the Chinese anxiety to prevent the development of a U.S.-Soviet coalition directed against them. Peking, according to this thesis, is convinced that if it follows its old policy of doctrinaire rigidity that might result in the U.S. and Soviet Union drawing closer to each other impelled by their common hostility to China.
19 June 2020||MANCHESTER,||Man City’s sterling display||Raheem Sterling scored the first goal of Premier League’s return to action, after the first match between Aston Villa and Sheffield United had ended goalless, as Manchester City outplayed Arsenal 3-0 behind closed doors at the Etihad stadium on Wednesday. The result means Liverpool, whose lead has been cut to 22 points by second-placed City, cannot now win the title on Sunday at Everton in the Merseyside derby. City’s opener came at stroke of half-time after Arsenal substitute David Luiz failed to deal with a ball into the box and allowed Sterling in on goal. The Brazilian was at fault again as City widened the margin. Riyad Mahrez got to the wrong side of Luiz as he burst into the box and the latter put his hand on the Algerian’s back. Luiz was sent off and Kevin de Bruyne converted the spot-kick. City was forced to end the game with 10 players when defender Eric Garcia was carried off after a collision with ’keeper Ederson. City was not able to replace him as manager Pep Guardiola had used all five available substitutes. The host wrapped up the win in stoppage time through Phil Foden who slotted home. Boosting chances Elsewhere, Atletico Madrid hammered Osasuna 5-0 away from home in LaLiga to secure its biggest win of the season and give a huge boost to the chances of qualifying for the Champions League. In the Bundesliga, Mainz stunned host Borussia Dortmund 2-0 to take a big step towards remaining in the top league for another season.  The results:   Premier League: Aston Villa 0 drew with Sheffield United 0; Manchester City 3 (Sterling 45+2, de Bruyne 51-pen, Foden 90) bt Arsenal 0.   LaLiga: Eibar 2 (Kike 19, Orellana 78) drew with Athletic Bilbao 2 (Garcia 8, Villalibre 81); Real Valladolid 0 drew with Celta Vigo 0; Osasuna 0 lost to Atletico Madrid 5 (Joao Felix 27, 56, Llorente 79, Morata 82, Carrasco 88).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Silva 28, Abraham 50) bt Schalke 1 (McKennie 59); Borussia Dortmund 0 lost to Mainz 2 (Burkardt 34, Mateta 49-pen); RB Leipzig 2 (Kampl 60, Werner 63) drew with Fortuna Dusseldorf 2 (Skrzybski 87, Hoffmann 90+2); Bayer Leverkusen 3 (Bender 7, Havertz 39, Diaby 83) bt Cologne 1 (Bornauw 59); Augsburg 1 (Vargas 70) lost to Hoffenheim 3 (Dabbur 59, 62, Bebou 90) .
19 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Kerala gearing up for battle without its biggest ‘Warrier’||One of the joys of following the Kerala cricket team for most of the last decade has been watching this tall, lean medium-pace bowler in action. He could swing the ball in most conditions, and where there is help, he would make it a nightmare for even strong batsmen. Sandeep Warrier will be missed. His decision to move to Tamil Nadu has come as a body blow for Kerala, which already has had to deal with a terrible season. Strong performance He was one of the main reasons for Kerala to reach the semifinals for the first time in the Ranji Trophy history last year. He picked up 44 wickets from 10 matches. One of his best spells came at India’s most adored ground — the Eden Gardens. In Bengal’s second innings, he took five for 33 off 21.5 overs. It was a masterclass in swing bowling. That day at the press box, this correspondent had spent a considerable time answering questions about Warrier from the strong contingent of Kolkata-based reporters. They wondered how come such a quality bowler didn't graduate to the higher level (the IPL, to be precise). A few months later though, they got to report a few matches he played for Kolkata Knight Riders, as he got the break he richly deserved as a couple of pacers were injured.  Warrier proved KKR was right in backing him. Tamil Nadu is also likely to feel the same when the domestic season begins after the COVID-19 crisis. Playing for a strong team like Tamil Nadu will help Warrier progress further. In fact, he had been approached by the neighbouring State a year ago. Kerala’s cricket administrators are likely to be disappointed, but they need to introspect whether Warrier is to be blamed. Unhelpful wickets Kerala rarely prepared wickets that encouraged the seamers, though they have been the team's strength for the last many years. The team management rather preferred square turners. A few seasons ago, he was dropped from the Ranji team for some matches, while he was being considered as one of India’s brightest pace-bowling prospects. The go-to man Warrier, however, didn’t allow such setbacks to affect him. He soon established himself as Kerala’s go-to bowler. Tamil Nadu should benefit from such resilience, and such skills with the cricket ball.
19 June 2020||KOCHI,||Sreesanth could be included in Kerala Ranji camp||There are clouds of uncertainty over domestic cricket this season but the Kerala Cricket Association plans to include former India mediumpacer S. Sreesanth in the Ranji probables camp when his ban ends in September. “His ban ends by September. After receiving communication from the BCCI, we will conduct a fitness test and if he clears it, he will be considered for the State camp,” KCA Secretary Sreejith V. Nair told The Hindu on Thursday. “Based on his performance, the selectors will take a call on whether to take him in the team.” Ranjit Thomas, the chairman of the KCA’s Cricket Advisory Committee, which also picks the selectors, explained why Sreesanth would be directly included in the camp. “Since we don’t have any selection tournament, we will be taking 25 to 30 players and starting a camp. From this we will choose the final 15. As a former international player, we have to put Sreesanth in the camp,” said Thomas.  “He will have to go through the process, play a lot of matches and we will know where he stands. Even though he is coming back after such a long gap, I respect him for his bowling. He is a fantastic bowler.” With so much uncertainty over this season, the KCA is likely to retain its selection committee. “According to the BCCI (guidelines), the selection of the selectors is a process. But since we don’t have time during this COVID period, even if the selection is coming, for the time being, the existing committee will decide on it,” said Thomas. Sreesanth, who was banned for alleged spot-fixing in the IPL, is 37 now and many will be keen to know whether he still has the old spark. “All I know is that he has been working very hard. I’ve been in touch with him also and it’s true, he is making every effort to come back,” said Tinu Yohannan, Ranji coach. “I saw him the last Ranji season and recently too. Bowling-wise, I don’t think he has much to prove. We just have to assess his cricket-fitness and how much he will sustain on the field. Whether he’ll play or not, we don’t know because we have to assess his present condition.”  Fast bowler’s seven-year ban ends in September
19 June 2020||Chennai,||The legendary spin quartet through the eyes of V.V. Kumar||A leg-spinner with guile, deception and a bagful of tricks, Vaman Vishwanath Kumar was formidable in his time. Kumar, now 84, his mind as sharp as ever, rates the four Indian spinners.  1. Bhagwat Chandrasekhar would always top my list. He was a match-winner who could run through sides on a good wicket once he found his rhythm. You see, his right arm was afflicted with polio so he wasn’t always in control of what he bowled, there would be full tosses and long-hops. But someone like Tiger Pataudi understood his worth. Once Chandra hit the groove, he was unstoppable. Because of polio he had a quick-arm action. He was not a big spinner of the ball but could do considerable damage because of his pace off the pitch and also he could both get the ball to bounce or skid off the surface, And he had the repertoire — the top-spinner, the googly and flipper. His googly was very difficult to pick.  2. Erapalli Prasanna would be the second. He used to really spin the ball and if you were standing at silly-point, short-leg or silly mid-off, you could hear the bee-like sound as the ball sliced through the air. Prasanna top-spun the ball. So the sphere would dip on the batsman earlier than he expected. He could create the perfect parabola, and forced the batsman to get on to the front foot. Deception was the key. Prasanna invariably bowled over the wicket, spinning the ball big into the batsmen and backing himself to hit the stumps. These days, off-spinners bowl round the wicket, which takes leg-before out of the equation.  3. Bishan Singh Bedi: The county stint in England helped him evolve. In conditions where it was difficult to spin the ball, he learnt to roll the ball. Bedi had a smooth easy action and he too had the parabola and the variations. Plus Bedi had a brute of an arm-ball that fetched him plenty of wickets. He too top-spun the ball, forcing batsmen to use their feet.  4. S. Venkataraghavan: He had a wonderful action for an off-spinner. He was tall, had a high-arm action and got natural bounce. Because of his height, he did not get the same parabola as Prasanna and Bedi. On a conducive pitch, he could be dangerous. Along the way, he learnt to drift the ball away from the right-hander. He too top-spun his off-spinners which explains the bounce he could achieve.
19 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Academies appeal to Telangana govt. to allow ‘badminton activity’||India’s chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand is keeping his fingers crossed about the prospects of re-opening his two academies here. World Championships bronze medallist B. Sai Praneeth says he just can’t wait to start training. But with the State government not permitting the opening of sports complexes and academies in view of the growing number of COVID-19 cases, especially in the State capital, the athletes are a worried lot. ‘No joke’ “Three months of absolutely no training is no joke. With many of our fellow players starting training in a few States, the Telangana government should at least allow us to train,” said a champion shuttler on condition of anonymity. The sports fraternity’s logic is simple — when malls and restaurants can be opened, why not academies? Indeed, representatives of about 10 badminton academies in Hyderabad wrote a letter about two weeks ago to Telangana Sports minister V. Srinivas Goud, asking the government to “consider reopening at least the Academies”. They are yet to receive a response. “The current lockdown has also affected the livelihood of thousands of support staff, including coaches, and hence we appeal to you to consider reopening at least the Academies, if not the Stadium complexes,” they wrote. Following guidelines “For a State which has always been in the forefront of promoting sports in a big way, we request you to allow badminton activity which is possible by following all the COVID-19 guidelines. “There will be no body contact, the players bring their own equipment, all the venues will be sanitised completely and no spectators will be allowed as per the norms.” One Olympian suggested that the number of athletes per session can be determined in proportion to the training area available. “Whatever be the case, with the Olympics scheduled next year as of now, we just cannot afford to keep missing the training schedule for too long. Someone has to take the lead,” said a shuttler in the race for the Games.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Important to play and win against top players’||The prevailing pandemic has impacted sporting activities in varying degrees. But chess players are not complaining, given the number of cash-rich online events available. GM P. Harikrishna is among the few lucky ones to return to the world’s toughest Tour. Having twice played in Kolkata in the now-cancelled Grand Chess Tour, Hari will debut in the million-dollar Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour with this weekend’s $150,000 Chessable Masters.  Hari opened up to The Hindu . “Playing on the Chess Tour is great. For me, the most important thing is playing the best players and winning. “This is an opportunity to test my skills.” Realising that online chess with shorter time-controls poses a different set of challenges, Hari is working on specifics an the results reflected in his runner-up finish in the Sharjah online event this week. “It’s quite different playing online. So, I have been practising a lot online with my wife and friends. Also, the opening part will be different for the shorter time-control in comparison to the classical time-control.” On the possibility of the coexistence of over-the-board events and online competitions, Hari said, “I hope they coexist. With all the comforts involved in online events, any organiser can say, ‘Okay, why do I need to work so much on organising an over-the-board event, check various logistical details, etc, when I can just do it online!’ Yet, there is a difference. Different scenario “Playing over-the-board events is not just about prizes and costs. It’s more like a social thing, where you meet people, interact, feel the tension between players and, of course, the presence of spectators,” he said.
19 June 2020||KOLKATA,||In ‘Greco-Roman’ mode||Asian champion Divya Kakran has restricted her sparring to only ‘Greco-Roman’ moves as she is confined to her home due to the lockdown. Divya, who lives with her younger brother Deepak and friend Neena in Delhi, is focusing on her fitness apart from doing some sparring. “My brother is over 100kg and my friend, who is also a guide for me, is around 50kg, so I get to spar with higher- and lower-weight wrestlers. Since there is no mat, we spar like Greco-Roman wrestlers without any ground wrestling,” Divya told The Hindu . “I am consulting my coach Vladimir Mestvrishvili on a daily basis and training around five hours a day.” Divya, who will turn 22 next month, said her game improved after being guided by Mestvrishvili. “Earlier, I used to put in a lot of futile effort. The coach told me where to focus and the importance of applying techniques. I used to get overawed by the reputation of my opponents. He told me any laurel is a thing of the past and every contest is a fresh start.” Winning the Asian title was a huge confidence-booster for Divya. “I beat a World junior champion, Naruha Matsuyuki of Japan, to become the Asian champion. It was a great morale-booster as I avenged my loss to her in the 2017 World under-23 championships.” Mission Tokyo Divya, who secured bronze medals at the 2018 Asian Games and Commonwealth Games, said she needed to work on three areas to claim a spot at the Tokyo Olympics. “I need to fight fearlessly, use techniques at the right time and enhance my stamina.” She is working on becoming mentally stronger too. “In the middle of the lockdown, I was a bit irritated. My friend Neena said, ‘If you were injured, then you would have taken six months to a year to recover. At least you are able to do something, so have some patience.’”
19 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Mangaonkar assisting Finland squash team||Mahesh Mangaonkar is back on the squash court, as sporting activity resumed in Helsinki following a relaxation of lockdown restrictions. The 26-year-old Indian is working with the Finland Squash Federation as sparring partner for national team members and is among early pros to get a taste of sporting action. He has begun training with the Finns, after focusing on fitness during the past lonely months. Chomping at the bit “Everyone has been waiting to get on court or get to the gym and break a good sweat,” he said in a chat from Helsinki. World No. 49 Mangaonkar plays in the European club leagues and shifted base from The Hague (Netherlands) to Helsinki after accepting the Finland offer. The current Indian National men’s squash champion spars with the Finland team at the Taihialli Squash Club, incidentally one of the clubs he plays for in the European league. “Every venue had rules like not more than 10 people in the gym or facility, hand sanitisation and disinfecting gym equipment. We all followed the protocol. Now there are fewer restrictions. This doesn't mean the pandemic is over. We still need to keep following those rules until there is a cure,” he said. Second wave Professional sport, already hurt by the freeze on major competitions and ban on spectators, should be ready for future stoppages, Mangaonkar said. “We are expecting the second wave during fall (October-November). People here are prepared for it,” he said. Squash pros he trains with include Olli Tuominen, Greg Gaultier and Paul Coll.
19 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Building team spirit, virtually||In order to break the monotony of the lockdown and build team spirit, members of the Bengal elite men’s cricket team got together over a webinar on Thursday. The players discussed the Ranji Trophy runner-up finish last season, the scope of doing better, where each player excelled and where they needed to improve. Coach Arun Lal said, “It’s not easy for the players. They are locked at home for a long time, things are uncertain and it’s very easy to get tired and bored. So this was about getting together, a feeling of camaraderie. Such sessions will go a long way in keeping the team spirit up as we are all away from the ground.” “We are a family and getting together and talking about the game was really nice,” said Bengal captain Abhimanyu Easwaran. Former Bengal skipper and senior batsman Manoj Tiwari said, “It was a much needed session as we got to see the faces of all the players and talk. There was a lot of positivity. Our coach spoke about what all the players need to do and to prepare individually so that when the time comes, we will be ready.”
19 June 2020||PARIS,||Happy to see Grand Slams back: Djokovic||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic appeared to row back on scepticism over plans to stage the US Open, saying on Thursday he was “extremely happy” the Grand Slam had escaped the coronavirus cull which claimed Wimbledon and much of the season. “I’m extremely happy and excited to see that all the tournaments, especially Grand Slams, are organising their events,” the Serb said in reference also to the French Open, rescheduled to start in late September. Opportunities “We are very glad that the Slams are happening, of course, and it is very important that we provide opportunities, we provide jobs, we provide opportunities for the players to compete,” said Djokovic.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||AFC U-16 event: tough draw for India||India was clubbed with heavyweights Korea Republic, Australia and Uzbekistan in Group C on Thursday for this year’s AFC Under-16 championships, scheduled from Sept. 16 to Oct. 3 in Bahrain. The semifinalists will earn direct qualification to the FIFA under-17 World Cup in Peru in 2021. India qualified for the under-16 finals when it finished as Group B champion in Tashkent.PTI
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Suspended CSK doctor apologises||The suspended Chennai Super Kings team doctor Madhu Thottappillil, on Thursday, took to Twitter to tender an unconditional apology for his controversial tweet after the death of the Indian soldiers in eastern Ladakh. Madhu said he understands that his post may have hurt sentiments of thousands of people.PTI
19 June 2020||ERODE,||Kodumanal dig throws light on megalithic burial rituals||The Kodumanal excavation of 10 pots and bowls, instead of the usual three or four pots, placed outside three-chambered burial cists and inside the cairn-circle, has thrown light on burial rituals and the concept of afterlife in megalithic culture. A team from the State Department of Archaeology, Chennai, led by J. Ranjith, Archaeology Officer and Project Director for the Kodumanal excavation, has identified 250 cairn-circles at the village in Erode district. Earlier excavations revealed that the site served as a trade-cum-industrial centre from 5th century BCE to 1st century BCE. The rectangular chambered cists, each two metres long and six metres wide, are made of stone slabs, and the entire grave is surrounded by boulders that form the circle. Grave of a headman “The grave could be of a village head or the head of the community as the size of two boulders, each facing east and west, are bigger than other boulders,” said an expert coordinating the excavation. Believing that the deceased person will get a new life after death, pots and bowls filled with grains were placed outside the chambers. “This is probably the first time that 10 pots have been found near the cists during excavations in the State,” the expert added. Further digging in the burial chambers and the opening of the pots are expected to reveal more details. Previous excavations have revealed that multi-ethnic groups lived in the village, located about 500 metres away from the Noyyal river. Assorted items Mr. Ranjith told The Hindu that the findings unearthed so far include an animal skull, possibly of a wolf or a dog; precious stones like beryl, carnelian, quartz, jasper, beads, gold pieces and needles; copper smelting units; the mud walls of a workshop; potteries; and Tamil Brahmi script. “We also found pieces of grooved tiles at a trench. Further excavation will reveal more,” he said. The team is accompanied by an archaeologist, an expert, six researchers, and 40 workers.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 08:13 IST,||Sudoku - June 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||When Britten met Auden||Picturing a meeting between two of the greatest artistes of the 20th Century — Benjamin Britten, the composer and WH Auden, the poet — in the form of a play, is no small feat. Britten and Auden had been great friends in the 1940s, but a severe falling out had meant they would never meet again. Almost 30 years later, writer Alan Bennett imagines an encounter in Auden’s “untidy little flat in Oxford” as the two men near the ends of their lives. This imagination was named The Habit of Art . Originally written for the National Theatre of Great Britain, or the Royal National Theatre as it is colloquially known, Alan Bennett’s The Habit of Art produced by the Original Theatre Company and Blank Slate, is now available for viewing across the world through the platform, Book My Show Online. Directed by Philip Franks, and starring Matthew Kelly and David Yelland in the lead roles, the play was shot digitally before London went into complete lockdown. It is a layered re-examination of a long-lost friendship. “In the play, the nature of creativity is looked at through the question of whether to live for art or humanity, and the cost of either choice, is examined with Alan Bennett’s typical wit and insight,” Philip Franks writes to us, adding that themes of friendship, love, humanity and creativity remain untampered with. This is the first time the play has been revived since its original production, and has since been tweaked by Philip so that it appeals to a universal audience. “It is also a play within a play. We are watching the run-through of a new work about the two men, and the director of the play is absent. The tensions between the cast and the characters they play and the cast and the author are examined. It is often very funny!” Bennett is a wonderful writer of dialogue and a brilliant observer of humanity, writes Philip. “His way with language: rhythm, texture et cetera are very precise and you mess with this at your peril. I encouraged from the cast, the most precise of learning and a minimum of decoration,” continues Philip, adding that the trick here was to make the play look as spontaneous and real as possible. “The entire cast is on stage all the time. In full light. This means that whatever anybody is doing at any given time is in some way adding to the moment. Therefore, if somebody was over on the side doing some improvisation of their own, this may well prove extremely distracting,” says the director. The performance also has a heavy musical component to it, unsurprising, since the story follows the legendary Britten. Songs are sung live and a few pieces of music are used as background score. Apart from that, during a climatic moment, a particular piece of Britten is played on a record player to demonstrate the genius of the man. In terms of choreography, the play opens with a carefully constructed ballet performance as the cast arrives, and a few members of the cast often embody intangible emotions. Has shifting to the digital format affected the cast and crew’s working process? “The live experience of theatre is irreplaceable, but I hope it gives some flavour of a piece of work, of which I am very proud,” concludes Philip.  The play will be streamed till June 21 daily at 7 pm. Tickets are available on www.bookmyshow.com.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Summer with the Goldies Eerie chore||The story so far: The two wheelchair-bound friends, Mr. Garg and Mr. Dhaliwal have a race, with the latter pushed by Rayu. But as luck would have it, they crash into Mad Malini.  I looked at Mr. Garg for support. He had quietly parked himself close to the wall, out of Mad Malini’s line of sight. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Rani running along the corridor to be my side. “My new dress!” Mad Malini shrieked. Her white kurta now had splotches of brown mud from the corridor floor. “Don’t you have any sense?” It was left to poor Mr. Dhaliwal to support me. He burped! I gazed at Rani. She giggled. I giggled. Mad Malini’s eyes glowered. “Nonsense! Wait till I meet your parents. I am going to make sure both of you are sent to the strictest boarding school in the world.” With those words, she stomped off towards our clinic. Rani and I laughed. Mr. Garg joined us. “Are you ready for another race?” Mad Malini had sucked the happiness out of me. “Not now! I have to go home,” I muttered and abandoned Mr. Dhaliwal in the corridor. “God knows what Mad Malini will go and tell Ma.” Rani patted my shoulder. “You don’t have to worry, Rayu. Ma and Pa are not at the clinic.” Unsettling I followed Rani who was walking towards Mrs. Charumathi who was limping with a cane basket in one hand and holding Floppy’s leash in another. “Got any work for us?” asked Rani. “Yes!” she replied. “Floppy needs a walk and there’s a business in the graveyard.” She gave me a cold stare. I rushed to hold Floppy’s leash. “I will take him for a walk.” Floppy wagged his tail and nuzzled closer to me. Mrs. Charumathi turned to Rani. “Will you come to the graveyard? Or are you a scarypoo like your brother?” “I will help you,” said Rani. “Good! I like brave children,” said Mrs. Charumathi, handing over the basket to her. I wasn’t scared of the graveyard. There was something about Mrs. Charumathi, which bothered me. It was her piercing eyes. They went right through you like a laser beam till you either looked away or looked down, whichever came first.  To be continued   Mad Malini stomped off threatening dire consequences and getting us sent to boarding school.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Wild winter wonderland||A frozen ice world, Svalbard is a lonely group of islands almost at the top of the world, lying far beyond Northern Norway. This place has a long winter lasting up to seven months with four months in complete darkness. And, when the sun reappears, the landscape turns into a rich tundra. Svalbard is home to many migrating birds, Arctic foxes, polar bears, walrus, and reindeer. These are some of the species that have adapted to the extreme conditions for survival here. After such a long wait, the arrival of spring is miraculous for Svalbard’s animals. Let’s see how the changing season treats a few other animals at Svalbard. To know more, tune into Seasonal Wonderlands only on Sony BBC Earth.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Heroes without a face||“Papa, do all superheroes wear capes?” asked Priya. It was 2022 and her papa and she had just finished watching a Batman movie. “No child, there are many superheroes who don’t!” “Why?” “The champions you are talking about are characters in comic books and movies who need to wear capes and costumes to look and act like heroes.” Papa pulled Priya close and said, “But there are many real-life heroes who became winners not because of how they looked from the outside but what they were from within.” “Are you talking about the freedom fighters and leaders we read about in history books, whose birthdays we celebrate in school?” “No, I am talking about ordinary men and women, leading ordinary lives.” Seeing the puzzled look on Priya’s face, Papa continued. “Priya, you know about the Coronavirus, which struck the world in 2020, right?” “Yes, of course. Our school was shut, your office was closed and we were under lockdown for months.” “And though we successfully fought COVID-19, it left a trail of destruction.” “Our Social Studies ma’am told us that it was the worst disaster in living memory.” “Yes, but do you know how we managed to survive those terrible months?” Special salute Priya started to say something and then shook her head. “It is because of these unsung heroes – these COVID Warriors.” Priya nodded. “I think I know who you are talking about.” “Great! Then let us play a game. Let us name every warrior we can think of and after that give a shout-out with a smart salute.” “The doctor!” Priya was first off the block. They jumped up and saluted. “The ward boy!” Papa declared. Priya yelled, “Yayy!”, and the duo saluted. “The nurse!” “Police personnel!” “The conservancy worker.” “The media person!” “The driver!” “The courier person!” “The delivery person!” “The cook!” “And many, many more. They worked day and night and risked their lives so that we could survive,” Papa said. “Papa, I hope nothing happened to them.” “Unfortunately, Priya, some of them succumbed to the deadly virus.” “How sad for these brave hearts and their families. Their family members too deserve a big, big salute and hug,” Priya said. “You are right, Priya. They sacrificed so much for us.” “Papa, tomorrow is the inter-school drawing competition. While watching the movie, I came up with the idea of drawing a beautiful sketch of Batman fighting a dinosaur. But now I have changed my mind.” “What are you planning to draw now?” “I shall draw a picture of all the nameless, faceless and cape-less warriors who fought the Coronavirus to become our real saviours.” Papa pulled Priya close and gave her a tight hug.  “These champions are characters in comic books and movies who need costumes to look the part.”
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Back under the sun||So, how are things where you live? Has the lockdown eased up in your city? Are you allowed to go out? HAVE you been out? Can you meet your friends and play with them? My life hasn’t changed that much since the lockdown, other than the fact that all my fun screen time has become boring online school screen time. But, on the plus side, I can go down and play with my friends, provided we are wearing face masks and maintain social distancing. So, what CAN you play with your friends while maintaining social distancing? Lots really. Here are some options!  Hide ’n’ seek: You know the drill! One person is the den and everyone else hides. Whoever get’s found first is the next den. This only works during COVID-19 if you all don’t try and squeeze under a stairwell together. Squeezing under stairwells does not equal social distancing. My friend S hid behind a boulder last week and then screamed when she found a snake hiding there with her. Snakes don’t believe in social distancing, I guess.  Sly Fox: The den is the Sly Fox and everyone else creeps up on him/her and when the den turns around everyone has to stop moving. The den turns around again and the others creep up. But, if the den turns and sees someone moving, then everyone has to go back to the start. With a mask on, you can make funny faces and the den will never know!  Sidewalk tic-tac-toe: Take a piece of chalk and draw a giant tic-tac-toe grid on the pavement outside your building. Then, decide who will be stones and who will be twigs, and play. Make the grid massive so you don’t have to get close to your opponent. Only problem: be ready for the aunty on the fifth floor to come and yell at you for ruining the sidewalk.  Dodgeball: Since grownups say that football and basketball are contact sports, dodgeball may be the only ball game you can play while social distancing. Only thing is, in addition to masks, everyone is going to need to wear gloves too!  Online games for the win! Well, you have to admit, that online games really let you socially distance and hang out with your friends at the same time. Everyone hangs out in their own bedrooms and you all log in and play Fortnite. You can’t see each other’s faces, but you can hear your friends’ voices. No masks, no gloves, no sanitiser required. What have you been playing with your friends recently?  I can go down and play with my friends, provided we are all wearing face masks and maintain social distancing.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Chilling out||Movie: Frozen  Genre: Animated musical In the faraway Kingdom of Arendelle, little Princess Elsa has the power to control and create ice and snow. She uses it to play with her younger sister Anna. One night, after Elsa accidentally hits Anna on the head almost killing her, their parents take them to a colony of trolls to heal Anna and make her forget her sister's ability. When they return to the castle, Elsa stays in her room scared of hurting Anna with her increasing power, causing a rift between the sisters.  In a storm When the girls are teenagers, their parents are lost at sea during a storm. Years later, following Elsa's 21st birthday and upcoming coronation as queen, the castle gates are opened to the public and visiting dignitaries for the first time in years, much to the dismay of Elsa who fears people finding out about her abilities. Anna meets Prince Hans, and falls in love and decides to marry him. But Elsa doesn't approve. What will she do? Is Elsa safe? Will Arendelle return to its former glory?  Ice cold facts:  When the gates open during "For The First Time in Forever," there is a cameo of Rapunzel and Eugene (Flynn) from Tangled . The characters of Hans, Kristoff, Anna and Sven are a reference to Hans Christian Andersen, the author of The Snow Queen , which is the inspiration for Frozen . Say the names quickly in sequence to hear the similarity. According to actor Josh Gad, a handful of Olaf's dialogues in the film were improvised to make the producers laugh.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Tower of strength||1. Giraffes love the tropical grassland with warm temperatures of the African savannahs. 2. They are the tallest living terrestrial animals and the largest of ruminants. 3. The name “giraffe” originated from the Arabic word zarāfah, which translates as “fast-walker”. A group of giraffes is called a tower. 4. Their height allows them to reach leaves that few other animals can. And their 21-inch tongue helps them pluck tasty morsels from branches. 5. However, getting a drink of water is difficult. They have to spread their legs and bend down in an awkward position that makes them vulnerable to predators like Africa's big cats. 6. They literally leap out into the world, falling more than five feet to the ground. The infants can stand in half an hour and run with their mothers just 10 hours after birth. 7. Giraffes arch their necks to force air through their windpipes, creating very low frequency sounds. And they have three hearts! 8. You see their beautiful spotted coats? No two individuals have exactly the same pattern. But, giraffes from the same area appear similar. 9. In the wild, giraffes live for about 25 years. They also smell bad. It is possibly a guard against ticks and fungus. They face several threats, including loss of habitat and hunting. 10. Giraffes sleep less than two hours a day. In general, they sleep with their feet tucked under them and their head resting on their hindquarters, but they can also sleep for short periods of time standing up.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||For better or verse||Across 1. Rabindranath _____, Nobel laureate poet (6) 5. Persian mystic poetry (4) 7. Genre of poetry characterised by melodic and emotional elements (5) 8. Edward ___, author of the nonsense poems (4) 10. Melody (4) 12. Japanese poem of three lines (5) 14. ____ Thursday, poem by William Blake (4) 16. A unit of a poem (4) 17. You, poetically (4) 19. The ability to use words inventively and humorously (3) 21. What distinguishes one poet from another (5) 22. Poem written in praise of something (3) Down 1. Subramania Bharati wrote poems in this language (5) 2. “Deafening silence” is an example of ___moron (3) 3. A lengthy, narrative poem (4) 4. A funeral hymn (5) 6. Mirza Ghalib wrote poetry in this language (4) 9. Moon and Spoon are words that ____ (5) 10. _____das, composer of Hanuman Chalisa (5) 11. Number of lines in a Spenserian stanza (4) 13. Poem by Rudyard Kipling (2) 15. A poem with 8 lines (5) 18. Before, poetically (3) 20. Number of lines in a couplet (3)
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Sense’ational tip||Some of us have difficulty in memorising spellings. Whether you’re a poor speller or a good one, this trick will help you become a super speller. Here’s the trick. Take a somewhat long word, like ‘Inspirational,’ for instance. First, write out the word. Don’t just write it, write it out in different colours. Like this: Inspirat i on a l You can choose the colours you like. If you wish, you can have the same shade for groups of letters. Look at the word for some time and memorise the colours. Don’t bother too much about the letters. Just focus on the colours. Now close your eyes and remember the colours. As you recall the colours, you’ll find that you’re able to remember the letters too! Now, write down the word without looking at the coloured word. Voila! You did it, didn’t you? Imprinting We are able to learn much faster and more efficiently when we use more of our senses. Normally, we memorise using only our sense of hearing. We repeat the word several times, hear it and remember it. In this new method, we are using one more of our senses — the sense of sight. Both the senses work together to imprint the spelling in our minds. This is a strategy you can use for learning other things too. Now, try it out with some other words. You’ll find that you’re able to do it with very little effort. Have a great day, super speller!
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||Why is Pluto called a dwarf planet?  The International Astronomical Union’s, (IAU) has three criteria for a full-sized planet. One, it should orbitaround the Sun; two, is nearlyround in shape; and three, that it has “cleared the neighbourhood” around its orbit. Pluto meets only the first two criteria. In all the billions of years it has lived, it has not managed to clear its neighbourhood. This means that the planet has become gravitationally dominant — there are no other bodies of comparable size other than its own satellites, in its vicinity in space. Thus, it is called a dwarf planet.   Where does the Sun get its energy from?  The sun’s energy comes from within the sun itself. Like most stars, the sun is made up mostly of hydrogen and helium atoms in a plasma state. The sun generates energy from a process called nuclear fusion, during which the high pressure and temperature in the sun’s core cause nuclei to separate from their electrons. Hydrogen nuclei fuse to form one helium atom. During the fusion process, radiant energy is released.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Butterfly fight||I am a Red Admiral butterfly and the youngest of my family. My parents taught me to protect my territory and stay safe. Once, when I was playing in our buttercup field, I heard two other Red Admiral butterflies talking about taking over our field. I rushed to tell my parents and we marched to the field and fought off the enemy. I was the hero and we had a big party to celebrate the victory.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Deluge||Steps forward... Fleeing from flowing flood Steps towards... The state of stress, hands-free; but Heart-broken, of the ‘lost life’ in flood-flow Steps of a school Step less – stood still – stiff Stuffed with stress Alas! A state of stillness! Strain stood stagnant The flooded paper boats in a torrent! Feeling disgusted Getting dejected Being despondent Upon... Washed-away books Ran-away knowledge Further... Floating stiffs of... Departed souls, fallen petals ‘My friends’!! Tears touched toes... Again a tear-flood!
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The Kannadasan Odyssey||A love for the poetry of the legend Kannadasan brought this writer and Kavirimaindhan together many years ago. What started as a casual exchange of notes on the songs of Kannadasan matured into regular correspondence, each enriching the other with the nuances and interpretations of the poet’s extensive body of work. Kavirimaindhan's livelihood took him to the Gulf, from where he propagated the greatness of Kannadasan in many innovative ways. Meanwhile between us a bond had built itself purely on the lyrical prowess of Kannadasan. Over two decades, it has stayed alive. It did not matter that there was no communication for several months. It would resume naturally and the subject, of course the poet. The genius wrote several works of prose, one of them Arthamulla Indu Madham, which won the Sahitya Akademi award, his lucid and razor sharp style matching thoughts flowing from a clear mind. But it was his poetry — especially the songs he penned for the films during 1960-80 — widely called the Golden Period — which touched a chord, universally. Kavirimaindhan is no exception. His passion, obsession might be more apt, drove him to organise events in memory of Kannadasan, where he feted people from different spheres of literature. In the past 30 years, Kavignar Kannadasan Thamizh Sangam, Pammal, has honoured countless persons for their outstanding contribution in the field of Tamil cinema, including all its allied departments. The Sangam, which Kavirimaindhan started in 1991, to enable Kannadasan admirers to gather, is flourishing. Born to a lower middle-class family, which just managed to make both ends meet, Ravichandran — that is Kavirimaindhan's name — led a roller-coaster life until his job took him to Abu Dhabi, where he remained for 20 years. “Like the thousands of his admirers, I too was attracted to his lyrics as a teenager. An ardent fan of MGR, I marvelled at the way Kavignar played magic with words for one of celluloid’s charismatic heroes. Even as a schoolboy, I could appreciate the remarkable way in which he described emotions, relationships, Life itself. But I had never seen him. Ironically, the first time I saw him was in his funeral possession. I was working as a sales assistant in a shop in T. Nagar, just to bring some extra income to the family. I was shattered when news reached that he had died in Chicago, where he went for medical treatment. I joined the people on the terrace of our building to catch a glimpse of his last journey,” rewinds Ravi. “What a mammoth procession it was! Bending down, I saw him, his face, which I didn’t have the opportunity to behold when he was alive. Or had I failed in some way not making an effort to do so? Miserable, I ran home, shut myself in my small space and cried into the night. In the wee hours, I thought writing down my feelings would offer some consolation,” Ravichandran recollects those traumatic hours. Picking up a sheet of paper, he poured his feelings on it. It was the first poem he wrote. Excerpts of it were published in a journal, thanks to his father, who took it to the editor. Ravichandran has authored a dozen books, most of them Tamil cinema oriented, quite a few on Kannadasan. His mission has created a network of like minded people, who shoulder responsibilities happily. From scholar Saraswathi Ramanathan to Thamizharuvi Manian, this is a galaxy, which sings Kannadasan's praise, every time finding a new vocabulary. Incidentally, Ravichandran’s repertoire includes books on Kamarajar, a volume of love epistles and several books motivating the youth to rise and shine. To return to the main narrative, Kavirimaindhan’s dreams reached a new high when he wished to install a statue for his idol. A marathon effort, it involved the who’s who of Tamil cinema. With MSV as the committee head, a host of the poet’s admirers, including K.V. Mahadevan, Ilaiyaraja, AVM Saravanan and Sp. Muthuraman lending their star value and powered by the then Chennai Sherif K. Chockalingam, M. Gopalakrishnan of Indian Bank, the statue, a beautiful bronze — first of it’s kind, perhaps only one — took shape. The project zoomed to a new level, when the then Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa, stepped in assuring her support and that of the Tamil Nadu Government. After all, Kannadasan was poet laureate during MGR’s regime and the poet had written numerous songs for their films. She unveiled it in 1994 and paved the way for an annual homage to the statue, which stands in glittering majesty, not far from his house. “A life size bronze statue for a writer of film songs was a first of its kind and thanks to Amma, it is maintained by the Government and homage is paid on Kannadasan’s birthday,” observes Kavirimaindhan. Did Ravichandran and his friends, who toiled with him to make it happen, get the due recognition? Not really. But he shrugs with a smile. “That is but expected. My idol was too great for me, a simple man with no big credentials, to claim any credit or expect the spotlight. I am always happy to be the least visible axle in the wheel of that grand chariot,” he says. Kavirimaindhan went on to write a book on the story behind the statue. Silai Pirandha Kadhai was released last year, 25 years after the event happened. “The material was ready long ago. I think it was his wish that it should be released during the silver jubilee,” said the author in his address at the launch function. Kavirimaindhan firmly believes that it is Kannadasan, who is directing him, every step. Not hard to believe, given his history. Kannadasan Thamizh Sangam, which is going from strength to strength, the Kannadasan-Viswanathan Trust, annual functions on a sumptuous scale, access to celebrities, a spate of books, a literary journal Thamizh Thaer , which he helmed in the Gulf, and so on. “A chemistry of sorts took place the moment I set my eyes on his face that evening. A feeling that has been confirmed. It was as if he transmitted a power, which has not diminished after all these years. Incidentally, my surname is Muthiah, which is also Kavignar's name,” he elaborates. Ravichandran has returned to India and Chennai for good. He is busy reaching out to friends, Kannadasan worshippers, to strengthen relations and plan new ventures. The relentless work of three decades has only given him more energy. With Lockdown restrictions in place, a radio programme is on the cards for the poet’s birthday coming up on June 24. “Whatever has been done are only milestones in my odyssey. I will not be satisfied until an art gallery is created,” reveals Ravichandran. ‘Kannadasan Kalaikoodam,’ as he calls it, will be a comprehensive museum — a lively one, which will showcase Kannadasan and his works — prose and poetry — and his life. Also it will house information on his contemporaries... Kavirimaindhan has a perfect blueprint in place. A mammoth dream indeed. “It will come true. Because he will make it happen like he has everything else. Looking back, the journey has been a miracle, with him waving the wand at the right time. He will, once more,” says Kavirimaindhan with confidence. Knowing him, the faith is not misplaced.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Galaxy pays tribute to comedy’s superstar||Admired, adored and adulated... a year after ‘Crazy’ Mohan’s demise, his wit, humour and qualities that made him a fine human being were highlighted at a tribute event organised by the Tokyo Tamil Sangam in association with Maadhu Balaji. Stars, who had worked with him shared their impressions in the digital event, in which Tamil sangams participated and thousands across the globe witnessed. The programme started with the invocation number written by ‘Crazy’ Mohan himself. Renowned Carnatic vocalist Nithyasree Mahadevan , accompanied by daughter Thanujashree rendered ‘Eka Deivam Janardhanam’ in Brindavani. She also sang another composition of Crazy Mohan on Vishnu. Nithyasree spoke of Mohan’s devotion, which was expressed through his drawings and poetry. “I can talk about Mohan until the next anniversary. Such was our bond,” said actor Kamal Haasan . I can only cite the lines from Anbe Sivam about the friendship between two males: ‘Idhu enna kadhala asingama Sollikittu Irukarathukku, irukku, vitturunga...’ I should have called him ‘Anna,’ which would have been most honest. I called his wife Manni ( anni ) first time at his condolence meeting. These were mistakes I should have avoided. This tribute has been made possible because of the affection the Tamil population in various parts of the world has for Mohan,” he said. Wife invited The most poignant moment was when Nalini Mohan came on the screen. “I requested her to be there, wanted her to hear the tribute paid to her husband,” said Kamal. “My sister shares her name and often there would be confusion when Mohan and myself were talking. Rewinding to that fateful day, Nalini Mohan said that she thought Mohan would be back after treatment. “Medical science has advanced so much I believed that he would be fine but that was not to be,” she confided. She recalled how her husband would drop everything when Kamal called and they would be talking for hours. “Yes,” corroborated Kamal. “He would be in the midst of shaving but continue to talk. If the mobile ran out of charge, we would continue on landline,” he supplied. Kamal mentioned how he was with his ‘brother Mohan’ during his last hours. “We both were not afraid of death. ‘It is another phase of life,’ Mohan would say. I was glad that he passed without becoming bedridden and suffering. Had I known that something was wrong with his health, I would have followed up and forced him to take care of himself,” said Kamal, who recalled their first meeting. “S.Ve. Shekar gave me the script of ‘Crazy Thieves.’ After reading it, I wanted to meet the writer. That’s how our meeting happened at a cemetery,” he said. “A man with his knowledge and talent would be temperamental but not Mohan,” observed Kamal, who wanted the event to be an annual affair.  G. Harinarayanan , Tokyo Tamil Sangam president, instrumental behind the event, explained how the event came about. Eager to conduct a tribute to Crazy Mohan on the digital platform, he approached Maadhu Balaji, who was only too happy to agree. “I wanted this first year memorial tribute to be presided over by Kamal Haasan and the same evening Balaji told me that Kamal sir had accepted. When ‘Crazy’ Mohan came to Tokyo in 2013, he staged ‘Chocolate Krishna,’ which was a roaring success. I wanted all the Tamil sangams in the world to join this homage and they came on board, one by one, with the result, 32 associations have come together to pay tribute to one of the legends of Tamil cinema and stage. I’m sure more such events will be held in the future with the blessings of Crazy Mohan.”  Maadhu Balaji was clear that the occasion had no room for tears. “Mohan liked fun and laughter, which he served through his numerous plays and film dialogue. Even his anger was short-lived. He was my friend, philosopher and guide. When the tribute proposal was put across to Kamal Hassan, his only wish was that it should be mammoth. Mohan deserved nothing less, he said. Both Mohan and Kamal have brought so many Sangams on the same dais. With Mohan’s blessings it has taken off very well,” he said. Carnatic vocalist Gayathri Girish spoke of her experience with ‘Ramanayanam,’ a musical rendition of Mohan’s venba on Ramana Maharishi. I was fortunate to present the poems four times. Singing a few verses as a tribute, she said he would remain forever in her memory. “He always considered me one of his family and bestowed on me a great honour by choosing me to sing his poems,” she said. Director S.B. Khanthan recalled the day the troupe got its name. It was Veeyesvee of Ananda Vikatan , who named Ram Mohan as ‘Crazy Mohan’ after the roaring success of ‘Crazy Thieves in Palavakkam,’ which he had written for S.Ve. Shekher. “It was a friend’s wedding and we were walking in the procession. We were discussing names for the troupe. Each of us suggested a name and we all agreed that the word Crazy was vital. Mohan always had a penchant for poetry and wanted something alliterative. And he thought of ‘Crazy Creations.’ All of us — Kicha, Balaji, Vasu and myself — agreed. That day was June 9, 1979. The same year, September 1, we inaugurated our first play, ‘Alaudeen 100 Watts Bulb.’  Vasu (G. Srinivas, coordinator of Crazy Creations), highlighted how Mohan’s drawing skill earned him fans. Walking in Atlanta, the U.S., the friends happened to pass an artist, who was drawing portraits of people for a dollar. He called Mohan and offered to draw him. In turn, Mohan said he could draw the artist and the latter agreed. He said if Mohan did a good job, he would give two dollars. Mohan’s work was so good that the man was pleased and gave him four dollars. In the aircraft, Mohan drew pictures of the hostess and the captain and presented to them. They were so happy that he was elevated from economy to business class! Music director Ramesh Vinayagam , who composed the title song for ‘Madhu Cheenu,’ said that he was floored by Mohan’s energy and humour. “Mohan was an intellectual comedian, writer and actor. His story lines were always different with humour flowing fluently. That accounted for his prolific output, in both cinema and stage. He could produce humorous situations like a flash. Michael Madhana Kamarajan is a fine example. He excelled in acting too. He was inclined towards Tamil poetry in his last years and it was a joy to listen to his poems. Singer M.J. Sriram , who has seen ‘Marriage Made in Saloon’ 52 times, said Mohan called him Parthasarathy. I had the privilege of singing a title song for his comedy serial. Sriram went on to sing a few lines of Mohan’s favourite song, ‘Amma endru Azhaikatha Uyir Illaye’ from the film Mannan . Producer T. Siva elaborated on Mohan writing the script and dialogue for Chinna Mapple: “I got a story from writer Kalaimani and the dates of the main artistes, including Prabhu and Sukanya. But the script didn’t take off after a point. Santhana Bharati suggested that Crazy Mohan be approached since the shooting had to commence and we were not ready with the script. So Mohan came and with 10 days left for shooting to start, he reworked the story and came back with a complete script, scenes (65) and dialogue ahead of the date. He was with us till the end of the shooting. The scenes, which involved Radha Ravi, Visu and Prabhu were a laugh riot. I cannot forget his dedication and brilliance. But for him we would not have released the film on time. Chinna Mapple is one of the best films I have produced and Mohan should be thanked for it.” Director K.S. Ravi Kumar narrated the episode of losing a script: “This was before Avvai Shanmukhi . We were discussing a story titled ‘Manthiri Kumaran,’ for which Mohan had written the script. But suddenly he was reluctant to proceed with it and said that he would give another story. When I pressed on, he revealed that the script was lost. ‘I had placed it on the top of a car and was chatting. When I looked around after a while, the car was gone.’ I was aghast. But he was unperturbed. ‘The papers would have flown away in all directions and nobody would have got the full script to even read it and enjoy,’ he said. I had never seen him keen on money. Once when I took a lakh of rupees in cash, both Mohan and his father were unwilling to take it. They were uncomfortable seeing so much cash, although it was absolutely ‘white.’ Finally, I had to give a cheque. When I suggested the title ‘Ulaga Nayagan’ for Kamal, Mohan was the first to appreciate it. ‘Super sir,’ he said.” Mohan gave what the director wanted, according to actor Nasser. “He could fulfil the needs of Singitham Sreenivasa Rao for a film like Madana Kamarajan and K.S. Ravikumar. That way he was different from certain writers, who would be possessive about their work and not change anything. This adaptability was Mohan’s huge strength,” he added. “Imagine the climax of Michael... About 15 feet of utter confusion. It was like that even on the sets but Kamal and Mohan would be seriously engaged in the sequence and what everybody was supposed to do. Watching that was itself great entertainment. Mohan, certainly was one of the best in comedy writing but beyond that he was a good human being who wanted everyone to laugh,” he said. To actor Prabhu , Mohan was like family. “We both belong to big family set-ups and could exchange notes,” he said. “I got to spend some quality time with him. He wrote the dialogue for some half a dozen films in which I acted. He had the uncanny knack of coming up with funny phrases, which seemed bizarre at that time but worked well. For instance, ‘gidugida’ in Chinna Mapple and ‘Sukinipa.’ Both of us being coffee addicts, he would offer me excellent home-made filter brew. Veteran Goundamani often marvelled at Mohan’s witty dialogue. I am happy that I am able to be present on this platform and speak to world Tamil audience, who cherish the comedy of Mohan. “I never missed his plays. With my daughters I would go and we would laugh to our hearts’ content,” said Kushboo . She explained: “During the time of Michael ... , I did not know Tamil at all. I sensed that they were brilliant lines because everyone would laugh but looking back I realise that those scenes have become iconic. That’s the case with many of his films. He used to take every shot as a challenge. It is normal for one to challenge others. But Mohan would challenge himself, exploring and expanding scenes with his dialogue. That was the quality, which took him to the top, constantly exploring for improvement, never compromising. And he was open to suggestions.” Director Santhana Bharathi described Mohan as a child and spoke about his addiction to betel leaves. “He bought it at only one place and Ravi Kumar, Kamal and myself became fans of the fragrant betel nut. So much so that Mohan would buy a separate packet for us. When we went outdoor, he wouldn’t come with us because he wouldn’t get his supply from that shop. I arranged a packet to be delivered daily and then he happily accompanied us. He could finish an entire script in seven days, not generally possible. And none could rival him in impersonation comedy. He was well-informed on many subjects. Kamal and Mohan would be talking for hours on various issues,” he said. Actor Pooja Kumar did not work with Mohan but had watched Kamal and Mohan in conversation, talking about their films, stories, etc. “Even now, Kamal sir’s face lights up whenever he talks of Mohan. It is great to address Tamil audience across the world, which is paying homage to this legend,” she said. “I experienced heavenly joy when I sat in discussion with Kamal, Mohan and writer Sujatha. They could hold forth on any subject and sharing ideas with them was delightful,” said Prof. Gnanasambandan . “I got the opportunity to act in Idhaya Thirudan , a film written by Mohan. We both were conferred ’Kalaimamani’ in the same year. I was awarded for my oratory skills. But I told Mohan in a lighter vein that I got the State award after acting in two films. He guffawed and promptly shared the joke with many of his friends. Manorama, Mohan and I went to the MIT college to address students. Mohan delivered an excellent speech, a dimension I had not seen until then.” Veena exponent Rajhesh Vaidhya revealed that Mohan had a pact with him. “Whenever he attended my show, I had to play his favourite song. He used to call me ‘Rajesha.’ Here I’m going to play two more numbers he liked — the ‘Amma’ song from Mannan , ‘Mullai Malar Maele’ and the re-recording bit from the all time great Michael Madhana Kamarajan ,” said Vaidhya and went on to pay his musical tribute.  As many as 32 Tamil associations in all parts of the world joined hands in this event, which was led by Kamal Hassan. Memories were shared and songs sung
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A century of lingering fragrance||This is the story of an enterprising entrepreneur, whose forays began in his teens, his start-up growing into a flourishing company of a century and more, making itself a household name. The story of T.S. Rajagopala Iyengar and TSR are synonymous and indeed fascinating. Hailing from Thittai, a small hamlet about 5 km from the renowned Thanjai Maa Mani Divya Desam on the outskirts of Thanjavur, Rajagopalan born in 1894, was clearly a precocious child. Driven by entrepreneurial instincts, he made his way to Kumbakonam, where the seeds of the saga were sown. The Thanjavur-Kumbakonam belt on either side of the Cauvery was home to a large number of temples — Vaishnavite Divya Desams and Saivite Paadal Petra Sthalams. While agriculture was the main occupation, devotion was integral to the daily lives of people in the region. Rajagopalan, just into his teens began working on products that would cater to this devotional clientele. He was all of 15, when he rolled out his first offerings in 1909. He started out in Moorthy Chetty Street and then moved to a shop on Bazaar Street, West of Sarngapani Koil. Once business stabilised, he built a factory on Nageswaran Thirumanjanam Veethi from where a range of products that included sandal, (used for thirumanjanam and abhishekam), rosewater ( panneer ), incense sticks (agarbathi), scented lime (chunnam) and rose extracts (gulkand and oil) were manufactured. He launched the products under the brand name of TSR & Co, with Aalilai Kannan (baby Krishna on the banyan leaf) as logo. Soon TSR, as he came to be lovingly called by the residents of Kumbakonam, became a household name. Everlasting fragrance was a hallmark of his puja items. He was a specialist in making sweet paan. Customers simply loved the mix and would queue up to pick up the tasty paan deftly made with his hands. He later sold betel products even as the focus was on puja items. A distant relative, 87-year old Kalyani Krishnaswamy, who stayed in his house in Kumbakonam for a whole year during her childhood, remembers sandalwood logs being brought from Mysore, and well-built workers grinding them into powder. By the 1930s, the products were much sought after. One could sense the fragrance even as one entered the street. He always told his workers that the product had to be of the highest quality. She also recalls the presence of TSR at her wedding in the mid-1940s. “He gifted a huge box of TSR products.” Expert at marketing, TSR never failed to occupy vantage positions to display his products at festivals outside Kumbakonam, such as the Madurai Chitirai festival and Brahmotsavam in Mannargudi. Equally close to people’s heart is Gokul Santol Talc, from the TSR stable. T.R. Kannan, elder of TSR’s two sons, points out that R Sampath, whose father was the late V.K. Rajagopala (VKR) Iyengar, a Central Bank auditor and a first cousin of TSR, played a key role in this project, when Kannan wanted to expand the range. It was VKR Iyengar, who gave Kannan the space and freedom in his house on Pachaiappa Street in Kumbakonam and motivated him to carry out the experiments before arriving at the ideal formula. “Kannan came to my father’s house to conduct his experiments. Each day, he would sit on the terrace of our house and try out different combinations. It was a very tedious process and required a lot of patience and perseverance but Kannan was relentless in his pursuit,” says 74-year old Sampath.  Birth of Gokul Santol Kannan eventually moved to Madras and opened the talcum powder factory in Ramapuram in 1965. And thus TSR & Co diversified into two separate firms — TSR & Co home needs manufacturing pooja products in Kumbakonam (headed by his second son T.R. Raghavan) and TSR & Co, Madras, which manufactures Gokul Santol talcum powder and soap, among other cosmetic products. At one point of time, the demand for agarbathis outstripped the supply. Several hundreds of workers were engaged at the factory in Gokul Gardens and business had grown manifold. The 84-year old chartered accountant G. Kunchithapatham, who worked in the firm that audited the accounts of TSR & Co reminisces: “TSR & Co had started small but by the time I grew up, TSR had already built a brand in Kumbakonam. The factory had been mechanised and the shop had become much bigger. TSR was top of mind recall for anyone needing panneer, chandan and other puja products.” Steeped in devotion, TSR was a trustee at the Sarangapani and Chakrapani temples. Seshadri Bhattar of Parthanpalli Divya Desam, who spent his entire childhood in Kumbakonam and performed archaka service at Thiru Kudanthai temples for several decades, remembers the mega arrangements made by TSR ahead of Mysore Maharaja’s trip to the Sarangapani Koil. “Pushpa Pandhal” — a grand floral canopy was erected along the entire path from Moolavar to Desikar Sannidhi. And the King of Mysore was accorded a grand welcome into the temple,” he recalls. Till his death in 1961, TSR’s ubayam on Desikar Satrumurai at the Sarngapani temple was one that everyone looked forward to as it was one of the biggest festival days at the temple with a vibrant Prabhandham Ghoshti. The entire temple wore a grand festive look that day. TSR was also known for his exquisite attire — always seen in a Panchakacham and a spotless white shirt — and sporting a bright Thiruman on his forehead. Everyone at the Sarngapani temple would line up as he made an impressive entry into the temple in his majestic walk on the Desikar Satrumurai day. Till his final days, he made sure that sufficient quantities of Dasankam, Santhanathi Thailam and other puja items reached the temples of Kumbakonam. The third day of Chakrapani Brahmotsavam was TSR ubayam — a tradition that continues. Just prior to his death, he made a significant contribution to the renovation exercise at the Sarangapani temple and was a member of the committee formed for the purpose. For a century now, the TSR family has been patrons of the Navaratri festival at the 1000-year old Varadaraja Perumal temple on the banks of the Cauvery, which they also helped restore. V. Seshadri, an adyapaka at the Therazhundur Divya Desam for over three decades, remembers TSR participating in and supporting the Brahmotsavam at this temple “He would present the temple with large quantities of puja items, whose fragrance would fill the air. His very presence brought positive energy among the service personnel at the temple,” he says. The Moolavar deity, Navaneetha Krishnan, at the ancient Perumal temple in Thittai, TSR’s home town, is seen in a special dancing posture with his left leg slightly bent and placed on a pedestal with the right leg on a lotus stalk. His left hand stretches to balance, while the right palm holds a ball of fresh butter. Sri Jayanthi Utsavam and Garuda Sevai on Panguni Uthiram are celebrated in a grand way at this temple. On Chitra Pournami, special donation from the Navaneetha Krishnan temple is handed to the Siva Temple for the Thiru Kalyanam there that day.  A philanthropist, TSR was a trustee at the Sarangapani and Chakrapani temples besides being the patron of several others
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital platform - the way forward!||Besides the anxiety of personal safety many questions crowd the minds of people in general, and artistes in particular, because they are a community who thrive on connect. When will we start regular classes, when will programmes happen, will there be sponsors and will there be audience and so on? The use of digital platforms and modes to learn, showcase and spread has been building up for quite some time, now gathering momentum. Virtual learning has become the need not only in formal education but also in arts. Too long a vacation is not conducive to continuance. Gurus erstwhile wary of digital modules, who never used recorded music but sing themselves in class and rehearsals are now teaching online. Gurus have reconciled to rescheduling programmes, arangetrams, etc but learning must go on. Online classroom “The advantage is they learn through skype in the safety of their home. There is a fractional time lag and hence the need to closely monitor the nritta segments, when I finish reciting the teermanam and so on. In classroom sessions, even in a large group the teacher can check the footwork,” says veteran guru K. Kalyanasundaram, who now connects with his senior disciples through cyber space. The personal touch, the nascent and essential bonding between the teacher and the taught, so unique to art, is subtracted. But is it not better than sulking and shrinking in isolation? It is definitely helping youngsters by infusing in them positivity and anticipation. Cyber learning could be a supplement not a substitute. It is also learning for many teachers, who have through practice improved their technical skills. Budding and senior performers post videos, or participate in online festivals. Even women of bhajan groups and those who chant the weekly Lalitha Sahasranamam, connect on Zoom every week, rather than seek God in solitude. All these ventures stem out of a compulsive human need to be connected. Out of sight is out of mind. There are a few who are in a perennial race for recognition; for them digital medium gives a clear edge. Not restricting the location, time and duration makes for larger viewership. We did graduate from live to recorded music, from wearing of sari to stitched costume, from simple make-up to high end products, took the support of technology at every step from photos to videos etc., so why not use the digital medium to reach out. Nine-hour video Lata Surendra, who arranges day-long programme every International Dance Day, has curated and coordinated a nine- hour video, ‘Ode to Humanity’, showcasing over 86 dancers of all genres and stature from across the world. “This is a big step into the world of virtual reality to surpass the isolating walls of the lockdown through the liberating dimensions of dance forms, music and literature. Art has always mirrored the changing life,” says Lata. Solace through art Gayatri Subramaniam, who hosts Utsav festival every year prior to monsoon conducted it online with equal commitment. “Art is food for the soul. Artistes find solace and provide solace to viewers, through their art. When COVID-19 crippled the normalcy of human existence, many artistes organically gravitated towards digital platform reaching out to millions of people across the globe, working within limitations to tap limitless opportunities. Art curators have smoothly adapted to the changed circumstance. While technology is being used with intelligence, the possibility of an ‘online-only’ platform is out of the question. The digital platform has opened a new avenue and it is here to stay, but the energy of a live performance, with the artiste and audience face to face, is irreplaceable,” says Gayatri. Performing for a neutral camera or mobile is a demanding task. An appreciative nod and applause from audience is something special which likes, shares and subscriptions cannot give. ‘NCPA@home’ is a periodical digital series of exclusive videos and content from across genres from NCPA's extensive archival library, enabling patrons of art to enjoy some of the finest performances from the safe confines of their homes. Bonding with people “The show must go on,” avers Swapnokalpa Dasgupta, Head Programming, Dance, NCPA. “No one can undermine the effect of a live performance and the experience of alert minds bonding with each other through the arts. Every challenge comes with opportunities. Going online has given us the opportunity to ‘add art’ to the lives of our audiences. With live shows we were able to only reach out to a limited audience but with online, we reach out to even that woman who perhaps has never stepped out of her kitchen,” she adds. Sudhir Nayak of KalaCoast, who is a committed host of music and informative lectures by veteran and promising artistes under various aegis, uses digital platform to showcase senior artistes such as Aneesh Pradhan, Aditya Kalyanpur and musical musings with likes of Shubha Mudgal. The bonus is for viewers, who can relax in the cosy comfort of their armchair at home watching sessions of yoga, music, dance, drama and Stand-up comedy without travelling or spending money; fortifying the meandering mind from brooding. Whether digitalisation is a boon or bane is debatable. There is no two opinion that art by itself is an elevating medium and will forever be our proud heritage, to be preserved and ornamented by new ideas and efforts. Tradition and technology can co-exist with each augmenting the other. The creative curve  A creative mind cannot and should not rest. Research and content creation is comparatively easier in the present context. Digitalisation is indispensable to modern methods, facilitating dissemination of information at the press of a button or sourcing music, literature, meaning and modules. “Inspired by ‘Art by the letter’ series we decided to create ‘Akashara Kala’ on Instagram and our Facebook page. Using Hindi alphabet varnamala-the Devanagari Script as the base, we explore one letter each week through the idioms of music, dance and allied art forms,” informs Asha Sunilkumar, who spearheads Sanskriti at Thane. “The idea was basically to get students thinking, to read, create and find new ways to present the alphabet.” For Chandana Bala Kalyan it is time to create and augment her knowledge bank. “I allot time after coping with household chores for generating new ideas, tuning and elucidation in music and research. I also interact with my senior disciples at mutually convenient time for furthering learning.” Subramanian Chidambaran, Carnatic vocalist and speaker started with a 21-day YouTube series on Valmiki Ramayanam, keeping it simple but detailed, following it with a session of 20 episodes on Kshetradanam of Hindu temples, highlighting the rituals and going through Guruvayur and Kanchipuram. In his latest ‘Vande guru parampara,’ he interviews great gurus from different areas. Artistes have now become more inclusive and do not mind sharing their work. “Many have shared numerous themed presentations, talk sessions, workshops, online festivals to inspire and heal the community,” says Gayatri Subramaniam, who curates series of lectures by the likes of Leela Samson and Jayachandran, facilitating aspirants across the world to participate. When normalcy returns, artistes will be equipped with new productions, researched and rehearsed repertoire to present in sabhas and event venues. The new normal phase will provide a new perspective not only to life, but art too.  Cyber learning could be a supplement not a substitute. It is also learning for many teachers, who have through practice improved their technical skills
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Tale of devotion and determination||Kanakkiliyanallur is a village in Lalgudi taluk. In the Chola period, this village was the revenue capital of Kanakkiliyur Nadu. Nadu meant a revenue division, which included many villages. Originally, Kanakkiliyur was called Kanakkalur, as seen from a Rajendra I period inscription. Some later inscriptions revert to the original name of Kanakkalur, and some use the name Kanakkiliyur. One of the villages that came under Kanakkiliyur Nadu was Siruvalaippur. The first reference to Siruvalaippur is seen in the Siva temple in Kanakkiliyur. It dates to Vikrama Chola’s fourth regnal year (1122 CE). It mentions a landholder of Siruvalaippur, who was a member of the Nattar body of Kanakkiliyur Nadu. In an inscription in the Oottathur Choleeswarar temple, dated 1146 C.E., 13th regnal year of Kulottunga II, there is a reference to Siruvalaippur. The inscription says that grains and gold paid as tax by Siruvalaippur would henceforth go to the Ootathur Chozheeswarar temple. Reference to temple taxes The last reference to Siruvalaippur is a Jatavarman period inscription dated 1321 CE. seen in the Tirupattur Ayyanar temple. It talks about the taxes fixed for the temple by the Oottathur Nattar body. One of the signatories to the order was Abathu Kaathaan from Siruvalaippur. So, right from the time of Vikrama Chola up to Pandya times, Siruvalaippur seems to have enjoyed prominence, with people from Siruvalaippur being members of the Nattar bodies. (Nattars were representatives of large landholders. They were in charge of revenue administration). While nearby Peruvalaippur is still known by the same name, Siruvalaippur became Sirukalappur. The Kalatheeswarar temple in Sirukalappur is small with single sanctum and an ardha mandapa. There are no subsidiary shrines. All the inscriptions in the temple were discovered and recorded by archaeologist Dr. L. Thyagarajan, who feels that the temple must have been larger once upon a time. There are five inscriptions of the time of Kulottunga III, one of which gives the name of the deity as Thirupataleeswarar. When and why it became Kalatheeswarar is not clear. One of the inscriptions speaks of the bhakti of a devotee called Tirugnanasambandan. From the inscription, dated 1197 C.E., 19th regnal year of Kulottunga III, we learn that a person named Tirugnanasambandan came to Sirukalappur from Nerkundram, which was under the revenue division of Therazhundur Nadu. When he arrived, he found the brick temple in a state of disrepair and resolved to rebuild it as a stone temple. “The inscription says that nimaanamaai (vimana) of this temple (innayanar koil), built of ittigai (brick) and lime mortar ( anusuthamaai ) was damaged ( alampaanju ). Tirugnanasambandan vowed ( viratam kondu ) to build a tirukkattrali (stone structure) and tied his hands and legs with chains ( vilangu poondu ), wore a garment made of palm fronds ( pari uduthu ) and ate only greens ( saaganthindru ). He stayed on in Sirukalappur with hands and legs tied, consuming only greens, wearing a garment of fronds, until he finished building the temple,” explains Thyagarajan. The other inscriptions in the temple give the names of those who built some portions of the temple, and all these benefactors were residents of Sirukalappur. Tirugnanasambandan’s figure is sculpted on a wall of the ardha mandapa. He is portrayed with chains around his hands and feet. Sadly, the temple, which is under the control of the HR&CE Department, has now been painted in hideous colours, and the sculpture of Tirugnanasambandan, who converted the brick temple into a stone structure, has been given a pink colour. Why should a stone structure be painted? Methods like water-blasting have already damaged sculptures in Chola temples, like Nageswaran temple in Kumbakonam, for example. Now with all this unnecessary painting, one fears for the image of Tirugnanasambandan and the inscriptions in the Sirukalappur temple.  Tirugnanasambandan’s figure is sculpted on a wall of the ardha mandapa. He is portrayed with chains around his hands and feet.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Know your music better||June 21 is World Music Day, but this year it comes with a new set of challenges, a new purpose and a new connect between artistes and listeners. Several online events have been organised to mark the day also known as Fete de la Musique, a music festival, which began in France in 1982 and was conceived by French Minister of Culture Jack Lang. Besides exploring the current music scene, the day also offers an opportunity to look back and remember those stalwarts across the world, who laid the foundation for the growth of various genres. First woman composer Though retro Hindi film music has a huge fan base, very few would know that Jaddanbai, actress Nargis Dutt’s mother was India’s first female music composer? Not many would also know that the song, ‘Itni shakti hame de na daata’ was written by lyricist Abhilaash and composed by Kuldeep Singh. Every song is a musical story written by the composers and lyricists, but the creators of many such brilliant creations remain lost in the pages of music sheets. The Indian Performing Right Society in association with Music Plus has launched a campaign, “#CreditTheCreators”. Veterans and musicians like Javed Akhtar, Sameer Anjaan, Raju Singh, Swanand Kirkire, Sandesh Shandilya, Mayur Puri, Manoj Muntashir, Kuldeep Singh, Abhilash, Kausar Munir, Leslee Lewis, Shashaa Tirupati, Priya Saraiya, Paroma Dasgupta, and more will drive the initiative on social media and traditional platforms. The first leg of the campaign will roll out on digital media with the associated artistes performing and talking about their favourite songs and the creators behind such timeless creations. Spread over two weeks, the campaign will serve as a thought starter, encouraging all of us to acknowledge those behind the power of words and melodies that have shaped our moments of merriment and misery equally, forever etching those songs in our memories. Speaking about the initiative, Javed Akhtar, Chairman, IPRS said, “It was the performance of Pt Ravi Shankar and Ustad Allah Rakha at Woodstock that broke many cultural and traditional barriers in the world of Western music. Not many are aware that while in the West fusion was recognised in the mid-sixties, Indian film music directors were not only using but had mastered fusion as early as late thirties. There are a number of songs in the forties and fifties recorded by maestros like Pankaj Mallik, Naushad, Anil Biswas and C Ramchandra in which the tune is based on ragas but the orchestra uses instruments like guitar, piano, trumpet, cello and violin. According to Rakesh Nigam, CEO, IPRS, “#CreditTheCreators aims to acknowledge and honour the authors and composers who spend a lifetime in creating masterpieces.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Peace — root of all emotions||A mere arrangement of words does not become poetry, although it may look beautiful or masterly at a superficial level. It is the intention to evoke an existing emotion, that carries the aesthetic seed. ‘Bhava’ with a gamut of emotions, adds the qualification to being a poetry. Both the grammar and soulfulness, attain the desired effect of a perfect Rasa experience. When presented as an audio visual, poetry becomes drama. The people who belonged to the family (biological sons and disciples), called Bharataputras, had the exclusive profession to act in dramas. A responsible dramatist and the one who staged the drama would, those days, strive to elevate the people’s mind, along with entertainment. Moral values were the messages that were conveyed through the vehicle of drama. There were also rules about what can be depicted on the stage — Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha were the four-fold aims. In the olden times, even acharyas of different religions wrote dramas to convey the philosophical content of their theology. Philosophers like Kumarila Bhatta while referring to authorities for their siddhantas, have quoted from dramas like Shakuntalam. The traditional art of drama with its music, dance and acting is aimed to create joy and add to peace. The intense devotion to the supreme entity, enriches the inspiration. There is a kind of tranquillity, even in grief. It ushers in a kind of ‘glow,’ making life meaningful. A great poet, through the dramatic enterprise, would aim to give the highest Dharma mingled with the best of ‘Navarasas.’ There are only eight in Bharata’s treatise to which the ninth, Shantam has been added. Saint poets like Tyagaraja have sung in praise of Shantam, the well-being of the world. This spiritual truth of Shantam comes face to face with the dancing space and medium. A discerning view places dance of the worldly realm as the expressive mode. Both Abhinaya and Nritta, the vibrant mode, which belongs to the other-worldly realm are related to Shantam. Delving deep to wonder what pure dance or Nritta can cause in the dancer and the spectator is a journey by itself. Nritt – aa/to cause to dance, blends male and female principles in a spirit of non-difference, complete identity, called Taadatmya. Keeping perfect equilibrium as the base, the graceful feminine and forceful masculine, are equally important to make Nritta, delectable to witness. Utsaha or energetic is the characteristic point, underlying which is joyful calmness, Shantam. Nritta, bereft of worldly emotions, remains sweetness when performed in total self-surrender to the enchanting music. As rhythm is inherent in everyone, Nritta being essentially blissful, is enjoyable beyond language, religion or regional barriers. ‘The body and breath appropriately trained, reach the Turiyatita; there they witness the felicitous dance of the Lord, drinking the fill of bliss, They Siva become…’(Tirumoolar’s Tirumandiram/Tantra Eight). Peace is both the beginning (expressed as love and other feelings) and then the end (bliss). Abhinaya in the one or many roles, likewise, arises and dissolves in the blissful peace, Shantam. It is then that it actually becomes effective. The recipient Prekshaka has to be in Shantam too to derive Rasa. Thus, Shantam is an indispensable foundation. Serenity is the most fertile ground for imagination and a flurry of emotions. Much of drama is about the chaotic calm. Our palate is made up in nature, of all the six tastes, but is in essence, placid. Take an example of plain water, which by definition has no specific taste. All the same, it tastes immensely sweet and nourishing, feeding us with Shantam. Lord Shiva holds the purest Ganges water. He is Shantam, peaceful with the colour of Shantam, white. Another Indian fare is butter. Lord Krishna loves white butter, churned out but peaceful and often steals this Shantam, amidst a lot of commotion. Butter is also eternally sweet, ‘madhuram.’ Lamps lit with clarified butter, burn like white sunlight. Shantam prevails all over like the sunlight. Just as all colours have their origin in the white sunlight, all the eight Bhavas or predominant feelings originate from the one ‘Shantam.’ Shantam is white, lying as the canvas for all the eight colours, with tints and shades. The space in between the variegation and beneath is white. Only with self-awareness can we experience the full luminosity of this light.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A peek into the world of rasas||Dr. Lakshmi Ramaswamy, well-known Bharatanatyam dancer, choreographer and teacher conducted a week-long online rasa theory workshop — “Rasa in ancient texts.” The workshop was designed for students, who were not acquainted with the aesthetic theory or the jargons. Concepts of rasa embedded in various texts were woven together with the focus on Natyasastra, Tolkappiyam and Kuthanool. “Indian aesthetic theory is largely in Sanskrit and some in Tamil. A knowledge of both would go a long way in understanding the theoretical framework of aesthetics,” said Lakshmi Ramaswamy. Enthusiastic students from different parts of the world — the U.K., Norway, Singapore, Mauritius and India participated irrespective of their time zones. Students were given small assignments to whet their appetite and prepare them for the subsequent classes. “What does Rasa mean to you?” — this poser set the tone for the first session. A narrative was built upon the origin and etymology of the word ‘rasa’. Fascinating interdisciplinary ideas from psychology, philosophy, medicinal chemistry and most importantly, cookery was used to drive home the idea of rasa. Lakshmi’s proficiency in the Tamil language and her doctoral studies of the Kuthanool helped in making critical comparisons in the understanding of rasa in the different textual traditions of Sanskrit and Tamil. But most participants felt that real-life instances and examples from Indian cinema made them relate to the concept better. The workshop also saw participants engaged in animated discussion, with Lakshmi Ramaswamy as the moderator, about the validity of some concepts, importance of music in elevating the rasa, the real and the unreal. The concluding day saw detailed exposition of Sringara Rasa and the students were taken on a journey into the Queen of Rasas. The discussion then veered towards gastronomy, a field where rasas are deployed with great effect. The workshop offered the experience of a conventional offline event. The participants were kept to a comfortable number, which provided intimacy. Organised by the Sri Mudhraalaya team, the virtual workshop was followed up with relevant notes, references and suggested readings. All the participants were awarded e-certificates. On the request of the participants, another workshop was conduct from June 8-12.  (Mahalakshmi Prabhakar is a senior disciple of Lavanya Sankar, currently in the U.K., she loves to work on her repertoire and studying dance history, theory and Natyasastra.)   Concepts of rasa embedded in various texts were woven together with the focus on Natyasastra, Tolkappiyam and Kuthanool
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||National Eminence award in Fine Arts||Shanmukhananda Fine Arts and Sangeetha Sabha, Mumbai will present the National Eminence Award for Lifetime Achievement — Sri Shanmukhananda Sangeetha Kala Vibhushan — for this year to Pt. Arvind Parikh (Sitar) and V.P. Dhananjayan-Shanta Dhananjayan (Bharatanatyam). The award function is scheduled to be held on December 5, at  Sri Shanmukhananda Chandrasekarendra Saraswathi Auditorium. The award carries a purse of Rs. 2.5 lakhs, a citation, a bronze lamp, memento and a shawl. The evening programme, to be held at 6 p.m., will also include the presentation of the Shanmukha Sangeetha Siromani awards to three promising and up-and-coming artistes in Carnatic stream.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Torchbearer of Namasankirtana tradition||Sankeerthana Kalanidhi Sri A. L. Krishnamurthy Bhagavather, 92, (father of Sri AVK Rajasimhan Bhagavather) passed away on June 16. Native of Angarai, a village north of Kollidam, he was the son of the late Madi Lingam Iyer and Meenakshi Ammal. As a child he was inspired by the weekly Bhajans which his father conducted and later came into the fold of the legendary Gopalakrishna Bhagavathar of Pudukottai in 1954. An ardent disciple since 1961, he dedicated himself to the propagation of Namasankirthanam and Sampradaya Bhajan. For 70 years, he led troupes conducting various divine weddings — Radha, Seetha, Valli and Meenakshi. His rendition of Bhajans with Bhava and Laya earned him the title, Abhinaya Chakravarthi. He was especially known for explaining the meaning of Vasantha Kelikkai and Pavvalimpu in Tamil and English. Krishnamurthi Bhagavathar was conferred the title, Sankeerthana Kalanidhi Thilakam by Sri Sankara Vijayendra Saraswati of Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Math. Bhagavatha Siromani, Bhagavatha Thilakam, Bhajanamrutha Sagaram and Bhagavatha Rathnam are among the other honours, which decorated him. Sri Krishnamurthy Bhagavathar retired as audit officer of the Posts and Telegraph Department, Government of India. Namasmaran, Bangalore honoured him 2006 for his outstanding contribution in the field of namaprachara and namasankeerthanam. Sri ALK Bhagavathar was also honoured during the Centenary Celebrations of Pudukkottai Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Jayanthi uthsavam 2019 for his outstanding contribution to namasankeerthanam.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Community service||Coaxed by his cousin, V.K. Rajagopalan, T.S. Rajagopala Iyengar contested the election and became the Municipal Chairman in 1958. In the period that he was at the helm, he created a modern underground drainage system in Kumbakonam. K Ramanarayanan, 89- year old former District Revenue Officer (Thanjavur), has seen TSR from close quarters. “Starting on a modest scale, he built a brand that has stood the test of time. A stout man with a tuft, he was one with progressive views. At a time when we were still reeling under the British rule, he brought a name for indigenous products and created a brand that remained entrenched in the minds of the people. To him goes the credit for creating an identity for Kumbakonam. He was also a large-hearted philanthropist, who did a lot for society.” Aptly, Big Street is named after TSR. The family — TSR’s sons, grandsons and now the great grandsons — is taking forward his great legacy. Over the last six decades, his birthday has been celebrated with the TSR family feeding 2,000 people at the factory in Gokul Gardens, Kumbakonam, which was also his home till his death.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Behind the success...||Kavirimaindhan is keen that people, who were instrumental and supportive in his marathon journey, should be mentioned. “It was Kavignar, who brought the right people at the right time to start the endeavours and keep them going,” he says. Behind the events conducted by Kannadasan Tamil Sangam are: M.K. Mani, Dr. Saraswathi Ramanathan, S.R. Swaminathan, A.K. Nagarajan, A. Nagappan, N. Aingaran, Abdul Salam, Mannargudi malarvendhan, Saidai S. Murthi, j. Ravindran, V. Murali and Meenakshi Sundaram.It enjoys the patronage of Kanmani Subbu and Dr. Kannadasan Ramaswamy. The Kannadasan-M.S. Viswanathan Trust owes it to the late M.A.M. Ramaswamy, MSV himself, AVM Saravanan, Sp. Muthuraman, M.K. Mani, R. Prakash, G. Ravindranath and Kavirimaindhan — all trustees. Nalli Kuppuswamy Chetti, M. Murali of Sri Krishna Sweets and Meena Muthiah are on board too. The Trust is chaired by Ilakkiyaveedhi Lakshmanan with Gandhi Kannadasan as Secretary. Thamizh Thaer was run with the support of Ziauddin and Ramanirajan. Kavirimaindhan recalls the encouragement and affection showered by the late Visu, who held Kannadasan in high esteem. It was to Visu that the Kannadasan Tamil Sangam honour went last year. Unable to be present due to failing health, Visu sent his best wishes and Sp. Muthuraman received the award on his behalf.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Docu-series on veteran dramatists||Mudhra is hosting a special documentary series, ‘Nawabilirundu Naveenamvarai, featuring ten Tamil stage veterans on its Facebook page. The series, which began on June 17, is being streamed daily at 7 p.m. (IST); 9.30 a.m. (EST) and 6.30 a.m. (PST). Starting with Nawab Rajamanickam Pillai, the series features T.K.S. Brothers, R.S. Manohar, YGP, Poornam Viswanathan, Komal Swaminathan and ‘Major’ Sundararajan. The duration of the documentaries directed by Ramki, featuring one artiste a day, is 15 to 30 minutes only.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Stretch, bend, sing||ICCR is launching Spirit of Yoga, a celebration of Yoga through music on June 21, International Yoga Day. It is based on the Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, considered the foundation or the philosophy of the grand tradition and science of Yoga. Beingsattvaa, a healing retreat in Bali, Indonesia, promoted by Renuka and Subba Vaidyanathan of Singapore and Dr Varsha’s Health Solutions promoted by Dr. Varsha Narayanan of Mumbai, has come up with ‘Spirit of Yoga,’ which aims to make the sutras easy to sing or hum along for practitioners. ‘Spirit of Yog’a will be launched across the world, through ICCR via all the Indian missions. The music and video were created during the worldwide lockdown, with no face to face interaction. The sutras have been rendered by the renowned singer, Hariharan, who will be accompanied by Dr. Varsha Narayanan of Mumbai.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||People's Man||He was a celluloid hero, who rose to become the Chief Minister of a State. Ravichandran is one among the millions of MGR’s die-hard fans, who believed in his screen image, into which, Kannadasan's lyrics breathed life. The matinee idol, therefore is an inseparable part of Kavirimaindhan's activities and writing. One of the books is a compilation of impressions from 100 persons, who were impacted by MGR's charisma. “True, it was not the real world, but he conveyed values through the roles he portrayed, all positive. Songs played a huge role in shaping that image, so much so that they became the collective anthem for the followers of the political party, which he founded. In fact, even before that it was his screen persona and songs, which won elections for the party from which he parted company,” says Kavirimaindhan. In the making is another book on 100 songs of MGR, which underline him as the Leader. Titled, MGRin Alapiranda Paadalgal , it has popular ones such as ‘Naan Anaiyittal,’ ‘Nalla Nalla Pillaigalai,’ ‘Vangaiya Vathiyaraiyya’ and ‘Moonrezhuthil.’
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Interactive concert series||As part of the ‘Naadanubhava,’ an interactive concert series, being hosted by Natana Tarangini Academy, the programmes this weekend will feature the vocal concerts of Sidharth Prakash, tomorrow (June 20), and of Ranjani Sivakumar, June 21. Concert time: 4 p.m. IST. Log on to https://www.facebook.com/Natana-Tarangini-Academy-109803584042152/
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Golden songs||Kannadasan is undoubtedly Kavirimaindhan’s idol. But he does not miss an opportunity to acknowledge the talent or contribution of other lyricists some of whom are legends in their own right. For instance, Pattukottai Kalyanasundaram, Marudakasi, Ku.Ma. Balasubramaniam and so on. Porkala Paadalgalin Pookolangal , Kavirimaindhan's latest release, does full justice to these lyricists. Like the proverbial honeybee, the author has collected nectar on 50 lyricists, citing memorable songs. With disarming frankness, he records: “I was under the impression that all good songs owed it to one fountainhead — Kannadasan — until I learnt that there were exceptions.” This of Alangudi Somu who penned “Ullathin Kadhavugal Kangalada…” Did you know that a rare song is “Aandavan ulagathin mudhalali…” which finds MGR sitting with a harmonium and not dancing around? Marudakasi is the lyricist. The book was released under the auspices of Kannadasan Thamizh Sangam, Pammal, at a glittering function on February 20 at Raja Annamalai Manram. Educationist Isari Ganesh presented the presidential address and Sp. Muthuraman was the special guest. The Sangam had invited the descendants of the lyricists and honoured them. The houseful audience soaked in the musical extravaganza presented by Laxman Sruti.
19 June 2020||June 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I did it my way’||It’s a rainy day, and Sushmita Sen has been patched on a phone call by her publicist to discuss her latest show, Aarya , in which she plays a mother taking to crime to protect her family. Contrary to the gloomy weather, Sen is in a rather cheery, and almost Zen-like, mood. “We have it so much better, compared to so many people right now,” she says, alluding to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. It’s inevitable, therefore, for our conversation to steer towards larger, philosophical subjects, as we discuss her return on a set after five years. Excerpts from an edited interview... Your take on ambition as been rather unique compared to your contemporaries, from your film choices after winning Miss Universe in 1994 to embracing motherhood as a single parent. How has your take on ambition evolved over the last 26 years? I didn’t set out to do things differently than my contemporaries. I was very honest about what I needed in my life: that I am an individual and not a clone of somebody. I may be in an industry or part of a job or social strata, but I will stick with who I am. God was kind and I was surrounded by people who gave me support early in my life when it was tough. I have always been this moohfat (blunt). I had a very rebellious kind of approach. If anybody didn’t allow me, I would fight back. That has changed with age and with growing up and I don’t fight back any more. I still do what I need to do. I don’t necessarily get affected by the applause or the insults. I continue to live my truth. Now, that hasn’t been easy. Anybody wanting to follow that path should know that it’s never going to be easy, but rewarding it is. I think the best way to summarise these 26 long years is: I did it my way. You wrote a post on mental health on social media after Sushant Singh Rajput’s demise , and you’ve been quite vocal about the subject. How do you see the relationship between fame, celebrityhood and mental health, which can get quite toxic sometimes? The word you used is toxic, and toxic it can be. Unfortunately, I never met Sushant and didn’t know him as a person but have seen him in films and interviews, and he came across as a man with such great depth, understanding and love for his craft, and someone who was very hopeful, not just for himself but for the world around him. I had a very deep feeling of loss which transcended losing a great actor. It was about a human being who gave up, and he gave up because of reasons that only he knows, but they are not compounded only in an actor’s life. I, for one, have a lot of people that follow me, who are extremely expressive. They don’t use emoticons as a response to a post, but write pages and express themselves. They have said to me so many times that I feel like the world is collapsing around me and the only way out is to give it all up. Sushant is a visible loss in our lives, but there are so many young people going through this. I myself was clinically depressed as an after-effect of taking steroids for two years. I had to take medication for it. My reason for speaking about it is that people should know that if you keep isolating yourself because your family, friends or loved ones don’t understand your situation, the world at large understands it. You will find that there are like-minded people who have endured it, and can help you get through to it. A lot of us forget that we are loved, just because we aren’t told that every day. I love people and I need them to know that, that their lives matter. Depression is very very real. You have to choose life, ask for help whatever kind of help, but we have to fight it. As an actor, was it mentally disorienting to be back on a set after a long time? Luckily that wasn’t the case at all. I was coming back after 10 years in Hindi cinema but five in Bengali. I did Nirbaak (2015). The good thing about Aarya was that I wasn’t just facing the camera after five years, I was facing the camera in a completely different format and style of shooting. So not just me but for other actors in Aarya , who have been facing the camera on a regular basis every day, it was a new format as well, because Ram shoots everything in one take. You may have a two-take scene or a six-take scene, you may have two characters or six, he takes the whole scene with a three-camera setup from the first take to the last. There is no cut. None of us attached to Aarya worked with Ram, so we didn’t know this way of shooting at all. So thank god for the three weeks of the workshop that we all did, individually and collectively.So it was like doing a theatre performance live, and there happen to be three cameras shooting while you are performing. So it was coming back to the art and craft of cinema in the way that a newcomer does. I’ve realised I’m a better actor in this format than I’ve ever been. Since Aarya is an adaptation of the Dutch series Penoza , have you seen the series and how did you interpret it? I saw every single episode of Penoza , all seasons except the last one, because the last season doesn’t have English subtitles yet, so I couldn’t watch it. But I saw the four while travelling to the US, all the way through the flight, landing in New York, during the trip, and I came back with my feedback. Even though it is inspired by Penoza , and is a fantastic character, the way Ram has Indian-ised it, it makes it completely different. Penoza doesn’t have the same emotional connect as Aarya with her three kids. Personally, I love Aarya more, needless to say. We sat down and questioned everything that the character would do and say, and all the other actors would do the same with their characters. So we created a writers' room of our own. Even though the show is called Aarya and I’m playing her, it wasn’t a biased approach. Every character is well-etched out and they have equations that are very intensely palpable. Now that you are back on-screen, what lies ahead for you? Well, it’s exciting. From getting some really rubbish scripts, I finally have some amazing stuff coming my way. I have a film and another series. Everything is on hold while the drafts are getting ready. I like to give my best to what I’m doing now and I want to see Aarya all the way through, till it releases, and thenI will move onto the next step. Aarya premieres today on Hotstar+ Disney   I myself was clinically depressed as an after-effect of taking steroids for two years.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet against social worker in Delhi riots case||A social worker, who actively participated in the Shaheen Bagh protests, has been mentioned in a chargesheet recently filed by Delhi Police in connection with North-east Delhi riots. A senior officer from the Crime Branch confirmed that D.S. Bindra, a member of the Sikh community, has been named in the contents of the chargesheet submitted in Head Constable Rattan Lal’s murder near Chand Bagh. “His role is being probed,” the officer said. In the chargesheet, two Delhi Police officers have given their statement. They said that Mr. Bindra, along with others, were organisers at the protest site where “provocative” statements were made. According to the chargesheet, the accused mentioned that Mr. Bindra was involved. One accused allegedly stated that Mr. Bindra had set up community kitchen because of which large crowds used to gather.  Familiar face Mr. Bindra became a familiar face during the Shaheen Bagh protests where he had set up a community kitchen and a langar service. Social media posts claiming that he had sold a property to donate for the cause went viral. However, The Hindu could not independently verify this. Mr. Bindra has been vocal about his stand against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act on social media and shared his opinion in a few Facebook live sessions which he did regularly during the Shaheen Bagh protest. Mr. Bindra had also been providing food to needy labourers during the lockdown. When contacted, he said that he had not seen the chargesheet and would comment only after reading it. Communal riots broke out in the Capital on February 24 this year and had claimed 52 lives and left scores injured. Delhi Police has submitted around 80 chargesheets against around 600 people so far.
19 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Plantation strategy for Rajpath planned after tree survey’||A survey of trees along the iconic Rajpath is being conducted to draw a new plantation strategy, according to the architects of the larger Central Vista redevelopment project. Along with the skyline of Lutyens’ Delhi, the treeline of Rajpath has been proposed to be changed as part of the redevelopment project that includes the construction of a new Parliament building and 10 office buildings for the common Central Secretariat. Bimal Patel, director of the Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, the Central Public Works Department’s consultant for the project, told the Maharashtra Association of Schools of Architecture in a virtual address on June 13 that a detailed survey had been delayed due to the lockdown, but would be taken up soon. He said over the years since the trees on Rajpath were first planted, the original strategy had been abandoned and the choice of species and locations had changed. He said the canals along the Rajpath would be ‘refurbished’ and “permanent bridges” would be made over them for visitors and the attendees of the Republic Day parade, for which bridges are put up and dismantled every year. In a written response to The Hindu on Tuesday, the HCP said the survey had been started in February to identify the species, location, size, condition and other features of each and every tree on the Avenue. Deliberate planting plan “Based on the finding of this survey, a very deliberate planting plan for restoring and enhancing the tree cover will be worked out as a part of the overall landscape strategy for the Central Vista Avenue,” it said. The statement said the Rajpath, which is the street in the centre of the 2-km-long Central Vista Avenue from India Gate to Vijay Chowk, is flanked by lawns about 70 metre wide, water canals and rows of trees. “When the Avenue was originally designed and laid out in the 1920s, it had 10 symmetric rows of trees, five on either side of the Rajpath. The trees were planted in a combination of diagonal and square grid and only two species were used — rows of Jamuns and rows of Ficus trees. The strict geometry of the planting and the austere palette were crucial to establishing the formal order and spartan character of the Avenue.” Today, however, the statement said while most of the trees are the ones planted originally, others have been planted since then. “It is also clearly evident that the original planting strategy has long been abandoned. As some time in the past, rows of bottle brushes were added along the Avenue...Just over 10 years ago, two rows of Jamun trees were added to the original 10 rows. Here, instead of following the diagonal grid of the original landscape, trees were planted in a square grid. It is unclear why this row was added and why the diagonal grid was abandoned,” the HCP said. According to it, there are now over 45 species in “random locations”. “In another place a set of original trees have been removed to create space for the large presidential dais that is built there for the Republic Day celebrations. It is fair to say as a consequence of much unthoughtful additions and alterations in the past decades, the Avenue’s landscape has become very disorderly and lacks its original formal character,” it said. The most important issue, it said, was that many of the original trees were nearing the “end of their life cycle”.
19 June 2020||FARIDABAD,||Four policemen injured as villagers attack post||Four policemen sustained injuries in an attack at a police post by villagers on Thursday in protest against the death of a fellow villager inside the district’s Neemka Jail. The police claimed the man had hanged himself inside the jail premises, but the villagers accused them of having murdered him. A large mob from Shahjahanpur village went on a rampage in the morning, attacking Chandpur police post. Four policemen were injured in the incident. The agitating villagers demanded that the post-mortem be conducted at PGIMS Rohtak and the matter must be investigated by a high-level committee. Deputy Commissioner of Police Jaiveer Rathi pacified the villagers and assured them of a judicial inquiry into the death. Superintendent of Police (Neemka Jail) Sanjeev Kumar said that accused Sonu was brought to jail on June 16 and he hanged himself on Wednesday. His report for COVID-19 was also received on Thursday and he was tested positive. The police said that the youth of Shahjhanapur and Chandpur had a tiff during a race organised on June 10 and stone were pelted on policemen who had reached the spot. On June 14, Sonu was arrested in connection with stone pelting and was sent to jail. Faridabad Police spokesperson Sube Singh said that the villagers, including women, gathered outside the police post in the morning and pelted stones, injuring policemen. He added that some villagers also sat on dharna and blocked the road outside the jail.  Villagers gathered outside the police post and pelted stones, injuring policemen. Some villagers also sat on a dharna and blocked the road outside the jail Sube Singh   Faridabad Police spokesperson
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Nitish Katara killer’s parole plea rejected||The Delhi High Court on Thursday rejected the emergency parole plea of Vishal Yadav serving life term for killing business executive Nitish Katara in 2002. Yadav had sought an eight-week emergency parole on the ground that he could get infected by COVID-19 or TB due to “overcrowding” and “poor sanitation” in the prison. He had moved a similar plea in April in which the High Court had asked the “competent authority” to treat the petition as a representation and take a decision. On May 16, the competent authority rejected Yadav’s plea for parole on the ground that he has been awarded 25-year imprisonment without any remission and against that order, he moved the court. On October 3, 2016, the Supreme Court awarded a 25-year jail term without any benefit of remission to Yadav and his cousin Vishal for their role in the kidnapping and killing of Katara.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Plea claims pvt. hospital nurses not provided PPE||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre, city government and the Indian Nursing Council on a petition claiming that nurses in private hospitals are not being provided proper personal protective equipment (PPE) to shield themselves from COVID-19. Distress Management Collective, which claims to be a group of social workers, health professionals, lawyers, retired bureaucrats and retired judges, in its plea, has alleged that the Centre and the Delhi government have a “discriminatory approach” towards nurses in private hospitals and nursing homes as compared to those working in State-run healthcare facilities. It has alleged that there is “blatant violation” of human rights of nurses and other health workers at private nursing homes/hospitals registered under the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration Act, 1953 and Rules of 2011. “The worst-hit are nurses who are giving care to the patients at bedside without PPE, N-95 mask, gloves, etc., at private nursing homes in Delhi and other parts of the country, especially when there is a spike in asymptomatic COVID-19 cases,” the plea said. It has also claimed that the private management, which runs these nursing homes/hospitals “are maintaining nil or meagre inventory of requisite stock of safety equipment” and are not exercising basic precautions for safety and security of their healthcare workers. The petition also claimed that the Centre and the Delhi government “are not taking any action despite many representations by the nurses individually and collectively”.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Four held for stealing 27 phones from delivery boy||Four men, including the staff of a courier company, were arrested for allegedly stealing 27 mobile phones from the vehicle of a delivery boy in south-east Delhi’s Badarpur, the police said on Thursday. The accused were identified as Vika Tiwari (21), Mohit (20), Tarun (19) and Rahul (22), all residents of Faridabad. They failed to dispose of the stolen mobile phones due to the lockdown, said the police. The delivery boy, Govinda, had lodged a complaint at Badarpur police station on June 4. He told the police that some unidentified men stole a parcel containing 27 mobile phones from his vehicle parked near Mohan Co-operative Estate at 12.30 p.m. on June 2. The package was stolen from the three-wheeler when he had gone for lunch with his colleague Tiwari, a suspect in the case, they said. During the course of investigation, Rahul was apprehended, said DCP (south-east) R.P. Meena. Spilled the beans Rahul confessed to the police that he, along with Mohit and Tarun, stole the mobile phones from Govinda’s three-wheeler, the DCP said. Tiwari, who was Govinda’s colleague, had informed Mohit, Tarun and Rahul about the parcel and on the day of the incident, he intentionally left open one of the doors of Govinda’s vehicle, the officer said. After the theft, Mohit and Tarun gave 23 mobile phones to Rahul, which he had to sell. Police have recovered 22 mobile phones from Rahul’s house as he failed to sell them due to the lockdown, the DCP added.
19 June 2020||New Delhi,||Peak power demand reaches season’s high of 5,985 MW||Peak power in Delhi touched the season’s highest of 5,985 MW on Wednesday night, electricity discoms said. Amidst high temperatures in the Capital, the previous season’s high of 5,899 MW was recorded on Tuesday, while the peak demand was 5,925 MW at on Thursday afternoon. Discoms reported that they successfully met power demand during the spike.
