19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Army builds extreme weather habitats for troops in Ladakh||As India and China continue deliberations on a proposed disengagement and de-escalation plan to end the stand-off in eastern Ladakh, the Army has completed building extreme weather habitats for thousands of additional troops to remain deployed through the harsh winter. “In order to ensure the operational efficiency of the troops deployed in winters, the Army has completed the establishment of habitat facilities for all the troops deployed in the sector. Apart from the smart camps with integrated facilities, which have been built over the years, additional state of the art habitats with integrated arrangements for electricity, water, heating facilities, health and hygiene have been recently created,” an Army source said on Wednesday. Heated tents The troops on the front line were accommodated in heated tents as per tactical considerations of their deployment, the source said. The construction was completed by mid-October. Adequate civil infrastructure has also been identified to cater to any emergency requirements, the source added. The altitude in Ladakh where troops are deployed ranges from 14,000 feet to 18,000 feet and the area experiences up to 40 feet of snowfall from December onwards. Coupled with the wind chill factor, the temperature dips to minus 40 degrees Celsius, disrupting road access to the area for some time. The Army has deployed thousands of additional troops and equipment in eastern Ladakh and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since the stand-off began in early May. The Army recently procured 15,000 extreme weather clothing from the U.S. under the bilateral logistics pact, Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Understanding, for the additional troops in Ladakh. “The order was placed in early July and the deliveries have been completed. Additional reserves have also been catered to and supply orders as required have been placed,” another source said. ‘No shortage’ Last week, Army chief General Manoj Naravane said “there was no shortage whatsoever of any kind” with respect to extreme weather clothing and equipment for the troops. The equipment normally catered to a certain number of troops at any point of time. They “had to go in for certain emergency procurements” for the additional troops. Gen. Naravane said that over the years they have been going in for indigenous supplies, and out of the extreme weather clothing and equipment, of some 10 to 12 items, six were done by local suppliers and the contracts for another four were also being done by Indian suppliers. The Army did annual advanced winter stocking of rations and supplies during the summer months for the winter period from November to May.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,||People in Bannur oppose sea food park project||Continuing their opposition to the move to divert 40 acres of land reserved for a government medical college at Bannur near Puttur, 300 people from the village have submitted an objection letter to the Bannur Gram Panchayat. They have objected to the move to divert the land for a proposed sea food park. The objection was filed with the panchayat on Tuesday. The letter said that setting up of the sea food park on reserved land surrounded by many houses could lead to environmental issues. Sea food parks should be set up in available land close to sea shore. If the park came up at Bannur, which is about 60 km away from Mangaluru, it will lead to transportation and traffic issues, the letter said. Hence, the land should be used for the purpose for which it has been reserved, it said. Sediyapu Janardhana Bhat, who was the first to object the move to divert land, said that a copy of the objection leter has been given to Puttur MLA Sanjeeva Matandoor, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary and the Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada. He said that setting up of the park in Bannur is not feasible and people in the village will have to face many ecological issues later. Meanwhile, Action Committee to Save Government Hospitals has said that it will stage a protest in front of the Gandhi Katte in Puttur on Thursday against the move to divert the land. Committee convener Muneer Katipalla, who is the State president of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), has in a statement said that people have the right to demand for a government medical college in Dakshina Kannada when the land for such a facility has already been reserved. There is a need to oppose and curb the lobby which is trying to ensure that no government medical college is sanctioned in Bannur. Meanwhile, a senior official from the Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation (KFDC), who did not want to be named, told The Hindu that setting up of a sea food park in a faraway place such as Bannur is not feasible due to transportation issues. Not many investors will show interest in opening their units in such a park. The official said that the government is also considering setting up the sea food park at Niddodi near Kinnigoli. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) and the DYFI have opposed the move to divert the land at Bannur for the sea food park. However, Mr. Matandoor has said that there is no point in continuing to keep the land at Bannur reserved for the yet-to-be approved government medical college. The sea food park will create employment opportunities, he maintained.
19 November 2020||Kolkata,||In West Bengal, it’s lull before the election storm||The public mood in West Bengal, at the moment, appears similar to what prevails in its neighbourhoods after lunch, when shops and even pharmacies shut down so that everybody can nap. With the two major festivals of Durga Puja and Deepavali having just gone by, even capital Kolkata seems to be in a state of languor before the bugle is sounded for the next big festival — the one that comes every five years. The languor is not just because of post-festival fatigue but also because there is uncertainty, even among political parties, over how exactly the battle lines will shape up. At the moment no one can be sure who’s going to be with whom, with large-scale switchovers being expected in the coming months. A direct contest The only certainty is that the 2021 Assembly elections, due in April, will see a direct contest between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — a battle in which the latter will have nothing to lose but only to gain. Five years isn’t a very long time but the State BJP has come a long way since the 2016 elections, when it could pick up only three of the 294 seats. In 2019, it shocked its adversaries by winning 18 of its 42 Lok Sabha seats and today, the party forming a government in the State in 2021 is no longer unthinkable. With the winds blowing in favour of the BJP, particularly after its impressive performance in the recently-held Bihar elections, the switchovers in West Bengal are also expected to happen in its favour, with more heavyweights from the TMC and other parties joining it than the other way round. “[The shifting of loyalties] will be decided mainly by identity politics. For the first time, West Bengal is witnessing [communal] polarisation on a large scale and identity politics is going to play a major role in the coming elections. One can expect Muslim leaders from the Congress and the Left joining the TMC, and Hindu leaders from the TMC, Congress and the Left joining the BJP,” political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty told The Hindu . Polarisation It remains a chicken-and-egg question whether the rise of the BJP has led to the polarisation or whether it was the existing polarisation, largely resulting from the opinion that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was being overly partial towards the minority community, that laid a red carpet for the BJP, but this is the first time in the history of the State that the right-wing is smelling power. “Also, investigations are going on by various Central agencies against illegal coal mining, cow smuggling and the Narada and Saradha scams—the results of these investigations are bound to have an impact on the elections,” Mr. Chakraborty said.
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Anti-BJP platform to be launched from Telangana: KCR||An anti-BJP platform will take off with Telangana as the base and a meeting of several national leaders and heads of various political parties opposed to the BJP is likely to be held in the second week of December. Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekhar Rao indicated this at the TRS Parliamentarya and Legislature party meeting here on Wednesday and also told the MPs, MLAs, MLCs who were present that the national leaders were looking at him to take the initiative for taking on the BJP. Heads of political parties including Sharad Pawar, Mamata Banerjee, Kumaraswamy, Akhilesh Yadav, Mayawati, Prakash Singh Badal, Naveen Patnik and Stalin are likely to join the meeting to discuss and prepare an anti-BJP platform. The Congress which is expected to take on the BJP has failed misreably and the onus now lies on other parties. The TRS will take the lead in this. Mr.Rao apparently was very harsh while criticising the policies of the BJP government at the Centre and accused it of mismanaging the economy and with its policies, it is destroying the Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs). If the BJP government continues, country’s economy will be damaged further and it may figure much below even small countries. He also charged the BJP with focusing on creating communal tensions in the country for political gains. He said the BJP has done tremendous damage to the farmers and the working class and several institutions in the country are on the verge of collapse because of its misgovernance. The Chief Minister said the TRS will win more than 100 seats in the GHMC elections and all the surveys have also indicated the same. He asked the MPs, MLAs given charge of various divisions to immediately start campaigning and counter the allegations of the BJP. He asked them to take along the central government employees of India railways and LIC to propagate the damage done by the BJP. He said Congress will not be a player in the elections.
19 November 2020||MYSURU,||Mysuru’s air quality was ‘good’ during Deepavali||The air quality index (AQI) in Mysuru during Deepavali this year was in the “good” category. The AQI was measured on November 9 before Deepavali and on November 14, 15 and 16 at the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board office in Hebbal. AQI analyses the concentration of toxic particulate matter in the air. An AQI monitoring station has been set up at the KSPCB office. According to the KSPCB, the air quality measured between 0 to 50 is considered “good”. While the air quality was in “satisfactory” category before Deepavali with an AQI of 55 on November 9, it turned “good” on all three days of the festival when crackers were burst. The AQI was 36 on November 14, 33 on November 15, and 26 on November 26. The possible health impact in this period was minimal. If the AQI is “satisfactory”, then there could be minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people. If it is “moderate”, then there could be breathing discomfort to the people with asthma and heart diseases. If the AQI falls in “poor” and “very poor” categories, there could be breathing discomfort to most people and respiratory illness, respectively, on prolonged exposure, according to the KSPCB. The AQI measured on November 17, the day after the festivities, at 4 p.m. was 31 and the air quality was certified “good” with ozone3 being the primary pollutant. Particulate matter (PM) 2.5, which poses great health risk, was less this year when compared with last year. The PM2.5 was 20 microgram, 26 microgram, and 30 microgram on the three days during the festival at Kuvempunagar last year. This year, the levels stood at 10 microgram, 18 microgram, and 12 microgram on the first, second, and third day of the festival respectively. At K.R. Circle, PM2.5 was measured at 28 microgram, 38 microgram, and 48 microgram on the festival days last year. This year, it was 20 microgram, 22 microgram, and 16 microgram, respectively, on the three days. At the KSPCB office, it was 25 microgram, 26 microgram, and 22 microgram last year and 14.3 microgram, 15 microgram, and 7.6 microgram this year. Same in the case of PM10. The PM10 was 42 microgram, 52 microgram, and 64 microgram on the festival days last year at Kuvempunagar. At the same site this year, the readings were 45 microgram, 49 microgram, and 36 microgram respectively on the three days. In the case of K.R. Circle, the PM10 was 54 microgram, 63 microgram, and 68 microgram during the three days of the festival last year. This year, it was 48 microgram, 56 microgram, and 50 microgram. The concentration of particulate matter was the lowest this year when compared with the festival days in last two years, according to KSPCB authorities.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kejriwal seeks all-party meet on COVID||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called for an all-party meeting on Thursday to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the Capital. Leaders from the Aam Aadmi Party, the BJP and the Congress have been invited to participate in the meeting as daily cases continued to surge on Wednesday with 7,486 new infections and 131 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. Earlier in the day, Mr. Kejriwal visited GTB Hospital to review preparedness and said 663 more ICU beds would be added across Delhi government hospitals in the coming days to deal with the rising demand.  He said that the Centre has assured the Delhi government that the DRDO will add 750 ICU beds to Central government hospitals, which will translate to an additional 1,400 ICU beds. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the Indian Railways is in the process of equipping train coaches with 800 beds for COVID-19 patients at Shakur Basti station, and that as many as 45 doctors and 160 paramedics of the paramilitary forces have arrived in Delhi for COVID-19 duties. The measures come in the wake of 12 decisions taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on November 15. ‘No mini lockdown’ Mr. Kejriwal, meanwhile, sought to assure citizens that no mini lockdown will be enforced in Delhi and markets would be shut only if “very necessary”. “We are not shutting the markets down right now. I was listening to some news channels on Tuesday, which mentioned that there will be a mini lockdown in Delhi, which is not the case. We will monitor the situation in the coming days and will assess accordingly,” Mr. Kejriwal told reporters. “Saving the economy and the livelihood of the people is our topmost priority. Unless very necessary, we will not take any step,” he said. The MHA added that the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Delhi government are working together to enhance RT-PCR testing capacity to 60,000 by the end of November. The Delhi government is going to start a door-to-door survey from Friday in areas where cases are high, including containment zones, to scale up testing and for better contact tracing.
19 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports 6,000 more recoveries; 100 fatalities||Maharashtra reported 5,011 new COVID-19 cases as recoveries outweighed the surge with as many as 6,608 patients being discharged on Wednesday. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 16,30,111 with the recovery rate incrementally rising to 92.75%. The total case tally stands at 17,57,520 while the active cases are down to 80,221. With 100 deaths, the total fatalities has climbed to 46,202. “Of a total 99,00,878 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,57,520 (case positivity rate of 17.75%) have returned positive with over 53,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.63%. After days of comparatively low case spikes, Pune district saw more than 650 new cases to take its case tally to 3,43,213 while 19 deaths on Wednesday saw the death toll climb to 7,195. As per the Pune administration, active cases in the district have come down to 9,174 while its recovery rate currently stands at 94.80%. Mumbai city reported 871 cases to take its total case tally to 2,71,531 of whom 11,494 are active. The death toll in the city rose to 10,615 with 16 fatalities on Wednesday. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 313 new cases, taking the case tally to 1,09,262 of whom 2,403 are active. With eight deaths the death toll reach 2,889. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported four deaths, taking its cumulative death toll to 1,566. As many as 130 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 50,465 of whom 2,936 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported just 49 cases and three deaths as the district’s reported cases reached 47,969 of whom 1,181 are active. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported 24 cases and three deaths as its total case tally reached 54,313 of whom only 922 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,375. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Thane reported 232 cases as its total case tally crossed the 84,000-mark. With three deaths, the total fatalities stand at 2,087. Dr. Awate said that 7,50,992 people in the State were in home quarantine.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana reports 948 COVID cases||Telangana recorded 948 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday taking the total to 2,59,776. While 42,433 people underwent tests, results of 807 were awaited. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases include 154 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 83 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 76 from Rangareddy, 61 from Bhadradri Kothagudem. The lowest of four cases were recorded in Narayanpet, and five from Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. Of the 42,433 people who got tested on Tuesday, 39, 65 opted government health facilities, and 3,068 got examined at private labs. From March 2 to November 17, a total of 49,72,407 samples were tested and 2,59, 776 were positive for coronavirus. The total cases include 13,068 active cases, 2,45,293 who have recovered and 1,415 people who died. At the 61 State government hospitals, 4,773 oxygen beds and 1,472 ICU beds were vacant on November 17. And in the 220 private hospitals, 2,814 oxygen beds and 2,196 ICU beds were available.
19 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||50 Haryana students test positive||Around 50 students of various senior secondary schools in Rewari and Jhajjar districts of Haryana have tested positive for COVID-19 over the past fortnight. Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal told The Hindu that many students had tested positive in schools across the State during routine health check-ups but there was no proposal to withdraw or amend the order for holding classes. He added that the department was monitoring the situation. It is estimated that around 100 students have tested positive in Rewari and Jhajjar since schools opened in the State in September.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||GHMC polls: on first day 20 nominations filed||Twenty nominations from 17 candidates were received on the first day of filing of nominations for GHMC polls on Wednesday. These include six from TRS, five from Telugu Desam, three from Congress, two from BJP, one from a recognised party and three independents, according to GHMC Commissioner and election officer for polls D.S. Lokesh Kumar. Nominations from the contesting candidates are being accepted daily from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the respective municipal offices. Only two persons apart from the candidate concerned are being be permitted during the filing of nominations. Polling stations across the twin cities are to be provided with a ramp, drinking water facilities and toilets with wheel chair facility for the disabled and the elderly. All the voters will be issued with voters slips much before the polls and a special control room has been opened in the head-office to deal with all the election-related matters and monitor CCTV cameras footage and live webcasting. Every effort is being made to increase the voting percentage by taking up a public awareness campaign. About 20 teams have been formed to remove posters and flexis, he said. Flying and static surveillance squads were formed in each circle with a videographer and four police personnel attached to keep a check on distribution of money, liquor, anti-social elements and expenditure, said the EO. Permissions are a must for parties and candidates before taking out any procession, usage of looudspeakers or road shows. They will be allowed between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. only and after adhering to COVID-19 safety regulations. Meanwhile, Director of Enforcement, Vigilance & Disaster Management Vishwajit Kampathi informed that over 3,500 banners and posters have been removed since the model code of conduct has come into vogue. Close to 45,000 government employees will be requisitioned for the polls spread across three districts within the GHMC area. Polling and assistant polling officers are going to be drawn from 11 other districts and arrangements have been made to provide training to 20,000 of them in their respective work places itself. Already 431 returning officers and assistant returning officers were trained in the head office along with master trainers workshop on Wednesday by the nodal officer J. Shankariah.  THE ELECTORATE  GHMC - 150 divisions  Total Voters - 74,04,286  Males - 38,56,770  Females - 35,46,847  Others - 649
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC meets Governor||Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar met Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Wednesday to discuss the issue of conducting panchayat elections in the State, tentatively in February. In the meeting that lasted for almost 40 minutes, the SEC was learnt to have explained the Governor the reluctance on the part of the State government to conduct elections to the local bodies on the proposed dates. Meeting cancelled Later, Mr. Ramesh Kumar cancelled the video-conference he was scheduled to have with district Collectors and Superintendents of Police to know about their preparedness for the elections in view of the objections raised by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney. In her letter to the SEC on Tuesday, Ms. Sawhney said it was not necessary to review the poll preparedness when the situation was not conducive. “Hence, the proposed video-conference is not required,” the Chief Secretary stated, suggesting that there was a need for further consultations on the matter. She expressed the hope that the government’s concerns would be appreciated by the SEC.
19 November 2020||Belagavi,||Farmers advised to switch to dairy farming for earning better profits||Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) chairman Balachandra Jarkiholi has appealed to farmers, especially those in the northern districts, to switch to dairy farming and animal husbandry from crops such as sugarcane to earn better profits. He was speaking at the 67th National Cooperative Convention on the KMF premises here on Wednesday. “Most farmers in North Karnataka are dependant on sugarcane. Despite being a cash crop, it does not give enough profit. Farmers have to suffer from delayed payments and also, non-remunerative prices. A small farmer who grows sugarcane makes only around Rs. 30,000-Rs. 40,000 per year. But an animal farmer makes around Rs. 60,000-Rs. 70,000 per year. That is why it makes sense to take up animal farming,” he said. “I have been convinced about this after I became KMF chairman and went around the districts in South Karnataka. Farmers in those districts, even drier districts such as Kolar, are into dairying on a large scale,” he said. Mr. Jarkiholi is the chairman of a private sugar factory. His four siblings head as many sugar factories in Belagavi district. Turnover He said that KMF had charted plans to double its turnover to Rs. 25,000 crore from Rs. 15,000 crore in five years. “The KMF started with a total procurement of 9,000 litres of milk per day, 40 years ago. Now, we are procuring around 89 lakh litres per day. But we hope to double the procurement amount in five years,” he said. KMF would provide free insurance facilities to all the 12 lakh milch cattle in the State, he announced. In case of death of cattle, the owner will receive between Rs. 40,000-Rs. 50,000 per cow or buffalo, he said. KMF and its 14 unions will fill 1,000 vacancies in one year, he said. “We plan to set up a mega dairy in Belagavi. I have told officers to increase local procurement to 5 lakh litres from the 2 lakh litres now. We want to introduce new technology and methods in procurement, processing and marketing,” he said.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,||CM distributes allotment letters to medical students||Admission to medical and dental courses in Tamil Nadu began on Wednesday with counselling for seats under the new 7.5% reservation for government school students. Of the 951 eligible candidates, 267 were called for counselling on the first day. Two sessions were held, each lasting two hours. There were 10 scrutiny desks at which officials of the Department of Medical Education verified the records and photos of students, besides checking the results of the COVID-19 tests. Counselling for government school students will end on Friday. On Saturday, the process will be held for special categories, such as persons with disability, wards of ex-servicemen and sportspersons. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami distributed the allotment letters to 18 candidates and gave away kits containing a laboratory coat and a stethoscope. In his speech, he said the scheme for reserving seats for government school students arose after only six such students were admitted to MBBS last year. These students would establish mini-clinics across the State and provide healthcare to people in their localities, he said. Several parents who came up to express their gratitude to the government broke down. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the counselling was transparent. It was made in-person as the government did not want to give room for any doubts about nativity or malpractice. “We have scrutiny desks, and there is a notary public for certification,” he said. The State government medical colleges with 250 seats, such as Madras Medical College and Stanley Medical College, and those in Madurai and Tirunelveli, had each allotted 16 seats, while Government Kilpauk Medical College, the government colleges in Thanjavur, Coimbatore, Karur, Pudukottai, Tiruchi, Thoothukudi and Kanyakumari and the Rajah Muthiah Medical College, Chidambaram, had allotted 10 seats each. Government colleges in Salem, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Theni, Dharmapuri, Villupuram, Sivagangai and Thiruvarur and the government college at Omandurar Government Estate, Chennai, had allocated six seats each. IRT Perundurai Medical College and ESIC Medical College, K.K. Nagar, Chennai, allocated four seats each. In the self-financing medical colleges, 86 seats have been allocated. The government dental college and the Rajah Muthiah Dental College have allocated six seats each, while the self-financing colleges will admit 80 students. Candidates will be allowed to join the allotted college as soon as they receive allotment letters, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu said. Asked how students from the poor families would be able to pay the fees in a self-financing college, he said the government planned to approach the commissions for the backward classes and the minorities and the corporates for help to finance their education. Of the 270 candidates invited for counselling, 262 took part. While 224 candidates were allotted seats in government medical colleges, four were allotted seats in self-financing medical colleges. Seven candidates were allotted seats in government dental college and 27 opted to be wait-listed. At the end of the day, there were only three seats left in the government quota, all of them in Rajah Muthiah Medical College. There were 82 seats in self-financing medical colleges. The Rajah Muthiah Dental College had five seats and there were 80 seats in self-financing dental colleges.
19 November 2020||Vijayawada,||Less than 2,000 cases for 10 days in a row||The State reported less than 2,000 new coronavirus infections in 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, for the tenth day in a row. With the new cases, the cumulative tally went up to 8,57,395. The death toll increased to  6,899, with nine new deaths reported in the past day. The death rate remains at 0.80%. As many as 1,236 new infections were detected as 69,618 samples were tested, registering single-day positivity rate of 1.78%. The overall positivity rate for 93.3 lakh tests came down to 9.19%. Meanwhile, the recovery rate slightly increased to 97.27% with a total of 8,33,980 recoveries including 1,696 in the past day. At present, there are 16,516 active cases in the State.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Building of houses for poor will begin on Dec. 25: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the first phase of construction of 15.10 lakh houses for the weaker sections under the ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ (housing for all the poor) programme will begin on December 25, and the beneficiaries will receive their title deeds (D Form) the same day at places where there is no court stay. In a video-conference on the Spandana programme on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that ‘Pedalandariki Illu’ was one of the YSRCP government’s flagship schemes, and instructed the officials that the mapping and geo-tagging of the houses be completed by December 10. The officials told the Chief Minister that 9.69 lakh beneficiaries were identified under the ‘YSR Jagananna Thodu’ programme that was scheduled to be launched on November 25. Under the scheme, the State government proposed to give interest-free term loans to small and medium traders. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the district Collectors to expedite the construction of village secretariat buildings, Rythu Bharosa Kendras, and YSR Health Clinics.
19 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Start goods trains first, farmer outfits tell Centre||As many as 30 farmers’ outfits in Punjab on Wednesday decided to maintain status quo on their blockade of passenger trains in the State in protest against Centre’s recent agriculture laws. “We have decided to continue letting goods trains go, but not passenger trains. Once the Central government starts movement of goods trains, we will take a positive call on movement of passenger trains. The ball is in the Centre’s court now,” Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), toldThe Hinduafter a meeting of farmers’ outfits here. CM disappointed Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed disappointment over the refusal of the outfits to completely lift their rail blockade that has brought the State virtually to a standstill for the past month and a half. He said he had expected them to back down in the interest of Punjab especially in view of the State government’s support for their cause and the Centre’s decision to engage with them. The Chief Minister said instead of reciprocating his government’s support, the farmers’ unions were standing firm “without considering the grave financial and other implications it is having on the State exchequer, the industry, the common people and the farmers themselves”. Industry alone had already suffered losses to the tune of Rs. 30,000 crore (and still counting), noted the CM, besides preventing the supply of 40 lakh metric tonnes of parboiled rice from Punjab to Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh for distribution under PDS.
19 November 2020||Belagavi,||Farmers to get Rs. 15,300 cr. crop loans this year||Farmers in the State will get Rs. 15,300 crore in crop loans this year, Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar said in Belagavi on Wednesday. All the District Central Cooperative Banks in the State will together disburse Rs. 15,300 crore to farmers this year. This will be of great help to farmers who have suffered from floods and a prolonged lockdown, he said. He said that the State government had sought Rs. 630 crore from the Centre under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme. He said that Karnataka Milk Federation had made profits of Rs. 130 crore, despite the losses suffered during lockdown. The government bought around two crore litres of milk from farmers for free distribution among people during the lockdown, he said. The Minister launched chocolate, ice cream, badam halwa and five types of bread under the Nandini brand. The dignitaries enjoyed the ice cream distributed on stage.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Bindas Bol’ is offensive, says I&B Ministry||A Ministry of Information and Broadcasting order placed on record in the Supreme Court on Wednesday said Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol - UPSC Jihad’ programme is “not in good taste, offensive and has the likelihood of promoting communal attitudes”. But the Ministry order does not expressly stop the channel from telecasting further episodes. ‘Bindas Bol’ accuses Muslims of “infiltrating” the civil services with the help of funding from terror-linked organisations abroad. The Ministry order only says that the programme’s audio and visual content should be “suitably moderated, modified”. The Ministry “cautions” the channel to be “careful” and promises “stricter penal action” in case of further violations. ‘Tone and tenor’ The order, accompanied by a three-page affidavit, was filed by the government on Wednesday. The court will hear the case on Thursday. “While freedom of expression is a fundamental right, the tone and tenor of the episodes telecast do indicate that the channel has through the various utterances and audio visual content breached the Programme Code,” the order said. The channel was asked to avoid “attacks on religions or communities or visuals or words contemptuous of religious groups or which promote communal attitudes”. Any content which “criticise, malign, slander any individual or group, segments of social public and moral life” should also be avoided.  The order also said the channel should comply and report back to the Ministry before the telecast.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Readying for winter||
19 November 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown aid: tribals have not received a penny||Four months after the Maharashtra Cabinet decided to extend assistance — cash and goods — to a few of the most backward tribes, landless labourers, and needy families from the tribal community facing financial brunt due to the lockdown, not a single rupee has been disbursed to any beneficiary. According to a source, who shared the information withThe Hindu, the file on the decision is making rounds between the Tribal Welfare and Finance Departments, with no final call being taken. On August 12, the MVA government cleared the Khawati Grants scheme targeting 11.55 lakh tribal families across the State.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Questionnaire of NPR being finalised: RGI||The office of the Registrar-General of India (RGI) has said the schedule, or the questionnaire, of the National Population Register (NPR) is “being finalised” and the information about the expected date of the first phase of the Census 2021 is “not available”. The response came in reply to a question filed by The Hindu under the Right to Information Act seeking information on the expected date of the first phase of the Census — House listing & Housing census — and an update of the NPR that was earlier scheduled to begin on April 1. It was postponed indefinitely until further orders on March 25 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Though the twin exercise was to be rolled out first in Meghalaya, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep and the New Delhi Municipal Council area in April, the RGI said in the RTI reply on November 17 that “the schedule of NPR is being finalised”. As many as 13 States and Union Territories have opposed the update of the NPR due to its link to the proposed National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. According to the Citizenship Rules framed in 2003, the NPR is the first step towards compilation of the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC), or the NRC.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Beating the chill||
19 November 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||WB adds 3,668 COVID-19 cases, 54 deaths||West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 3,668 COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the total infections to 4,41,885. The State also recorded 54 deaths taking the total fatalities to 7,820. The discharge rate in the State increased to 92.28%. Of the 54 deaths, Kolkata recorded 11 taking the toll to 2,459. The North 24 Parganas recorded 19 deaths taking the toll in the district to 1,829. The active cases in the State has dropped to 26,296. Kolkata recorded 874 new cases taking the total cases in the State to 96,378. In North 24 Parganas the number of infections in the past 24 hours was 805 taking the cases in the district to 90,998. The percentage of positive cases out of samples tested increased to 8.27%.
19 November 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao to be shifted to Nanavati||After a nudge from the Bombay High Court, the Maharashtra government agreed on Wednesday to shift 81-year-old activist-poet Varavara Rao from the Taloja central jail hospital to Nanavati Hospital for 15 days for medical examination and treatment. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Madhav Jamdar conducted a physical hearing during court vacation, terming it an urgent matter. Senior advocate Indira Jaisingh, appearing for Mr. Rao, listed the medical ailments he was suffering from, and said that he needed treatment.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP demands CBI probe into Palghar lynching||Almost seven months after three people, including two sadhus, were lynched over rumours in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party has demanded that the case be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation claiming that the State police had failed to deliver justice.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Monthly fee for collection of waste likely from Jan.||After a hike in electricity bills, residents can brace themselves to pay an additional service charge for door-to-door collection of waste. The BBMP hopes to start collecting the monthly fee from January 2021.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,||CCB arrests hacker in drug racket case||The Central Crime Branch has arrested a 25-year-old software engineer who was allegedly hacking websites to steal data and money, which he would then convert into bitcoins and use it to purchase drugs from the dark net.
19 November 2020||Kolkata,||‘Declare Netaji birthday a holiday’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to declare the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose as a national holiday. She also urged the Centre to take “decisive steps to find out what happened to Netaji and place the matter in the public domain so that people get to know what finally happened to the great leader”. Netaji was born on January 23, 1897. The demand for announcing the birth anniversary as Desh Prem Dibas was being raised by the All India Forward Bloc for many years now.
19 November 2020||Belagavi,||‘Don’t mix up Marathi with Maratha community’||The opposition to Karnataka government setting up a development corporation for Marathas is misplaced and arises out of misunderstanding, say community leaders and scholars.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Students in a fix as hostels remain closed||Although many final year students wish to physically attend classes they are unable to do so as a majority of hostels are still closed. With no access to accommodation, students from outside Bengaluru said they will continue with online classes.
19 November 2020||BENGALURU,||BJP top brass to decide on Cabinet expansion||The call on the ministerial expansion/reshuffle in Karnataka now rests with the BJP high command, as national president J.P. Nadda told Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday that central leadership would convey its decision in two to three days.
19 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Staf Air launches direct flight to Delhi||Star Air, an airline service, started its commercial scheduled non-stop flight services between Kalaburagi and Delhi (Hindon) on Wednesday. Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav launched the inaugural flight at the Kalaburagi Airport. This is the first commercial flight service between Kalaburagi and the country’s capital city. Star Air would operate its services on this route thrice a week.
19 November 2020||YADGIR,||6,000 houses to be sanctioned for Maski||Housing Minister V. Somanna has assured the people of Maski taluk, which is going to be face Assembly byelection shortly, of making Maski a hut-free constituency in the coming days. He was addressing a party workers meeting at Bhramaramba Kalyan Mantap in the town on Wednesday. Mr. Somanna, who is on tour of Raichur district in the last two days, said that 6,000 houses will be sanctioned under various housing schemes for Maski to make it hut-free. Action will be taken to release Rs. 9 crore to complete the houses which are under construction now.
19 November 2020||Lucknow,||HC notice to Centre, U.P. on Hathras arrests||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Union and the Uttar Pradesh governments on a writ petition filed by two scholars and a cab driver who were arrested in Mathura while they were on their way to Hathras, along with Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, in October.
19 November 2020||Jaipur,||Jats of two Rajasthan districts seek quota||Jats belonging to Bharatpur and Dholpur districts in Rajasthan on Wednesday demanded that the State government recommend their inclusion in the Other Backward Class category for reservation to the Centre. Though the community enjoys the benefit in the State, the two districts have been excluded from reservation in the Central services.
19 November 2020||Lucknow,||HC notice to Centre, U.P. on Hathras arrests||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Union and the Uttar Pradesh governments on a writ petition filed by two scholars and a cab driver who were arrested in Mathura while they were on their way to Hathras, along with Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, in October.
19 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Start goods trains first, farmer outfits tell Centre||As many as 30 farmers’ outfits in Punjab on Wednesday decided to maintain status quo on their blockade of passenger trains in the State in protest against Centre’s recent agriculture laws. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed disappointment over the development, “especially in view of the State government’s support for their cause”.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,||DKMUL launches Nandini On Wheels||To promote the Nandini brand of products and make them available on the doorstep of consumers, Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd. (DKMUL) on Wednesday launched two vehicles called Nandini On Wheels. While one vehicle will operate in Dakshina Kannada, the other will operate in Udupi district.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,||HC allows schools to collect more fees||The Madras High Court on Wednesday permitted private schools and colleges in the State to collect 35% more fees, apart from the 40% already permitted, for the current academic year, since the State government could not give the court an assurance that institutions would be allowed to reopen before the end of this year.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. initiates process of restructuring TIIC||The State government has taken steps to restructure the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC). The corporation was established under the Companies Act in 1949 as the first State-level development financial institution for catalysing industrial development.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 1,714 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,714 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 7,63,282, while the toll stood at 11,531 with 18 more fatalities. The active cases stood at 14,470. Chennai reported 479 fresh infections.
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Ex-Minister held in flyover case||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Wednesday arrested Indian Union Muslim League legislator and former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju on the charge of corruption in the construction of the decommissioned flyover bridge at Palarivattom in Kochi. A VACB team had descended on his house in Kochi armed with a warrant for the MLA’s arrest. The investigators searched the house and learned that Mr. Kunju had sought treatment at a private hospital late Tuesday. They arrived at the hospital and recorded his arrest at 10.30 a.m. Later, Vigilance Inquiry Commissioner and Special Judge Jobin Sebastian arrived at the hospital and remanded Mr. Kunju in judicial custody for 14 days. Mr. Kunju was likely to remain in hospital during the remand period unless a medical board decided otherwise. Three-day custody The VACB has sought his custody for three days. The court will consider the plea later. The VACB has booked Mr. Kunju on a charge of conspiracy to accord undue pecuniary advantage to the builder, misuse of official position and illegal amassment of wealth. The ambitious flyover project launched by the Oommen Chandy government in 2013 to ease traffic congestion in Kochi had metamorphosed into a symbol of political sleaze in the public mind. Its decommissioning by the present Pinarayi Vijayan government on the ground that the structure was faltering and unsafe for traffic had caused a public outcry. The Supreme Court later ordered the demolition of the bridge and construction of another in its stead. The VACB has so far arrested eight persons, including former Public Works Secretary T.O. Sooraj, in connection with the suspected multi-crore scam. The crux of the case against Mr. Kunju was that he had advanced Rs. 9 crore to the builder ostensibly to expedite the work. The VACB concluded that Mr. Kunju had extended a sizeable and "norm-breaking" credit to the builder at a nominal and "brazenly advantageous" rate of interest. The agency alleged that the government's "largesse" to the builder had, by a conservative estimate, cost the public exchequer Rs. 60 lakh in terms of interest alone. The agency had also accused Mr. Kunju of ignoring cautionary reports about the "shoddy" nature of the construction and sanctioning the encashment of work bills without any vetting. The arrest has compounded Mr. Kunju's legal troubles. The Enforcement Directorate is investigating the MLA on a money laundering charge.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||BJP starts ‘Mission Bengal’ early||The BJP is preparing a meticulous campaign for the West Bengal Assembly election to be held early next year with the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as one of the important issues in the campaign. Senior sources in the party told The Hindu that five leaders — Sunil Deodhar, Dushyant Gautam, Vinod Sonkar, Harish Dwivedi and Vinod Tawde — had been despatched to five different areas of the State to get feedback from the ground. The BJP’s West Bengal chief, Dilip Ghosh, said Union Home Minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda would visit the State every month in the run-up to the election. “Amit Shah ji and J.P. Nadda ji will visit the State separately every month till the Assembly election is over,” he said. Much of it would be to raise the morale of the organisation and workers, he added. Mr. Shah’s visit in early November was a good primer on the kind of campaign the BJP is to run. On the one hand, Mr. Shah had lunch at the home of a person belonging to the Matua community and on the other, he left meticulous instructions to party workers on organising down to the booth level. The lunch is significant in that it signals that the BJP will be ratcheting up the rhetoric around the CAA. The Matuas are Namasudras and Hindu refugees who came to West Bengal from Bangladesh and are the second largest Scheduled Caste community in the State. Citizenship rights and issues is a sensitive matter to the community, with several party leaders, including Shantanu Thakur, Bongaon MP and relative of the late Matua matriarch Boro Maa, demanding that the BJP make good on its promises with regard to framing rules for the CAA. A list for workers On the organisational front, from forming booth committees to keeping a list of voters who have smartphones in case of another COVID-19-compliant campaign , Mr. Shah has left a detailed 23 point to do list with workers. The party is convinced that the Assembly polls will be between it and the ruling Trinamool Congress, despite the presence of the Left and the Congress. In 2019, the BJP won 18 seats in the Lok Sabha election and emerged as the second largest party in the State. The BJP clearly wants to give no advantage away.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Finance panel for PPPs on health infra||The 15th Finance Commission has mooted a greater role for public private partnerships to ramp up health infrastructure and scale up public spending on health from 0.95% of the GDP to 2.5% by 2024, N.K. Singh, Chairperson of the panel, said on Wednesday. While public outlays should focus on primary health care at the panchayat and municipality levels, private players should be relied on for specialty healthcare, he said, hinting that the commission has recommended steps to fix the skewed availability of healthcare across India as poorer States have the worst facilities. National cadre Mr. Singh recommended substantial improvements in the working conditions for doctors in government hospitals, many of whom are hired on a contract basis by the States, and the creation of an Indian Medical Service cadre as envisaged in the Civil Services Act, 1951. “The Finance Commission recommendations will turn out to be a shining example of public private partnerships… We have sought to, in our report, address the multiple challenges and hopefully, there would be momentum in giving the health sector the priority that it certainly deserves,” Mr. Singh said at a session hosted by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) on resetting healthcare systems. “The total spending of around 0.95% of GDP is not adequate both in relation to our peer groups, and in relation to the commitments under the National Health Policy of 2017. There is no doubt that public spending, both by the Centre and the States, need to go up very significantly. And the endeavour must be to raise public spending from 0.95% of GDP to 2.5% of GDP by 2024,” Mr. Singh said. While India does not have adequate health infrastructure, the picture is “exceedingly skewed” among the States with the poorest of them having the worst health infrastructure. “It’s somewhat unfortunate… So how does one address the skewed nature of the availability of health infrastructure among the States of India, particularly those which are most vulnerable,” Mr. Singh asked. Seeking greater attention on the role of paramedics and frontline health workers in countering the pandemic, Mr. Singh said the commission was amazed to learn that doctors in many States were engaged on a contract basis, and underlined the need to improve their working conditions. On the proposal to constitute an All India Medical Service, he said it was “quite amazing” that no action had been taken on the issue till date. To achieve better healthcare parameters, public private partnerships must be considered “in a holistic way” instead of the current situation where the government only turned to the private sector in times of emergency, Mr. Singh said. Trust deficit “For that, a working relationship is needed and this relationship can be built only if, first and foremost, the trust deficit that exists [between industry and government] now is bridged. Private sector investment in health has an exceedingly important role to play,” he said. “The government must do what it is expected to… it is duty-bound to address the issue of health deficiency at the level of municipal corporations and village panchayats. The primary health centres must be the central focus of public outlay, I think the private sector participation can be at other levels of speciality and at levels where they are better placed due to their innovative skills,” he said.
19 November 2020||Srinagar,||State machinery misused, allege Omar, Mehbooba||The National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday accused the BJP of “misusing the official machinery” in Jammu and Kashmir against the joint candidates being fielded by the Peoples Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) for the District Development Council (DDC) polls. “The J&K administration is going out of its way to help the BJP and its recently created King’s party by locking up candidates opposed to the BJP, using security as an excuse. If the security situation isn’t conducive to campaigning what was the need to announce elections?” NC vice president Omar Abdullah said in a tweet. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti alleged that the candidates of the Gupkar Alliance were not being allowed to campaign for the polls, scheduled from November 28. “Non-BJP candidates for the DDC polls aren’t allowed to campaign freely and are being locked up on the pretence of security. But BJP and its proxies are given full bandobast. Is this the democracy that the Government of India claimed its promoting in yesterday’s phone conversation with the US president elect?”, she asked. J&K Awami National conference vice-president Muzaffar Shah and J&K Peoples Movement president Javaid Mustafa Mir said that there were unfair attempts to reject their candidate’s nomination.
19 November 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao to be shifted from jail||After a nudge from the Bombay High Court, the Maharashtra government agreed on Wednesday to shift 81-year-old activist-poet Varavara Rao from the Taloja central jail hospital to Nanavati Hospital for 15 days for medical examination and treatment. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Madhav Jamdar conducted a physical hearing during court vacation, terming it an urgent matter. Senior advocate Indira Jaisingh, appearing for Mr. Rao, listed the medical ailments he was suffering from, and said that he needed treatment. Chief Public Prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the court that State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had agreed to shift Mr. Rao to Nanavati Hospital for 15 days as a “special case” and not as a precedent. While dictating the order, the court also allowed Mr. Rao’s family members to visit him, and directed that all medical reports be submitted in court. The matter will now be heard on December 3. The order came despite strong objections from Additional Solicitor-General Anil Singh, representing the National Investigation Agency. He argued that government-run hospitals were well-equipped to treat Mr. Rao and if this was allowed, all prisoners would seek special treatment. He said Mr. Rao could be shifted to J.J. Hospital.  State’s choice However, Ms. Jaisingh interrupted and said the last time he was admitted to J.J. Hospital, he was found in a pool of urine. She said Nanavati Hospital was the choice of the State government, as he was admitted there initially. While requesting for Mr. Rao to be shifted immediately, Ms. Jaisingh reiterated that if he died, it would be a custodial death. She read the report submitted by doctors of Nanavati Hospital on November 17, which recorded his age as 45. The report was prepared after examining Mr. Rao for 15 minutes through video conferencing. Multiple ailments Ms. Jaisingh read a previous report by Nanavati Hospital, which mentioned he had dementia, had had a heart attack, liver failure, kidney failure and was COVID-19-positive. She added multiple post-COVID complications could take place in an elderly person, and Mr. Rao was already bedridden and had urinary tract infection because his catheter was not changed for three months.
19 November 2020||KOLLAM,||Amid the pandemic, Corona is seeking people’s mandate||When artist Thomas Francis named his daughter Corona, he had no idea that one day it would be added to the glossary of a viral outbreak. All he wanted was an unusual and unique name for his baby girl and it remained so till the end of 2019. But the moniker was not the only problem for Corona Thomas as the pregnant 24-year-old tested positive a few days before her due date. Amused voters And the COVID-19 survivor, who beat the virus along with her newborn, is now engaged in a battle of a different sort. She is the BJP candidate in Kollam Corporation’s Mathilil ward. “People are amused to see a person called Corona seeking votes in the middle of a pandemic. It is basically a pleasant experience and the campaign so far has been great,” says the contestant. Corona, who tested positive in October, says her interest in politics springs from a passion for serving people. “Both my baby and I recovered only recently and I am managing the campaign with the support of my family and party. My husband Jinu is an active BJP worker,” she says. Despite her curious name, she was not made the target of any barb even by her political opponents, adds Corona. “I have been getting very warm and positive response from all corners.” For a positive result The meaning of her name is halo and Corona has a twin brother, Coral. The initial days of the pandemic were not easy for her as she found her name very embarrassing, especially when the ‘go corona go’ slogan started doing the rounds. “I even thought of changing my name. But now I am totally in love with my name and I am also confident that the electoral outcome will be positive,” she says.
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala sees dip in test positivity, adds 6,419 cases||With a slight dip in test positivity, Kerala reported 6,419 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, after testing 67,369 samples. The test positivity rate reported was 9.53 %. Also, 28 more deaths were added to the toll figure in the State. Of the deaths recorded on Wednesday, Thrissur accounted for seven, Kottayam and Ernakulam four each, Malappuram, Alapuzha and Thiruvananthapuram three each and Kollam and Kozhikode two deaths each. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 887 cases, Kozhikode 811, Thrissur 703, Kollam 693, Alappuzha 637, Malappuram 507, Thiruvananthapuram, 468, Palakkad 377, Kottayam 373, Idukki 249, Pathanamthitta 234, Kannur 213, Wayanad, 158 and Kasaragod 109 cases. Andhra Pradesh reported less than 2,000 new coronavirus infections on Wednesday, for the tenth day. There were nine new deaths. The incidence was 1,236 new cases from 69,618 samples, with a positivity rate of 1.78%. Six out of 13 districts reported deaths. Chittoor, Krishna and West Godavari reported two deaths each, while Anantapur, East Godavari and Guntur reported one death each. Eight districts reported less than 100 new infections, while West Godavari reported maximum new cases. New infection additions were as follows: West Godavari district (220), Krishna (194), Guntur (181), Chittoor (157), East Godavari (155), Kadapa (60), Visakhapatnam (53), Srikakulam (51), Anantapur (49), Nellore (38), Vizianagaram (28), Kurnool (26) and Prakasam (24). Telangana recorded 948 cases on Tuesday, with testing covering 42,433 people. Five more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases included 154 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, 83 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 76 from Rangareddy, and 61 from Bhadradri Kothagudem. Four cases were recorded in Narayanpet, and five from Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district. The number of cases on Wednesday rose to 1,714 in Tamil Nadu taking the tally of daily active cases, including those under isolation, to 14,470. Among the persons who tested positive were three passengers who arrived by flight from West Bengal and Himachal Pradesh and seven passengers who returned from other States. At the same time the number of persons discharged after treatment rose to 7,37,281 persons, including 2,311 persons who were discharged on Wednesday. A total of 18 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)
19 November 2020||Lucknow,||HC notice to Centre, U.P. on plea against Hathras arrests||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday issued notices to the Union and the Uttar Pradesh governments on a writ petition filed by two scholars and a cab driver who were arrested in Mathura while they were on their way to Hathras, along with Malayalam journalist Siddique Kappan, in October. The four, who were on their way to Hathras to meet the family of an alleged victim of rape, are in prolonged detention at a Mathura jail under serious charges, including those under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967, and sedition. While the Supreme Court is hearing a similar petition filed on behalf of Mr. Kappan, the other three approached the High Court praying for their release from what they alleged “illegal custody”. Hearing the petition, a Division Bench of Justices Pritinker Diwaker and Subhash Chandra Sharma directed the court registry to issue notices to the Union of India, sub-inspector of the Maant police station Prabhal Pratap Singh and the superintendent of the jail after formal amendments to the writ for impleading the respondents. The State government counsel did not oppose the applications filed by counsel for the accused seeking impleadment of the Centre, the SHO and the jail superintendent. The four accused were apprehended by the police under the jurisdiction of the Maant police station in Mathura. ‘Law-abiding citizens’ In the plea, filed by Shakhavat Kha, the maternal uncle of research scholar Atiq-ur-Rehman, one of those arrested accused, stated that they “are peace-loving, public-spirited and concerned law-abiding citizens, who are unfortunate victims and scapegoats of the high-handedness of the police authorities”. “They have committed no offence, which is clear from a bare perusal of the Sections slapped on them,” said the petition. Apart from Mr. Kappan and Mr. Rehman, the other two in jail are activist-scholar Masood Ahmed from Bahraich and Rampur native Mohammad Alam, the cab driver. They were accused of allegedly raising funds for terror acts and conspiring to trigger caste riots over the Hathras incident.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR against indiscriminate use of plasma therapy||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has warned against indiscriminate use of convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) for treating COVID-19. On Wednesday, it released reports of an open-label phase 2 multi-centre randomised controlled trial (PLACID trial) conducted across 39 public and private hospitals on the use of the CPT in management of cases with moderate infection. The report concluded that the therapy “did not lead to a reduction in progression to severe COVID or all-cause mortality in the group that received CPT as compared to the group that did not receive CPT”. Benefits of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes, reducing severity of disease, duration of hospitalisation and mortality in patients were dependent on the concentration of specific antibodies in convalescent plasma that could neutralise the effects of SARS-CoV-2, it said. It stated that the CPT could be used with specific criteria, including that potential donors could give plasma after 14 days of symptom resolution (testing negative is not necessary). A potential recipient should be in the early stage of COVID-19 (three to seven days from the onset of symptoms, but not later than 10 days) and should have no IgG antibody against COVID-19 by appropriate test. PLACID is the world’s largest pragmatic trial on CPT conducted in 464 moderately ill, confirmed affected adults in a real-world setting, wherein no benefit of use of CPT could be established, the ICMR said. A release issued by the council noted that similar studies conducted in China and the Netherlands have also documented no significant benefit of CPT in improving the clinical outcomes of hospitalised patients.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Getting MGNREGS wages harder than the labour||For most rural workers dependent on the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), their labour does not end at the work site. According to a study by LibTech India released on Wednesday, many of them are forced to make multiple trips to the bank, adding travel costs and income losses, and face repeated rejections of payment, biometric errors and wrong information, just to get their hands on their wages. For example, take a worker in Jharkhand who puts in a week of hard labour to earn Rs. 1,026 which the government credits directly into her bank account. The study found that almost 40% of the workers must make multiple trips to the bank branch to withdraw their money. It costs an average of Rs. 53 a trip, and as the branch is usually at the block headquarters a significant distance from her home village, and the time spent at the bank is three to four hours, a worker will also lose the day’s wages while she attempts to withdraw her money. Paying Rs. 100 for travel for two trips, plus Rs. 342 for lost wages, plus about Rs. 25 for food, the worker may spend Rs. 392, effectively shelling out a third of her weekly wage just to withdraw it. Pandemic blues “Even in regular times, these last mile challenges make it hard for workers to access their own wages in a timely manner. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the situation is exacerbated as transport becomes harder, and there is no question of physical distancing at a rural bank,” says LibTech researcher Sakina Dhorajiwala, who is one of the lead authors of the report. The study, based on a 2018-19 survey of almost 2,000 workers in Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan, was sponsored by a research grant from Azim Premji University. “In the two years since we did the survey, there has been little change in the number of bank branches per capita in rural areas, so most of these challenges remain. There is only one branch per 20 gram panchayats,” she said. The study found that only one in 10 workers get an SMS message that their wages have been credited. A third of workers must visit the bank branch just to find out whether their wages have been credited. Another quarter of respondents said despite being informed that their wages had been credited, they found that the money was not in the accounts.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||With ‘dossier’, Pak. tries to kill two birds with one shot||In a strong retort to Pakistan’s announcement of a ‘dossier’ on terror released over the weekend, India dismissed the charges as having “no credibility, are fabricated and represent figments of imagination”. The Ministry of External Affairs said the press conference addressed by Pakistan’s Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi and its military spokesperson was a “deliberate attempt on the part of the Pakistani establishment to shift focus from its internal political and economic failures”. Senior officials told The Hindu that they also denoted a more long-term campaign by Pakistan to attempt to ‘mirror’ what Pakistan itself has been accused of, that led to its grey-listing at the Financial Action Task Force (FATF). “Pakistan is attempting to mirror what it believes were Indian attempts at ‘politicising the FATF’, forgetting that its primary problems began not with India, but [with] the U.S., the U.K., France and Germany, which nominated it to the greylist in [June] 2018, and even China supported the nomination,” said a senior security official who had studied the documents released. In fact, the overview document entitled “Indian state sponsorship of terrorism and destabilisation in Pakistan”, which was circulated by the office of Pakistan’s Special Adviser on National Security Moeed Yusuf, specifically mentions the FATF. “Tangible evidences reflect that Indian foreign missions in FATF member countries have always been extensively lobbying with hosts prior to FATF meetings to undermine Pakistan’s achievements and create conditions for our grey/blacklisting,” says the document issued by Islamabad. “India needs to be scrutinised at FATF platform in the light of evidences presented by Pakistan as well as recent revelations made by the [U.S. Department of Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network] FINCEN which amplify the fragility of Indian terror financing and money laundering regimes,” says the document, laying out Islamabad’s intention to raise this at the FATF’s India review that begins in February 2021. Radicalisation reports In particular, the officials said Pakistan has been keen on amplifying reports that Indian Muslims may be ‘radicalised’ into joining groups such as Al-Qaeda and the IS and operating in Afghanistan to target India as “Transnational risk for terror financing,” though the Union Home Ministry has repeatedly denied any evidence of this. Pakistan’s document claims Indian intelligence organisations run “87 terrorists camps out of which 66 are located in Afghanistan whereas 21 are located in India”, a charge that the Afghanistan Ministry of Foreign Affairs denied as well. The Pakistani ‘dossier’, which contains a number of spelling mistakes, unverifiable Indian names and unidentifiable locations, claims that Indian officials of the Research and Analysis Wing have made transfers of Pakistani Rs. 22 billion ($138 million) to militant groups in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), Gilgit-Baltistan (GB) and Balochistan. Most of the alleged transfers are to groups in Balochistan, linking India to attacks planned against the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). “It would seem the intention is not only to play on India-China tensions by attempting to implicate India in attacks on the CPEC, but also to whitewash the Pakistan government’s own actions to suppress local protests against CPEC projects, that could be construed as human rights violations, as a fight against terrorism,” said an MEA official. Diplomatic sources say India is prepared for Pakistani bid to raise these issues while India is in the U.N. Security Council and at the UN Economic and Social Council, where Pakistan’s Munir Akram was elected President this year.
19 November 2020||Chennai,||T.N. receives idols from London||The antique bronze idols of Lord Rama, Sita and Lakshmana, which were stolen from a temple in Nagapattinam in the 1970s and recovered from a private collector in London in September, were handed over to the Idol Wing of the Tamil Nadu police by Union Minister of Culture and Tourism Prahlad Singh Patel in New Delhi on Wednesday. Abhay Kumar Singh, Additional Director-General of Police, Idol Wing CID, received the idols, which will be handed over to the temple at Anandamangalam. The investigation into the theft of idols was taken up after India Pride Project, a group of art enthusiasts who uses social media to identify stolen artefacts from Indian temples, alerted the High Commission of India in London. The NGO had said the idols of Rama, Sita, Lakshmana and Hanuman were stolen from the Rajagopalaswamy Temple (built during the Vijayanagara period) and smuggled to the United Kingdom. A photo-documentation of the metal sculptures was done at the temple in June 1958, and the idols were suspected to be stolen later. Once the idols were verified with the relevant records, the High Commission took up the matter with the Art and Antique Unit of the Metropolitan Police Service, London, as well as the Idol Wing of the Tamil Nadu police. The Idol Wing sent a comprehensive report, confirming that the theft had taken place on November 23/24, 1978, at the temple and some criminals were also caught. Based on the photo, these idols were examined and they were found to be the same ones that had been stolen from the temple. A detailed report was sent to the High Commission after a proper verification, Mr. Singh said, thanking the authorities for their steps to recover the idols. The Art and Antique Unit of the Metropolitan Police Service investigated the matter. Based on the information and documents handed in, it contacted the owner of the idols and conveyed the High Commission’s request for their return. The collector had bought these idols from an unknown dealer, hence no prosecution was initiated. Subsequently, Metropolitan Police Service handed over these idols to the High Commission. The bronze idols of Rama and Lakshmana and Sita are the masterpieces of the Indian metal art. They are 90.5 cm, 78 cm and 74.5 cm in height respectively. Stylistically, they are datable to the 13th century AD. The total count of antiquities recovered from foreign countries stands at 53, of which 40 have been brought back since 2014. S. Vijay Kumar, founder of India Pride, said, “This case underscores the urgent need to reopen all closed cases of idol theft that have not been followed up because of the stated reason that the idols were untraceable since the 1950s. If the police and the HR&CE Department can help with even the basic details of such antiquities, we are sure we can track many more such stolen idols.”
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka’s Bellari district to be split||The State Cabinet on Wednesday approved the long-standing demand for carving out Vijayanagara district from the existing Ballari district. Vijayanagara will be the 31st district of the State. A Cabinet meeting presided over by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa decided to bifurcate Ballari and fulfil the demand of Forest and Environment Minister B.S. Anand Singh, who quit the Congress in 2019 by tendering resignation to the membership of the Legislative Assembly and helped bring the BJP to power. The issue was highlighted in the run-up to the byelection to Vijayanagara constituency as well. Mr. Yediyurappa had assured Mr. Singh that a new district would be carved out of Ballari and named after the Vijayanagara empire that ruled from this region. The new district is likely to have the taluks of Hosapete, Kampli, Hagaribommanahalli, Hoovinahadagali, Kottur, and Harapanahalli. Ballari, Siruguppa, Sandur, Kurugodu, and Kudligi taluks are likely to be retained in Ballari district. Political manoeuvres The decision on the bifurcation is now being seen as a move by Mr. Yediyurappa to promote Mr. Singh as a counterweight to the Reddy brothers of Ballari and Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu. In 2019, ahead of bypolls to 15 Assembly constituencies, Mr. Yediyurappa chaired an all-party meeting on the formation of Vijayanagara district, but Congress legislators opposed the proposal of dividing the district just ahead of the elections. BJP MLA G. Somashekara Reddy had opposed the formation of the new district. Congress MP Syed Naseer Hussain suggested renaming Ballari district as Vijayanagara district. The demand for a new district dates back to 2007, but it had remained on the back burner. ‘Easier to administer’ The government and Mr. Singh argued that smaller districts could be governed better and it was much easier to provide last-mile delivery of services. Ballari has 11 revenue taluks and three revenue sub-divisions. Some places are 200 km away from the district headquarters.
19 November 2020||Washington DC,||Senate caucus chiefs expect strong ties to stay||As the dust settles on the U.S. presidential election and a change in administration is imminent, Senate India Caucus Co-Chairs Mark Warner (Democrat) and John Cornyn (Republican) emphasised the role of China in their discussion on the India-U.S. partnership. In remarks made at an U.S.-India Business Council post-election seminar, held online, the senators talked of a continuing India-U.S. partnership in technology, vaccines, energy (including renewables) and defence. Responding to a question posed by former U.S. Ambassador to India Richard Verma on the trajectory of the U.S.-China relationship and India’s role, Mr. Warner of Virginia said that under a Biden administration, there would be opportunities to align not just on “traditional economic issues” but also technology issues. Mr. Warner said that no Indian or U.S. company could alone compete with the Chinese industrial model which he described as ‘authoritarian capitalism’. “There is no American or Indian company alone that can compete with that …There was a while, maybe a decade ago, when India wanted to kind of skirt not being on the China side or on the American side. But I think, echoing what Senator Cornyn said, we both are nations that operate under rule of law, China does not … And I think I’ve seen increasingly my contacts to Indian government officials is they know they need to come down on the side of rule of law,” Mr. Warner said. On vaccines, Mr. Warner said India and the U.S., independent of vaccines, needed to look at the sourcing of compounds used in pharmaceuticals — much of which is located in China now. On the defence partnership, Mr. Cornyn said countries like India and the U.S. would have to work to support one another in the face of China’s increasing aggression. He said the two countries would continue to resolve issues such as India’s purchase of the Russia S-400 missile defence system, which risks attracting American sanctions. “But I think those are sort of legacy problems that we’re going to continue to work on to try to resolve, but I see it getting better and better all the time,” he said.
19 November 2020||special correspondentNEW DELHI,||IAF for short-term leasing of trainer aircraft, light copters||The Indian Air Force (IAF) is looking at leasing trainer aircraft and light utility helicopters (LUH) for a short duration till the indigenous platforms under development are inducted into service, said Deputy Chief Air Marshal Sandeep Singh on Wednesday. The recently released Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP), 2020 allows leasing of military platforms. “The IAF is in the process of sending out a Request for Information (RFI) for leasing trainer aircraft for a relatively short period,” Air Marshal Singh said at a webinar organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The IAF is already exploring options of leasing mid-air refuelling aircraft, which it is in urgent need of. With Kiran trainers being obsolete and indigenous HTT-40 being developed by Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. (HAL) in advanced trials, it is looking to plug the gaps for a short term through leasing. Twenty to 30 aircraft could be leased for four or five years. The indigenous LUH, being developed by HAL, has completed development trials and its limited series development is expected to begin soon. The IAF has six Russian IL-78 tankers and has been looking to procure six new aircraft, but the deal has been repeatedly delayed.
19 November 2020||special correspondentLUCKNOW,||HC seeks U.P. reply to plea on ‘torture, detention of minors’||The Allahabad High Court has sought the Uttar Pradesh government’s reply to a petition alleging illegal detention, torture and criminalisation of juveniles during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) last December. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma directed the government to file all details relating to every district of the State with regard to the application of the provisions of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition by the NGO Haq-Centre For Child Rights, filed on the basis of a fact-finding report published in January titled ‘Brutalising Innocence: Detention, Torture and Criminalisation of Minors by U.P. Police to quell anti-CAA protests’. The report was based on investigation conducted by participating organisations between January 10 and 24 in Bijnor, Muzaffarnagar and Firozabad districts and “verified media accounts” looking into alleged detention, torture, and criminalisation of minors. ‘Documentary evidence’ “It contains documentary evidence of nature of violence, the methods of custodial torture and intimidation, and post-release targeting by law enforcement agencies,” read the report. The High Court listed the matter for December 14.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala to move SC over MBBS fee hike||The State government will move the Supreme Court against a Kerala High Court order that paved the way for a revision of the fee structure fixed for MBBS admissions by considering the demand of self-financing medical colleges. The High Court had on November 13 ordered the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) to issue notification of the maximum fee that will be levied by the colleges as proposed by the managements. Based on the order, the CEE on Wednesday issued fee structures for 18 out of 19 self-financing medical colleges that were over thrice what had been fixed by the R. Rajendra Babu Fee Regulatory Committee for medical education. The committee had finalised an annual fee structure that ranged from Rs. 6.22 lakh to Rs. 7.65 lakh in the general category and Rs. 20 lakh for NRI seats.However, the High Court directed the fee regulatory committee to consider the managements’ reasoning that “the hospital has to be treated as a separate establishment and its profit or loss cannot have any bearing on the fee payable by the students.” As a result, the CEE has now released a tentative fee structure that ranged from Rs. 7.65 lakh to Rs. 20.7 lakh in the general category and from Rs. 20 lakh to Rs. 34 lakh for NRI seats. The immense hike has created widespread concern among medical aspirants and guardians, prompting the government to go in appeal against the order. In a statement, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja accused certain self-financing managements of attempting to disrupt the admission process every year.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Kerala to commission genome survey for SARS-CoV-2||To better understand the genomic variation in the strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the State, the Kerala government has tied up with the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) for a survey. The study, commissioned on November 11, will collect 100 samples from 14 districts every month, for three months. The exercise is a follow-up of a pilot study that the same group of scientists did in Kozhikode, from which it emerged that outbreaks in the State were less due to international expatriates and more due to reduced monitoring of inter-State movement once the restrictions were eased. ‘NextGen’ sequencing The genome sequencing uses an approach called ‘NextGen’ sequencing, in which 1000s of individual genomes can be simultaneously analysed, rare variations picked up and occasionally, SARS-CoV-2 missed by the gold standard RT-PCR test, detected. “This could demonstrate the utility in identifying apparently unconnected outbreaks and evidence to design or validate policy interventions—like strict quarantine of foreign travellers,” Vinod Scaria of the CSIR-IGIB and among those closely involved in the project told The Hindu . Kerala recorded the first cases of COVID-19 in India, and for several months managed to contain the transmission to limited pockets. However, with the easing of restrictions and Onam festivities, congregations multiplied and led to huge spikes in cases. Kerala had about 87,000 active cases as of Wednesday but has confirmed only 884 deaths so far. For the project, the State has budgeted Rs. 68 lakh, according to a note issued by the Health Department. Used in U.K., Australia The United Kingdom and Australia have employed genome sequencing to map the outbreaks. The earlier pilot study had found that virus samples sequenced from Kerala belonged to the A2a clade, which is predominant in India, within which there were three clusters. The largest one had genomes from Odisha; the second cluster’s ancestry was traced to Maharashtra and the third from Karnataka. The study also uncovered four novel genetic variants and 89 variants that were specific to Kerala and not reported from elsewhere in the country.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||SC reserves order on plea on Varanasi polls||The Supreme Court on Wednesday reserved its order on a plea by dismissed BSF jawan Tej Bahadur Yadav, who claims that his nomination to contest from Varanasi in the Lok Sabha polls was rejected to orchestrate a “walkover” for Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde, Mr. Yadav’s lawyer, advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav, could not however produce evidence on record to show he had asked the Returning Officer (RO) for time to produce his dismissal letter — to be appended with his nomination papers — showing he was not dismissed from service for reasons of corruption, disloyalty, etc. Request turned down The Bench brushed aside the petitioner’s repeated requests to adjourn the case. In fact, the court accused Mr. Yadav of trying to abuse the process of law by seeking repeated adjournments in the case. “We don’t want to carry on like this with the matter, the respondent’s [Prime Minister] is the only office of its kind in India,” the CJI said. During the hearing, senior advocate Harish Salve, for Mr. Modi, submitted that Mr. Yadav had filed his nomination as an Independent candidate as well as with support from the Samajwadi party. Mr. Yadav had argued that his dismissal from the BSF came after he complained about the quality of food and not for any act of corruption or disloyalty. He found himself out of the fight after the RO found his nomination papers faulty. The RO rejected his nomination on the ground that he did not furnish records to prove that his dismissal from the BSF was not brought about by corruption or disloyalty to the State. The petition contended that the RO completely failed to appreciate Mr. Yadav had produced his dismissal letter along with his nomination paper.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,||IPS officer trolled on Twitter after she supports ban on firecrackers||The Twitter handle ‘True Indology’ was suspended after its account holder got into an argument with IPS officer D. Roopa over the ban on firecrackers in many parts of the country during Deepavali. The crux of the argument, which began during Deepavali on November 14, was whether firecrackers were Indian or not. The suspension of the account has caused a stir among right-wing Twitter users and trolls who have come out in support of True Indology. Ms. Roopa, who is Home Secretary to the government of Karnataka, defended her posts and denied allegations that she used her position to get the account suspended. “I am a government servant and want people to follow the rules. I am not aware of the account being suspended and have not made any complaint,” she said. On November 14, Ms. Roopa, put up a link on her Twitter handle to a Facebook post she had written supporting a ban on firecrackers. Citing the impact of bursting crackers on people’s health, and air pollution levels as well as its effect on Bengaluru’s green cover, she wrote, “For those who cry victim that this is done to Hindus, well, crackers were not there during early and later Vedic age; there is no mention of crackers in our epics and puranas. Crackers came into this country with Europeans. It is no core tradition or custom related to Hinduism.” Her views sparked off a torrent of responses from other Twitter users and trolls.
19 November 2020||M.P. PraveenKOCHI,||Roving teachers keep students on ‘high alert’||Nebin Stephen, a tenth standard student, was having a jolly good time at his home at Koothattukulam on Children's Day when one of his teachers dropped in unannounced. The holiday mood went out of the window and for the next 30 minutes he stood masked as his social science teacher Jomon Joy checked his notes and asked a few questions, all seated on his motorcycle. Gone are the days of luxury for the students of St. John’s Syrian Higher Secondary School at Vadakara in Koothattukulam when they used to complete notes and studied at their pleasure. Mr. Joy and his colleagues have ensured as much through surprise visits at their students' homes as it appeared that the youngsters were having a bit too much of fun since Onam holidays. Though it may not be entirely to the liking of the students, the ‘surprise checks’ seem to have the full backing of their parents.  50 houses covered "Initially, when I used to go out for something I simply dropped in at the students' houses along the route. But then I started going out solely for checking on students and there were even days when I covered over 10 households," said Mr. Joy, who has till now covered over 50 houses. And the visits are proving to have the desired effect, with the students pulling up their socks. "The moment the teacher drops in at a student's home, phone calls fly thick and fast among friends," said Reni Stephen, mother of Nebin. However, updated notes alone would not help them save their skin. Questions will be asked and those having no answers will have to write imposition. Benoy Scaria, who has his two sons studying at the school, found the visits an effective addition to the online classes. “My sons have turned more diligent about their homework and studies since then,” he said. Mr. Joy makes those visits on alternate weeks owing to the pandemic scare and maintains strict COVID-19 protocol. He usually never leaves his motorcycle and is always masked and maintains physical distancing.
19 November 2020||Srinagar,||Survey of forest dwellers in J&K on||Amid regional parties’ protests over the eviction of forest dwellers, the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday said it was in the process of implementing the Forest Rights Act of 2006 “to grant the rights to forest dwellers”. “The Forest Rights Act of 2006 provides for granting of rights to forest dwellers across the country. It was not applicable or implemented in J&K till 31st October, 2019. It has been decided that the survey of claimants by the forest rights committees for assessing the nature and extent of rights being claimed at village-level be completed by January 15, 2021”, an official spokesman said. The sub-divisional committees shall complete the process of scrutiny of claims and prepare the record of forest rights by or before January 31, 2021 and the district level committees shall consider and approve the record and grant forest rights by March 1, 2021, the official said. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Secretary B.V.R Subrahmanyam on Wednesday to review the implementation of the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, and Rules in Jammu and Kashmir. The administration has decided that the tribes and traditional forest dwellers will be provided with the rights over forest land for the purpose of habitation or self-cultivation or livelihood, ownership, access to collect, use, and dispose of minor forest produce, and entitlement to seasonal resources among others. The decision came just a day after Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti met the Gujjars and Bakerwals, who were allegedly evicted from their habitats in south Kashmir by the authorities, and registered her protest against the move. National Conference’s Mian Altaf, who had represented the nomadic community in the Assembly, said the recent demolition of hutments of the Gujjar and Bakarwal communities in Lidroo Pahalgam in south Kashmir gave an insight into the discrimination and apathy that the BJP nurtured against them.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||U.P. gets nod for teacher recruitment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed pleas by the Uttar Pradesh Shiksha Mitra Association, which challenged the State government’s order of January 7, 2019 fixing the qualifying marks for the Assistant Teacher Recruitment Examination 2019 at 65 and 60 for the general and reserved categories, respectively. Giving the go-ahead for recruitment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in accordance with the results declared in May, a Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit recorded an assurance by the State government that Shiksha Mitras would be given a last opportunity to attend the next recruitment examination, the modalities of which would be decided by the government. The court did not intervene against the State’s position that the cut-off percentage was increased by 20% to draw the best candidates. The court had earlier sought an explanation from the State government for changing the earlier cut-off of 45% for general category and 40% for reserved category. The Allahabad High Court had upheld the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to raise the cut-off. Several pleas had been filed against the order, which paved the way for the appointment of assistant basic teachers.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Vaccine trial showed 95% success, says Pfizer||“These are extraordinary results, and the safety data look good,” said David Spiegelhalter, a professor and expert in risk and evidence communication at the University of Cambridge. While some groups such as healthcare workers will be prioritised in the United States for vaccinations this year, it will be months before large-scale rollouts begin. Distribution of a Pfizer shot is complicated by the need to store it at ultra-cold temperatures of -70 degrees Celsius. It can, however, be kept in a normal fridge for up to five days, or up to 15 days in a thermal shipping box. Moderna’s vaccine can be stored for up to six months at -20 degrees Celsius though it is expected to be stable for 30 days at normal fridge temperatures of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius. ‘Efficacy consistent’ Pfizer said the efficacy of the vaccine was consistent across different age and ethnic groups, a sign that the immunisation could be employed broadly around the world. Efficacy in adults over 65 years was over 94%. Pfizer said its two-dose vaccine, BNT162b2, was well-tolerated and that side effects were mostly mild to moderate, and cleared up quickly. It said the only severe adverse events experienced by volunteers were fatigue and headaches. Out of 8,000 participants, 2% had headaches after the second dose, while 3.8% experienced fatigue. Older adults tended to report fewer and milder adverse events. For its trial, Moderna named five severe side effects experienced by at least 2% of those who received its shot: fatigue at 9.7%, muscle pain at 8.9%, joint pain at 5.2%, headache at 4.5%, pain at 4.1% and redness at the injection site at 2%. Pfizer’s final results come as the virus is running rampant around the world, placing an enormous strain on healthcare systems.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Questionnaire of NPR being finalised, says RGI||The NPR was first collected in 2010 and then updated in 2015. Some States such as West Bengal and Rajasthan have objected to additional questions to be asked in the fresh NPR such as “date and place of birth of father and mother, last place of residence and mother tongue”. The CAA, passed by Parliament on December 11, 2019, allows citizenship on basis of religion to six undocumented communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. There are apprehensions that the CAA, followed by a country-wide NRC, will benefit non-Muslims excluded from the proposed citizens’ register, while excluded Muslims will have to prove their citizenship. The government has denied that the the CAA and the NRC are linked. In an RTI reply in March, A.K Samal, Deputy Registrar-General, said the process pertaining to Census 2021 was evolving in nature and the disclosure may create confusion in the field and hamper the census work of national importance. “Hence these are not being provided under Section 8 (1) of the RTI Act, 2005,” he stated. Section 8 (1) of the Act bars providing any information the “disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence”.  The Hindu had sought the “details of the Conference of the State/UT Chief Secretaries and Administrator organised by the Registrar-General of India (RGI) and Census Commissioner in New Delhi on January 17, 2020” and asked for a copy of the minutes of the meeting. Mr. Samal responded that the minutes of the conference have not been prepared and the presentations were prepared for internal use and deliberations on preparation of Census 2021. In 2019, the “pretest”, or the trial NPR form, collected details from 30 lakh respondents last on 21 parameters, seeking specific details on “place of birth of father and mother, last place of residence” along with other information such as Aadhaar (optional), voter ID card, mobile phone and driver’s licence numbers. In 2010 and 2015, the NPR collected details on 14 parameters. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) informed a parliamentary panel earlier this year that there was a need to update the NPR to “incorporate the changes due to birth, death and migration” and “Aadhaar is individual data whereas NPR contains family-wise data”. The MHA told the panel that it would collect details on additional questions such as “date and place of birth of parents” in the NPR to “facilitate back end data processing.”
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Frame scheme to identify children selling goods’||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to come out with a scheme to identify children, who are found selling products like toys, flowers etc., or begging, to ensure that benefits of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 could be extended to them. A Division Bench issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition by Letzkit Foundation. Pointing out that the data of children on the streets are required to be collected to ensure that they are protected under the provisions of the Act, the Bench asked the government and the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike to conduct the survey of such children in the city by taking assistance of any social organisation working in this field, after placing the scheme to conduct the survey before the court for its consideration. The Bench noted that the issue raised in the petition pertains to the right to lead a dignified life conferred on children by Article 21 of the Constitution and the question whether they are deprived of the fundamental right to education under Article 21A of the Constitution if the circumstances forced their parents to deploy them for selling products or begging. It was pointed out in the petition that the State and its authorities have to prevent the practice of using children for begging or selling products at traffic junctions as these children are required to be in schools at this age.
19 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Start goods trains first, farmer outfits tell Centre||As many as 30 farmers’ outfits in Punjab on Wednesday decided to maintain status quo on their blockade of passenger trains in the State in protest against Centre’s recent agriculture laws. “We have decided to continue letting goods trains go, but not passenger trains. Once the Central government starts movement of goods trains, we will take a positive call on movement of passenger trains. The ball is in the Centre’s court now,” Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), toldThe Hinduafter a meeting of farmers’ outfits here. CM disappointed Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed disappointment over the refusal of the outfits to completely lift their rail blockade that has brought the State virtually to a standstill for the past month and a half. He said he had expected them to back down in the interest of Punjab especially in view of the State government’s support for their cause and the Centre’s decision to engage with them.
19 November 2020||KOLLAM,||Life guard attempts to set a record||Ratheesh was first called ‘Dolphin’ when he tried to emulate the swimming style of the marine mammal, striving to propel forward in water with his hands and legs tied. The world of adventure sports was not quite accessible to the boy from a fisher family in Alappad, but he never stopped dreaming. And his nearly-two-decade-long efforts bore fruit on Wednesday when the 38-year-old crossed the 10-km stretch across the Thiruvananthapuram-Shoranur Canal in an attempt to set a Guinness World Record. It took him five hours and 10 minutes to complete the challenge, worming his way back to the shore at Ayiramthengu. “The current record holder is Gopal Kharvi, another Indian, and it is for 3.7 km,” he says. Ratheesh, who currently works as a life guard on Kollam beach, has been training in the Arabian Sea since 2002. His training usually starts at 7 a.m. and continues for over three hours followed by another session in the evening. Wrapped in sack He organised his first adventure swimming event in 2002, jumping from the 50-foot-high Neendakara bridge to the estuary and swimming 500 metres with his hands and legs bound. One year later he swam for 1 km in the Ashtamudi lake with his body wrapped inside a sack. A swimming instructor, he has also conducted a string of events across the State, each for spreading a message. “My idea is to make Kerala a State with zero drownings.” Ratheesh, who has a spate of records including Limca Book of Records and Arabian Book of World Records in his kitty, says his next aim is to cross English Channel, considered one of the toughest tasks by adventure swimmers. “Many freestyle swimmers have done that, but it will be the first time for someone to attempt the distance with his hands and legs bound.” English Channel funding He adds it will be difficult for a person like him since it requires several months of training to acclimitise to cold water. “The biggest challenge is the funding. I won’t be able to pull it off without financial support. I will attempt it as part of spreading awareness against marine plastic pollution,” he says.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Sasikala pays Rs. 10 crore fine to civil court||V.K. Sasikala, close confidante of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, serving a prison sentence at the Parappana Agrahara Central Prison in Bengaluru in the disproportionate assets case, has paid the fine amounts of Rs. 10 crore and Rs. 10,000 imposed on her, according to her counsel Raja Senthoor Pandian. The amount was paid on her behalf by her relatives, he said. The 34th city civil court accepted the fine amount and passed orders, and the prison authorities were informed on Wednesday evening of the receipt of the amount through an official intimation from the court, Mr. Pandian told The Hindu . The trial court had sentenced Sasikala, Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran to four years in simple imprisonment and imposed on them a fine of Rs. 10 crore each. The Supreme Court had upheld the order. Mr. Pandian said the fine was paid by Palanivel (Rs. 3.25 crore), brother-in-law of Ms. Sasikala; Vasantha Devi (Rs. 3.75 crore), Mr. Palanivel’s wife; and Hema (Rs. 3 crore), wife of Sasikala’s nephew Dr. Venkatesh. Vivek Jayaraman paid the other amount of Rs. 10,000, the lawyer said. Following the payment of fines, Ms. Sasikala is likely to walk free from jail on Jan. 27. “I have already initiated the process of remission. It is not yet through. If it is accepted, Ms. Sasikala could be released any time. Otherwise, she would be released on January 27. But now that the fine issue is settled, her prison term cannot be extended even one day beyond January 27,” Mr. Pandian said. The fine imposed on Ms. Ilavarasi and Mr. Sudhakaran is yet to be paid, and the process to arrange for it is under way, he said.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||UN reform being blocked, says Minister||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated India’s demand for reform of the United Nations, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said “one or two” countries are obstructing the process of expansion of the UN Security Council. The Minister said India had been urging the global community for reform of the major institutions but one or two countries had shown that they wanted to “freeze one moment of history for perpetual gain to continue”. “The fact that different people in different parts of the world are pointing out to the shortcoming of the UN ... is something that UN should take seriously,” said Mr. Jaishankar, who made the comments during a virtual speech at the Centre for European Policy Studies. On more than one occasion, Indian policy makers have referred obliquely to China’s opposition to the idea of reform of the UN Security Council.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Bindas Bol’ is offensive, says I&B Ministry||A Ministry of Information and Broadcasting order placed on record in the Supreme Court on Wednesday said Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol - UPSC Jihad’ programme is “not in good taste, offensive and has the likelihood of promoting communal attitudes”. But the Ministry order does not expressly stop the channel from telecasting further episodes. ‘Bindas Bol’ accuses Muslims of “infiltrating” the civil services with the help of funding from terror-linked organisations abroad. The Ministry order only says that the programme’s audio and visual content should be “suitably moderated, modified”. The Ministry “cautions” the channel to be “careful” and promises “stricter penal action” in case of further violations. The order, accompanied by a three-page affidavit, was filed by the government on Wednesday. The court will hear the case on Thursday. “While freedom of expression is a fundamental right, the tone and tenor of the episodes telecast do indicate that the channel has through the various utterances and audio visual content breached the Programme Code,” the order said.
19 November 2020||Srinagar,||Avalanche kills soldier, injures two||An Army jawan lost his life and two others were injured when an avalanche hit a frontier post in Tanghdar Sector in Kupwara, officials said on Wednesday. An official said a snow sheet hit the Roshan post around 8 p.m. on Tuesday. “Three soldiers were swept away. They were immediately rescued and shifted to a hospital. One died in the hospital,” officials said. Meanwhile, the Pakistani Army violated the ceasefire agreement by opening fire on forward posts border in Hiranagar Sector.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||SC seeks reply on election of Jaishankar||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notices on a batch of petitions challenging the election of External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat. The pleas have also raised the issue of the Election Commission’s power on issuance of separate notifications for holding bypolls for casual and regular vacancies in the Rajya Sabha. One of the petitions against Mr. Jaishankar has been filed by Congress leader Gaurav Pandya. A Bench comprising Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian took note of the submissions of senior advocate Kapil Sibal that a date be fixed for hearing these matters. “We will give you short date and it will be listed on non miscellaneous day,” the Bench said in a hearing conducted via video conferencing. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Mr. Jaishankar, accepted the notice.
19 November 2020||Kolkata,||BJP alleges party worker killed in Tufanganj in political violence||The Bharatiya Janata Party leadership on Wednesday alleged that a party worker was killed at Tufanganj in West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district. “Trinamool’s ‘murder politics’ continues in West Bengal! In Coochbehar, BJP booth secretary Kalachand Karmakar was brutally beaten to death by TMC goons. Pishi [‘aunt’, referring to Mamata Banerjee] you cannot expect people of Bengal to support your politics of blood and terror. Enough. Start counting your days!,” the West Bengal BJP tweeted.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘8 Ministers in Bihar facing criminal cases’||Eight Ministers recently sworn in to the Bihar Cabinet have declared criminal cases against themselves, a report by the Association for Democratic Reforms said on Wednesday. The ADR analysed the election affidavits of 14 of the 15 Ministers, including Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. One Minister — Ram Surat Kumar — was left out of the analysis, as his completed affidavit was not available on the Election Commission’s site. Six Ministers had declared serious criminal cases against themselves, the report said. Thirteen of the 14 Ministers analysed had declared assets of over Rs. 1 crore and the average was Rs. 3.93 crore. Four Ministers had declared their educational qualifications to be Class VIII-XII, while the remaining 10 said they held graduate or higher degrees. Eight of the Ministers are between the ages of 51 and 75, while six are between 41 and 50.
19 November 2020||Srinagar,||12 civilians injured in Pulwama grenade attack||Twelve civilians were injured when a grenade thrown by militants missed the target in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Wednesday. “Terrorists hurled a grenade on a CRPF bunker of 41 Battalion. However, the grenade missed the target and exploded on road. Twelve civilians sustained injuries,” a police spokesman said. The injured are undergoing treatment. The area was cordoned off and a search launched but no one has been arrested so far.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||No fee for those shooting films of “national importance” at monuments: Minister||Applicants seeking permission to film at monuments while working on issues of “national importance” would not be charged the usual fee starting from December 25 till August 15, 2021, Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Wednesday. Mr. Patel said that as a part of celebrating the 75th year of Indian Independence, they would be exempt from paying the fee.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||11 killed in road accident near Vadodara||Eleven people were killed and 16 injured in a truck collision near Vadodara on Wednesday morning. Of the deceased, nine belonged to one family. A mini-truck, carrying 27 pilgrims from Surat, rammed into a container truck around 3 a.m. Seven people died on the spot, while four were critically injured. Police and fire department personnel took the injured to the SSG hospital where they were declared brought dead. The pilgrims had hired the mini-truck to visit the Mahakali temple at Pavagagh.
19 November 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. sets up cow protection Cabinet||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said the government had decided to set up a ‘Gau Cabinet’ for the protection and promotion of cattle. In a statement issued by his office, Mr. Chouhan said the Animal Husbandry, Forest, Panchayat and Rural Development, Revenue, Home and Farmers’ Welfare Departments would be part of the Cabinet.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,714 fresh cases reported in State||As many as 1,714 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Wednesday, taking the tally of active cases, including those under isolation, to 14,470. Among those who tested positive were three passengers who had arrived by flight from West Bengal and Himachal Pradesh and seven passengers who had returned from other States, including six from Bihar and one from Karnataka. The total number of cases rose to 7,63,282. The number of persons discharged after treatment rose to 7,37,281, including 2,311 patients who were discharged on Wednesday. A total of 18 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours — 10 at private hospitals and eight at government facilities, health officials said. The daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health said Chennai recorded 479 fresh cases, whereas 608 persons were discharged. Five deaths were recorded in the district. A total of 4,698 patients are undergoing treatment, including those being treated at home. As many as 2,10,135 persons have tested positive so far. The number of fresh cases was below 10 in eight districts, but remained above 100 in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur. Chengalpattu reported 129 fresh cases. In Coimbatore, 162 tested positive. Tiruvallur reported 112 fresh cases. Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu, Tiruvannamalai and Tiruppur recorded two deaths each. Coimbatore, Dindigul, Ranipet and Vellore recorded one death each. All the deaths that occurred in the last 24 hours were of persons who had a pre-existing or co-morbid condition. Oldest victim A 90-year-old man from Chennai was the oldest person whose death was recorded on Wednesday. He tested positive on November 2 and was admitted to a private hospital on November 16 with complaints of fever for 13 days and breathing difficulty for a day. He died on Tuesday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome/COVID-19 pneumonia. Public health officials said that over 1.12 crore samples have been tested through the RT-PCR method so far. A total of 1,09,82,766 persons have been tested so far, including 66,244 on Wednesday.  The number of fresh cases was below 10 in eight districts, but remained above 100 in Chengalpattu, Coimbatore and Tiruvallur
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sunday holiday for Koyambedu||The Koyambedu wholesale market complex will not function on Sundays from November 22. With nearly 800 semi-wholesale shops reopened this Monday, traders expect more visitors on weekends. In a bid to avoid crowds in the market, the Federation of All Traders’ Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex decided to shift the market’s weekly holiday from Friday to Sunday. The State government had allowed various sections of the market complex to be reopened in a phased manner since September. Federation president D. Rajasekaran said the fruits semi-wholesalers would be allowed to reopen shops on November 23. Of the 1,600 vegetable wholesalers, about 800 shops located in A to G blocks were permitted to reopen, and the remaining would begin operating from November 30. “While wholesalers function between 9 p.m. to 9 a.m., semi-wholesalers operate after 2 a.m. Semi-wholesalers who sell produce even less than 20 kg are an important link between wholesalers and retail vendors,” he said. Merchants said the prices of vegetables had started to stabilise over the past few days. Some vegetables such as beans and okra sold for Rs. 10-Rs. 20 a kg in the wholesale market. The price of tomatoes too dropped and available for Rs. 15-Rs. 25 a kg. Onions and potatoes are sold for up to Rs. 55 a kg and Rs. 50 a kg respectively due to fewer arrivals. ‘Sales picking up’ S. Chandran, president, Koyambedu Periyar Wholesale Market Licensed Merchants Association, said: “Sales is picking up in the market and we made 70-80% business on Wednesday. We are still getting only half of the 60 loads of onions and the price continues to be high. We expect the prices of costly vegetables like carrot to drop by December.” On average, the market receives 50,000 visitors, daily, now. Wholesale merchants pointed out that encroachments were removed through periodical checks by the Koyambedu Market Management Committee. Such initiatives must continue, they said.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Feature your real-life hero in an online exhibition||The Chennai Photo Biennale Foundation and the Confederation of Indian Industry is presenting an online exhibition featuring real life heroes that will acknowledge the efforts of many unsung heroes from across India. The online exhibition, titled #My2020hero, aims to recognise people who have been examples of human resolve, kindness and selflessness in 2020. Everyone can participate in the exhibition and all one had to do is take a photo of their hero, write a few lines explaining why they were their hero and share it via Instagram, Facebook, Twitter or submit it onwww.my2020hero.in. “It could be your cook, your vegetable vendor, your family, your friends who video chat from miles away, your lover, sanitation workers, the medical shop owner, food delivery person — or even your pet,” a press release said. The rules for submission of photos are available on the website. The best entries will be selected by a jury and featured in the online exhibition on the website. “The exhibition had to reflect what each and every one of us has gone through. It had to bring a nation together on a positive note and it had to show gratitude to the people who have brought us this far,” Tarana Sawhney, Chairperson, CII Task Force for Art and Culture & Trustee, CPB Foundation, said. “#My2020hero is an open call for everyone to share a photo of their hero and a short story of why they are your hero this year. Worthy photo-stories will be showcased in a virtual exhibition that will introduce us to these heroes from every corner of India and remain as a landmark for all of us to remember this year by,” Varun Gupta, Director, CPB Foundation, said.  The exhibition had to show gratitude to people who have brought us this far Tarana Sawhney Chairperson, CII Task Force for Art and Culture
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘U.S. committed to supporting social entrepreneurs’||Judith Ravin, U.S. Consul General, Chennai, has said that the U.S. is committed to supporting and promoting social entrepreneurs across the world, which would help in stimulating local economic growth, creating quality jobs and new markets. The COVID-19 pandemic had created unprecedented challenges and continued to hinder the commercial and social enterprises, she said. She was speaking at the virtual panel discussion on “Social entrepreneurs: changing lives, changing communities” to mark the Global Entrepreneurship Week 2020. It was organised by the U.S. Consulate General in Chennai and Amani Institute, U.S. Tarun Mahadevan, Director, Advantage Foods Pvt. Ltd., Chennai, who participated in the panel discussion, said the COVID-19 had led to a challenging situation for the hospitality industry. Advantage Foods runs social ventures, including Winners Bakery, Writers Café and PopCause. He said his company had served 2 lakh meals across Chennai to shelter homes and the under privileged during the lockdown period. Anjali Chandran, Founder of Impresa, an online social enterprise for welfare of Indian weavers, said she had launched a handloom challenge initiative to support the weavers during the pandemic. Under the initiative, customers could pay Rs. 550 and get 2.5 metres ikat fabric and saw good traction, she said. Shehzia Lilani, Country Director (India), Amani Institute, Bengaluru, said some of the social entrepreneurs had re-oriented their customer by getting into producing masks and using technology. Meeghan Zahorsky, Faculty, Amani Institute, U.S., said she had seen a lot of technology innovation happening in India, Kenya, South East Asia. Anne Lee Seshadri, Public Affairs Officer at the U.S. Consulate General, moderated the session.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC permits private schools to collect 35% more fees||The Madras High Court on Wednesday permitted private schools and colleges in the State to collect 35% more fees, apart from the 40% already permitted, for the current academic year, since the State government could not give the court an assurance that institutions would be allowed to reopen before the end of this year. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh said private schools could collect the additional 35% of fees on or before February 28. He also gave them the liberty to collect this fee, in two installments, if they prefer to do so, after issuing an appropriate circular to the parents. He directed the Registry to list the cases for further hearing on March 1. The interim orders were passed on a batch of cases filed by a few associations representing the private institutions. The petitioners had challenged a government order (G.O.) issued in April, directing them not to coerce parents into paying fees for this academic year, despite the institutions remaining shut due to COVID-19. ‘Not justified’ In their submissions before the court, the institutions said they were conducting online classes and had to pay salaries to the teaching as well as non-teaching staff. Hence, it was not justified on the part of the government to have prevented them from collecting fees, they said. On the other hand, the government said the G.O. was passed in the interest of people facing financial difficulties during the pandemic. Hence, to balance the interests of parents as well as private institutions, the judge on July 17 permitted the latter to collect 40% of fees before August 31, and ordered that the rest could be collected after the institutions reopen. However, now that there was no sign of reopening of the institutions in the near future, he permitted the institutions to collect 35% more. The judge also closed suo motu contempt of court proceedings initiated against a couple of schools after they told the court the reasons for having collected more than 40% of fees from some of the parents. He adjourned the contempt proceedings against few other schools for filing of affidavits on their behalf.  The petitioners had challenged a G.O. issued in April, directing them not to coerce parents into paying fees for this academic year
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu to restructure 70-year-old industrial investment corporation||As part of its efforts to revive the economy by boosting the industrial sector, the State government has initiated steps to restructure the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation (TIIC). The corporation was established under the Companies Act in 1949 as the first State-level development financial institution for catalysing industrial development. The government’s decision followed the recommendations by the Rangarajan Committee, which studied the impact of the COVID-19 on the State’s economy and submitted its report to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in September. The committee had said in its report that the TIIC “can be restructured and strengthened to expand lending to industries by infusing capital of Rs. 1,000 crore over three years”. Consultancy firm The TIIC had a few weeks ago, floated a tender to finalise a consultancy firm for undertaking a study for its restructuring. The tender document said the corporation was “facing certain challenges”, including scaling up operations over its ability to raise funds from the market at competitive rates, lack of structured marketing and promotion and delay in the adoption of digital banking technology and new-age methods for operations. To meet the challenges and transform itself into a socially relevant and efficient development finance institution capable of elevating itself as a major player in the State to serve the industry, the TIIC is proposing to engage a consultant to carry out the mentioned scope of work. The consultancy firm to be selected through the tender process would collect information on the assets, finances and operations of the company, review its existing portfolio based on the exposure details, account history and current status of the accounts and establish a robust monitoring framework for both non-core and core business cash-flows including a payment and authorisation matrix. The TIIC provides financial assistance to micro, small, medium, large scale industrial units and service sector projects. The Rangarajan Committee has also recommended developing integrated townships with social infrastructure facilities in the ‘growth centres’, which would provide a big advantage for the State in attracting investments and also stressed the need for developing a comprehensive plan to provide industrial housing facilities in all industrial clusters through the Tamil Nadu Shelter Fund.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors see more stroke cases being reported during pandemic||More stroke cases were reported during the pandemic, with a significant number of them in the younger age group, doctors at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals in OMR said on Wednesday. Addressing a virtual press conference, the doctors highlighted how two high-risk stroke patients, aged 34 and 24, were treated at the hospital recently. While the two cases were not related to COVID-19, S. Karthikeyan, interventional neurologist at the hospital, said doctors were seeing more instances of stroke, in which clots were formed in arteries due to COVID-19. Of the two cases, Dr. Karthikeyan said the 24-year-old woman, who suddenly fell unconscious and was brought to the hospital immediately, underwent a mechanical thrombectomy for removal of blood clots. The lady had a bilateral vertebral artery dissection, in which the blood supply to the brain through two arteries on the backside of the neck got completely blocked. “It is a rare case. To our knowledge, this is the first case of mechanical thrombectomy being done for such a case. Globally, only very few patients have survived such strokes,” he said. ‘Challenging procedure’ The other patient was a 34-year-old man, facing intermittent weakness on his left leg and arm. He was diagnosed with transient ischemic attacks. Roopesh Kumar, senior neurosurgeon at the hospital, said it was subsequently found that the right side of his brain was not getting enough blood supply and an artery taking blood to the brain had blocks at the point where it entered the skull. “It was a rare case where medications would not help. Hence, we had to do a brain bypass (or cerebral bypass) surgery,” he said. Though the procedure was theoretically similar to coronary bypass, Dr. Kumar said it was, however, quite challenging, and required extreme precision due to the thin nature of the blood vessels and the inherent weakness of the wall in the brain. The doctors highlighted the need for stroke patients to be taken to the hospital, at the earliest, to increase their chances of survival and recovery.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Spend an hour without gadgets tomorrow||On World Children’s Day, which falls on Friday, ParentCircle is encouraging families to disconnect from gadgets and spend time together as part of their #GadgetFreeHour campaign. “On November 20 from 7.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m., we want families to turn off their gadgets for one hour and spend time with each other,” said Nalina Ramalakshmi, founder and managing director, ParentCircle. Stating that while the last few months have seen most families spending a lot more time under the same roof due to COVID-19 restrictions, she pointed out that most of them still sat alone with their gadgets. For further details, log on towww.gadgetfree- hour.com
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin sees ‘irregularities’ in medical rank list||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday questioned the presence of students from other States also in the rank list released by the government for medical admission in Tamil Nadu. Demanding a probe into the “irregularities”, Mr. Stalin said the government should also find out the officials who had issued nativity certificates to students from other States and the Ministers who had recommended their cases. “The AIADMK government is not even able to release a rank list in a proper manner. It should immediately change the list,” he said in a statement. Mr. Stalin said a girl student from Kerala had secured a place among the first 10 students even though her name was also in the 5th place in the Kerala’s rank list. “Another seven students also found a place in the rank list of Telangana. Ever since the AIADMK government, led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, allowed NEET in Tamil Nadu, there is confusion in the list for admission in medical colleges,” he alleged. Mr. Stalin said students from other States could secure a place in the rank list by producing fake nativity certificates. “The irregularities clearly show that the AIADMK government and Health Minister Vijayabaskar are not fit to handle the medical admissions in the State,” he claimed. Wondering how students from other states could find a place in the Tamil Nadu list, Mr. Stalin wanted to know how they were able to get a nativity certificate in the first place. “It is highly condemnable that the government has not provided any clear answer to these questions,” he said. Reiterating his claim that government school students were able to get 7.5% reservation in medical admissions because of the DMK’s consistent efforts, Mr. Stalin alleged that the government had organised counselling without taking into consideration the safety of students and their parents in the time of COVID-19.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korattur lake eco-park project work begins||The Korattur lake, part of a chain of waterbodies in the western part of the city, will soon have better green cover, with assistance from the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs. On Wednesday, G.V. Krishna Rao, Chief Commissioner, GST and Central Excise, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry zone, laid the foundation for the eco-park, being developed at a cost of Rs. 16 lakh, on the left bank of the Korattur lake, along Water Canal Road. Spread across 600 acres, the lake is on its path to recovery, following work taken up by the Water Resources Department (WRD) and citizens’ groups. Officials of the WRD said the eco-park would come up on an area of 30,000 sq ft, on the rear side of the bund. The park will have a lawn and varieties of plants, such as areca palms and hedge plants. Residents chip in A volunteer team from Alliance Orchid Springs apartment, coordinated by Sneha Srinivasan, fenced the area at a cost of Rs. 5 lakh, and joined the efforts to create the eco-park. The eco-park will prevent encroachments in the lake area and serve as a recreation facility for the residents. People were using the walkers’ path laid for nearly 2 km on the bund, said an official. It may be recalled that a team of officials from the GST and Central Excise (Appeals-II) Commissionerate, Chennai, had visited the lake and planted saplings in September. P. Anand Kumar, Commissioner, Appeals-II, GST and Central Excise, said the lake, which was once a sprawling waterbody, covering 1,000 acres, had shrunk to just 600 acres. “We have provided funds under the ‘Swachhta project’ to protect the lake from encroachments and sustain ecological balance. Work to create the eco-park will be completed in three months,” he said. He highlighted other projects proposed by the Commissionerate.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State cannot cancel arrear examinations, UGC informs court||The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Wednesday told the Madras High Court that it did not support the decision taken by the State government to cancel arrear examinations of all arts and science, engineering and MCA students, except for those in the final year. Appearing before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha, UGC counsel V. Sudha said the commission had made its stand very clear, saying arrear examinations could not be cancelled at any cost. She said an additional counter affidavit to that effect would be filed in the court on Friday. The submissions were made when a new public interest litigation petition filed by advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan was listed before the Bench for admission. The petitioner had accused some of the colleges of having given effect to a government order (G.O.) issued on August 26, for cancelling arrears, despite the matter being subjudice. E. Balagurusamy, former Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, and Mr. Adityan himself have already filed two individual PIL petitions, challenging the G.O. Filing a counter affidavit in those cases, the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) had told the court that the G.O. was not in accordance with the council’s guidelines. The council made it clear that students should not be allowed to clear arrears without writing the examinations. However, the UGC filed an evasive counter affidavit, without spelling out its stand clearly. This irked the judges who directed its counsel to ensure that an additional affidavit is filed, clearly explaining whether the exams could be cancelled. Accordingly, Ms. Sudha told the court that the additional counter affidavit would be filed on Friday, when the two PILs are listed for hearing. Accepting her submission, the judges adjourned the hearing on the new PIL petitions too to Friday.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro is not a special category consumer: TNERC||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has rejected a plea by Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) to include it under the special category consumer and be charged tariff based on the actual cost of supply, excluding both subsidy and cross-subsidy elements. Earlier, the Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (APTEL) had directed the TNERC to decide the issue. Based on it, CMRL had moved a remand application before the TNERC. The Commission said CMRL was charged Rs. 7.03 a unit as against Rs. 7.11 to Rs. 8.15 a unit prevailing during the period 2016-17 to 2018-19. “Here, the petitioner (CMRL) would appreciate that the petitioner has not only availed the benefit of the rate of cost of supply but also availed this benefit to all its connected load, including commercial loads and non-traction load viz., lifts, escalators, lights, fans, air conditioners and so on,” it added. The TNERC pointed out that Delhi, Maharashtra and Kerala had granted only the traction load of the metro rail alone under specialised category, whereas the TNERC had ordered connecting entire Chennai Metro’s load under HT I-B category, i.e., traction and non-traction loads (with deduction of consumption recorded in other load like ATM, kiosks, stalls, hotels, etc.). Chennai Metro already enjoyed the benefit of tariff lesser than the average cost of supply of the Tangedco. It has been permitted to connect all its loads under HT I-B unlike “Railways” which is not permitted to connect any other load under this tariff category, it said. Therefore, the CMRL’s claim to fix the railway traction tariff for the period of trial operation from July 2013 to June 2015 and to include it under special category consumer and provide tariff for the revenue operation based upon actual cost of supply at 110 kV excluding subsidy and cross subsidy element could not be accepted, the Commission ruled.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Inability to finance health costs pushing 50-60 million Indians into poverty’||About 50-60 million Indians fall into poverty due to their inability to finance health issues as India has some of the highest out-of-pocket healthcare expenditures, Krishnan Ramachandran, chairman, CII Taskforce on healthcare and CEO, MD, Max Bupa Health Insurance Ltd said. He was moderating a session at the Asia Health 2020 conference organised by the CII on Wednesday. Roberto Leonardi, regional CEO, Generali Asia, said India was spending significantly less towards its public health system compared to middle income countries that were spending 5%-6% of their GDP Shobana Kamineni, executive vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals, said technology would shift healthcare from doctors to patients and medicine would slowly start getting personalised. She further added that hospitals were going to change as the environment around them would become more technology enabled. Ali Parsa, founder, Babylon Health, said that to make healthcare affordable there was a need to automate as many processes as possible and increase predictability and prevention of diseases. Mukesh Bansal, CEO and Founder Cure Fit, said a trend that would evolve in the coming years on prevention and cure of diseases and lifestyle choices would make a difference. Vipul Aggarwal, deputy CEO, NHA, said digital health was as important as physical infrastructure.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City police reach out to transpersons||The city police on Wednesday distributed laptops, desktops, sewing machines and pushcarts among transpersons selected by non-governmental organisations Sahodari and Thozhi. Joint Commissioner of Police (East) R. Sudhakar distributed them in the presence of other officers and functionaries of the NGOs. This is part of an initiative by the police to help transpersons work better. Among those selected were T.A. Vinitha Devi, an Economics graduate working as a project manager of an NGO; Rakshitha, who is doing a Ph.D on the transgender community; Olga B. Aaron, who has been involved in social service for 20 years, and Inba Ignatius, who is building a retreat home for young transpersons.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for burgling temples||The Thoraipakkam police have arrested a 20-year-old youth who, they claim, committed a series of burglaries at temples in Perungudi. On November 10, a burglary was reported from the Nagathaman Temple, Elim Nagar. The hundial was broken open and cash and other donations stolen. Two days later, the hundial of Vempuliamman Temple was broken and cash stolen. On November 15, another burglary was reported at Gengaiamman temple. On scrutiny of CCTV footage, the police found that it was the same suspect who committed all the three burglaries. Even as the investigation was on, an ATM was damaged in the same area. The Thoraipakkam police arrested Karthik, 20, of Kannagi Nagar.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for chit fund fraud||The Sankar Nagar police on Wednesday arrested a couple who cheated several persons after collecting Rs. 2 crore on the pretext of a chit fund scheme. The names of the arrested were given as Anthony Raja, 48, a tender coconut vendor, and his wife Gnana Seline, 45, of Anna Nagar in Anakaputhur.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Russian Tamil scholar no more||Professor Alexander Dubiansky, a well-known Tamil scholar from Russia, who had visited Tamil Nadu many times and taken part at the World Classical Tamil Conference held in Coimbatore in 2010, died on Tuesday. “He died at a Moscow hospital, where he was admitted for treatment of COVID-19,” said P. Thangappan, secretary-general, Indo-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industries, and a friend of Professor Dubiansky. He worked as Tamil professor at Moscow State University, and his students today work in the field of education and the media. Tamil writer D. Jayakanthan, Tamil scholar Sivathampi and lyricist Vairamuthu are among his friends. “After the disintegration of the USSR, there was a lack of interest in Tamil learning and Dubiansky single-handedly revived the interest. Every year, he organised a workshop on Sangam poetry,” writer and Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar said. Recalling a paper presented by Professor Dubiansky, Mr. Ravikumar said it raised many questions about the contradiction between Tholkappiyam , the Tamil grammar text, and the Sangam literature. “He had cited a lot of examples. But the topic remains undiscussed,” he said Mr. Thangappan said Professor Dubiansky was also an accomplished musician. “Once we met maestro Ilaiyaraaja, and the discussion went around music. When Ilaiyaraaja asked whether he had listened to his music, Professor Dubiansky played ‘ Intha minminikku kannil... ’, a song from the film Sigappu Rojakkal . Ilaiyaraaja was immensely pleased,” Mr. Thangappan recalled. He had participated at the Bharathiar centenary celebrations, organised by the Indo-Russian Cultural and Friendship Society, and opened the Bharathiar statue at Salem.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rural women trained in making sanitary napkins||Nine women from the Thoothukudi Lok Sabha constituency were trained in the making of sanitary napkins in Chennai at the initiative of Kanimozhi, who represents the constituency. “They were all trained at the Irula Tribal Women’s Welfare Society in Thandarai village, Chengalpattu,” she said. They are expected to launch their products in their areas in the constituency.
19 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tusker electrocuted in private farm near Coimbatore||A male elephant aged around 30 years was found electrocuted at a private farm in Sirumugai in Coimbatore district, on Wednesday. The tusker was found dead in a banana plantation belonging to a farmer, Murugesan (40) in Puthukkadu village near Pethikuttai reserve forest of the Sirumugai forest range. Sirumugai forest range officer D. Senthil Kumar and his team found that the fencing around the banana plantation was powered illegally, using electricity from a pump house set up for irrigation. Murugesan told the forest range officer that he had erected the fencing to protect the crop from wild boars. As the Forest Department was escorting Murugesan to the forest range office for further questioning, village residents blocked the vehicle and forcefully released Murugesan. Tension prevailed, as the village residents refused to let the Forest Department staff take Murugesan to the forest range office. Officials from the Sirumugai police station came to the place and held talks with the village residents. The situation de-escalated, after the village headman assured officials that Murugesan would be produced at the forest range office. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said that the land owner Murugesan was arrested and remanded in judicial custody. The carcass of the elephant was autopsied and buried in a vacant plot. The tusks of the elephant retrieved during the post-mortem will be produced before a court on Thursday, said an official.  This tusker is the 21st elephant to have died in the Coimbatore Forest Division this year. A similar electrocution was reported in the Sirumugai forest range in April 2019, when a tusker aged around 10 was killed after it came into contact with an illegal electric fence around a banana plantation in the water-spread area of the Bhavani Sagar reservoir. K. Kalidasan, of Coimbatore-based environmental organisation, Osai, said that the Forest Department and Tangedco should conduct periodical inspections at farms adjoining forests to curb illegal electric fencing. â€œTangdeco has a greater role to intervene as illegal electric fencing is also a misuse of free electricity given by the government to farmers. It is to be noted that illegal fencing (operated using AC power) can also kill humans who touch it. The government should take steps to provide good quality energizers (DC powered) to farmers for fencing which is safe for animals and humans,â€ he said. In 2018, the Forest Department and the Water Resources Organisation PWD (Bhavani Sagar Dam) had removed encroachments and illegal electric fences on both sides of the water-spread area of the reservoir based on an order from the Madras High Court.
19 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for assaulting elderly man||Four persons were arrested by the Singanallur police after they allegedly assaulted a 92-year-old man on Monday. The arrested have been identified as Dinesh Babu (19), S. Harikrishnan (20), Naveen Karthik (20) and a 17-year-old boy, all hailing from Uppilipalayam near Singanallur. The police said that the four youths used to create noise near the house of C. Pappannan, a resident of GVD Thottam on Kulatheri main road at Uppilipalayam. On Monday, Mr. Pappannan questioned the youths regarding their behaviour and asked them to leave the place. The youths, according to the police, assaulted him with pieces of wood and escaped. The injured man was admitted to a private hospital. The four accused were arrested after the man lodged a complaint. They were later released on bail.  Held with ganja The Singanallur police arrested a 28-year-old man on charges of possessing and attempting to sell ganja on Tuesday. N. Siva, a resident of Chettiar Thottam near Neelikonampalayam, was arrested with 1.1 kg of ganja. The police said that the accused was found in possession of the contraband near the burial ground at Bangaru Layout around 11 a.m. According to the police, the accused came to the place to sell the narcotic substance. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
19 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Mettupalayam police sub-division to become functional next month||The Home Department has issued an order for the formation of Mettupalayam as the sixth police sub-division of Coimbatore District (Rural) Police. The order was issued last month based on the announcement regarding the formation of the new police sub-division made by the Chief Minister in the Assembly in March, this year. As per the order, Mettupalayam will be raised to a police sub-division at a cost of Rs. 48.16 lakh. The new sub-division is expected to become functional in December. Periyanaickenpalayam, Karumathampatti, Perur, Pollachi and Valparai are the five police sub-divisions of the rural police that are currently functional. The Mettupalayam sub-division will be formed bifurcating the jurisdictions of Periyanaickenpalayam and Perur sub-divisions. The new sub-division will have Mettupalayam, Sirumugai, Karamadai, Pilloor dam, Annur police stations and Mettupalayam traffic wing station under its jurisdiction. Karamadai and Pilloor dam police stations will function under Karamadai circle of the new sub-division. The order said that the new sub-division was formed for better policing and effective administration in Mettupalayam region.
19 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sasikala’s release will have no impact on AIADMK, says CM||The release of V.K. Sasikala will have no impact on the AIADMK, asserted Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in Coimbatore on Wednesday. He addressed the mediapersons at the airport. “As far as we are concerned, there will be no change,” he said in response to a question on whether Sasikala’s release will cause any changes in the party. Sasikala, a confidante of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa, is serving a four-year prison sentence in Bengaluru in a disproportionate assets case. Noting that around 313 government school students will receive medical seats due to the 7.5% horizontal reservation this year, Mr. Palaniswami said the State government had introduced the Bill as the government school students were “adversely affected” due to NEET. While government school students constituted 41% of the total strength of Class XII students, only six could get medical seats last year, he said. On the reopening of schools, the Chief Minister said the government was yet to take a decision. As for the northeast monsoon, all precautionary measures, including a 24-hour control room, had been taken by the government. Mr. Palaniswami cut short his press meet after engaging in a spat with a television news reporter, who said the government was indulging in self-praise about the 7.5% horizontal reservation. The Chief Minister on his way to Salem halted at Kumarapalayam in Namakkal and received a petition from a differently-abled person Sadiq Basha.
19 November 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||DMK, allies will be taught a lasting lesson in T.N. polls, says Murugan||Leading the BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra in Cuddalore, its State unit president L. Murugan on Wednesday said the DMK and its allies would be taught a lasting and effective lesson in the forthcoming Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Murugan and other party functionaries were later detained by the police for going ahead with the rally thoughpermission for it had been deniedin view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Different environment Mr. Murugan said DMK president M. K. Stalin should not labour under the mistake that the people would be taken for granted. The current mindset and environment in the State is different from the one the DMK had seen in 1965, he said asking Mr. Stalin and the leaders of the DMK’s allies not to indulge in the thought that by playing on religion and language they could continue to hoodwink the people. He claimed that the leaders of the DMK and its allies were encouraging their children to learn Hindi and other languages but they were standing in the way of the children in government schools intending to learn more languages. “Why should this ‘modern untouchability’ be adopted by Mr. Stalin?” he asked. He claimed that the BJP would make its presence in the Assembly in 2021 and only the person identified by the BJP could be the next Chief Minister of the State. The Vetrivel Yatra would continue. “We will expose the real faces of the DMK and other parties supporting Karuppar Koottam. People can never be hoodwinked by the self-centred forces who have an axe to grind,” Mr. Murugan said. Actor and BJP functionary Kushboo Sundar said no force could stop the party from accomplishing its yatra. “I had escaped a major road mishap earlier in the day when I was on my way to Cuddalore. I have escaped without even small injury and the yatra would complete its journey and reach Tiruchendhur on December 7,” she said.
19 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||45 contract infection in Cuddalore||As many as 45 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 23,911. The Health Department said 171 patients were still undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the district. With 39 more persons getting discharged after treatment on Wednesday, the number of persons who have recovered from the infection, so far, touched 23,327.  Villupuram district reported 17 fresh infections, taking its case tally to 14,363. A total of 11 persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking its total case count to 10,558.
19 November 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Truck owners advised to load goods within permissible limits||Lorry owners have been advised not to load goods beyond their permissible limits. A meeting of South Zone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association that was held at Dharmapuri here on Wednesday advised truck owners to load goods only within their guidelines issued by governments. The association advised that truck operators are fined up to Rs .20,000 for loading goods beyond the length, width and breadth measurements issued by governments and a fine of Rs. 2,000 for each tonne loaded beyond limits by the Motor Vehicle department. The association said that truck owners would not be able to receive any insurance compensation if overloaded trucks gets involved in an accident. They were also advised that no insurance claim could not be made on goods stolen from trucks if there is no insurance cover for goods.
19 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||One surrenders in Dindigul court||Alex Pandian alias ‘Chinna’ Alex surrendered before Judicial Magistrate II Dileep Babu here on Wednesday in connection with a murder case reported in Madurai. Police said that Muruganandam of Uthangudi near Madurai was murdered by an armed gang on East Veli Street on November 15. In this connection, the Keerathurai police had registered a case. Preliminary inquiries revealed that there was enmity between a former DMK councillor V. K. Gurusami and his relative Rajapandi of AIADMK and this had been leading to many murders. When Muruganandam, Munusami and another youth, all supporters of Gurusami, were standing near a shop on East Veli Street, a gang came there in a car and attacked the trio. Munusami and the youth managed to escape, but Muruganandam died on the spot. The court remanded ‘Chinna’ Alex in judicial custody till November 23.
19 November 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||One surrenders in Dindigul court||Alex Pandian alias ‘Chinna’ Alex surrendered before Judicial Magistrate 2 Dileep Babu here on Wednesday in connection with a murder case reported in Madurai city. Police said that Muruganandam of Uthangudi near Madurai city was murdered by an armed gang near East Veli Street on November 15. In this connection, the Keerathurai police had registered a case. Preliminary inquiries revealed that there was enmity between a former DMK councillor V. K. Gurusami and his relative Rajapandi of AIADMK and this had been resulting in many crime. When Muruganandam, Munusami and another accomplice, (all supporters of Gurusami) were standing near a shop at East Veli Street, a gang reached there in a car and attacked the trio. Fearing trouble, Munusami and another escaped, while Muruganandam died on the spot. The JM court directed judicial custody of the accused till Nov 23.
19 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||One surrenders in Dindigul court||Alex Pandian alias ‘Chinna’ Alex surrendered before Dindigul Judicial Magistrate II Dileep Babu on Wednesday in connection with a murder case. Police said Muruganandam of Uthangudi was murdered by an armed gang on East Veli Street in Madurai on November 15. When Muruganandam, Munusami and another youth, all supporters of former DMK councillor V.K. Gurusami, were standing near a shop, a gang came there in a car and attacked them. Muruganandam died on the spot. The court remanded ‘Chinna’ Alex in judicial custody till November 23.
19 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Panic-struck LVB customers throng ATMs, branches||Panic-struck customers thronged Lakshmi Vilas Bank branches across the district to withdraw cash here on Wednesday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) placed it under moratorium. The RBI had on Tuesday proposed a draft scheme of amalgamation of the bank and temporarily capped withdrawals at Rs. 25,000. As soon as the announcement was made at 6 p.m. on Tuesday, customers thronged the ATMs of the bank to withdraw cash from their account. However, “server down” was the message displayed in ATMs and customers could not withdraw the money. On Wednesday, all the 18 branches in the district opened and customers thronged the branches. However, bank staff told them that the server was down and added that only locker service is available for the day. Disappointed customers waited for a few hours and left the branches as officials are not sure when the service will be restored. Most of the branches were located in rural areas and customers kept visiting the branches throughout the day. Many businessmen said that they hold their current account with the branches and transactions were affected throughout the day. Customers, who hold savings accounts with the bank, wanted the withdrawal limit to be increased or east the restriction.
19 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Villagers celebrate unique cow dung splashing ritual||Gumtapuram village in Talavadi Hills performed a unique ritual here on Tuesday in which men of all ages splashed cow dung over each other. The ritual is celebrated on the third day after Deepavali as people believed that their ancestors noticed blood oozing from a ‘lingam’ that was concealed inside a heap of cow dung. Hence, they celebrate the festival that is celebrated for over three centuries. The village is located at the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border and draws huge crowds from the neighbouring State every year. But due to COVID-19, the police and revenue officials allowed the festival to be conducted with only 100 participants. Cow dung collected from the village and nearby areas was dumped at two places at the rear side of the Beereshwara Swamy temple. Boys performed special puja at the temple and later entered the temple tank and took bath. Later, a donkey was taken out in a procession from the tank to the temple and puja was performed at the spots where cow dung piled up. Finally, celebrations began with men of all ages splashing cow dung balls at each other. After an hour, all the participants took bath in the tank and offered prayers at the temple after which the festival came to an end. Villagers also believed that the used cow dung when sprayed in their land would increase the productivity.
19 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Solatium handed over to family members||Three of the family members whose parents were murdered by a gang at Kodumudi were handed over solatium of Rs. 8.25 lakh here. Ramasamy (57) and his wife Arukani (47) of Chitta Pulla Palayam Colony were killed by three persons and a petition was submitted to the Superintendent of Police P. Thangaraj demanding solatium and a government job for one of the two sons. The petition was forwarded to the District Adi Dravidar Welfare Officer Vanilakshmi, and a sum of Rs. 2.75 lakh for each was sanctioned. Groceries provided Mr. Thangaraj, Mrs. Vanilakshmi along with Perundurai DSP Selvaraj and Tahsildar Sridar handed over the cheque to the three at their residence. Also, groceries and utensils were also provided to the family. Officials told them that steps will be taken to provide a government job for the younger son.
19 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ grievances meet on November 24||The monthly farmers’ grievance meeting will be held through video conferencing at 10.30 a.m. on November 24. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that farmers and representatives of farmers associations can participate in the video conference by visiting the Office of the Assistant Director of Agriculture at each taluks and also from the Office of the Joint Director of Agriculture at Erode. The release said that farmers can also submit their grievances as petitions to the Assistant Directors at each taluks.
19 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals get assistance||To upgrade the infrastructure in the fight against COVID-19, Aditya Birla Group has contributed Rs. 28 lakh to three government hospitals in Erode and Namakkal districts here. The financial aid was given to the District Headquarters Hospital in Erode, Government Hospital at Pallipalayam and the Primary Health Centre at Veppadai, both in Namakkal districts. Suraj Bahirwani, president, Grasim Industries Limited, handed over the cheques to the Minister for Electricity, Prohibition and Excise, P. Thangamani, recently.     Members of the Erode Sourashtra Sabai paid floral tributes to Kalingarayan Canal at Karavaikal here on Wednesday.
19 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 21.  Erode sub-station : Erode Town all areas, Surampatti Valasu, Veerappanchatiram, Edayankattuvalasu, Municipal Colony, Teachers Colony, Perundurai Road, Sampath Road, Vettukattuvalasu, Manickampalayam, Andikadu, Pandiyan Nagar, Sakthi Nagar, Vakil Thottam, Periyasemoor, Ramnagar, Palayapalayam, Periyavalasu, Papathikadu, Bharathidasan Street, Muniyappankovil Street, Kothukaran Thottam, 16 Road, Narayanavalasu, Kumalankuttai, Towerline Colony, Thirumal Nagar, Ashokapuram, Vairapalayam, Karungalpalayam, K.N.K. Road, Moolapattarai, Sakthi Road, Nethaji Road, Gandhiji Road, Periyar Nagar, E.V.N. Road and Mettur Road.  Kasipalayam sub-station: Kasipalayam, Anicut areas,  Sudanandan Nagar, Surampatti Valasu, Jeganathapuram Colony, NGGO Colony, Uzhavan Nagar, Marappa Street 1st and 2nd, K.K. Nagar, Muthampalayam Housing Unit Phases 1,2 and 3, Anna Nagar, Rail Nagar, Balaji Garden, Ambigai Nagar, Annai Nagar, Nallipalayam, Chennimalai Road, Diesel Shed, Periya Thottam, Kalyasundaram Street, Vivekanandar Nagar, Aavin Feeds godown, Old Railway Station Road, Shastri Nagar, Bharathi Nagar, Moolapalayam, Nadarmedu, Lakshmi Garden, Lakshmi Nagar, Ramani Garden, Cheran Nagar, Rangampalayam, Ring Road, Sadayampalayam, Ganapathi Nagar and Krishna Nagar.
19 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Train stopped after boulders fall on track near Dindigul||An alert loco-pilot of a Chennai-bound express train, Suresh, averted an accident by applying emergency brakes after he found two huge boulders on the track between Ambaturai and Kodai Road railway stations near Dindigul on Wednesday morning. Consequently, the Madurai-Chennai special express train suffered detention for about 30 minutes at the spot. According to railway sources, caution order had already been issued on the section where deep rock cutting was being done for laying the broad-gauge railway track in early 1990s. While the sectional speed on Madurai-Tiruchi stretch is 100 kmph, the permanent caution order of 50 kmph between Ambaturai and Kodai Road had been issued as falling of boulders from the nearby rocky terrain on the track has been a regular feature on this stretch. A railway source said that the crew acted swiftly and applied the emergency brakes immediately upon noticing the boulders on the track. “With poor visibility due to inclement weather, the crew could notice the boulders only ahead of 600 metres. Since the train was moving only at a speed of 50 kmph, upon applying the emergency brakes, the train stopped just few metres before the boulders,” the source added. The Chennai-bound express train that was stopped at around 7:45 a m could leave around 8:15 a.m. after officials removed both the boulders from the railway track.
19 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Regional Cancer Centre ready for launch||The construction of the Regional Cancer Centre (RCC) on the premises of Balarengapuram Government Hospital in Madurai has been completed, and it is ready to be inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Currently, a limited number of patients are being treated on a trial basis at the hospital. The RCC, which was part of Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), had advanced equipment for treating cancer patients free of cost and this would largely benefit the needy, said GRH Dean J.Sangumani. The RCC has been constructed at a cost of around Rs. 30 crore, and it was first announced by the then Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. It will have a Truebeam Linear Accelerator (LINAC), a device of advanced technology in radiotherapy. A source from the GRH said the RCC would become the only hospital in Madurai district to have this machine. “Currently, equipment with less advanced technology is being used in treating cancer patients,” the source said. The LINAC equipment provided high-precision radiation techniques like image-guided radiation, stereotactic body radiotherapy, stereotactic radio surgery and intensity-modulated radiation, said Dr. Sangumani. Apart from this, there were brachytherapy machines and a CT simulator at the hospital. According to the Dean, with the new equipment, cervical cancer can be easily treated with brachytherapy with less morbidity. Patients with head and neck cancers can be treated with fewer side effects. Even small tumours in the liver and pancreas can be treated without surgery. Breast conservation treatment can be done with advanced technologies and lung cancers and oesophageal cancers can be treated effectively without side effects. The source said advanced dosimetry equipment to assess the right dosage for patients would be available at the hospital. All these equipment would help provide accurate treatment for patients. “Cancer treatment with such highly advanced machines will cost several lakhs of rupees at private hospitals,” said Dr. Sangumani. The centre is authorised to treat cancer patients under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. A GRH doctor said that each cancer patient needed a minimum of 30 sessions. Around 100 patients could be treated at the hospital every month.
19 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||4 govt. school students bag MBBS seats||Four government school students from Madurai district, including three repeaters, have obtained allotment letters under the 7.5% horizontal reservation for MBBS seats during the counselling that commenced on Wednesday. S. Kanish Kumar, a repeater who had studied at the Government Higher Secondary School at M. Puliyankulam and got a NEET score of 329, got the allotment letter for Government Theni Medical College. He said the revised State Board syllabus for Classes 11 and 12 was equivalent to Central Board syllabus and the State Board books helped him perform better in NEET. N. Karthickraja, another repeater who had studied at Government Higher Secondary School at M. Subbulapuram and scored 301 in NEET, received the allotment letter for Tirunelveli Medical College. He said apart from school textbooks, he studied by watching videos on Youtube. “I would often get demotivated while preparing for the examination. But, my family constantly motivated me to stay focussed on my goal,” he said. S. Seethalakshmi, a repeater from Government Girls’ Higher Secondary School at Mahaboopalayam who scored 249 in NEET, said there was a dearth of quality study material in Tamil. She secured a seat at Government Theni Medical College. She stressed the need go have more NEET study material in Tamil. B. Pavithra, a student of N.S.S.B Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School with a NEET score of 214, said she was allotted a seat at Government Thoothukudi Medical College, only because of the introduction of 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students. “My teachers supported me a lot to score well in NEET,” she added.
19 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to use godowns at Melur regulated market||Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business Department officials have urged farmers to make good use of the newly-constructed godowns at the regulated market in Melur ahead of the paddy harvest season. According to a press release from Madurai Market Committee secretary V. Mercy Jeyarani, a godown with 1,000-tonne capacity and another one with 2,000-tonne capacity were inaugurated at the regulated market in October. Farmers could store their produce at the godown for a nominal charges and sell them when prices rose in open market, she said. Ms. Jeyarani said both farmers and traders could mortgage their produce and avail themselves of pledge loans from the regulated market. Farmers could get loans up to Rs. 3 lakh for an interest rate of 5% and traders up to Rs. 2 lakh for an interest rate of 9%, she said. Interested farmers could bring their produce to the market to be sold through indirect auctioning. Currently, coconuts were sold through indirect auctioning at the market in Melur every Thursday, the release said.
19 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks status report on stone quarrying||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Theni district administration to file a status report with regard to stone quarry operations. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi sought the status report on a public interest litigation petition filed by V. Pethuran from Andipatti, who said quarrying was going on in the district in violation of norms. The petitioner said the government had granted permission to 49 stone quarries in patta lands, but 23 other stone quarries were also functioning in government poramboke lands. He claimed that stones were being quarried beyond the permissible limit. Even after a representation was sent to the district administration in this regard, no steps had been taken, he said.
19 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online gaming: HC seeks govt. response||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday asked the State government to respond regarding the steps initiated to regulate online gaming since the government has decided to act against online gambling. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the Chief Minister himself had said the State would take steps to ban online gambling after debt-linked suicides. Many lives were lost because of online gambling, and there was a need to bring in legislation to curb the menace, the judges said. Additional Advocate-General M. Sricharan Rangarajan sought time to file an affidavit.
19 November 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Number of daily cases goes up in Madurai district||Madurai recorded 30 new COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday to have a total case count of 19,402. Forty-two persons were discharged from hospitals in the district, which now has 307 active cases. On Tuesday, the district had added 22 cases to its tally. With the addition of 19 fresh cases, Tirunelveli has an overall infection tally of 14,655. After 27 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 248 active cases. Kanniyakumari’s infection tally moved up to 15,472 following the admission of 13 new cases to hospitals. The district has 172 active cases after the discharge of 33 persons. Twelve persons tested positive in Thoothukudi, which saw its total case count rise to 15,493. The district, where 29 persons were discharged from hospitals, has 190 active cases. Virudhunagar recorded 11 new cases, which raised its tally to 15,707. After 12 patients were discharged, the district has 78 active cases. The death toll remains at 225. A similar number of fresh cases was reported in Sivaganga, which now has an overall tally of 6,173. Twenty-four persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving 104 active cases. In Dindigul, eight persons tested positive, taking the district’s total case count to 10,087. There were 15 discharges and the number of active cases in the district stands at 125. A fresh fatality took the district’s death toll to 191. Theni registered seven new cases to have a tally of 16,464. After the discharge of 11 persons, the district has 59 active cases. Ramanathapuram recorded six fresh cases, with which the total number of cases in the district rose to 6,140. The number of active cases stands at 39 after the discharge of nine persons. Similarly, Tenkasi too reported six new cases to have an overall infection tally of 7,955, with 66 active cases. Seventeen persons were discharged.
19 November 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Temple priest held under POCSO Act||Namakkal police on Wednesday arrested a temple priest from Rasipuram here allegedly for sexually misbehaving with two minor girls here. According to police, Shekar (50) reportedly used to offer talisman to persons who were brought to him assuming them to be possessed. According to police, two minor sisters aged 15 years and 13 years respectively from Salem were recently brought to Shekar assuming them to be possessed. However, the priest allegedly misbehaved with the girls. Based on complaint of victims’ mother Mangalapuram police arrested Shekar under POCSO Act.
19 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NABARD unveils Rs. 3,457.14 cr. potential-linked plan for U.T.||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has pegged the Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) for the Union Territory of Puducherry at Rs. 3,457.14 crore for 2021-22. The PLP outlay defines the potential available in Puducherry for bank finance during the next year. This would be utilised by banks for preparation of annual credit plan for branches in the U.T. The PLP 2021-22 projection is 5.3% more than that of the PLP projection for 2020-21. Under the broad sector-wise break-up of the projections, the highest outlay of 52% goes to crop production, maintenance, marketing, agriculture term loan, agriculture infrastructure including food and agro processing, followed by 24% each for MSME sector and other priority sectors (which include export credit, education, housing, renewable energy and social infrastructure). Revenue Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan released the PLP at the second meeting of the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) by handing over first copies to M.K. Bhattacharya, Executive Director, Indian Bank; K. Mahesh, Secretary, Housing, Town and Country Planning; and Padma Jaiswal, Secretary, Economics and Statistics. Minister’s appeal Mr. Shahjahan requested banks to encourage growth of MSME sector as it generated more employment and wanted them to make detailed assessment of market situation and guide the youths to start viable projects. Women SHGs need to be encouraged as the rate of recovery and financial management was better by these SHGs, he said. V. Vaithilingam, Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha), urged the banks to provide more loans to assist the revival of the urban economy that had come to a standstill due to the pandemic. S.M.N. Swamy, Chief General Manager, Reserve Bank of India, Chennai; Sreepathy Kalkura, Deputy General Manager, NABARD; M. Nagarajan, General Manager, Indian Bank, Chennai; S. Senthil Kumar, Zonal Manager and Convenor, SLBC, Indian Bank; T. Dhanraj, General Manager, Indian Bank, Corporate Office, Chennai; A. Udayakumar, Lead District Manager; Margaret Latetia, chairperson, Puduvai Bharatiar Grama Bank; Uday Kumar, LDM Indian Bank; and Uma Gurumurthy, AGM, NABARD. Executives and officials from all banks and senior officials from various departments of Union Territory of Puducherry participated. According to NABARD officials, assessment of potential under various sectors had been made keeping in view the growth trends, current levels of achievement, changes in unit costs, revised scales of finance and trends in credit flow. It had factored in priority sector guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India as well as the priorities of the Government of India to scale up lending to various sectors of the economy and doubling of farmers’ income by 2022.
19 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK urges Centre not to allow setting up of private universities||The All-India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) has requested the Centre not to accord sanction to the Puducherry Cabinet’s decision to establish private universities in the Union Territory. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, AIADMK leader in the Assembly, A. Anbalagan, said the Cabinet’s decision would help private medical and engineering colleges become universities. ‘No necessity’ The Union Territory already has a Central University, he said. The government had also taken steps to establish agriculture and law universities in the Union Territory, the letter added. There was no need for private universities in a small territory, he said, adding that if the Cabinet’s decision became a reality, the future of the students would get affected. Even now, private medical colleges were not parting with 50% of seats for government quota, Mr. Anbalagan said. The medical colleges, while obtaining permissions to start institutes, had assured the government that they would provide 50% seats to local students, he pointed out. Certain private medical colleges, by taking advantage of the loopholes in the system, had obtained deemed university status. Their decision had deprived local students of opportunities, the letter said. Mr. Anbalagan urged the Prime Minister to direct the Lt. Governor to ensure that private medical colleges allot 50% seats to government quota.
19 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Draft electoral rolls soon, says State Election Commissioner||The publication of draft electoral rolls for civic body elections has begun in the Union Territory and is likely to be completed shortly, Roy P. Thomas, State Election Commissioner, said on Wednesday. The revision of electoral rolls for civic body elections is being undertaken based on the delimitation of wards done in 2019. Electoral registration officers from Nettapakkam, Mannadipet, Ariyankuppam, Bahour, Villianur and T.R. Pattinam commune panchayats have published draft electoral rolls. Copies of the drafts are available for inspection at the respective offices of municipalities/commune panchayats. If there are any claims for the inclusion of names in the rolls or any objection to the inclusion of names or to particulars in any entry, it should be lodged before electoral registration officers or the designated officer, on or before November 23, in respect of Nettapakkam and Mannadipet, and November 24 in respect of Ariyankuppam, Bahour, Villianur and T.R. Pattinam commune panchayats, in designated forms. Every claim or objection should be presented at the respective offices of the Municipal Commissioners/Commune Panchayat Commissioners within the prescribed time limit. Other municipalities/commune panchayats are also in the process of publishing the draft electoral rolls, and it will be ready for publication this week.  Every claim or objection should be presented at the respective offices of the Municipal Commissioners/Commune Panchayat Commissioners
19 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry govt. to rope in private medical colleges for border vigilance||The number of active cases in the Union Territory dropped to 705, even as 56 fresh infections were reported on Wednesday. As many as 195 persons were discharged from various facilities after treatment. No deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours in Puducherry, leaving the toll at 608. Puducherry added 43 cases to its tally, Karaikal nine and Mahe four. No new cases were reported in Yanam. The positivity rate stood at 1.56%, case fatality rate at 1.67% and recovery rate at 96.4%. The U.T.’s case tally touched 36,465 and the total number of discharged persons 35,152. Of the 3.66 lakh samples tested so far, 3.25 lakh have returned negative. The administration has decided to rope in private medical colleges, located near the main highways, for testing passengers at the borders. After a daily review with officials Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said at present, the causes of infection could be boiled down to two types of exposure — contact with an infected person within family or with those arriving from Tamil Nadu. Six institutions, including Jipmer, will be co-opted in the exercise, on the basis of a recommendation by the COVID-19 war room. Random sample tests will be carried out at border points, by mobile teams, to identify sources of cross-border infections. As per the plan, PIMS will deploy a team at Kalapet; MGMCRI at Manapet; Aravind Eye Care at Thavalakuppam; Manakula Vinayakar Medical College at Madagadipet; Venkataeswara Medical College at Ariyur and Jipmer at Gorimedu. The District Collector has also been tasked with evolving a policy for tracking and testing/quarantining of pilgrims returning from Sabarimala, as Kerala has moved into the vulnerable category, Ms. Bedi said.  The Collector has also been tasked with evolving a policy for tracking and testing/quarantining of pilgrims returning from Sabarimala Kiran Bedi Lt. Governor
19 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Demolition of cricket stadium ordered||The Puducherry Planning Authority (PPA) has directed Siechem Technologies to demolish unauthorised constructions in Thuthipet. Siechem has constructed a cricket stadium on around 45 acres of land at Thuthipet. Member Secretary of PPA V. Bhuvaneswaran, in his order on Wednesday, said it was brought to the knowledge of the authority that the promoters of the company had indulged in illegal constructions in Thuthipet. The company, without obtaining permission from the PPA, had developed and constructed a number of buildings, the order said. The company has been directed to demolish the illegal constructions, within one month after receiving the notice from PPA. The Member Secretary also directed the Electricity and Public Works Departments not to provide electricity and water to the buildings. The authority has directed both the departments to disconnect the supplies if it was already given. It might be recalled that the Lt. Governor had issued a direction, last week, to the District Collector, T. Arun, to initiate action against the company for illegally constructing a cricket stadium in Thuthipet.  The Member Secretary has directed the Electricity and Public Works Departments not to provide electricity and water to the buildings
19 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minister wants probe in abuse case expedited||Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy on Wednesday directed the police to speed up investigation into the sexual abuse and use of five minor girls as bonded labourers at Keezh Sathamangalam. Mr. Kandasamy, who convened a meeting of officials from the Social Welfare Department and police officers, said steps should be taken to ensure that such crimes do not recur. Secretary of the Department Udayakumar and Senior Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) Pratiksha Godara were present.
19 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Night curfew lifted in Puducherry||The night-long curfew, in force in Puducherry from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m., as part of measures to check the spread of COVID-19 has been revoked with immediate effect. Collector T. Arun issued orders stating that the revocation was in keeping with the guidelines of the Union Home Ministry for reopening more activities, in a calibrated manner, outside containment zones. Timing restrictions at the beach have also been withdrawn. Industries, shops and establishments, hotels, restaurants, theatres and bars can now function as per normal permissible timings, subject to licence conditions in the Shops and Establishment Act and the Municipality and Excise Acts. Other guidelines, including following COVID-19-appropriate etiquette, will remain in force.
19 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Administration on alert as rain continues in South||Paramakudi recorded 131 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Wednesday, PWD officials said. After visiting a few of the tanks and ponds (ooranis) in the municipalities here, District Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, accompanied by Municipal Commissioner N. Viswanathan, BDOs Abdul Jabbar and A. Rajendran, instructed the municipal officials to coordinate with the PWD engineers and ensure that encroachments were evicted. As a part of a preparatory meeting ahead of the north-east monsoon held last month, the district administration had identified 39 low-lying areas, where water inundation had been witnessed in the past. Relief centres have been kept ready as a standby measure. The tanks, which may witness floods, have been stacked up with sand bags. The bunds have also been strengthened recently, the officials told the Collector, who assumed office a few days ago. The officials said that the district had been witnessing widespread rainfall over the last 48 hours. On November 17, there was 20.75 mm rainfall in the district, while it stood at 46.43 mm on November 18. Fifteen teams have been formed comprising officials from the revenue, police, rural development, health and fire and rescue services. They would be monitoring the situation closely. Public have been cautioned to stay indoors and also ensure that cattle and milch animals were in their custody. A toll free number 1077 and 04567-230060 has been installed at the Collectorate which would function as a control room in view of the north-east monsoon, officials said. The Collector visited Chidambaram Pillai Oorani, Nochivayal Oorani, Mugavai Oorani and a few other low-lying areas in the Ramanathapuram Municipal limits. Theni In Theni district, widespread rains was witnessed during the last 24 hours Vaigai saw a steady flow on Wednesday. Since Tuesday noon, many areas including catchment points such as Vellimalai, Arasaradi, Bommarajapuram, Varushanadu and Kadamalaikundu received steady flow and the inflow into Vaigai dam raised substantially, PWD officials said. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev held a review meeting with the officials and instructed on the need to be prepared to handle more rains that may be experienced in the next few days. Farmers were happy about the copious water flowing into the Vaigai. Though the north-east monsoon had set in last month, the district had not received its due share this season. Only during the last two or three days, monsoon has been active in the district, officials added.
19 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Theives break into temple in Ramanathapuram||Unidentified miscreants broke into a temple in Ramanathapuram and decamped with gold jewels adorned by the deity and also stole offerings from the hundial. Police said on Wednesday that the crime took place at Thillai Kaliamman Temple located in Kothar Street. The crime came as a rude shock to the devotees. On information the Bazaar police came to the spot with "Romeo" sniffer dog, which took the scent and ran to some distance, the police said. Inquiries revealed that the gold jewels weighed about three sovereigns and the hundial collection was not exactly known.
19 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Thieves break into temple||Unidentified miscreants broke into a temple and decamped with gold jewels adorned by the deity and also stole offerings from the hundial. Police said on Wednesday that the crime took place at Thillai Kaliamman Temple located in Kothar Street. The crime came as a rude shock to the devotees. On information the Bazaar police came to the spot with "Romeo" sniffer dog, which took the scent and ran to some distance, the police said. Inquiries revealed that the gold jewels weighed about three sovereigns and the hundial collection was not exactly known.
19 November 2020||S. Poorvaja Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Gemini Ganesh never differentiated between people’||On his centenary birth anniversary, actor Gemini Ganesh is still hailed as the unparalleled ‘ kaadhal mannan ’ or ‘King of Romance’. In a career spanning five decades with over 200 films to his credit, the veteran actor starred in critical and commercial successes and managed to carve a niche for himself. A chemistry honours graduate from Madras Christian College who also worked as a demonstrator on the campus, Ganesh initially started off as a casting assistant in Gemini Studios. While he debuted in 1947 in the Gemini Studios’ production Miss Malini , it was the 1953 film Manampola Mangalyam, where he played the main double role, which was a runaway success and catapulted him into the limelight. No inhibitions Speaking to mediapersons back in 1957, the actor spoke about how unlike most Tamil artistes, he had little or no experience of the stage and so he suffered from no inhibitions.  Kaaviya Thalaivi, Naan Avan Illai, Mayabazaar, Kappalotiya Thamizhan, Missiamma, Then Nilavu and Vanjikottai Valiban were among his many notable films. Gemini Ganesh, Sivaji Ganesan and M.G. Ramachandran were a celebrated golden trio as their films dominated the Tamil film industry in the 1950s. “The simplicity with which he led his life permeated into his acting and movies as well. In many of his movies, his onscreen persona as a simple, family man was someone with whom audiences at that time could relate to,” said Abhinay Vaddi, Gemini Ganesh’s grandson. The entrepreneur and actor said that he remembered his grandfather being very particular about replying to every fan mail that he had received. “He struck a sort of balance onscreen which made his acting honest and sincere. My favourite films of his were Missiamma and Mayabazaar . While many remember Sivaji Ganesan and my grandmother Savithri from the film Pasamalar , I enjoyed my grandfather’s performance a lot in that film,” he added. Exceptional quality An “extraordinarily affectionate person” is how Jaya Shreedhar, the actor’s daughter described him. “One of the best things we learnt from him was how he never differentiated between people based on anything,” she said. Dr. Shreedhar recalled how he cooked as enthusiastically for his fans as he would for the family. “He broke gender stereotypes and was an extremely progressive person,” she said. The daughter of the veteran actor said her father didn’t think twice about ensuring that she and her sisters were well educated. “As a dad, he has laid the foundation for where I am today,” she said. On the occasion of his birth centenary, his daughter, a leading obstetrician and fertility specialist Kamala Selvaraj released a series of videos on her YouTube channel featuring several members of the Tamil film fraternity who spoke about their association with the veteran actor. Kamal’s tribute Actor Kamal Haasan, who made his debut in film as a child actor in Kalathur Kannamma which starred Gemini Ganesh and Savithri in the lead roles, reminisced about ‘Gemini Mama’ and said that he was the first ‘cinema hero’ he had met on set. “I have organically learnt many things from him. He is someone who brought happiness to all our lives and there is no other way I can remember him,” the actor said, in a video. His contemporary, veteran actor Vyjayanthimala, who has starred opposite him in several films, recalled him as a jovial, cheerful person on set who was very easy to get along with.
19 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Periyar University signs MoU with NCC||A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Periyar University and National Cadet Corps Directorate for Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar here on Wednesday. The MoU was signed between K. Thangavel, Registrar, Periyar University, and Colonel LCS Naidu, Group Commander, Kovai Group on behalf of Commodore Malay K. Kukreti, Deputy Director General, NCC Directorate (TN,P and AN). According to a release, the MoU spells out the modalities for pursuit of PGDPM and MBA courses by officers of NCC serving with the Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andaman and Nicobar NCC Directorate. V.R. Palanivelu, Professor and Head of Management Studies, and Colonel P. Thomas Philip, Commanding Officer, 12 TN NCC Battalion, Salem, have been nominated as nodal officers for the purpose, a release said.
19 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Private school teachers demand compensation||Members of the Tamil Nadu Private Educational Institution Teachers’ Association petitioned District Collector here on Wednesday demanding the State government to provide private teachers with compensation since they have been severely affected due to the lockdown. The petitioners said that many of them did not receive proper salaries during the period. B. Jayakannan, State president of the organisation, said that during the lockdown, most of the teachers did not receive proper pay. Mr. Jayakannan said, some teachers were paid 30-40% and some were paid on an hourly basis. The State government should issue guidelines for issuing salaries for private teachers as many with Doctorates are still working for Rs. 5,000.” He said that a welfare board should be established for private teachers and a committee of educators should be formed to decide salary scale for private teachers.
19 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited to set up food park||The district administration has advised food product manufacturers here to apply for setting up businesses at food park. According to a release, the State government is setting up food park on 11.44 acres at Kanjanaikkenpatti near Kadayampatti under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sambada Yojana scheme. Interested persons can contact the secretary of Tamil Nadu State Agricultural Marketing Board Training Centre for details.
19 November 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Women farmers seek more facilities in uzhavar sandhai||Collector Madhusudhan Reddy, who took charge a few days ago, visited the uzhavar sandhai in Sivaganga town on Wednesday. The Collector, who went around the shandy, personally interacted with a few farmers about the vegetables grown by them and the mode of transport and among others, officials said. The farmers said that they transported the produce through public transport and hence got a reasonable margin. They expressed satisfaction about the infrastructural facilities in the shandy. They also said that surplus vegetables were kept in a cold storage facility available in the shandy. The agriculture department officials said that they fixed the price in such a way that both the buyer and seller were benefited. The price of vegetables in private markets/stores were higher than at the shandy, they added. However, some of the women farmers said that there was a lack of toilets in the campus. Some others wanted a drinking water facility. After listening to the farmers, the Collector ordered the Municipal authorities to examine the modalities to build toilets at the shandy. Receipts for petitioners Mr Reddy, who inspected a couple of taluk offices in the district including Kalayarkoil, Illayankudi and Manamadurai, told the officials to issue receipts to the petitioners. By issuing an acknowledgement, it would be ideal for higher officials to cross check. The petitioners can also be given a reasonable date on which the grievance can be redressed. In the event of delay, the higher officials at the next level can examine the reasons for the delay. In this way, the petitioners would get the welfare assistance or any other scheme of things from the government without delay. 14 families shifted With the onset of north-east monsoon, the big tank at Kazhuvankulam had reached the maximum level. Following this, the Collector, who took stock of the situation directed the officials concerned to shift 14 families to a government school and provide them with relief at once. He also visited the dwellings in the low-lying areas, where there was waterlogging. The Collector asked the PWD engineers to ensure that bunds were strengthened at Kazhuvankulam. Four get medical seat Congratulating four students from the district, who had got a seat in the government medical college, through the horizontal reservation of 7.5 %, the Education Department officials said that C. Chinnanambi (who got 448 score in NEET) got an allotment in Stanley Government Medical College, Chennai. Similarly, S Yogendran (356) got allotment in Tirunelveli Government Medical College, R Amirtham of Ariyakudi near Karaikudi who had 255 score on NEET was issued a seat at Pudukottai Government Medical College and R. Sruthi of Singampunari who had obtained 249 in NEET got a seat in Sivaganga Government Medical College. The Chief Educational officer Balamuthu appreciated the students for their feat.
19 November 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Masked men rob family at knifepoint||Three unidentified persons, who broke into a house in Annamalaiyar Colony in Sivakasi, allegedly robbed 38 sovereigns of gold at knifepoint after tying up the inmates in the early hours of Wednesday. The police said that V. Nandhakumar, who runs an offset printing unit on Tiruthangal Road, was sleeping with his elder son, Vijay Arjun, in one of the bedrooms on Tuesday night. At around 1.30 a.m., he was woken up by a strange noise from the next bedroom where his wife, Chithradevi and his younger son, Ajay Karthik, were sleeping. He rushed to the room and found three masked men standing with knives. They gagged him and tied him up. They then made him lie down on the dining room and covered him with a bedsheet. The robbers also tied up his wife and two sons. The robbers then took away 38 sovereigns of gold and Rs. 70,000 from the house. Later, the family members managed to free themselves and called the police. Sivakasi Town police are investigating.
19 November 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Man held for downloading, sharing child pornography||The Alangulam All Women Police have arrested a youth for allegedly downloading and circulating child porn on social media. Police said the National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC) alerted the Tenkasi Police after it found that a subscriber was downloading child porn and sharing it on social media. Based on the information provided by the NCMEC, the police started investigation and zeroed in on Murugesan, 38, from Avudaiyanoor near Pavoorchathram, who is working in a vegetable market. The police confirmed that Murugesan had downloaded child porn and shared it with his friends through social media platforms. The case was handed over to the Alangulam All Women Police, who arrested Murugesan under POCSO Act and IT Act that prohibits downloading and sharing of child porn. “The NCMEC, using the Internet Protocol, monitors those who are uploading, watching and downloading child porn on internet and sharing it with others. Based on the information getting extracted in this connection, the NCMEC would share it with the Sate Crime Records Bureau to be forwarded to the Superintendent of Police concerned for further and appropriate action,” sources in the police said.
19 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Public stage road roko in Thoothukudi||Protesting the Corporation’s move to remove a roadside temple to facilitate the construction of stormwater drain, a group of people staged a road roko at State Bank Colony on Wednesday. As the Corporation is constructing 6-feet-wide stormwater drain along the 60-feet-road in State Bank Colony, it was decided to remove a roadside Vinayagar temple. When the Corporation personnel came on Wednesday to remove the temple, a group of people opposed it. When the protestors informed MLA Geetha Jeevan, she joined them and started road roko, in which BJP’s State Executive Committee member M. R. Kanagaraj also participated as he was reportedly maintaining the temple. The statue had been installed on the land belonging to Mr. Kanagaraj and hence it should not be removed, they argued. As Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan spoke to Ms. Geetha over the phone that the temple would not be removed as of now and it would be decided later, the agitation was withdrawn.
19 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rain in Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts||Moderate to heavy rain lashed Tiruchi, Nagapattinam, Thiruvarur and Thanjavur districts on Wednesday. Though there was sunshine in the morning hours, the downpour at several parts of the central region threw normal life out of gear. There was widespread rain in Tiruchi district during the last 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday. The highest rainfall of 40 mm was recorded in Pulivalam followed by Ponnaiyar Dam - 36.40 mm, Marungapuri - 35.40 mm, Samayapuram - 35.20 mm, Tiruchi Junction - 35 mm, Golden Rock - 33.40 mm, Musiri - 32 mm, Lalgudi - 28 mm, Tiruchi Airport - 27.50 mm, Tiruchi Town - 27.30 mm, Nandhiyar Head - 26.80 mm, Devimangalam - 25 mm, Manapparai - 23.60 mm, Vathalai Anicut - 22.20 mm, Kallakudi - 21.20 mm, Kovilpatti - 20.20 mm, Thathiengarpet - 20 mm, Navalur Kottapattu - 19.60 mm, Pullambadi - 16.20 mm, Thuvakudi IMTI - 12 mm, Sirugudi - 11 mm, Thuraiyur - 8 mm, and Koppampatti - mm In Nagapattinam district, Vedaranyam received the highest rainfall of 39.40 mm followed by Thirupoondi - 37.40 mm, Thalaignayar - 36 mm, Mayiladuthurai - 26.10, Manalmedu - 17 mm, Nagapattinam - 14.20 mm, Kollidam - 2 mm and Sirkazhi - 1.4 mm. In Tiruvarur district, Nannilam received the highest rainfall of 83.60 mm followed by Thiruvarur - 65.20 mm, Kodavasal - 64.80 mm, Valangaiman - 45.20 mm, Needamangalam and Thiruthuraipoondi - 33.40 mm, Pandawaiyaru - 27.60 mm, Mannaragudi - 25 mm, and Muthupettai - 21.60 mm. In Thanjavur district, Ayyampettai received the highest rainfall of 66 mm, followed by Peravurani - 45.60 mm, Thirukattupalli - 39.70 mm, Budalur - 37.60 mm, Manjalaru - 32.80 mm, Thanjavur - 30 mm, Thiruvaiyaru - 29 mm, Eachanviduthi - 25.20 mm, Papanasam - 25 mm, Grand Anicut - 24.40 mm, Neivasal Thenpathi - 22.40 mm, Adirampatnam - 21.40 mm, Thiruvadaimaruthur - 21.20 mm, Pattukottai - 18.30 mm,Madukkur - 15.40 mm, Kumbakonam - 15 mm, Vettikadu - 13.60 mm, Lower Ancut - 10.40 mm, Orathanadu - 8.60 mm, Vallam and Kurungalam - 8 mm.
19 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||139 fresh cases in central region||The central districts on Wednesday recorded a further drop in COVID-19 cases with 139 patients testing positive for the viral infection. No COVID-19 death was reported in the region on Wednesday, according to the health bulletin released by the State Health Department. Meanwhile, a total of 38 patients tested positive in Nagapattinam, which reported the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region. Among them were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. In Tiruchi, 31 patients tested positive, indicating a further dip in fresh cases. Patients in the district were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of 11 patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Wednesday. All other districts reported below 30 cases. Thanjavur reported a sharp drop with 24 fresh cases for the viral infection while Tiruvarur reported 21 new cases. Patients in both cases were local index cases with no travel or contact history, or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Meanwhile, in Karur, 13 patients, including residents from Gandhigramam, Valayudhampalayam, Vengamedu and Rajapuram tested positive. Inter-district travellers from Tiruchi and Dindigul too, tested positive. Pudukottai reported nine fresh cases. Patients in the district were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. Two patients tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, one patient tested positive for COVID-19, recording a sharp fall in COVID-19 cases in the neighbouring districts.
19 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rainfall inadequate in Tiruchi district||Though the rainfall received during the past few days has brought relief to the water managers, the district is yet to get close to the normal rainfall accruing from the north-east monsoon at this time of the year. The district receives an average of 427 mm of rainfall during the north-east monsoon and 788 mm in a year. It records 170 mm of rainfall in October and 190 mm of rainfall in November. But the district received just 60 mm of rainfall in October, registering a shortfall of 120 mm. It has received about 50 mm of rainfall so far in November. The monsoon has become active only for the last few days. “That monsoon has finally become active is a cause for relief. But, we still face a severe shortfall. We are badly in need of a good rainy season to make up for the shortfall,” a senior official of the Agricultural Department said. The steady and intermittent rain has nevertheless gladdened the water managers and the farmers as it is vital for recharge of groundwater. “The sky has been overcast for the last three days. The showers have not been heavy. It has been raining all over the district including Musiri, Lalgudi, Pullambadi, Samayapuram, Manapparai and Marungapuri. The rainfall will be helpful for recharge of groundwater and sustaining the standing crops,” the official added. The current rain is believed to have saved the standing maize crop raised in different parts of the district. The rainfed crop, raised on about 30,000 hectares in Lalgudi, Manapparai, Marungapuri, Vaiyampatti, Thuraiyur, Pullambadi, Thathaiyangarpettai, Thottiam and Musiri blocks, was badly in need of water. With poor rainfall in October and up to the second week of November, the standing crop had even started withering in several areas. However, the ongoing rain will enable farmers to stabilise the crop. Agricultural officials observe that the timing of the rainfall was ideal for the cotton crop raised on 8,000 hectares in Musiri, Thottiam, Mannachanallur and Kattuputhur areas. Moreover, it would facilitate the paddy farmers to complete the paddy transplantation in delta areas. “We still deem that the ongoing rainfall movement is not vigorous. We face a shortfall of about 200 mm, and hope for an extended spell of monsoon rain,” the official added.
19 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Garbage piles up in residential areas||Residents of Ramalinga Nagar in Woraiyur are vexed as waste materials are dumped in an empty plot in the area. Amid the COVID-19 lockdown, garbage gets piling up every day, residents in the vicinity complained. The practice by a section of the public to discard domestic waste materials at road corners, drainage canals and unclaimed land has been persisting despite the Corporation’s awareness initiatives. While a section of residents complained of irregularity in garbage collection, some admitted public apathy. ‘Residents living in apartments, large buildings and within small streets ignore the van and dump their garbage in this area,’ said S. Muthumani, a resident. The increase in garbage has meant larger presence of dogs and cattle rummaging the dump. They drag the garbage to the road and make a mess of the entire street. The garbage emits a foul smell; mosquitoes, flies and other insects breed on it,’ said Muthumani. The civic body, earlier this year, declared many streets as litter-free zones and and removed nearly 95% of large public dustbins. The garbage collected from each house would be taken to a micro-compost yard where it was segregated and bio-degradable waste was turned into compost while non-biodegradable waste was sold. ‘Those large dustbins would have been a saving grace during these times.’
19 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements ready for contingency||The Tiruchi Corporation has drawn up a plan to tackle the civic issues which may arise during the monsoon period. Apart from being equipped with machinery, a helpline to address public grievances has also been set up. Stormwater drains spanning to about 43 km have been cleaned up in preparation, said S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner. Low-lying areas have been earmarked and precautionary measures including alerting the residents have been undertaken. The officials, based on the rain forecast, have been asked to provide updates to the public. A total of 12 motors, lorries, two earth movers and other facilities have been kept ready for immediate use, if need arises. A special monitoring team has been set up at each zonal office to ensure that the zones are being monitored for inundation, clogging and other such issues regularly, he said. ‘In case of trees being uprooted, staff are on standby to immediately rush to the spot and clear them, he added. A total of 42 schools across the cities have been kept ready, in case evacuation was necessary due to inundation of residential localities. ‘Food arrangements and other needs are on standby,’ he said. A designated phone operator has been appointed at all four zonal offices to respond to public grievances, he said.
19 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Rain continues in southern districts||Tirunelveli district received significant and widespread rainfall for the third day on Wednesday. The district experienced widespread rain on Tuesday night and intermittent drizzle continued on Wednesday too. As there was no heavy rain on Wednesday normal life was not affected. Though discharge of water from Papanasam and Manimuthar dams has been reduced, the Tamirabharani experienced the first flood of the season, as wild streams in several places leading to heavy flow in the perennial river. After the nort-heast monsoon started a week ago, 130 irrigation tanks – all system tanks - in the district are overflowing and eight houses have been partly damaged. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Papanasam dam – 117, Servalar dam – 106, Ambasamudram – 80.40, Cheranmahadevi – 68, Manimuthar dam – 65, Kodumudiyar dam – 60, Palayamkottai – 46, Nanguneri – 43, Tirunelveli – 42, Radhapuram – 34 and Nambiyar dam – 26. Tenkasi All the waterfalls in Courtallam continued to get huge influx of water following rains along the Western Ghats. As the district administration has banned bathing in the waterfalls in the wake of the pandemic, there were no visitors. Since all the reservoirs in the district are about to reach the maximum storage level, Collector G. S. Sameeran and Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh have appealed to the public not to go to the dams and also restrained the public from taking bath in the channels carrying the water discharged from the reservoirs. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Gundar dam – 99, Ramanadhi dam – 95, Sivagiri – 81, Gadana dam – 73, Tenkasi – 72, Shencottai – 71, Karuppanadhi dam – 62, Aayikudi – 60, Adavinainar dam – 52 and Sankarankovil – 48. Thoothukudi After the heavy downpour on Monday, Thoothukudi experienced widespread rainfall since Tuesday night. Due to intermittent drizzle on Wednesday, the Corporation’s attempt to pump out rainwater stagnating at more than 40 spots was hampered. Residents of State Bank Colony were a harried lot as they experienced waterlogging as work on stormwater drains which began two years ago was yet to be completed. Situation in places like Krishnarajapuram, Poobalarayarpuram, S. S. Manickapuram, Vetrivelpuram, Terespuram, Cruzpuram, Innaciarpuram, Kandasamypuram, Polepettai, Anna Nagar, George Road and the adjoining areas, where roads which were already in a bad shape turned worse forcing residents to remain indoors. Even as rainwater stagnating on the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital premises was being pumped out continuously, bleaching powder was sprinkled all over the hospital campus by a team of Corporation personnel. Dean Revathi Balan, Resident Medical Officer J. Silas Jayamani and Superintendent L. Pavalan monitored the work. While, waterbodies in the district were getting good influx of water, 1,100 cusecs of water was going waste from Srivaikundam check dam after water was released in Vadakaal, Thenkaal, Marudhur Melakaal and Marudhur Keezhakaal to feed the irrigation tanks under these channels. Of the 53 irrigation tanks under the Tamirabharani in Thoothukudi district, Sivakalai tank was overflowing even as 31 other tanks have 50% water. Rain has so far damaged forty houses – three fully and 37 partly. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Kayalpattinam – 215, Tiruchendur – 91, Kulasekarapattinam – 77, Ettaiyapuram – 76, Kadambur – 70, Kayathar – 68, Srivaikundam – 65, Sattankulam – 49, Vilathikulam – 48, Maniyaachi – 47, Kadalkudi – 46, Kovilpatti – 39, Thoothukudi – 33, Ottapidaram – 31, Vaippaar – 26, Soorangudi – 23, Kazhugumalai – 16 and Keezha Arasadi – 10. Kanniyakumari The coastal district of Kanniyakumari too experienced decent rainfall on Wednesday. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Kottaaram – 96, Mayilaadi – 67, Kannimar – 48, Petchippaarai Dam and Balamore – 44, Chittar – I – 36, Nagercoil – 35, Surulacode – 33, Boothapandi – 32, Adaiyaamadai, Perunchaani Dam, Puththen Dam and Chittar II – 27, Maambazhathuraiyar Dam and Kurunthancode – 26, Aanaikidangu – 25, Aralvaimozhi – 23, Kozhiporevilai – 22, Mukkadal Dam – 21, Kuzhithurai – 20, Mullankinaavilai – 18, Eraniel – 16, Colachel – 12, Thuckalay – 11 and Kaliyal – 5.
19 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||188 relief camps ready in Tirunelveli; Collector||The district administration has kept ready 188 temporary relief camps and 7 multipurpose relief centers in the coastal areas to receive the people to be relocated due to flooding during this monsoon, Collector V. Vishnu has said. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday evening after chairing a meeting with the officials from departments of revenue, rural development, public works, fire and rescue, public health, TANGEDCO etc. to discuss the precautionary measures put in place, Mr. Vishnu said the district administration had taken every possible step to mitigate monsoon-related woes. A total of 188 temporary relief camps had been kept ready across the district to relocate the public from affected areas. Moreover, seven multi-purpose relief centers were ready in the coastal areas to receive the relocated population. Though the district had received 61.93% rainfall against its annual average rainfall, the Manimuthar dam has only 53% water against its maximum storage level of 5,511 mcft and Papanasam dam has 72% water. The officials attached to the revenue, horticulture and agriculture have been directed to jointly inspect the crop loss, if any, due to downpour or flood so as to ensure early disbursal of relief. The public could contact the call centre through 1077, 0462 – 2501012 / 2500191 in case of rain-related problems. Moreover, rain-related WhatsApp messages could be sent to District Collector’s Office (63740 01902), taluk offices at Tirunelveli (94450 00671), Palayamkottai (94450 00669), Maanur (94422 14727), Cheranmahadevi (97515 01322), Ambasamudram (94450 00672), Nanguneri (90805 89731), Radhapuram (96777 81680) and Thisaiyanvilai (99443 06770). “The district has not witnessed any significant damage to any property so far during this monsoon. However, all arrangements have been put in place to face any situation,” Mr. Vishnu said.
19 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Works under ‘Smart City’ projects inspected||District Collector V. Vishnu inspected some of the ongoing development works being executed under the Rs. 990.34 crore-‘Smart City’ projects in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai on Wednesday. Under the scheme, a truck terminal at Pettai has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 14.67 crore and 20 parks created. The Corporation has procured 270 battery-operated garbage collection vehicles on an outlay of Rs. 4.96 crore. Twelve anganvadi buildings have been built and 23 existing anganvadis upgraded with better facilities at a cost of Rs. 4.68 crore. Construction of Tirunelveli Junction and Palayamkottai bus stands, multi-level parking facility at new bus-stand, trade centre at Exhibition Grounds, open air theatre at Nehru Auditorium etc. were under way as part of the works. Mr. Vishnu visited the truck terminal at Pettai, multi-level car parking facility at the new bus stand, upgraded anganvadis and a few parks on Wednesday along with Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan, Executive Engineer L. K. Bhaskar, Assistant Collector (Training) Alarmelmangai, Assistant Commissioner, Melapalayam Zone, Sughi Premala and Assistant Executive Engineer Lenin. He urged the officials to expedite the ongoing works to ensure early completion with better quality of construction.
19 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Youth held for murdering sister||The Palayamkottai police have arrested a youth for allegedly murdering his younger sister. Police said R. Nallaiah alias Kutty, 30, of Ilanthaikulam in Palayamkottai hacked to death his sister Saraswathi, 25, even as she was fetching water from a public tap near their house on Tuesday night. She died on the spot. During interrogation, Kutty told the Palayamkottai police that his sister used to spend lot of time time on her mobile phone, which had irked him. Ignoring her brother’s warning Saraswathi had continued to speak with her friends over the phone. Agitated over this, Kutty murdered her, the police said. Palayamkottai police have registered a case.
19 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||SFI stages demo||Condemning the withdrawal of writer Arundhati Roy’s book ‘Walking with the Comrades’ from its syllabus for postgraduate English course, members of Students Federation of India (SFI) staged a demonstration in front of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) campus at Abhiskepatti on Wednesday. After raising slogans against MSU for withdrawing the book, which was taken following opposition from Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarti Parishad (ABVP), the protestors announced that they would lay siege to the MSU until their demand of re-induction of the book in the syllabus was met. When the representatives met Vice-Chancellor K. Pitchumani and handed over their representation, he assured them that the issue would be discussed in the Board of Studies and appropriate decision taken. Subsequently, the agitation was withdrawn.
19 November 2020||Tirupathur,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in accident in Vaniyambadi||Three persons died after a van and a motorbike collided in Vaniyambadi early on Wednesday. Three persons, who are critically injured, have been admitted to hospital. According to the police, Sekhar, 45, of Tiruvannamalai was driving a goods van from Arcot to Krishnagiri. Gunasekaran, 32, from Cheyyar and one more person were travelling by the van. When the vehicle passed by Chettiyappanur village, three youths riding a motorbike — Dinesh of Narayanapuram, Aakash of Nadipattarai and Shankar from Bedhabvepampattu — came from the opposite direction at great speed and collided with the van. In the impact, Sekhar lost control of the van and rammed a wall. Gunasekaran, who was sitting in the driver’s cabin, died on the spot. Hearing the noise, some passers-by and local village residents rushed to the spot. “The injured were rushed to Vaniyambadi Government Hospital for treatment,” said a police source. However, Aakash and Shankar, died of injuries. The other three were in intensive care unit. The police have registered a case and are investigating. “To reduce driving at night, we are requesting drivers to rest for a few hours and are providing refreshments. Despite all our efforts, such accidents happen,” said a senior police officer.
19 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Electrocuted||A Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) contract worker was electrocuted in Palladam on Wednesday. According to police sources, N. Vijayanarayanan (27) was assisting the Tangedco lineman in repairing one of the transformers at Ganapathipalayam when he was electrocuted. Appeal City Police Commissioner G. Karthikeyan has appealed to the public to refrain from playing online gambling games. He said in a statement that the police are taking steps to curb online gambling and requested parents not to allow their children to play such games on their phones.
19 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Revised ‘Green Tax’ to be levied from December 1||The ‘Green Tax’ levied by the Nilgiris district administration on tourist as well as freight vehicles entering the district at Kallar and Kakkanallah check-posts has been revised. Previously, all vehicles were charged a uniform fee of Rs. 30 at the check-posts. However, the charges have been revised for all outstation vehicles, the district administration announced. A press release stated that buses and lorries will be levied Rs. 100, while maxi cabs, taxis and light motor vehicles will be charged Rs. 70. Moreover, cars and off-road vehicles will be charged Rs. 30 while motorcyclists will have to pay Rs. 10. The new system will be in force from December 1. Receipts are to be issued at the check-posts, and the Collector has appealed to all tourists and visitors to co-operate with the initiative. The “Green tax” will be used by the administration to carry out works to restore and maintain the fragile Nilgiris landscape, with funds being used to pay workers to recycle garbage and litter which gets thrown on the roads and public places by tourists, local residents and motorists entering the district.
19 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore’s tally surges to 18,875||The number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,875 with 71 new cases reported on November 18. While 18,330 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 222. The district’s death toll is 323. In Ranipet district, 21 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,414. In Tirupathur district, the number of positive cases stands at 7,094 with 14 new cases on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 25 new cases were reported, taking the total to 18,361. Out of this, 17,809 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 281.
19 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar records 61.65 mm rainfall, dam levels see a rise||Virudhunagar district experienced heavy rain for the second day on Tuesday and the district recorded an average of 61.65 mm. Sivakasi and Kariyapatti rain gauge stations recorded 92 mm and 90.60 mm of rainfall respectively. The widespread showers was reported in all the 12 rain gauge stations in the district. Rainfall recorded in other stations are Tiruchuli and Srivilliputtur 68 mm each, Rajapalayam 66, Pilavakkal 67, Watrap 60.20, Aruppukottai 59, Vembakottai 52.70, Virudhunagar 37.30, Kovilankulam 39.60 and Sattur 39.40 mm. Meanwhile, 67 mm of rainfall was recorded in Pilavakkal Periyar area and it helped the dam receive a huge inflow of 391.51 cusecs of water. The level increased to 200.86 metres (204.50 metres). Similarly, Kovilar dam also benefited with 60 mm of rainfall as it got an inflow of 59.34 cusecs. The level in the dam was 205.28 metres (212 metres). Sasthakoil dam that received 112 mm of rainfall saw 195 cusecs of inflow and the water level touched 103 metres (103.40 metres). Meanwhile, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan has instructed various agencies to inspect the highways and other roads to ensure that roads were safe for road users during the monsoon season. Chairing a meeting with the officials of National Highways Authority of India, State Highways and Southern Railway officials, he said that the rain was expected to continue in the district for the next few days. “The officials should ensure that there is no hurdle for road users and no water should get stagnant on the roads and drainage system should be well maintained,” the Collector said. Mr. Kannan also instructed the officials to inspect the railway sub-ways and operate the motor pumps to ensure no waterlogging. The officials also inspected some flyovers and road overs bridges on Madurai-Tirunelveli highway. The Collector also instructed the NHAI officials to expeditiously repair the portion of ROB at R.R. Nagar that collapsed on Tuesday. District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian, NHAI Project Director , Madurai, V. Saravanan, Deputy Project Director (Maintenance, NHAI), Sivaperumal, Divisional Engineer (Highways), Murugesan, were among those who took part.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports further decline in daily caseload||Coimbatore district on Wednesday reported further decline in the daily COVID-19 caseload. The district had 817 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Wednesday including the 162 persons, who tested positive for the disease on the day. The Health Department said that the district reported one more death due to the disease. As many as 205 persons recovered from the disease and returned to their homes on Wednesday. Two women from Tiruppur district aged 75 and 43 died at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital, Perundurai, on Monday. The district had 673 active cases. The district reported 80 new cases of the disease on Wednesday. As many as 103 persons from the district recovered from the disease. Erode district reported 42 new cases, taking the tally to 11,746. While 102 persons were discharged, 458 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, 57 cases were reported, lowest to be reported in recent times. According to health officials, 51 were indigenous and six have returned from other places. In Namakkal, 38 cases were reported, of which 37 were indigenous. In Dharmapuri, five indigenous cases and in Krishnagiri, 31 indigenous cases were reported. In the Nilgiris, 17 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the district stands at 7,162. The death toll stood at 41 on Wednesday, while a release from the the district administration said that 165 persons are undergoing treatment.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM distributes allotment letters to medical students||In his speech, he said the scheme for reserving seats for government school students arose after only six such students were admitted to MBBS last year. These students would establish mini-clinics across the State and provide healthcare to people in their localities, he said. Several parents who came up to express their gratitude to the government broke down. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the counselling was transparent. It was made in-person as the government did not want to give room for any doubts about nativity or malpractice. “We have scrutiny desks, and there is a notary public for certification,” he said. The State government medical colleges with 250 seats, such as Madras Medical College and Stanley Medical College, and those in Madurai and Tirunelveli, had each allotted 16 seats, while Government Kilpauk Medical College, the government colleges in Thanjavur, Coimbatore, Karur, Pudukottai, Tiruchi, Thoothukudi and Kanyakumari and the Rajah Muthiah Medical College, Chidambaram, had allotted 10 seats each. Government colleges in Salem, Chengalpattu, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Theni, Dharmapuri, Villupuram, Sivagangai and Thiruvarur and the government college at Omandurar Government Estate, Chennai, had allocated six seats each. IRT Perundurai Medical College and ESIC Medical College, K.K. Nagar, Chennai, allocated four seats each. In the self-financing medical colleges, 86 seats have been allocated. The government dental college and the Rajah Muthiah Dental College have allocated six seats each, while the self-financing colleges will admit 80 students.  Candidates will be allowed to join the allotted college as soon as they receive allotment letters, Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu said. Asked how students from the poor families would be able to pay the fees in a self-financing college, he said the government planned to approach the commissions for the backward classes and the minorities and the corporates for help to finance their education. Of the 270 candidates invited for counselling, 262 took part. While 224 candidates were allotted seats in government medical colleges, four were allotted seats in self-financing medical colleges. Seven candidates were allotted seats in government dental college and 27 opted to be wait-listed. At the end of the day, there were only three seats left in the government quota, all of them in Rajah Muthiah Medical College. There were 82 seats in self-financing medical colleges. The Rajah Muthiah Dental College had five seats and there were 80 seats in self-financing dental colleges.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kushboo escapes unhurt in accident||A container lorry hit the car in which actor-politician Kushboo Sundar was travelling in Madurantakam on Wednesday morning. She did not sustain any injuries. According to police, Ms. Khushboo was heading from Chennai to Cuddalore to take part in the BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’. When her vehicle reached Ayyanar Koil in Madurantakam, a lorry hit her car from the side. The vehicle was partially damaged on the left side and in the middle, but the actor, who was sitting in the front seat, did not sustain any injury. “We were going to Cuddalore in the right lane, and when the vehicle was near Madurantakam a container lorry came from the left and hit the vehicle. Fortunately I was not injured,” said Ms. Kushboo. A police complaint has been filed. “They’re investigating to see if there was any foul play involved,” she added. “Both vehicles were heading in the same direction and the lorry scraped against Ms. Kushboo’s vehicle. We have detained the driver. Further investigations are on. We do not suspect any foul play as of now,” said an officer.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Needs attention||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Danger zone||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Monsoon blooms||
19 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Maharashtra leaders making merger statements with an eye on elections’||“Maharashtra leaders keep making false promises on merging Belagavi and other parts of Karnataka with Maharashtra. Such statements are made purely for political gains. We should not take them seriously. They should be completely ignored,” Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar said in Belagavi on Wednesday. He was reacting to remarks made by Maharashtra Minister and Nationalist Congress Party leader Ajit Pawar that the Maharashtra government would definitely absorb Marathi-speaking parts of Belagavi, Bidar and Uttara Kannada districts into Maharashtra. Speaking at the death anniversary of Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray in Mumbai on Tuesday, Mr. Pawar said that it was the dream of Bal Thackeray to add all Marathi-speaking areas in the neighbouring States to Maharashtra and that the coalition government in Maharashtra would fulfil it soon. “Bal Thackeray dreamt of Belagavi city, Nippani and some villages from Belagavi district, Karwar and other towns and some villages from Uttara Kannada district and Aurad, Bhalki and Bidar from Bidar district being merged with Maharashtra. We are taking all steps to make sure that his dream comes true soon,” Mr. Pawar said. To this, Mr. Somashekar said that Maharashtra leaders are making such statements with an eye on elections. “I am sure there is some election or byelection there. That is why such false promises are being made. There is no need to attach any seriousness to them. They should be completely ignored,” Mr. Somashekar added. He was here to participate in the all India Cooperative Federation Conference. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi said that Belagavi was an integral part of the State and it would remain so till there were stars in the sky. “We have read news reports about such statements by some Maharashtra leaders. We reiterate that Belagavi is ours and no one can change the situation,” he said.
19 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Don’t mix up Marathi language with Maratha community, urge leaders||The opposition to Karnataka government setting up a development corporation for Marathas is misplaced and arises out of misunderstanding, say community leaders and scholars. The misunderstanding is between the terms “Maratha”, which signifies a group of castes, and “Marathi”, the language spoken by several communities in Maharashtra and some border districts. Marathas have mostly remained a backward group and deserve government benefits, say community leaders. “The Maratha manus (Maratha community) and the Marathi manus (Marathi speakers) are two different entities. But some people tend to think they are the same. That is causing all the problems,” said B.K. Patil, senior leader of Maratha community in Belagavi.  “Most Marathas from my generation have studied in Kannada medium schools. We belong to Karnataka. Some of our relatives may be in Maharashtra, but we are proud to identify ourselves as Kannadigas,” said Vilasrao More, advocate and leader of the Maratha Kshatriya Samaj from Basava Kalyan. Mr. More, who has worked as a Karnataka government pleader in the past, said parties like MES which have been demanding merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra have never been stakeholders in the development of the Maratha community. Kiran Jadhav, leader of the Maratha Kshatriya Yuva Manch, said most of the sub-castes among Marathas remain poor and backward. Except five to six dominant sub-castes, most Maratha communities are backward, he argued. “They suffer from illiteracy and live a hand-to-mouth existence. They hardly own land or assets and they would definitely benefit from government schemes,” he said. Sarju Katkar, a Kannada writer who belongs to one of the Maratha sub-castes, said people mistakenly think the corporation is meant for Marathi language groups, which is far from the truth. He added that the newly-formed body should focus on giving scholarships, building hostels, and disbursing easy loans to entrepreneurs. Kannada activists in Belagavi suspect this is a pre-poll gimmick to influence Maratha voters in Basava Kalyan and Belagavi that are facing bypolls, but are not opposed to the idea per say. “Our stand is clear. We want the government to set up such bodies for other caste groups only after it has strengthened long-standing ones like the border development commission. The Chief Minister’s step may be well intended, but it is ill timed,” said Ashok Chandaragi, a Kannada activist. Elusive numbers However, in the absence of a caste census, no one seems to have a clear idea about the numerical strength of the community. In a memorandum submitted to the State government in 2018, the Karnataka Maratha Kshatriya Samaj (KMKS) had claimed that there were over 50 lakh Marathas in different districts of Karnataka. They had sought re-categorisation of the group to 2A from 3B of the backward classes list. “That demands still stands, but we welcome the plans to establish the authority,” said Anil Benake, MLA and KMKS leader.  We want the government to set up such bodies for other caste groups only after it has strengthened long-standing ones like the border development commission. The CM’s step may be well intended, but it is ill timed. Ashok Chandaragi Kannada activist
19 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||An umbrella term||It is widely believed that the term Maratha is a federation or an umbrella term that includes 96 sub-castes. Maratha communities believe that they are “Shahan Nau Kuleen” or one among the 96 sub-castes. Though all of them agree on the number 96, they don’t seem to agree on which sub-castes are included in the group. Some among the sub-castes are Kunbis, farmers, Dhanagar or shepherds, Lohar or blacksmiths, Sutar or carpenter, Koli or boat men, Bhandari, and Thakar. Patils or Paatidars are landowners who own the Patta or a land revenue record. They can be from any of these sub-castes.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||International drug racket: Hacker held||The Central Crime Branch has arrested a 25-year-old software engineer who was allegedly hacking websites to steal data and money, which he would then convert into bitcoins and use it to purchase drugs from the darknet. The accused, Sri Krishna, also reportedly carried out ransomware attacks where after hacking a website, he would encrypt data and demand payment from owners for the site to be unlocked. His modus operandi came to light during an ongoing investigation into an international drug racket where seven people have been arrested, including former Minister Rudrappa Lamani’s son Darshan Lamani and his associates Hemanth and Suneesh Hegde. Sri Krishna, a resident of Jayanagar, was arrested on Tuesday based on information provided by an accused in the case. “Sri Krishna studied till pre-university in Bengaluru before enrolling in a university in Amsterdam, Netherlands, where he graduated in computer science in 2017,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime). According to the police, he returned to Bengaluru soon after but could not get a job. “He started hacking gaming websites and other sites to steal data, get information on credit/debit cards used by people who accessed the sites, and so on,” said a CCB official. During this time, he was approached by Suneesh Hegde who was looking to purchase hydro ganja through dealers on the darknet. According to the CCB, Sri Krishna agreed to help them out. “For the last two years, they would buy hydro ganja and other drugs from the darknet and pay with bitcoins. Sri Krishna converted money he got by hacking accounts and websites into bitcoins,” said the police. The accused confessed that they would have the drugs couriered in consignments and would collect them at the foreign post office in Chamarajpet. One of the accused Sujay M. was arrested on November 14 when he along with Hemanth came to collect the parcel. Sri Krishna told the police that he also helped organise parties in apartments in Sanjay Nagar, star hotels and farmhouses in and around the city where the drugs were sold for a huge profit.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With hostels still shut, students are unable to return to campus||Although many final year students wish to physically attend classes they are unable to do so as a majority of hostels are still closed. With no access to accommodation, students from outside Bengaluru said they will continue with online classes. A science student from Chickballapur said she wanted to return to campus as she was finding it difficult to grasp concepts through the online lectures. “I even got tested for COVID-19, but learned that hostels were not open,” she said. There are also reports of hostel wardens turning away students on the grounds that they do not have many reservations to make it viable to operate. “The wardens are telling us that it will not be possible to open the hostel and provide food for just two or three students. They told us to come back after a week,” a final year BA student of Bangalore University said. Another postgraduate science student from a village in Kolar who is enrolled in government college in Bengaluru said that prior to the lockdown she had quarters in a hotel for students belonging to backward classes. But the hostel is still closed. “I came to Bengaluru and I am now staying with my relatives. They have told me to start attending classes only once the hostel re-opens so that I do not expose myself to COVID-19 while commuting, and infect them,” she said. Most of the government hostels are run by social welfare, minorities and backward classes departments, while many are run by the respective State-run universities. T.D. Kemparaju, Vice Chancellor of Bengaluru North University, said that they will open hostels after around 10 days depending on the number of students who turn up. “We will have to make arrangements accordingly,” he said. K.R. Venugopal, Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University, said that he has instructed wardens to start operations from Thursday and provide food even if the student strength is low. However, Social Welfare Commissioner Ravikumar Surpur said that all the hostels run by the department were fully sanitised and open and the department had also issued standard operating procedure. Students have to produce a COVID-19 negative certificate before occupying the hostel. The hostel authorities have also been told to fill up only 50% of their total capacity.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Service charge for door-to-door waste collection likely from Jan.||If all goes as per plan, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) hopes to start collecting service charge or user fee for door-to-door collection of garbage from households every month from January 2021. The fee will range from Rs. 200 a month for households to Rs. 14,000 a month for bulk waste generators. Civic officials expressed interest in using Bescom’s infrastructure to ensure a smooth collection process. D. Randeep, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management), told The Hindu that the civic body is in talks with Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (Bescom). Admitting that the talks were still in the nascent stage, he said the issue had been discussed with Bescom’s senior officials. Recently, a letter detailing the charges had also been sent to Bescom. “The BBMP does not have the infrastructure such as billing machines to collect service charges from citizens. It will take time to have this in place. Bescom, on the other hand, already has the reach as each house is metered and has an RR (revenue register) number. They also have personnel who issue bills with hand-held billing machines,” he said. He added that it has been suggested that Bescom’s software be linked with a waste generator mapping app that has been developed by the civic body. Bescom can either add a garbage service charge in the same bill or issue a separate bill. “For the service of issuing bills, after giving us a list of households that have paid and transferring the money collected to BBMP’s account, we will pay service charges to the power utility. We hope to follow up with Bescom and start collecting service charge from January,” he added. Service charges, however, will not be collected from households that are composting wet waste in situ. “Residents will have to submit a self-declaration form. BBMP officials will inspect the same,” said Mr. Randeep.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Bed-blocking protocol changed as infections drop||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has tweaked the bed-blocking protocol for COVID-19 patients in the light of decreasing number of infections and low bed occupancy. Under the changed norms, bed blocking will be allowed first only in government medical establishments, and only after these reach 90% occupancy, will it be taken up in private facilities. A circular to this effect has been issued by BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who is also the chairperson of the COVID-19 Patient Shifting Taskforce. This is to reorient the focus on bed blocking towards government hospitals and government medical colleges, HDU (high dependency units) and general beds at private hospitals. Nearly 70% of beds at government hospitals and government medical hospitals reserved for COVID-19 patients now remain unoccupied. While occupancy is 30% in government hospitals, it is even lower (27%) in government medical hospitals. Over the past few weeks, the number of people who have tested positive for COVID-19 and those hospitalised has declined. The circular states that all bed blocking for COVID-19 cases taken up by the zonal command and control centres using the Centralised Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS) portal for general and HDU beds will now be restricted to government hospitals and government medical colleges. This will be followed until the general and HDU bed availability at government-run facilities fall below 10%. This applies to patients from other districts seeking admission in city hospitals. It is only when the bed occupancy at government hospitals and government medical colleges reaches 90% that CHBMS will release beds in private facilities for the zonal command and control centres to block the same. The circular added that ICU and ICU-ventilator beds will also be preferably provided at government-run facilities. However, in exceptionally critical cases, where the nearest facility needs to be provided or specialised critical care of the patient mandates specific private facility admission, the ICU/ICU-ventilator beds in private facilities could be considered. Earlier, to ensure bed availability for all COVID-19 positive patients, the Department of Health and Family Welfare had made it compulsory to reserve 50% of beds in private medical facilities in the city for patients referred by BBMP or government. Show-cause notices were also issued to private hospitals that had failed to allocate them. Mr. Prasad, however, said that while priority will be given to blocking beds in government run facilities, no decision has been taken on reducing the 50% reservation of total beds for COVID-19 in private medical facilities. “The Department of Health and Family Welfare will have to take a call on that,” he clarified.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students can now apply online for BMTC bus pass||With colleges reopening, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has begun the process of issuing bus pass to students. For now, students are being allowed to travel between their residences and educational institutions using last year’s pass. BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha told The Hindu that students will have to apply for the pass online. What is new under the present pandemic circumstances is that they will have to collect their pass from BangaloreOne centres. “For the time being, students are being allowed to use BMTC buses using last year’s pass. Now the online application system is being opened. Once they apply, they will be given time slots to collect their pass from BangaloreOne centres to ensure there is no crowding. This way, they will have the option of collecting it from a centre near their residences,” Ms. Shikha said. As for the pass rate, the BMTC will have a discussion with the Education Department to see how many months are left for colleges to fix the rate, she added. The online process had been riddled with glitches in the past, the first time in 2018 to take it online and deliver the smart cards to individual homes. There were complaints of software glitches, wrong entry of information and photos by students as well as non- cooperation from educational institutions, forcing thousands of students to queue up at Majestic bus stand for hours to get their pass. As many students were left without pass even after classes began, the Chief Minister stepped in asking BMTC to take corrective action. The following year, BMTC decided not to deliver passes to the residence of students. Instead, it established 92 centres where students could apply for pass.  For the time being, students are allowed to use last year’s bus pass. Once they apply online, they will be given time slots to collect their pass from BangaloreOne centres.C. ShikhaBMTC Managing Director
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Citizens question move||Though it was passed by the BBMP council in June this year, not many citizens are aware of the civic body’s plan to collect service charges. They also questioned the rationale behind the additional fee when the civic body already collects garbage cess as part of property tax. Peter Samson, a social worker and resident of Victoria Road, called it a money-making racket. “The door-to-door collection of garbage is only on paper as is mandatory segregation of waste at source. Citizens are already paying a lot of taxes, and this is just burdening us further,” he said. Former councillor G.H. Ramachandra noted that the civic body could be justified in collecting service charge if waste was being handled efficiently. “Instead, there are black spots across the city as a result of ineffective door-to-door collection. A huge quantum of waste from the city is not processed, but dumped in landfills,” he said. BBMP officials have justified the collection citing the huge spend on solid waste management. The SWM cess collected as part of property tax is around Rs. 45 crore to Rs. 50 crore a year, while the spend on SWM is around Rs. 1,000 crore a year.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Former Mayor denies allegations, claims he was under quarantine||The Central Crime Branch police on Wednesday questioned former Mayor Sampath Raj to ascertain his role in the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli on the night of August 11 and how he was able to evade arrest for nearly a month. Mr. Raj, who has been accused of conspiracy and playing a part in instigating the mob to set fire to Pulikeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy’s house, had been absconding since mid-October. He, however, refuted allegations of his role in the violence or that he was attempting to evade arrest. “He claimed that after he was discharged from a private hospital [on October 14] where he had been admitted for COVID-19, he quarantined himself at home as per the rules. He also claimed that he had worked hard to ensure the MLA’s victory,” said a source. According to senior police officials, Mr. Raj took shelter at a legislator’s house before fleeing to a farmhouse in Nagarhole. He was allegedly driven there by his aide, Riyazuddib, who was later arrested. “He changed locations frequently to avoid the police teams tracking him. He even travelled in buses, and got updates from his friends in Bengaluru about the development in the case. His friends would go to meet him at designated locations to help him,” said a senior official. While on the run, he reportedly tried to apply for anticipatory bail but failed. “When he realised that he was running out of options, he returned to Bengaluru and stayed at his friend’s house in Benson Town, where he was arrested on Monday,” said a police official. The police are also gathering details on all those who helped him evade arrest. The CCB has been granted custody of Mr. Raj for two days. “It ends on Thursday and we plan to seek an extension,” the official added.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tree-felling: High Court suggests steps to make process transparent||Suggesting certain measures to bring in transparency, the High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday said the details of applications seeking permission for felling tress should be uploaded to a particular website by the tree officer, and the information on the availability of such details has to be given in the public notices. The court also suggested that the tree officer, soon after granting the permission, has to make available that information on the website in order to bring it to the knowledge of the public. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty asked the expert committee, constituted on the court’s order to examine applications for felling trees in Bengaluru city, to include these suggestions in the procedure formulated by it for considering the applications. The Bench also pointed out that the public notice, issued by the tree officer of the BBMP in March 2019 on BMRCL’s application for felling/translocating trees, were “defective” as the tree officer had not provided details of trees to be felled for identification by the public. Pointing out that the objective of giving public notice is when an application is received, the public are able to raise objections, if any, as even translocation amounts to felling trees, the Bench said information about particulars of trees to be felled is important to receive feedback from the public.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet sub-committee to study increase in reservation for SCs/STs||The State Cabinet on Wednesday decided to form its sub-committee on increasing the percentage of reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Addressing media persons after the Cabinet meeting, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy and Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu said there was pressure on the government to revise the quota for SCs and STs based on the population of the communities. Several seers too had demanded upward revision of the reservation. Mr. Sriramulu said the Justice H.N. Nagamohan Das Commission had given a report to the government recommending several measures for increasing quota. There was a demand to increase quota from 15% to 17% to SCs and from 3% to 7% to STs in the State. The previous JD(S)-Congress government had constituted the commission and the ruling BJP received the report. The Cabinet authorised Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to nominate members to the Cabinet sub-committee in a week. The Cabinet approved Rs. 500 crore and Rs. 650 crore for Krishna Jala Bhagya Nigam Ltd. and Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Ltd., respectively, and Rs. 250 crore each for Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd., and Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd. for the year 2020-21. It was decided that disciplinary action would be initiated against officers of the Karnataka Public Service Commission without consulting them. At present, the government could not take action against KPSC officers without consulting them. It also approved Karnataka Agriculture Services (Appointment) Rules, 2020, Mr. Madhuswamy said. A sum of Rs. 28.5 crore was approved for the Belagavi City Corporation for development works and Rs. 13.85 crore for Hospet CMC for establishing an agricultural market.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Land acquisition for industrial area opposed||Farmers from Nagamangala in Mandya district on Wednesday met Horticulture and district in-charge Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda and demanded that the government drop the proposed industrial estate at Nagamangala. The State government has issued a preliminary notification for acquisition of 1,277 acres of land. Mr. Gowda assured the delegation of farmers that he would speak to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Some politicians have been supporting the project and lands from small farmers had been acquired, Mr. Gowda said. A few months ago, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar held a meeting with department officials, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and JD(S) legislators A. Manjunath and Suresh Gowda and asked the department to resurvey the acquisition of lands for the estate. Then, Mr. Kumaraswamy said orders had been issued for acquiring irrigated and plantation areas. It was better to acquire dry lands instead of irrigated areas, he said.
19 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP top brass to decide on Cabinet expansion||The call on the ministerial expansion/reshuffle in Karnataka now rests with the Bharatiya Janata Party high command, as national president J.P. Nadda, who held consultation with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday, told him that central leadership would convey its decision in two to three days. The Chief Minister’s camp was hopeful of an immediate green signal as the exercise has been pending. Mr. Yediyurappa, who was in New Delhi for consultations on the matter, told presspersons after the meeting that Mr. Nadda was expected to discuss the issue with other central leaders and decide on whether it should be an expansion or a reshuffle. The Chief Minister said he had appealed to the central leadership to give early clearance, as the next Legislature session would commence from December 7. “Mr. Nadda has told us that the central leadership would get back to us in two to three days,” the CM said. Mr. Yediyurappa, who was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, returned to Bengaluru two hours earlier than scheduled. Meanwhile, State part leaders feel that the chances of effecting a ministerial expansion before the winter session may become bleak if the process is not taken up within this month. Reshuffle or expansion is generally not taken up just ahead of legislature session, they point out.  Seven vacancies Presently, the State has seven vacant ministerial berths, including the one vacated by C.T. Ravi on his elevation as the party national general secretary. The CM is said to be favouring the idea of keeping two berths vacant as part of A strategy to douse any discontent among disappointed aspirants. Of the five berths that could be filled up, he wants to reserve three for those who migrated to the BJP from other parties, such as MLCs R. Shankar and M.T.B. Nagaraj and newly-elected MLA Munirathna. The names of party old-timers such as Umesh Katti and Arvind Limbavalli are also being heard prominently for the remaining two seats. But, everything would depend on the decision to be taken by the party high command, observes a party senior leader.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minorities Commission seeks reinstatement of full fellowship amount to students||The Karnataka State Minorities Commission has written a letter to the Chief Minister and the Minorities Department to provide Rs. 25,000 per month as fellowship for Ph.D and M.Phil students that belong to minority communities. Students who used to get a fellowship of Rs. 25,000 per month are now getting only Rs. 8,334 per month. Sources said that this was one of the cost-cutting measures that the government had adopted during the coronavirus pandemic. Abdul Azeem, the chairperson of the commission, in a letter, requested the State government to return to providing the earlier fellowship amount as students from minority communities were facing many hardships as a direct consequence of the pandemic.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||94,000 frontline workers identified for vaccine||As many as 94,000 frontline workers have been identified to be the first beneficiaries of the COVID-19 vaccination in Bengaluru. It had been reported that the vaccine will be ready for administration in early 2021. On Wednesday, N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), and chairperson of COVID-19 task-force, chaired a meeting with health officials on the preparations for the vaccination drive that will be taken up once the vaccine is ready. Mr. Prasad told The Hindu that in the first phase, the vaccine will be administered to frontline workers and health service providers, including ASHAs anganwadi workers, ANM nurses, doctors, ambulance drivers and medical, nursing and para-medical students. This, he said, was in line with the directions from the Centre that had instructed States to identify corona warriors who will be the first beneficiaries of the vaccine. “Nearly 94,000 people have been identified already, including 75,000 medical, nursing and para-medical students. We have collected their details, which are now being uploaded on to a portal, as directed by the Centre,” he said. He added that even those who will administer the vaccine have been identified. “We have collected details of these health service providers,” he said. At the meeting, which saw the attendance of Special Commissioner (Health) Rajendra Cholan and Chief Medical Officer Vijayendra, officials also discussed the logistical arrangements for administering the vaccine. “The COVID-19 vaccination drive will be much like the Pulse Polio programme. We need to have in place a cold chain and vehicles with freezer facilities to transport the vaccine. The logistical details are also being fleshed out,” Mr. Prasad added.  The COVID-19 vaccination drive will be much like the Pulse Polio programme. We need to have in place a cold chain and vehicles with freezer facilities to transport the vaccine. The logistical details are also being fleshed out. N. Manjunath Prasad Commissioner, BBMP
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lower attendance on second day of reopening||On the second day of campuses reopening, colleges and universities reported lower attendance on Wednesday. A principal of a Bengaluru college said that most students attended classes on Tuesday out of curiosity and the desire to meet their friends. Colleges are planning to adopt a ‘wait and watch’ policy for another week before deciding whether to conduct only practicals on campus.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM lashes out at Ajit Pawar||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday lashed out at Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar for his remark that the Marathi-speaking regions of Karnataka should be included in Maharashtra and asked Mr. Pawar to not fan public sentiments. Reacting to Mr. Pawar’s statement, Mr. Yediyurappa said the Mahajan Commission Report is final. On formation of the Maratha Development Corporation, he said the controversy was unnecessary and pointed out that many Marathas had participated in the World Kannada conference. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah hit out at the priorities of the government in a series of tweets. He sought to know how a government that claimed to have no money for social security schemes had enough to set up caste boards with an eye on the vote bank.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIA searches 43 locations||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted search operations at 43 locations in Bengaluru, including four offices of the Social Democratic Party of India, as part of its investigation into the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli, and the attack on D.J. Halli police station. In a release, NIA said that incriminating material as well as swords, knives and iron rods were seized. The investigation agency took over the probe into two cases related to the D.J. Halli violence where the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been invoked by the city police. So far, the agency has arrested over 400 people.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,791 new cases, 21 deaths reported on Wednesday||Karnataka on Wednesday reported 1,791 new COVID-19 cases and 21 more deaths, taking the total infections to 8,65,931 and toll to 11,578. In addition, the State has seen 19 deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other causes. The day also saw 1947 discharges, adding up to 8,29,188 in all, according to the Health Department’s bulletin. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, 933 are from Bengaluru Urban. The district also accounted for 10 deaths. Meanwhile, in a tweet, Karnataka Health Minister Sudhakar K. said that Bengaluru’s COVID-19 case fatality rate - at 1.1% - is the lowest among all major cities in the country. “With 3,36,880 recoveries and 17,707 active cases as on Tuesday, the city’s recovery rate stands at a healthy 93.94% and active rate stands at 4.93%,” he tweeted on Wednesday morning.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More medical, dental seats||Students hoping to enrol in medical and dental colleges in Karnataka will have access to a slightly larger pool of seats this academic year. T.K. Anil Kumar, Principal Secretary, Medical Education Department, told The Hindu that the State has bagged an additional 150 MBBS seats and 80 BDS seats compared to the previous academic year. With this, the total number of MBBS seats in Karnataka is 8,145, while the total number of BDS seats is 2,880. Of these, as many as 1,401 MBBS and 46 BDS seats are in the all-India quota — for which counselling is held by the Directorate General of Health Sciences. The counselling for the remaining seats is conducted by the Karnataka Examinations Authority. Students applying for seats in private colleges will have to shell out more money after the government recently decided to increase the fees. The fee for government seats in private colleges for this academic year was hiked by 15% while that of institutional quota seats in private colleges was increased by 25%.
19 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Homoeo Bhavan to be inaugurated tomorrow||Homoeo Bhavan, the administrative office of Karnataka Board of Homoeopathic System of Medicine, will be inaugurated on Friday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will inaugurate it. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar will participate as chief guest. at the event that will be held on Karnataka Drugs Logistics and Warehousing Society premises at noon.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Winter session in Bengaluru from Dec. 7||The State Cabinet has decided to hold the winter session of the State legislature from December 7 to 15 in Bengaluru. Every year, the government convenes the winter session at the Suvarna Vidhana Soudha in Belagavi, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the venue has been changed to Bengaluru, Law and Parliamentary Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said after the Cabinet meeting here. A few Ordinances promulgated by the government would be introduced as Bills during the legislature session. Despite te pandemic, the government had convened the legislature session from September 21 to 26 and passed more than two dozen Bills. The State Cabinet has decided to immediately release Rs. 577.84 crore given by the Centre to the State last week under the National Disaster Relief Fund towards flood relief. In addition to the Centre’s amount, the State government has decided to add Rs. 1,000 crore to the pool and pay compensation to farmers. The State has decided to set aside Rs. 4,000 crore to provide relief for farmers who had been affected by crop loss due to floods, Mr. Madhuswamy said. The Cabinet has approved a holiday list for the calendar year 2021, 21 public holidays and 19 restricted holidays.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet nod for corporation||The State Cabinet on Wednesday approved the establishment of the Maratha Development Corporation. “We have not formed Maratha Development Authority. The authority has to be constituted by law and the government has formed authorities only for languages such as the Kannada Development Authority,” said Minister J.C. Madhuswamy. The government has allotted Rs. 50 crore to the corporation.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kadalekai Parishe with no stalls proposed||Since the outbreak of COVID-19, celebrations of many festivals have gone low-key. The Kadalekai Parishe (groundnut fair) too is likely to go the same route. In a letter to the Muzrai Department, the executive officer of the Doddaganapati Temple, Basavanagudi, has suggested that permission should not be granted for setting up of stalls for the sale of groundnuts outside the temple, as is custom. The parishe this year will fall on December 16. Former Basavanagudi councillor B.S. Sathyanarayana said thousands of people from across the city visit the temple during the fair. “By this time, the stalls would have been auctioned. With COVID-19 and restrictions in place, it is prudent to have low-key celebrations,” he said. However, officials of the Muzrai Department denied receiving any letter.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||What is garbage service charge?||Earlier this year, the State government approved Solid Waste Management (SWM) bylaws that allow the BBMP to levy and collect service charge for door-to-door collection of waste. This service charge is separate from SWM cess that is collected along with property tax. SWM officials explain that the cess, mandated by the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, is for general upkeep of the city, clearing black spots, street cleaning, and so on. Service charge, on the other hand, is for the delivery of a specific service. In this case, it is for door-to-door collection of different streams of waste.
19 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Televised classes on DD Chandana||Lessons for government school students of Classes 5 to 7 will be aired on DD Chandana from next week. After the government stopped the Vidyagama programme last month, it decided to launch TV programmes for students from these classes. Classes for Class 8 to 10 students are already being televised.
19 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Poor condition of NH 75 riles Hassan MP, MLA||The bad state of National Highway 75 connecting Hassan bypass and Maranahalli in Sakleshpur taluk was debated at the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee meeting, held under the chairmanship of Lok Sabha member Prajwal Revanna here on Wednesday. Mr. Prajwal Revanna, former Minister and MLA H.D. Revanna and others took serious exception to the bad state of the road. Taking the NHAI officers to task, Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish instructed the police officers to register FIRs against the NHAI officials in case of any accident in the stretch due to potholes. Mr. Prajwal Revanna said the widening of the road between Hassan and B.C. Road had been going on at a slow pace and it would take another five-six years to be completed. He also raised doubts about the quality of the work. Mr. H.D. Revanna said many people travelling on the road had developed health problems due to the bad state of the road. Hospitals On the issue of tackling COVID-19, Mr. Revanna alleged that some private hospitals had been charging the patients heavily. He demanded action against such hospitals. The Deputy Commissioner directed the officers of Health and Family Welfare department to conduct an inquiry.
19 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Datta Jayanti: curbs on vehicles||The Chikkamagaluru district administration has prohibited tourist vehicles at Sri Guru Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy Dargah in Chikkamagaluru taluk between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on November 26, in the wake of Datta Jayanti programme by Srirama Sene workers. A press release issued by the DC’s office here on Wednesday said the entry of tourists would be banned on the day. The devotees would be allowed to have darshana of paduka of Dattatreya Bababudan Swamy between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the day.
19 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Woman killed by husband’||A woman was allegedly murdered by her husband at Kachenahalli in Channarayapatna taluk on Tuesday night. The police gave the name of the deceased as Pooja, 25, a native of Kurubarahalli in Holenarsipur taluk. She was married to Gangadhar of Kachenahalli about six years ago. The couple have a five-year-old son. Pooja’s father Ninge Gowda, in his complaint, said Gangadhar often tortured her for dowry. Senior members of both the families held meetings to resolve the issue several times. Gangadhar picked up an argument with his wife on Tuesday night and hit her with a hatchet. She succumbed to the injury in a hospital.
19 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Protest against encroachment||Residents of Devarajapura in Belur taluk staged a protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Hassan on Wednesday alleging that influential people had encroached upon government land in the village. They alleged that of the three acres in survey number 101 Devarajapura, more than one acre had been encroached upon. The encroachers had got the land registered in their name. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner’s office.
19 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Mega Janata Adalat via video conference on December 19||The Gadag District Court will hold a Mega Janata Adalat on December 19 through video conference to hear and dispose of various cases that are pending due to restrictions imposed in the wake of COVID-19. Addressing presspersons at the District Court in Gadag on Wednesday, Principal District and Sessions Judge Rajashekhar Patil appealed to the litigant public to make use of the Mega Janata Adalat to resolve their pending cases. Mr. Patil said that various cases that could be resolved through mediation, including those pertaining to accident relief, financial disputes, check bounce, family court disputes, and others at the Mega Adalat to be held through video conference. “The litigant public need not come to courts. They can either sit at home or at the offices of their counsel and get their cases resolved through mediation,” he said. Mr. Patil said that the whole objective was to ensure speedy justice to the litigant public. Apart from disposing of cases, there was a need for creating legal awareness among the public and the Legal Services Authority was working towards it. And, in this regard, the cooperation of advocates was necessary and important, he said.  16,343 pending cases Mr. Patil said that there were 16,343 pending cases in the district. Of these, 1,373 cases pertaining to check bounce, accident relief, vehicle insurance, land purchase, sand transport, family disputes, land acquisition relief and others had been identified for mediation and those involved in these cases had been asked to participate in the Mega Adalat, he said. He said that apart from these cases, those petitioners or respondents who were ready for getting their cases resolved through mediation had time till December 19 to approach the concerned for participating in the Mega Adalat. Member of District Legal Services Authority S.G. Salagare, judges Srinivas, A.M. Badiger, H. Ravindra Srikanth, Nikita Akki, Salma and Joint Secretary of Gadag Bar Association Y.D. Talawar were present.
19 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NWKRTC resumes bus services to Shirdi, Chennai||North Western Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) has resumed services of sleeper and Volvo buses to Shirdi and Chennai, respectively, from Hubballi. In a release here, Divisional Controller of Hubballi Division of NWKRTC H. Ramanagoudar has said that both the services had now resumed at the New Bus Station on Gokul Road in Hubballi. The services were suspended owing to COVID-19 eight months ago. The sleeper bus to Shirdi will leave Hubballi at 7 p.m. and reach Shirdi at 7.30 a.m. the next day covering Dharwad, Belagavi, Pune and Ahmednagar. The return journey will commence at 7 p.m. and the bus will reach Hubballi at 7.30 a.m. the next day. The Volvo bus to Chennai will leave Hubballi at 10.30 a.m. daily and reach its destination at 1.30 p.m. the next day via Bengaluru, Hosur and Krishnagiri. The return journey will commence at 3.15 p.m. and the bus will return to Hubballi at 7 a.m. the next day. Discount Mr. Ramanagoudar has said that tickets could be reserved through online booking and for passengers booking four or more seats there would be a 5 % discount on the fare and for those booking their return journey tickets, there would be a discount of 10 %. 50 buses He has said that in all, 65 Volvo, sleeper, Rajahamsa and Vegadoot buses used to operate from Hubballi to neighbouring States before the lockdown and among them, the services of 50 buses had been restarted in a phased manner. Depending on demand, the services of the remaining buses too would resume in a phased manner, he said.
19 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Minister celebrates birthday with special children||Minister for Women and Child Development Shashikala Jolle celebrated her birthday with differently abled children at the Government Hostel (Bala Mandir) for differently abled girls in Hubballi on Wednesday evening and subsequently, stayed there overnight. In a programme jointly organised by the Department of Women and Child Development and District Child Protection Unit at the Bala Mandir at Unkal in Hubballi, the Minister interacted with the inmates, fed them and watched their activities and the artefacts prepared by them. Expressing happiness over celebrating her birthday with differently abled children, she termed it a memorable moment in her life. “When a healthy baby is born, an atmosphere of joy is created in the household but when a differently abled child is born, the situation is totally different. I have personally experienced it. Everyone should show love towards such children,” she said.
19 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Star Air launches Kalaburagi to Delhi direct flight service||Star Air, an airline service, started its commercial scheduled non-stop flight services between Kalaburagi and Delhi (Hindon) on Wednesday. Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav launched the inaugural flight at the Kalaburagi Airport. This is the first commercial flight service between Kalaburagi and the country’s capital city. Star Air would operate its services on this route thrice a week — Tuesday, Wednesday and Saturday. A Star Air flight (ERJ145) will take off from Kalaburagi Airport at 10.20 a.m. and reach Delhi at 12.40 p.m. Similarly, a flight will leave Delhi at 1.10 p.m. and land at Kalaburagi Airport at 3.30 p.m. Airport Director Gyaneshwar Rao said that the service on Kalaburagi-Delhi route would not just save passengers valuable time but also money. Since Star Air is operating on this route under the popular RCS-UDAN scheme, it will enable passengers to fly at a very economical cost. Now, people from the region and neighbouring districts can travel this long distance in just 2 hours and 20 minutes in the comfort of world class, Brazilian-manufactured Embraer ERJ145 aircraft, Mr. Rao.
19 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Man arrested, lethal weapons seized||Acting on a tip-off, a team of Kalaburagi Police on Wednesday arrested a 40-year-old businessman on the charge of selling lethal weapons and firearms in an illegal manner in the city. The accused has been identified as Mohammad Reehan Khan, a resident of Zubair Colony near Hagaraga Cross in the city. The police said that the arrest was made following inputs that the accused was involved in illegal sale of knives and firearms to people with criminal background in the locality. The police have recovered 17 knives, a metal punch and a toy gun. During interrogation, he revealed that he purchased the weapons from Bombay Siraj.
19 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Crimes in Kalaburagi doubled under BJP rule’||Citing official data provided by the State government, Congress leader and former Minister Priyank Kharge on Wednesday said that crimes in Kalaburagi had doubled under the BJP rule compared to the period when his party was in power. “I don’t claim that there were no crimes in Kalaburagi under Congress. But, the crime rate in the city has seen a relatively rapid surge under BJP rule. As per official data, murder cases have risen from 23 in Congress rule to 58 in BJP rule, attempt to murder cases from 39 to 100, robbery from 35 to 63, daytime burglary from 23 to 33 and night-time burglary from 63 to 130, kidnap from 13 to 39, molestation from 44 to 69, rape from 3 to 7, sexual crimes against children from 13 to 33, narcotics from 3 to 19, atrocities on Dalits from 23 to 44 and gambling from 210 to 367,” Mr. Kharge said substantiating his claims with the crime data-sheet. At a conference at the local Congress office, he also attributed the surge in crimes to the alleged nexus between BJP leaders and criminals. “Elected BJP leaders have taken politics as an opportunity to make money. Transfers of key officers and posting them in key positions is one such business. There is a rate-card unofficially in force specifying different prices for transferring different officers from PC [police constable] to DC [Deputy Commissioner]. When an officer occupies a key position paying money to these leaders, he would naturally find ways to ensure the return on his investment. Allowing drug peddlers, sand mafia, rights abusers and other criminals to operate hassle-free for making money and paying a part of the illicit earnings to their political masters to continue the business is exactly what is happening in Kalaburagi,” he said.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||DKMUL launches Nandini On Wheels||To promote the Nandini brand of products and make them available on the doorstep of consumers, Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd. (DKMUL) on Wednesday launched two vehicles called Nandini On Wheels. While one vehicle will operate in Dakshina Kannada, the other will operate in Udupi district. These two vehicles were launched during the ongoing 67th All India Cooperative Week celebrations held at the DKMUL’s Mangaluru Dairy. DKMUL Manager (Marketing) Jayadevappa K. said that Nandini on Wheels will help in better display of all KMF products. These vehicles come with cooling devices that help in storing milk, ice cream and other milk products. It helps DKMUL to have the floating advertisement facility for KMF products. Mr. Jayadevappa said that the vehicles will be used to sell products at jathas and other mega social gatherings in the district. To start with, these vehicles will be taken to apartments in the two districts, he said. Appreciating the launch of the mobile vehicles, president of the South Canara District Central Cooperative Bank M.N. Rajendra Kumar said that with this, DKMUL has taken KMF to the doorsteps of people. “I launched the Bank on Wheels facility to take my bank to the doorsteps of people. You have followed suit,” he said. Mr. Kumar asked DKMUL to come forward in opening Jan Aushadhi kendras for generic medicine to help reach quality medicine to people. Children of milk supplying farmers and milk distributors, who have scored good marks in the SSLC and PU examinations, were felicitated and given cheques for amount ranging between Rs. 2000 and Rs. 3,000 on the occasion. Children who have excelled in State and national sports competitions were given cheques for Rs. 6,000 and Rs. 8,000, respectively. As many as 98 students were from Dakshina Kannada, while 54 were from Udupi district. Among the children who were felicitated included Chaitanya Jain, Vinnifred Mary Govias and M.C. Reshma from Mangaluru. As many as 29 milk dealers were felicitated in recognition of their achievements in selling KMF products. DKMUL president Raviraj Hegde and DKMUL Managing Director S.T. Suresh also spoke.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. discusses loans for vendors, safe footpath, traffic||Councillors of Mangaluru City Corporation at a meeting called by Mayor Diwakar here on Wednesday suggested that distributing loans to street vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi Yojana or PM SVANidhi Scheme should not become a nuisance while ensuring safe footpaths for pedestrians and smooth traffic movement in the city. PM SVANidhi Scheme was launched on June 1, 2020 by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to help street vendors, who were affected by the coronavirus situation, resume their livelihood activities. The scheme aims to provide working capital loans up to Rs. 10,000 at a subsidised rate of interest. The interest subsidy on timely or early repayment of the loan is at 7 per cent and street vendors will be allowed to repay the loan in monthly instalments in one year. If someone can pay up earlier than the tenure, an interest subsidy of 7 % per annum will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries every quarter. And, there will be no penalty on early repayment of the loan. Also, there is a monthly cash back incentive on digital payments. The benefits can be availed of by street vendors or hawkers in urban, pre-urban and rural areas. Scheduled commercial banks, regional rural banks, small finance banks, cooperative banks, Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs), micro-finance institutions and Self-Help Group (SHG) Banks will be providing loans under the scheme. An official of the corporation told the meeting that the government has set a target of advancing loan to 5,000 street vendors in the city. Of these, loans have been distributed to 102 vendors now. The councillors said that the civic body should ensure that there was no duplication in sanctioning and releasing of loans as in some cases one street vendor “outsourced” his business to many. The loans should reach the real needy. They said that the civic body will have to evict street vendors from certain areas for making space for pedestrians and vehicular traffic. In such cases, sanctioning of loan should not come in the way to prevent their eviction. A councillor said that though the civic body had created a street vendors zone near the Service Bus Stand by making arrangements for them, none of them has occupied the place reserved for them. Whip in the council Premananda Shetty suggested that loans can be given to those who delivered newspapers at the doorsteps of people, along with milk and milk products. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the civic body has identified 951 vendors in the city.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Conmen dupe two in as many cases of over Rs. 1.5 lakh||In two incidents that took place in the city on Tuesday, conmen have illegally withdrawn Rs. 80,000 and Rs. 73,182 from two bank accounts by using OTP and other details. In the first instance, a complainant received a call from Ph: 7074158509 on Tuesday morning and the caller claimed himself to be an officer of Bank of Baroda. Stating that the complainant’s debit card with Vijaya Bank has been transferred to Bank of Baroda, the caller took from the complainant his ATM card number and CVV number. A few minutes later, the complainant noticed that an amount of Rs. 73,182 has been illegally withdrawn. In the second instance, the caller, who claimed himself to be an executive from the SBI Credit Card section, called the complainant at 5.30 p.m. on Tuesday. Stating that he was going to reactivate the complainant’s credit card, he asked the latter to share the credit card number and also the OTP received on the latter’s mobile phone. Soon after, Rs. 80,000 was withdrawn, the complainant said. Both the complaints have been filed with the Cyber Crime Police. Efforts are on to trace the conmen, the police said.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Final decision on shifting hospital after spot inspection||Udupi Zilla Panchayat in its meeting on Wednesday resolved that though there is a need to temporarily shift the government district hospital from Udupi to Brahmavar, a final decision can be taken only after spot inspection in Brahmavar. Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat and other members told the meeting that the hospital can be shifted to Brahmavar till the work on the new building of the government district hospital in Udupi is completed. The government has proposed to upgrade the district hospital in Udupi as a 250-bed hospital at an estimated cost of Rs. 115 crore. The Cabinet has already approved of the proposal. The MLA said that the upgrading project is likely to begin either in February or March 2021. The meeting decided to write to the government to conduct an inquiry by the Lokayukta into allegations that there was Rs. 2 crore misappropriation in the implementation of a road project taken up by Varahi project authorities in Kotambail under Kokkarne Gram Panchayat. Earlier, member of the zilla panchayat Janardhana Tonse demanded an inquiry into it. Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat Y. Naveen Bhat instructed the officials concerned to conduct an inquiry into allegations that there was misappropriation in the distribution of rice and dal under Akshara Dasoha Yojane during the recent lockdown and submit a report in 10 days. Members Shankar Poojary and Babu Shetty earlier demanded an inquiry into this. Highway works Replying to questions from members on the unfinished national highway works, an official told the meeting that the pending works on the National Highway 66 at Padubidri will be completed by the first week of March 2021 and the flyover and the service road works in Kundapur town will be completed by March 9, 2021. An official told the meeting that those who have not yet applied seeking compensation for the losses due to the recent floods in the district can submit them till November 30. At present, some affected persons who had applied have been provided a temporary compensation of Rs. 10,000.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Restore Christian Development Corporation, says Ivan D’Souza||Demanding the restoration of the Christian Development Corporation (CDC), the former MLC Ivan D’Souza on Wednesday threatened that he would launch an agitation if the State government failed to do so. Talking to reporters here, Mr. D’Souza said that the State government unilaterally closed down the CDC. An allocation of Rs. 200 crore was made for the CDC in the budget for 2019-20. By unilaterally closing down the CDC, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has hurt the sentiments of Christians. “If the CDC is not restored, Christians will be forced to come out on the streets and the State government will be held responsible for all the losses that this will result in,” he said. Seeking the reason from Mr. Yediyurappa for winding up the CDC, Mr. D’Souza said that Christians have presence in 27 districts in the State, particularly in Ballari, Kalaburagi and Raichur which have more number of people from the community. There are more people in the community who are poor and working as labour and farmers and they require the assistance of the government. While neighbouring Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have the CDC running, the State government has closed it down. The B.S.Yediyurpapa government has formed corporations for communities that are fewer in number and has ignored Christians who are in good numbers in the State, he said. Mr. D’Souza said that the BJP government has failed to spend any amount for the development of Christians in the last two years.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP playing appeasement politics before bypolls: Khader||The decision of the State Cabinet to set up Karnataka Vokkaliga Lingayat Development Corporation and Maratha Development Authority is nothing but the BJP’s effort to appease Lingayats and Marathas who are in large number in Basavakalyan Assembly constituency where the byelection is slated to be held shortly, said Mangaluru MLA U.T. Khader here on Wednesday. Talking to reporters, he said the B.S. Yediyurappa government announced setting up of the corporation for development of Golla community days before the byelections to Sira Assembly constituency. “Now the government has announced two new authorities. Instead of thinking of communities only before elections, the State government should go ahead to form corporations for development of communities in Dakshina Kannada namely Koragas and Kulal,” he stressed.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corpn. official says his FB account hacked||Joint Commissioner (Administration) of Mangaluru City Corporation Santhosh Kumar G. has filed a complaint against a fake Facebook account created using his name. In the complaint filed with the Cyber Crime Police here on Wednesday, Mr. Kumar said that he noticed on Tuesday a fake Facebook account created by using his photograph and official designation. The fake account creator had sent messages seeking money to persons in Mr. Kumar’s friend list. Realising that his account had been hacked, Mr. Kumar has asked the police to trace out the hackers.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hospital restarts all in-patient services||Dr. TMA Pai Hospital in Udupi has resumed all in-patient services, along with elective surgeries and deliveries. Emergency services are also functional as usual, Medical Superintendent Shashikiran Umakanth said in a release on Wednesday. The hospital played a pivotal role in the management of COVID-19 patients in Udupi district from April onwards due to which all other services had been suspended. The OPD services in the hospital resumed on October 15.
19 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Voter enrolment drive in Udupi||The Election Commission will take up an electoral enrolment drive in Udupi on November 22, November 29 and on December 6 and December 13. It will be conducted in all polling booths in the district from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Those who have not yet registered their names in the voter list can enrol their names on these days by producing relevant documents, according to a press release.
19 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||App to self-assess mental health||At a time when studies have shown that a significant proportion of India’s population is suffering from mental disorders of varying severity, a group of volunteers comprising psychiatric professionals and techies have come up with a mobile app for self-assessment of mental health. The app – SAFL – an acronym for ‘Self Assessment For Life’ will be launched at a webinar ‘Saving Lives – Mental Health Matters’ at 5.30 pm on November 19. Focus on confidentiality Kishor M. Rao, an associate professor of Psychiatry at JSS Medical College in Mysuru, told The Hindu that the app, which can be downloaded on play store, is free and helps not only in self-assessment, but also carrying out an assessment of a friend or a family member. It has been designed in a manner that the user’s confidentiality will be maintained. The app does not collect any information to identify an individual user like name, mobile number or residential address. After the assessment, which can be completed in barely one or two minutes, the app will provide links to ‘Talk to Someone Now’, ‘Consult Expert (Psychiatrist/clinical psychologist/physician)’, ‘Books that can help’, besides providing links to questions like ‘Do you feel like life is not worth living?’ and ‘Do you know someone who may be considering suicide?’. However, the app or its makers – Minds United for Health Sciences and Humanity - will not be able to reach any user irrespective of the assessment. Dr. Kishor said the app will be useful particularly in view of the stigma associated with consulting a psychiatrist. Efforts are under way to bring out the app in vernacular languages like Kannada, besides making it available even on app store. Former DC of Mysuru Abhiram G. Sankar, who is now the Deputy Director of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, will be the chief guest while Superintendent of Mandya district police K. Parashuram will be the guest of honour. Talks on various aspects On the day, H Basavanagowdappa, principal, JSS Medical College, will speak on ‘Need of Mental Health Evaluation Apps for Doctors and Health Professionals’ while Honorary Secretary of Indian Psychiatry Society T.S. Sathyanarayana Rao will speak on ‘Role of Professional Organisations in enabling people for self-evaluation in mental health’. The president of Minds United for Health Sciences and Humanity Trust Kanchana M. will speak on ‘Role of NGOs in technology-based solutions for health conditions’ and Pratibha Kantanavar, Technical Head, SAFL app, will speak on ‘Technical issues in building apps for mental health’.
19 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||6,000 houses to be sanctioned to make Maski free of huts||Housing Minister V. Somanna has assured the people of Maski taluk, which is going to be face Assembly byelection shortly, of making Maski a hut-free constituency in the coming days. He was addressing a party workers meeting at Bhramaramba Kalyan Mantap in the town on Wednesday. Mr. Somanna, who is on tour of Raichur district in the last two days, said that 6,000 houses will be sanctioned under various housing schemes for Maski to make it hut-free. Action will be taken to release Rs. 9 crore to complete the houses which are under construction now. He said that the construction of the 5 A canal under the Upper Krishna Project will be taken up once the ongoing survey process is completed. The Minister also said that a requisition will be submitted to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to sanction Rs. 502 crore grants to complete the Nandawadagi Lift Irrigation Project and fill all tanks in Maski taluk. “The proposed plans will help ensure the overall development of the constituency under the leadership of Pratapgowda Patil, who will be the BJP candidate in the next Assembly byelection and will become a Minister in the Yediyurappa Cabinet,” he added. Expressing unhappiness, Mr. Somanna said that the BJP government and Mr. Yediyurappa had given Basanagowda Patil Turvihal the responsibility of handling the Tungabhadra CADA. He, however, took a wrong decision and left the party and joined the Congress. He will regret his decision after the byelection, Mr. Somanna added. Mr. Pratapgowda Patil said that he joined the BJP at a crucial time. “In the byelection, people will bless me keeping in mind the development of the constituency,” he added. MP from Koppal Sanganna Karadi and MLA Narasimha Naik spoke. They both appealed to party workers to work hard for the victory of Mr. Patil. MLAs Shivaraj Patil, Basavaraj Dadesugur, Paranna Munavalli, the former MLAs Gangadhar Naik, Manappa Vajjal, A. Papareddy and the former MLC N. Shankarappa and others were present
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In Mysuru, it was a less noisy, less smoky Deepavali||Did the curbs on the sale and bursting of non-green crackers this Deepavali amidst the pandemic really worked? Well, in Mysuru, it appears to have played a role if the noise and air levels monitored by the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) authorities before the festival and during the festival are an indication. Perhaps, it can be described as a “green” Deepavali in the making going by the findings. The noise levels and air quality were well within the permissible limits, showing drop in the incidence of cracker bursting during the festival when compared to the previous year’s findings. It was by and large a less noisy and less smoky Diwali, said the KSPCB authorities . A dedicated team from the KSPCB studied ambient noise and air quality levels a week before the festival and three continuous days round-the-clock during the festival (on November 14, 15 and 16) and analysed the results that gave a kind of relief to the health authorities who were worried over the outcome on the patients in view of COVID-19. On three festival days, noise levels were measured at 60.9 DB, 63.8 DB and 66 DB respectively. Before Deepavali, the noise level was 63.1 DB. Last year, 72.7 DB, 73.8 DB and 75.2 DB were recorded during the festival while pre-Deepavali noise level last year was 57.3 DB. The noise levels were studied at the KSPCB office in Hebbal. The four parameters - Sulphur Dioxide (SO2), Nitrogen Oxide (NOx), Particulate Matter 10 (PM10) and Particulate Matter 2.5 (PM 2.5) – were studied at three places – KSPCB office in Hebbal; K.R. Circle, KSRTC/City-Bus-stand; and the First Grade College in Kuvempunagar. Tolerable KSPCB Regional Environment Officer B.M. Prakash said the air quality and noise levels were within the tolerable limits. Rain during the festival also played a role in making this happen besides the sustained awareness all these years and the advisories issued against cracker bursting amidst the COVID-19 fears. SO2 was 5.1 micrograms per cubic metre air, NO2 was 14.2 micrograms per cubic metre air, PM 10 was 21 mg and PM 2.5 mg was 11 at the KSPCB office before the festival. The findings during the festival are like this - SO2 was 5.4 micrograms per cubic metre air on day one, 4.9 on day two and 5.3 on day three; NO2 was 14 micrograms per cubic metre air on day one, 15.5 on day two and 10.7 on day three; PM 10 was 37 mg on day one, 36 mg on day two and 23 mg on day three; PM 2.5 was 14.3 mg on day one, 15 mg on day two and 7.6 mg on day three. Likewise, at the K.R. Circle monitoring site, SO2 was 1.6 micrograms per cubic metre air, NO2 was 14.3 micrograms per cubic metre air, PM 10 was 43 mg and PM 2.5 was 18 mg before the festival. The findings during Deepavali are like this - SO2 was 2.9 micrograms per cubic metre air on day one, 3.2 on day two and 3.9 on day three; NO2 was 15 micrograms per cubic metre air on day one, 17.7 on day two and 19.3 on day three; PM 10 was 48 mg on day one, 56 mg on day two and 50 mg on day three; PM 2.5 was 20 mg on day one, 22 mg on day two and 16 mg on day three. At the third monitoring destination in Kuvempunagar, SO2 was 1.23 micrograms per cubic metre air, NO2 was 12.1 micrograms per cubic metre air, PM 10 was 43 mg and PM 2.5 19 mg before the festival. During the festival, SO2 was 1.7 micrograms per cubic metre air on day one, 3.2 on day two and 4.6 on day three; NO2 was 14.7 micrograms per cubic metre air on day one, 17.3 on day two and 19 on day three; PM 10 was 45 mg on day one, 49 mg on day two and 36 mg on day three; PM 2.5 was 10 mg on day one, 18 mg on day two and 12 mg on day three.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MUDA’s 50:50 scheme will benefit pvt. developers, say farmers||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority’s (MUDA) plans to co-opt landholders and opt for a joint venture in developing residential layouts will benefit landsharks with large holdings rather than farmers. For, it is common knowledge that a majority of the farmers have sold their land to real estate developers over the years and the actual agricultural holding in Mysuru taluk has shrunk drastically. The MUDA recently signed an agreement with the current landowners who are co-opted as partners in development as per which the planning authority will develop the land into residential sites and carve out new layouts. It will offer 50 per cent of the sites to the land owners in lieu of the land surrendered and the latter will be free to sell the site at the prevailing market rate to reap a profit. Though the 50:50 scheme – as it is called - is in the pipeline since many years, it was only recently that MUDA entered into an MoU with owners. The justification for the scheme is that it will save the cash-strapped MUDA the cost of land acquisition; nor will it be embroiled in legal battle over compensation issues which tend to delay projects and layout development. Example The authorities cite as example the development of R.T.Nagar which took more than 25 years for completion due to land acquisition and compensation issues. Though described as a win-win situation for both the land owners and MUDA, it is set to benefit only land sharks and not the farmers. The original land owners were farmers but they are out of purview under the scheme as the ownership has changed hands Badagalpura Nagendra, leader, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), told The Hindu that almost 95 per cent of the agricultural land in four hoblis – Mysuru Kasaba, Jayapura, Varuna and Yelwal – had been converted for non-agricultural purpose and the ownership was with private land developers. Throwaway prices He said the land was purchased from farmers at throwaway prices or the prevailing rate which prevailed at the time of sale, and the real estate sharks with deep pockets sat on it for years without investing a pie on plot development. With the current agreement the civic body will take up plot development at its cost and it will benefit the private developers as they are absolved of any financial liability on developing the plot, said Mr.N agendra. For the genuine farmers the scheme may not be really beneficial if they agree to be co-opted as partners in development. The method In case the land is further away from the city, they will find it difficult to find buyers and will once again be forced into distress selling to tide over any financial emergency. Real estate players will buy these sites at a lower rate citing lack of demand, hold it back till the demand surge creates a favourable rate and reap a profit.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tobacco: calls for govt. intervention too early||The poor demand for tobacco across auction platforms in the State may have led the Opposition Congress to make an appeal for immediate government intervention, but experts in the tobacco industry are hopeful of a turnaround in the demand for the commodity in the coming months. More than a month after auctions started in Karnataka, the demand for tobacco has remained muted, raising concern among the farmers who are wary of COVID-19 dashing their hopes of making a decent earning. A good 80 per cent of Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco cultivated in Mysuru region across Periyapatna, Hunsur, H.D. Kote and K.R. Nagar is exported for manufacturing cigarettes. Several Congress leaders including former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and former Chamarajanagar MP R. Dhruvanarayan, besides Hunsur and H.D. Kote Congress MLAs H.P. Manjunath and Anil Chikkamadu respectively have raised the issue and urged the government to come to the rescue of the tobacco farmers immediately. Congress leaders in Mysuru have referred to the intervention by neighbouring Andhra Pradesh government, where the Andhra Pradesh State Co-operative Marketing Federation Ltd or AP Markfed, purchased tobacco bales in July this year to arrest the fall in prices due to COVID-19 lockdown. AP Markfed purchased a total of 13 million kg. However, sources in Tobacco Board as well as FCV Tobacco Growers’ Federation of Karnataka point out that demand for tobacco has been historically poor during the month of November as most of traders participating in the auctions will be awaiting confirmation of the orders for the samples they send to the buyers abroad. As more than 80 per cent of the tobacco cultivated in Mysuru region is exported abroad, the traders will first send samples and await confirmation of the orders with details on the quantity and prices. “Once the orders are confirmed, trading will pick up”, said Javare Gowda, President of FCV Tobacco Growers’ Federation of Karnataka, who had also served as a Vice-Chairman of the Tobacco Board. Regional Manager of Tobacco Board, Mysuru, Manjunath was hopeful of the trading picking up towards the end of November and early December. He said a lot of orders for low grade tobacco are pending confirmation. Though good quality tobacco is being bid for as high as Rs. 178 per kg, the low grade tobacco is finding few takers. The demand for low grade tobacco is poor even at Rs. 95 a kg. “Many traders, who had also participated in auctions in Andhra Pradesh, point out that they had purchased low grade tobacco at Rs. 70, which they are unable to liquidate”, a source claimed. Auctions in Karnataka started on September 30 in two platforms and on October 7 in the remaining nine platforms. They are expected to go on till March 2021. By mid-November, about 19.5 million kg of tobacco has been auctioned. The Tobacco Board earlier this year had revised the crop size from 99 million kg to 88 million kg for the year in view of the likely dip in demand due to COVID-19.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Handloom expo||JSS Mysore Urban Haat is organising ‘Samskruti-2020’, a special handloom expo, from November 20 to December 6, on its premises near the ring road at Hebbal Industrial Area. It is intended at encouraging weavers and create a demand for textiles and handloom during the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. More than 50 weavers/weavers societies from across the country including national and State awardees will exhibit and sell traditional handloom products. The products include Punjabi Phulkari/Patiyala suits, Bhagalpur Tassar silk sarees/duppatta, handlooms from Madhya Pradesh, grass mats and curtains, Jaipur kurthas, Kanjivaram silks sarees, Molakalmur sarees of Karnataka, jute bags, Tassur silk sarees, , Banaras sarees, Bengal cotton sarees, Kashmir handlooms, Rajasthan embroidery, and vegetable print dress materials. The expo is being conducted under the auspices of the Office of the Development Commissioner (Handlooms), Union Ministry of Textiles, Karnataka State Cooperative Handloom Weavers Federation Ltd., (Cauvery Handlooms), Bengaluru and Commissioner for Textile Development and Director, Department of Handloom and Textiles.  The exhibition will be open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on all the days.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police crack mystery behind discovery of woman’s burnt body||The mystery surrounding the discovery of a woman’s body that had been set on fire by the roadside near Kellur village in Periyapatna near here early on November 8 has been cracked by the Mysuru district police, who have arrested the woman’s boyfriend and his associate on charges of murdering her. Soon after early morning walkers drew the attention of the police to the body, the police rushed to the spot and started an investigation. “The upper part of the body had already been charred. The lower part of the body was still burning”, said Superintendent of Mysuru District Police C.B. Ryshyant, who had also visited the spot to gather evidence. When the team of police personnel were investigating the case, they came across a missing complaint from nearby Hulahalli village in Nanjangud taluk registered on November 14. When the missing woman’s age and height matched the appearance of the burnt body, the police took a photograph of the anklet recovered from the body and sent it to complainant. After the complainant Mahadev Shetty and his wife confirmed that the anklet belonged to their missing daughter Bhagya, aged about 24 years, the police soon rounded up Siddaraju, 24, who was in a relationship with Bhagya, a BCom graduate, working as a typist in the office of a lawyer in Hulahalli. During interrogation, Siddaraju, who was in a relationship with Bhagya for the last four years ever since they met at a wedding in 2016, said Bhagya was forcing him to marry her though he had made it clear to her several times that he was not interested. But, fed up with the constant pressure she was mounting, Siddaraju, an employee in a private firm in Nanjangud, hatched a plan with his friend Prasanna, a taxi driver, to kill her, Mr. Ryshyant said. Siddaraju asked Bhagya to join him and Prasanna on a trip on November 7 to Dharmasthala, where he said they would get married and later settle down in Bengaluru. A convinced Bhagya left Hulahalli around 3.30 p.m. on November 7 and reached Mysuru, where she swas joined by Siddaraju. Both of them watched a movie in a multiplex in Mysuru till Prasanna arrived in the evening after dropping a passenger. All the three boarded the car and proceeded towards Dharmasthala. En route they stopped the car around midnight when both Siddaraju and Prasanna allegedly strangled Bhagya, who was sitting in the rear seat, with her veil, said Mr. Ryshyant. The duo later dumped the body by the roadside and set it on fire along with the documents that Bhagya had brought with her. The accused had allegedly kept ready petrol in a can for burning the body. After setting fire to the body, Siddaraju and Prasanna continued their journey towards Dharmasthala and returned to Mysuru on November 8 evening, the Superintendent of Police said.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||M.P. CM visits Melkote||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivaraj Singh Chauhan visited the temple town of Melkote in Mandya district on Wednesday. He had darshan at the Cheluva Narayana Swami and Yoga Narasimha Swami temples. Sources said this visit was as a ‘thanksgiving’ to the deity after securing a victory in the recent byelections in that State.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Going home||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||More medical, dental seats this year||Students applying for seats in private colleges will have to shell out more money after the government recently decided to increase the fees. The fee for government seats in private colleges for this academic year was hiked by 15% while that of institutional quota seats in private colleges was increased by 25%.
19 November 2020||Abdul Latheef Naha,KERALA||2 Muslim women to contest for BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has finally found two Muslim women to contest the elections in Malappuram, the only Muslim-majority district in the State. T.P. Sulfath from Wandoor and Ayisha Hussain from Chemmad have become the first Muslim woman duo in Malappuram to contest an election under the BJP’s banner. Ms. Sulfath filed her nomination for the Wandoor grama panchayat from Ward 6 (Shanti-Koottambara) on Wednesday. Ms. Ayisha will file her nomination on Thursday for the Ponmundam grama panchayat from Ward 9. The BJP in Malappuram has been upbeat over finding Muslim women to contest the local body elections. Although Ms. Sulfath was offered a district panchayat division, she chose her own grama panchayat as she has been keen on beginning from the grassroots. Fan of Modi An avid fan of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Ms. Sulfath said the progressive policies followed by the BJP had attracted her to that party. “Who else can implement such progressive measures as banning triple talaaq and raising marriageable age for women? There is none in current Indian politics to match Modiji not only in charisma but in efficiency and determination as well,” she told The Hindu . A mother of two children, Ms. Sulfath prefers to be self-reliant by engaging in a variety of business. Married at 15, Ms. Sulfath said her life had taught her the bitter lessons of entering into nuptials as a child. Her progressive thoughts have won her many new friends and fans. Youngsters have started approaching her for selfies. Ms. Sulfath is not certain about staging an upset in a ward where the BJP has a weak base. “But my candidature sends home the message that the BJP is a safe party. We want a third alternative to end the adjustment politics being played by the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front,” she said. Ms. Ayisha too is a first timer in the fray. Mother of a 10-year-old girl, Ms. Ayisha too has been a fan of Vajpayee and Modi. Her husband Hussain Varikkottil, who is a district committee member of the Minority Morcha, is also contesting to the Malappuram district panchayat from the Edarikode division under the BJP banner.
19 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Bridge work in Aroor will begin soon: Minister||The construction of a bridge connecting the Perumbalam island in the Aroor Assembly constituency to the mainland will begin soon, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. The works on the bridge, inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on September 8, 2019, never took off. The government initiated action against the contractor. After releasing the contractor, the government awarded the work to the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society. However, another company moved court against the government decision, resulting in further delay. In a statement, Mr. Sudhakaran said the court had ruled in favour of the government's decision to award the work to the ULCCS. “Decisions will be taken in tune with the model code of conduct.” Rs. 100-crore project The Rs. 100-crore project was funded under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. Once completed, the bridge will make travel hassle-free for around 15,000 islanders. The residents now use boats to travel between their village and the mainland.
19 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha’s tally is 637||The daily COVID-19 cases witnessed a jump in the district with 637 people testing positive for the disease on Wednesday. The district also recorded three COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official toll to 130. Among the fresh cases, 624 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another nine people remains undetected. Three people who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 637 cases include 61 each logged from Alappuzha and Kadakkarappally, 53 from Ezhupunna, 47 from Mararikulam North, 34 from Aryad and 31 from Kodamthuruth. Meanwhile, 368 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 8,325.
19 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||BDJS led by Thushar gets recognition||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has recognised the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena (BDJS) led by Thushar Vellappally as the official party. Earlier, Subhash Vasu had approached the ECI claiming the faction led by him was the original BDJS. The ECI rejected his claims and recognised the party administrative committee with Thushar Vellappally as president, A.G. Thankappan vice president, Rajesh Nedumangad general secretary and Anirudh Karthikeyan treasurer.
19 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||The case of missing voters in plantations||The plantation areas of Peerumade, Udumbanchola, and Devikulam taluks in Idukki are witnessing a rare happening this election season. Election managers here are in search of people on the voters’ list. An election manager in Peerumade taluk says around 65 persons who have votes in a grama panchayat ward remain untraced. An enquiry found that they had shifted from there sometime ago. “It is difficult to trace them as we do not have their phone number or address.” In a ward with nearly 1,000 votes, these numbers matter. Those living in estate lanes usually move to their native places after retirement. Both cardamom and tea plantation areas are witnessing a drop in the number of voters, according to the election managers. In Udumbanchola taluk, the drop in numbers is more in cardamom plantations, whereas in Devikulam and Peerumade taluks, the higher number of absentees is in tea plantations. Candidates of all political parties are likely to feel the impact of the absent voters. 20% of voters Many tea estates in Peerumade have remained closed after a crisis hit the tea sector nearly two decades ago. A large number of families migrated to Tamil Nadu in search of better lives. The absence is most evident in Peerumade, Vandiperiyar, and Elappara grama panchayats in Peerumade taluk. In some wards there, around 20% of voters are missing. “We have traced a few of them and they agreed to vote,” said a candidate in a ward in Elappara grama panchayat. A leader of a major political party in Kattappana said many who had gone to their native places after the COVID-19-induced lockdown had not returned. Party workers there were being directed to bring them back, he added. Collector’s stance District Collector H. Dinesan said that political parties were given time till November 10 to revise the voters’ list. If someone was found absent, they should have been called for a personal hearing by the secretary in a grama panchayat. Those unable to be present there, should have been eliminated from the list, after giving another opportunity for appeal before the District Collector. He said that every chance of double voting would be countered.
19 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||At 249, Idukki posts highest daily tally||Idukki reported its highest number of COVID-19 cases, at 249, on Wednesday. Of the positive cases, the source of 35 could not be traced. Forty-five persons who came from outside the State contracted the infection. The number of cases had remained low in the district for long. A few instances of 150-odd cases were recorded in the past few months. A Health official said that increased number of tests were being conducted after the facility was started in Government Medical College Hospital, Idukki. Earlier, COVID-19 tests from the district used to conducted in Kottayam and delay was alleged in getting results. Once the facility was launched in Idukki, the number of tests slowly increased. At Edamalakkudy Almost all grama panchayats, except Edamalakkudy in the Munnar forest division, have COVID-19 cases. Edamalakkudy, comprising Muthuvan tribespeople, had imposed a ban on outsiders. However, with Munnar, the town nearest to Edamalakkdudy, recording many cases, there is concern that it may spread to nearby areas. The vegetable cultivating villages of Vattavada and Kanthallur, near Munnar, also recorded a few cases in the past few months. However, compared to those recorded in the low ranges of Thodupuzha, the panchayats in the high ranges recorded fewer numbers.
19 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Ponmudy dam shutters to be opened||The shutters of Ponmudy dam will be opened to regulate the water level from 6 a.m. on Thursday. About 45 cumecs of water will be released and those living near Panniyar, Muthirapuzha, and Periyar should take precautionary measures, said the District Collector.
19 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Monkeys a poll issue here||With municipal elections round the corner, protests by residents here against the monkey menace have yielded some positive response. Members of the Haritagiri Residents Association in the 10th division of the Kalpetta municipality took a decision to the effect that they would vote only for the party that comes up with a permanent solution to the problems posed by monkeys in the municipality. The monkeys have been creating problems for the people living in all divisions of the civic body. Series of stir Though the residents had led a series of agitations against the alleged laxity of the authorities in tackling the menace, it had not led to any desired effect, Babu Varghese, president of the association, told The Hindu . The municipal authorities had drafted a Rs. 36.5-lakh project to sterilise stray monkeys in 2014, but it was yet to take off, Mr. Varghese said. The sub-court here had in 2013 directed the authorities concerned to relocate the simian population from the municipal area in three months. When a Forest Department project a few years ago to translocate the monkeys to remote forests failed to materialise, the department also mooted a project in 2015 to sterilise the primates in the municipal area. This project was to utilise the technical assistance of veterinary experts from the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University and the Kalpetta municipality. But the project too did not take off, he said. As a last resort, the association had put up banners right next to the posters of political parties urging the candidates to address the monkey menace. The votes from the residential area are important for all political fronts as they constitute nearly a quarter of the total votes of the division.
19 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||1,483 more file nominations in Wayanad||As many as 1,483 candidates filed their nomination papers for the upcoming local body polls in the district on Wednesday. These include 24 nomination papers to the Wayanad District Panchayat, 206 papers to the Kalpetta, Mananthavady and Sulthan Bathery municipalities, 90 to three block panchayats and 1,163 papers to 19 grama panchayats. As many as 2,496 papers have been filed for the upcoming polls in the district so far.
19 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Transgender candidate hopeful of change||K. Sneha, a transgender person, is all set to contest the local body elections as an Independent from Ward 36 of the Kannur Corporation. She sees her candidature as an opportunity to work closely with the people and to improve the situation in their ward. “Candidates representing political parties have ignored the region for long. This prompted me to enter the fray,” says Ms. Sneha, a resident of Samajwadi Colony here. The ward residents live in unhygienic conditions. The roads are potholed and there is no proper drainage system. Hitherto, the voters had no choice, according to Ms. Sneha. “I am in the race to convey the message to the people that they have an alternative and they can rely on me to improve infrastructure in the area, ” she adds. Social neglect After years of social neglect and stigma, she underwent sex reassignment surgery a year ago. “I feel more confident now and I am sure that people will accept me and give me an opportunity to serve them.” “It is a beginning and my effort to serve people will continue whether I wins or not,” she adds.
19 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||MLA’s secretary told to appear before police||The Kasaragod district and sessions court has directed Pradeep Kumar, office secretary of K.B. Ganesh Kumar, MLA, to appear before the investigating officer of the Bekal police station on November 19 in connection with a case registered for threatening and intimidating an approver in the woman actor assault case. The court directive came on an anticipatory bail plea filed by Mr. Pradeep Kumar. The court orally directed that no arrest be made in the case.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MGU drops e-attendance for internal assessment||Mahatma Gandhi University has decided to replace online attendance as a component for internal assessment in view of the continuing technical hurdles faced by students while logging on to the online classes. The online attendance component can be replaced by an additional assignment/seminar/viva voce. The decision was taken after students informed the university that network and connectivity issues were posing a hindrance to their uninterrupted access to the online sessions. Many students were not able to log in to the classes owing to poor internet connectivity. The images of students running to their terrace carrying the mobile phones for better connectivity had come to the notice of the authorities. The faculty members had taken stock of the difficulties faced by the students in getting access to the online sessions. Remote areas Teachers had found that students in remote regions had to travel all the way to areas that enjoyed adequate internet connectivity to log in to the daily sessions. With the decision to replace the online attendance, the faculty members can choose either an additional assignment for internal assessment. They could also opt for a seminar or a viva voce session in place of online attendance. The academic council had earlier ratified the proposal based on the requests given by the students. Teachers said that the would consider an option that would not require much of online data or time for the students to respond.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rebel menace for Congress in Aluva||The Congress seems to be grappling with rebel menace in the Aluva municipality following the rivalry between the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions over seat sharing for the civic body elections. The finalisation of candidates was caught in inner-party tussle after both the ‘A’ and ‘I’ factions stepped up their claims for various wards. The ‘I’ faction staked claim to 13 seats, but the ‘A’ group was in no mood to relent. DCC for local solution The District Congress Committee (DCC) was approached to resolve the deadlock. However, the district Congress leadership refused to intervene and suggested a solution at the local-level itself. But the situation turned worse after the list of candidates was finalised on Sunday. Initial estimates by a senior ‘I’ group leader revealed that the party was facing rebel menace in several wards. Discontent “We had asked for 13 seats but ended up with only seven. This led to widespread discontent among the local leaders and most of them have threatened to file nominations against the official candidates,” he said. The ‘A’ faction claimed that they had taken into account the ‘winnability’ of the candidates after taking into account their local connect and other factors. Even two In some of the wards, the official Congress candidate is facing opposition from two rebels. However, the Congress leadership in Aluva exuded confidence that the rebel menace would not dent its chances of retaining the municipality. Interestingly, they claimed that the increase in rebel candidates was a reflection of the the party’s overall safe position in the civic body.  The Congress is also trying to exploit the rebel voices in the Left camp. In CPI(M) camp A local committee member of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] had resigned following differences over the Left Democratic Front candidate in Ward 24. The party is trying to rope him in for the election campaign. However, the local CPI(M) leadership said that his resignation would not have any impact on its candidate. The person had resigned stating that the party did not give the seat to his wife. But he had never expressed any such wish to the leadership, they said.  ‘A’ faction claims that they have taken into account ‘winnability’ while finalising candidates.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Political fronts intensify campaign in Thrikkakara||Both the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have finalised the list of candidates for the upcoming elections to the Thrikkakara municipality and have intensified their campaigns. ‘Youth and experience’ Veteran CPI(M) leader M.E. Hassainar, former chairman of the Thrikkakara municipality, said the Left front had given weightage to both youth and experience. The UDF candidates were finalised on Tuesday after much argument over the candidature, especially in the wake of the outgoing council’s experience. Two rebels, one each from the UDF and the LDF, had held the balance of power during the term as the municipality saw four chairpersons over a period of five years. Mr. Hassainar said 24 candidates would contest on the official CPI(M) symbol while there were 11 candidates who would be supported by the party. There will be six candidates contesting on the CPI ticket. One candidate each will contest from the Congress(S) and Janta Dal, making up the array of 43 contestants. He said he did not want to name any contestant as the leader of the council but that the parties had given equal weightage to all the contestants. While some were young, there were other with vast experience, he added. Prominent UDF leaders in the fray include former chairperson Shaji Vazhakkala, former block panchayat president Radhamani Pillai, Congress block president Noushad Pallechi and DCCI secretaries Xavier Thayenkari and P.I. Mohammed Ali.
19 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Here, Twenty20 is everyone’s target||Defeating Twenty20, the apolitical corporate-backed charity outfit that swept into power in the last local body polls, has emerged the central objective of all three mainstream political formations in the 19-member Kizhakkambalam panchayat. Notwithstanding that common purpose, a consensus for an understanding has evaded the political outfits. Though the local Congress leadership had initially shown some interest in joining hands with the CPI(M) at least in select five wards where they felt such unity could defeat Twenty20, the CPI(M) shot down any such covert alliance. In fact, the Left Democratic Front went ahead and declared all 19 candidates — 17 from CPI(M) and two from CPI — and kick-started the campaign quite early. “We haven’t discussed the possibility of joining hands with other political parties over a common cause. Our campaign is centred around exposing how the Twenty20 dispensation sabotaged many State government schemes like LIFE Mission in the panchayat and failed in utilising funds by emerging 69th among the 82 panchayats in the district. Even the formal faithful of that outfit is now convinced of its undemocratic ways,” said Jins T. Mustafa, secretary of the CPI(M) Kizhakkambalam local committee. Local Congress leadership while sounding far more amenable to a ‘local strategy’ to defeat Twenty20 though would not openly admit it. But that strategy remains quite evident with the Congress contesting in just nine wards while fielding Independents in the remaining 10. “Twenty20 remains our primary enemy with its autocratic ways,” said Elias Karipra, president of the Kizhakkambalam Assembly constituency of the Congress, who was not forthcoming about the ploy to field Independents in a majority of wards. A step ahead However, unperturbed by the overall derision they evoke, Twenty20 has gone about their business and even had a headstart over others in declaring candidates for all 19 wards and completed even multiple rounds of campaigning. In fact, expanding its reach, the outfit has fielded candidates in all wards of neighbouring Mazhuvannoor, Aikkaranadu, Kunnathunadu, and nine wards of Vengola panchayats on their common electoral symbol of mango. “There is a covert understanding among all mainstream political and communal outfits to defeat us by fielding weak candidates in many wards. We are fighting this election by highlighting our three achievements in Kizhakkamabalam — leaving a debt-ridden panchayat with a fixed deposit of Rs. 18.57 crore, the social impact of bringing down crime and suicides by ensuring peace, happiness, and safety in every household, and effective management of pandemic,” said Sabu M. Jacob, businessman and chief mentor of Twenty20. Having failed to have any member in the local body since the 1970s, the Bharatiya Janata Party is also planning to make its presence felt, said Rajappan M.N., party working committee member for Kizhakkambalam.  Our campaign is centred around exposing how the Twenty20 dispensation sabotaged many State government schemes Jins T. Mustafa CPI(M) leader
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High drama at MLA’s house before arrest||The arrest of former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju was preceded by high drama after the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) teams reached his house at Aluva around 8.30 a.m. on Wednesday. The 10-member investigating team from the Thiruvananthapuram and Kottayam units was told by Mr. Kunju’s wife that he was not at home. She informed the sleuths that the former Minister was admitted to a private hospital at Maradu on Tuesday night. A woman police officer was called in from the Aluva police station after learning that his wife was alone at home. The VACB officials then entered the house and carried out a search. A few senior officials came out of the house after half an hour, triggering speculations that they had called off the search. However, they told media persons that one team will remain at Mr. Kunju’s residence. The personnel did not comment when asked whether they were proceeding towards the hospital to arrest Mr. Kunju, leader of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and its MLA representing the Kalamassery Assembly constituency. Taken by surprise A candidate of the IUML for the civic body elections who had reached Mr. Kunju’s residence was taken by surprise after witnessing the drama. “I came to seek his blessings before filing nominations today,” he said. The VACB team that reached the hospital was taken to his room. They held discussions with the doctors before recording his arrest. It is learnt that the doctors informed the investigating team that Mr. Kunju required hospitalisation as he had been under cancer treatment since April. He could not be discharged at this point of time in view of his medical condition. The drama continued late into the day as Jobin Sebastian, Special Judge at the Vigilance Court in Muvattupuzha, reached the hospital. The remand proceedings were complete by 6.30 p.m.
19 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Waste handling a key issue in Kalamassery||Sustainable handling of waste generated in the municipal area is a key issue at Kalamassery, which is gearing up to elect its new municipal council members. The outgoing chairperson, Rukia Jamal of the United Democratic Front (UDF), claimed that the municipal council was able to bring a semblance of order to the issue of waste management in its term. She said dumping of waste in some of the areas in the municipality had been brought under control. Besides, she said, waste was sorted and biodegradable materials were despatched regularly to the Brahamapuram waste treatment centre of the Kochi Corporation. However, outgoing councillor Henny Baby of the CPI(M) said that the UDF rule was a failure considering the fact that the political front had been in power over the past 25 years in the municipality. Despite the continuity of the UDF rule, the council failed to find a solution to the problem of waste management. People still continued to dump waste in public places even as the municipal authorities turned a blind eye to the issue, she said. She also slammed the outgoing council for its failure to build residential flat complexes for the landless under the LIFE housing project. She said the municipality had more than five acres of land, which could have been utilised to build the complexes. However, the outgoing chairperson denied the allegation. She said there had been some delay in identifying land and getting its price fixed by the district administration. At the same time, 320 houses had been completed for eligible applicants under the Prime Minister’s housing scheme, she added claiming that it was one of the biggest achievements of the UDF rule. “The municipality had also been able to build good roads. No roads are in bad condition in the municipal area,” she said. The outgoing chairperson also claimed that the municipal authorities were able to clear up the drainage system and clean water reservoirs immediately after the floods in the State in 2018 and 2019. She added that the UDF wanted to find space for a treatment plant, which would finally end the problem of waste management. “The municipality had struggled to identify a piece of land for the purpose, but not land is available with it now,” she said.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||In Koothattukulam, fronts on equal footing||If the U.S. Presidential election parlance were to be adopted, the 25-member Koothattukulam municipality would qualify as a ‘swing’ civic body with the mandate fluctuating between the two major fronts. In the last local body polls, the first since Koothattukulam was elevated to a municipality, none had a decisive majority and the two Congress rebels who won as Independents pretty much made both the United Democratic Front (UDF) that managed 12 seats and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) with 11 seats dance to their tunes. The five-year term witnessed four different chairpersons as the UDF hung on to power for the first three-and-a-years and the LDF for the rest by keeping both the Independents in good humour, leaving even anti-incumbency in dispute. The UDF lost the house after one of its leaders decamped and one of the Independents, Roy Abraham, switched over to the LDF, which promptly him the chairman. Similar fashion Things are playing out in an alarmingly similar fashion for the UDF this time too, with two rebel Congressmen throwing their hats in the ring on being denied candidacy. While the LDF had hit the campaign trail running at least a month ago on finalising their candidates, the UDF managed it only after the submission of nominations began. The Congress is contesting in 21 wards and Kerala Congress (Jacob) in three and the Joseph faction of Kerala Congress in one division. “In a local body poll, premature campaigning does no good as it fizzles out by the time it really matters. Besides, the LDF rule could not make any progress in major projects like the construction of a new stadium and the proposed ring road initiated by us,” said P.C. Jose, Congress president of Koothattukulam Assembly constituency. The LDF has fielded 17 CPI(M) candidates, five CPI candidates, and one each from NCP, Jose K. Mani faction of Kerala Congress, and Janadhipathya Kerala Congress. The front remains confident of wresting power on the perceived popularity of the State government’s welfare policies such as LIFE Mission, under which an apartment complex for 36 families is being built in Koothattukulam. It has also claimed the proposal for the Rs. 8-crore new municipal office, effective waste management, and crematorium among the achievements of the LDF’s short term in power. “LDF is in a more formidable position with the arrival of two Kerala Congress factions. We are confident of winning this time,” said M.R. Surendranath, CPI(M) local committee secretary. BJP too hopeful The BJP remains hopeful of opening its account. “We have identified at least five divisions where we have a good chance. We will field our own candidates in our strongholds and either field Independents or back popular Independent candidates in the rest,” said N.K. Vijayan, BJP Assembly constituency president.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Women’s commission adalat held||The Women’s Commission adalat here on Wednesday considered an issue of domestic violence raised by a woman on Facebook. The Commission members sought a detailed report on it from the police besides asking them to provide the aggrieved woman protection. Members of the Commission had earlier met the woman and assured her of all support. The Commission also asked the District Police Chief to conduct an inquiry against a person in Chottanikkara against whom 13 women had complained of indecent behaviour. Among the 55 complaints considered on Wednesday was one about a son who allegedly secured possession of his mother’s property before deserting her.  In all, 15 complaints were resolved and five sent for enquiry. Thirty-four will be considered at the next sitting and counselling has been suggested in one. Commission chairperson M.C. Josephine led the hearing.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders re-post-mortem||The State has initiated steps for carrying out re-post-mortem examination of Sandhya, a relative of film-maker Sanal Kumar Sasidharan, the State informed the Kerala High Court on Wednesday. It was on a petition filed by Mr. Sasidharan seeking a probe into the death of Sandhya that the re-examination was ordered. The instruction for conducting the post-mortem examination was issued to the superintendent of the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, the State informed the court. The court directed that the proceeding be video-recorded. It was on November 7 that the woman died. She was tested positive for COVID-19. The petitioner had sought an inquiry into the cause of death.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held for assaulting woman||The Town North police on Wednesday arrested a person on the charge of assaulting and spitting on a woman allegedly for turning down his proposal. The arrested man was identified as Shyam Kumar, 32, of Eramalloor, Cherthala. The petitioner, a resident of Ayyappankavu and mother of two, used to reside in a rented house near the house of the accused till a year ago. She shifted to Ayyapankkavu after the accused started heckling her. The police said the accused stopped by the petitioner at the Ayyappankkavu bus stop and proposed to her on November 16. When she turned it down, he allegedly assaulted her, pushed her down to the ground and spat on her.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||887 more patients in Ernakulam||A total of 887 people tested positive for SARS-CoV2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday, with the source of infection of 209 remaining untraced. As many as 658 of the new patients contracted the disease through local contact. Among the infected were 19 health workers. Chengamanad, with 34 new cases, topped the areas with most cases, followed by Karukutty with 28 cases and Thrikkakara with 24. Rayamangalam recorded 23 cases while Kalady and Kizhakkambalam had 22 each. 720 recoveries In all, 720 patients recovered. While 1,659 people were freshly brought under disease surveillance, 2,115 were released. The district had 29,513 people under observation as on Wednesday evening. New admissions to hospitals/FLTCs stood at 137 and the total number of active patients was 9,755. A fresh batch of 6,314 samples were sent for testing on the day.
19 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CPI(M) opposes KC(M) nominee||Opposition from the CPI(M) notwithstanding, the Kerala Congress (Mani) has decided to go ahead with fielding the controversial candidate Dhanesh Mathew Manjooran from the Ponekkara ward of the Kochi Corporation. KC(M) Ernakulam district president Babu Joseph said Mr. Manjooran had filed his nomination to contest the polls as a Left Democratic Front candidate, on Wednesday. “The KC(M) has been traditionally contesting from Kadavanthra, but the CPI(M) wanted that ward and asked us to contest from Ponekkara, besides Thoppumpady and Konthuruthy. When we held a meeting, it was decided that Mr. Manjooran, mandalam president, be fielded from there. After the CPI(M) raised objections against his candidature, we consulted the State unit, but were asked to go ahead with the candidate,” Mr. Joseph told The Hindu . He said that when the party was offered the Ponekkara ward, the CPI(M) was informed about the candidature of Mr. Manjooran. “But they had not objected to it then,” Mr. Joseph said. Arrested in 2016 Mr. Manjooran, an advocate, was arrested by the police in 2016 after he was accused of attempting to molest a woman.
19 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam reports 693 cases, two deaths||The district reported 693 new cases of COVID-19, two deaths and 577 recoveries on Wednesday. Among the patients are 686 contact cases, one Non-Resident Indian, two persons who had travelled from other States, two health workers and two cases with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 62-year-old Kollam resident and a 69-year-old Eravipuram resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source include a 48-year-old Pathanapuram resident and a 56-year-old Vettikavala resident. The health workers who tested positive are from Perinad and Kulasekharapuram.  The district currently has 18,618 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,18,196. While 2,667 persons completed home quarantine on Wednesday, the Health Department has traced 1,04,512 primary and 8,236 secondary contacts of the positive cases. The number of active cases at present is 4,919.
19 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||373 cases in Kottayam||As many as 373 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Wednesday. Of the new cases, all but one contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 50 children and 58 persons aged above 60. Among the local bodies, Kottayam municipality reported 41 cases, followed by Changanassery with 28 cases. With 776 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3,636 active cases.
19 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||For transgenders, it’s still an unfair deal||Why should you contest the elections when we are here to listen to your issues? Transgender activist Sisily George was puzzled to hear this query when she met some politicians in Kozhikode with her desire to contest the local body polls. Some of them just laughed at her as if she was raising some quirky demand. A few people misled her with a claim that the date to file nomination papers had passed. “It was a painful experience as no leaders were receptive to our demand. They knew well that our financial constraints would not let us challenge them independently,” says Ms. Sisily, one of the familiar transgender faces in the city. She feels that all political fronts are playing a hide-and-seek game with no honest plans for an inclusive administration. Irked by the unkind treatment, she is now planning to try her hand in the forthcoming Assembly elections. She hopes she can win the support of some State-level welfare organisations for this democratic protest. “Two of our community members are now getting ready to contest the local body polls independently. Let us also wait to see their experience,” she adds. Even the educated transgender people also feel that they are being sidelined during the selection of candidates. Sukanyeah Krishna, a web developer by profession, observes that the political parties want transgender people as only “show pieces” to project their claims. She feels that the State is still revolving around some outworn prejudices against her community members. Dire straits “Like many, I was in a situation to secure a bank loan for sex-reassignment surgery. I did not get any aid. There are many with such genuine issues, which can be dealt seriously with the entry of transgender representatives to our administrative system,” says Ms. Krishna who struggles to repay about Rs. 18,000 as EMI. According to her, the voice of transgender celebrities alone can never echo the struggle of about 10 lakh such people in the country. Responding to the demand to field transgender persons, some of the political party leaders in the district said they were yet to get any “serious requests from anyone”. They also claimed that the selection of candidates in local body elections was mostly based on local development issues and it could be done only considering the local sentiments.
19 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||With one day left to file papers, uncertainty over candidates ends||With just one day left to file nominations, all political parties have come up with a complete list of candidates to the Kozhikode Corporation council. The United Democratic Front (UDF) had come up with a second list on Tuesday with the names of 23 Congress candidates and five Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) candidates. The Congress will contest in 49 seats while the IUML will have 24 candidates. CMP, another constituent of the UDF, has already announced its two candidates. The UDF had earlier decided not to support RMP candidate from Valiyangadi ward Mohammed Shuhaib, father of Alan Shuhaib, who had been arrested for alleged link with Maoists a few months ago. Instead, the Congress has fielded S.K. Aboobakker in the ward. The front will also not support P. Surendran, son of former Mayor P. Kuttikrishnan Nair, who is contesting against Varun Bhaskar, son of former Mayor M. Bhaskaran in Karuvassery ward. The Congress has fielded P.V. Bineesh Kumar in the ward. The uncertainty regarding seven seats in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) too came to an end on Wednesday. The tiff with the JD(S) over seat-sharing, following which the party had threatened to contest alone, has also been resolved. The CPI(M) will contest in 57 seats while five seats each have been granted to the CPI and the LJD. The INL and the JD(S) will get two seats each while the NCP will get three. The Congress (S) will field an Independent candidate in its only seat. The NDA had announced its final list of candidates on Monday, according to which the BJP will field 70 candidates and the BDJS five candidates. Meanwhile, 290 nominations have already been filed by candidates to the corporation council. Thursday is the last day to file nominations, while scrutiny will be held on Friday. November 23, Monday, is the last date to recall nominations.
19 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Three days of life in mall; Fasna’s issues unresolved||It has been three days since Fasna Ashraf from Poovattuparamba started living in Mahila Mall in the city. She claims she has no where to go after she was evicted from her rented accommodation as she failed to pay the rent for 11 months. “This shop room 'Nilave' is my only asset now. I have invested everything I have into this shop. For me, its either this or the street,” she told The Hindu , while her 13-year-old younger daughter just listened. Fasna, a divorcee with two daughters, is one of those women entrepreneurs, who claim to have been cheated by the very idea of Mahila Mall. “I had a successful stitching unit, which I sold to start this shop. I could run the shop barely for a month before which I had a tiff with the management over the electricity bill and they cut my connection. I could not run a shop without power and hence, I opted to quit. But they refused to return my advance payment in full and I approached court,” Fasna explained. Fasna knocked on every available door, like the Labour Office, the District Legal Services Authority and even the police for justice, but claims to have been disappointed. Her shop remained closed for one and half years. She claims that the management had sealed it with a different lock and refused to allow her entry even to retrieve her stock. Post-lockdown, she joined the other entrepreneurs in a strike demanding to reopen the mall, which, after much negotiations, succeeded. Fasna was allowed access to her shop along with the other entrepreneurs, upon which she realised that a large amount of her stock was missing. Her complaints fell on deaf ears, she says.  After her eviction from the rented house, Fasna moved into Mahila Mall with her daughters on Monday. Several political parties offered her support and even held dharnas on her behalf. “I know that they are planning to use me for their political benefit, in view of the forthcoming election. I don’t want to be their pawn. They can not help me in any manner,” Fasna said. On the other hand, the Mahila Mall management, the Unity Group of Kudumbashree, claims that Fasna had no claim to the room that she says is her asset. “She has not paid the rent for even one month or the electricity charge. Her contract expired long back and she has not renewed it. Then how can she claim that room?” questioned Vijaya K., secretary of the group, adding that she had enough evidence to prove every claim made by Fasna wrong. Meanwhile, Fasna claims she had incurred debts of Rs. 10 lakh in the name of 'Nilave'. “I want some form of compensation so that I can restart my life and pay off the debts. I hope the authorities will listen this time,” she says.
19 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 811 fresh cases||As many as 811new COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district on Wednesday, of which 732 were local transmission of the infection. Eleven health workers were among the infected. The source of infection was unknown in 63 cases. The district also reported 920 recoveries. There are now 7,853 people under treatment and 25,961 under observation. In Malappuram As many as 507 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Wednesday. District officials said that there were 661 recoveries on the same day. While 474 cases contracted the virus through direct contact with infected people, there were 22 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Officials said 11 cases had come from across the borders. As many as 6,545 infected people are currently under treatment across the district. Most of them are under observation at their respective homes.  In Wayanad As many as 158 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Wednesday. The district also reported 76 recoveries. Of the new cases, 157 patients, including two health workers, were infected through local contact and a person came from Karnataka. The district has so far reported 9,066 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 8,000 have recovered from the disease.   (With inputs from Malappuram and Wayanad bureaus)
19 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Campaign to keep students safe online||Noticing a strange spike in cybergrooming, stalking and bullying following the pandemic outbreak, a group of media students from Kerala and Tamil Nadu has launched an inter-State online cyber awareness campaign with the support of ethical hackers to reach out to vulnerable groups and make them aware of social media safety measures. The five-day campaign, ‘#404-Online Errors Found’, will cover select schools and colleges in both the States. “While many of us enjoy staying connected on social media, its excessive use can fuel feelings of anxiety, depression, isolation or fear of missing out (FOMO), which is yet to be a matter of focus. We thought of doing it now as a proper awareness initiative on time can save many students,” says Thomas Hans Ben, one of the coordinators of the campaign representing Madras Christian College (MCC). The first-round of online sessions attended by cyber experts for some of the schools in Tamil Nadu and Kerala are over, he adds. Interactive sessions According to Mr. Ben, the campaign will also have national-level interactive sessions where students, teachers, parents or the general public can directly converse with ethical hackers to clear their doubts or seek solutions on social media security issues. Hadlee Wilson, an ethical hacker and certified information systems security professional, is handling the interactive panel discussions. Though the project is now led by the MCC’s Department of Communication, the support of resource persons and ethical hackers from different States is expected to take it to a wider audience through social media and streaming channels, he adds. Jobin Joy, who coordinates online sessions, says fake accounts, cyber attacks, and fraudulent financial deals are part of the virtual space now, where newcomers will have to be more cautious. “A better surveillance will become a reality only when all are aware of challenges. We are doing our best to take such a cause forward,” he says.
19 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Muslim Youth League activists raise banner of revolt||A section of Muslim Youth League (MYL) workers in the district has accused the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) of playing political trickery in the selection of candidates for the local body elections. The infuriated group, mostly comprising MYL workers form the Chekkiad panchayat, alleged that there were suspected financial deals behind the finalisation of some seats. Some of the protests also organised a local meeting in Chekkiyad on Wednesday with the claim that a deserving IUML activist in their area was denied the seat subsequent to a suspected financial deal. They also threatened to leave the party for its alleged failures in considering the “deserving candidate”. The MYL activists, who openly questioned the party’s selection criteria, also circulated their objections widely on social media and staged local demonstrations. ‘Propaganda baseless’ Meanwhile, IUML leaders from the area said the propaganda against the party was baseless as the selection of candidates was made purely based on their merits and leadership qualities. They also claimed that no active MYL workers were involved in the “fake campaign” against the party.
19 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rights panel relief for elderly woman||The Kerala State Human Rights Commission has made an intervention in addressing the grievance of an elderly woman whose claim for a welfare aid in 2017 was not processed on time. The Commission, which had sought a report from the District Collector, ordered that the woman should be granted the aid without further delay. The Collector in his report had said the disbursal of the financial assistance had been delayed due to the shortage of fund.
19 November 2020||Mohamed Nazeer,KERALA||Arrest of Kunju adds to IUML woes||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the Opposition United Democratic Front (UDF) may cry foul at the arrest of their leader and former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju over the Palarivattom flyover scam being probed by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB). In the run-up to the local body elections in the State, however, the IUML, as also the UDF, has much to worry about the discomfiture over the fact that two of its three MLAs facing probes into serious charges, including corruption and cheating, are now under arrest. The timing of the arrest of Mr. Kunju, who represents the Kalamassery constituency in Ernakulam, may lend credence to the UDF’s allegation that it was an act of vendetta by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) led by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) to eclipse its own embarrassment over the fallout of the ongoing probes into the diplomatic channel gold smuggling and LIFE Mission scams. Kamaruddin’s case But the latest arrest adds to the woes of the IUML as it comes close on the heels of the arrest of party leader and Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin by the Crime Branch in connection with a Fashion Gold jewellery investment scam and the questioning of party’s young leader and Azhikode MLA K.M. Shaji in a bribery case for sanctioning Plus Two courses for an aided school at Azhikode in Kannur district. Mr. Shaji is also facing a probe into the allegation that he amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. Outwardly, the IUML and UDF leadership puts on a brave front and dubs the cases against three as a ploy by the LDF government to turn the tables on the Opposition to divert public attention from the adverse political impact of the investigations in the case of gold smuggling through diplomatic baggage and its domino effect. But IUML and UDF circles privately admit that the they are facing a major challenge now that the ruling and Opposition parties are girding up their loins for what is set to be a tempestuous poll campaign. With two of its MLAs under arrest and another under investigation by the Enforcement Directorate and the VACB, the IUML, which has a strong support base in Malabar, will find itself in a tight spot on the campaign front.
19 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||In Palakkad, BJP banks on growth plank||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is set to stage its best performance ever in the State in the local body elections, its district president E. Krishnadas said here on Wednesday. Addressing a meet-the-press organised by Palakkad Press Club, Mr. Krishnadas said the Left Democratic Front’s (LDF) rule was to end forever in Kerala. He said the BJP would approach the voters by upholding its development agenda. ‘A steady government, a transparent government’ would be the BJP motto in the local body elections. Mr. Krishnadas said the BJP government had brought development projects worth Rs. 4,000 crore to Palakkad district, including setting up of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), a defence park, and a food park. “Highway and railway development are some of the perceptible signs of change brought about under our governance,” Mr. Krishnadas said. According to him, the Narendra Modi government did much more for Palakkad than what the LDF and the UDF did during their alternate reigns. He challenged the LDF government to show what it did for the development of Palakkad district. KSRTC bus stand He also spurned the criticism levelled by Congress district president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, against the BJP that it had failed in ushering in development. “Mr. Sreekandan should first go and find the foundation stone laid by his leader Oommen Chandy for a coach factory in Palakkad. The Congress MLA here could not even construct the KSRTC bus stand that was pulled for renovation in 2015,” he said. He said both the LDF and the UDF had joined hands in blocking developmental activities in Palakkad municipality, the only municipality where the BJP was in power in the State. “A public escalator at Shakuntala Junction is the finest example of their attempts to hamper development. The work is not complete yet.” On garbage crisis The BJP leader held the CPI(M) responsible for the garbage issue of Palakkad municipality. “The municipality’s garbage yard is in Kodumbu panchayat, which is ruled by the CPI(M). They conspired against us,” he said.  BJP government has brought projects worth Rs. 4,000 crore to Palakkad. E. Krishnadas BJP district president
19 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad’s case tally goes up by 377||As many as 377 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Wednesday. However, there were 624 recoveries in the district, giving fresh hopes to the authorities and the people alike. Among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday are four health workers. When 235 of the new cases contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there are 133 patients without an identifiable source of infection.
19 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||234 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 234 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 207 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Among these, the source of 47 persons were yet to be traced. With 10 cases, Adoor municipality reported the highest number of cases, followed by Enadhimangalam with 12 cases. With 226 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,827 active cases.
19 November 2020||Staff Reporter,KERALA||Arrest politically motivated, says Muslim League||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has condemned the arrest of its MLA V.K. Ebrahim Kunju in connection with the Palarivattom flyover scandal. IUML general secretary P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, and working secretary E.T. Mohammed Basheer, MP, described the arrest as “untimely and politically motivated.” They said here on Wednesday that the arrest was done as part of a pre-planned political agenda not only to balance the damage being suffered by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, but also to divert the attention from the investigations being conducted by Central agencies against those in power in the State. “A detailed investigation was done in the flyover case. Mr. Kunju had been served notice and summoned as per sections of the Code of Criminal Procedure. And the arrest now, immediately before the chargesheet is filed in court, is untimely and with ill-motive,” said Mr. Kunhalikutty IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed and Malappuram district president Syed Sadikali Shihab Thangal said the LDF government had thrown political decorum in the garbage by resorting to such vendetta against United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders. The IUML leaders said the party would deal with it politically and legally. “We will expose the LDF designs before the people,” they said.  Chennithala Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala threw the UDF’s weight behind Mr. Kunju. He said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had prevailed on the VACB to target the IUML leader for diverting public attention from the multiple Central investigations into the "criminal profiteering and nepotism" at the apex of the government. Former Chief Minister and Congress Working Committee member Oommen Chandy said Mr. Kunju had followed norms and the government had foisted the case on him to make the UDF appear worse off than the scandal-plagued LDF. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said Mr. Kunju was the victim of a political witch-hunt.  The arrest, immediately before the chargesheet is filed in court, is untimely and with ill-motive P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP IUML general secretary
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Low level of disease spread continues||The State on Wednesday reported 6,419 new cases of COVID-19 when 67,369 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 5,39,919 cases. The test positivity rate reported was 9.53 %. While the State’s epidemic curve has begun to dip, low level of disease transmission is continuing throughout the State. As has been the trend for the past 10 days, the State reported more recoveries than new cases with 7,066 patients leaving hospitals after recovering from the disease. The active case pool further declined to 69,394 cases as the cumulative recoveries rose to 4,68,460. 28 more deaths With the addition of 28 more deaths, the official toll rose to 1,943. Of the deaths reported, Thrissur accounted for seven, Kottayam and Ernakulam four each, Malappuram, Alappuzha and Thiruvananthapuram three each, and Kollam and Kozhikode two each. Official figures also put the number of patients who are critically ill and being treated in ICUs in various hospitals at 891, with 217 requiring ventilator support. Of the new cases, all except 98 cases (6,321 cases) are locally acquired infections, with 677 cases remaining untraced to any known source of infection. These include 68 cases of infection contracted by health-care workers. Among districts, Ernakulam reported the maximum number of cases at 887, Kozhikode 811, Thrissur 703, Kollam 693, Alappuzha 637, Malappuram 507, Thiruvananthapuram 468, Palakkad 377, Kottayam 373, Idukki 249, Pathanamthitta 234, Kannur 213, Wayanad 158 and Kasaragod 109.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Venues finalised for nomination scrutiny||With Thursday being the last day for filing the nominations for the local body polls, the venues for the scrutiny of papers, to be held on Friday, in the district have been announced. The scrutiny will begin at 9 a.m. The nomination papers for the elections to the district panchayat will be held in the chamber of District Collector Navjot Khosa, who is also the District Election Officer. The nominations for wards one to 25 of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation will be scrutinised at the District Planning Office; wards 26 to 50 at the District Supply Office; 51 to 75 at the Subcollector’s office. The above-mentioned offices are situated at the Civil Station. The papers for wards 76 to 100 will be scrutinised at the District Labour Office at Thozhil Bhavan, PMG. The nominations filed for the municipality, block panchayat and grama panchayat polls will be scrutinised at the offices of the returning officers concerned. Given the COVID-19 scenario, steps have been taken to ensure that disease containment measures are strictly followed in the venues. Only the candidate, the proposer and the agent will be allowed inside the halls. November 23 is the last date for withdrawing the nominations.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||HC order on teachers’ selection a relief for PSC||A recent High Court order regarding the selection process for upper primary teachers has come as a relief for the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) which has been facing relentless online campaigns from job aspirants as well as political groups. A group of 163 applicants for the teacher post had approached the Kerala Administrative Tribunal (KAT) and the High Court claiming that their applications were rejected even though they had uploaded the applications online. Panel set up Following the complaint, the PSC had appointed a technical committee consisting of four independent experts to look into the software system used for the application process. According to the committee’s findings, there was no technical error in the system and the complainants had not properly uploaded the applications to the system. More than 1 lakh candidates had already applied online through the same software system. Tarnishing image PSC counsel submitted in the High Court that a large-scale attempt was being made of late by groups of people to tarnish the image of the commission. WhatsApp groups were formed to coordinate activities to raise allegations and file irrelevant petitions. The Kerla High Court, in its order on November 5, found the petition to be frivolous and vexatious as a large number of other candidates had applied online, indicating that there was no deficiency in the Public Service Commission software. “The court, while dismissing the petition, even observed that it was a fit case in which some cost has to be imposed on the petitioners. However, taking into account the fact that the petitioners were all unemployed, the court decided to let them off and impose cost if another case came up in a similar matter. It is natural for aspirants who miss out to raise such issues, but these campaigns often create misconceptions about the system. The Kerala Administrative Tribunal had also dismissed these allegations,” said a Public Service Commission official.  Expert panel finds no technical error in system More than 1 lakh candidates applied online through the system Complainants failed to upload applications properly
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Filing of nominations ends today||Till Wednesday, 97,720 nominations have been filed for the local body polls planned in three phases in December, the State Election Commission (SEC) has said. Thursday is the last day for filing nominations for the polls. The major chunk of the nominations – 75,702 – has been filed for the elections to grama panchayats. So far, 6,493 nominations have been received for block panchayats, 1,086 for district panchayats, 12,026 for municipalities and 2,413 for the six Corporations. Nominations were accepted from November 12 onwards after the commission formally issued the election notification. Malappuram has received the highest number of nominations thus far - 13,229, followed by Thrissur (10,869), Ernakulam (9,557), Kozhikode (9,110) and Thiruvananthapuram (8,999). Last date for withdrawal The scrutiny of the documents will be held on Friday. November 23 is the last date for withdrawing the nominations. The SEC has selected the colours for the labels and ballot papers for the electronic voting machines (EVMs). The colours will be white for grama panchayats, pink for block panchayats and sky blue for district panchayat. White will be used in Corporations and municipalities. Remuneration hiked The remuneration of officials deployed on election duty has been hiked. The remuneration for presiding officer and counting supervisor has been hiked to Rs. 600 a day. Polling officer, counting assistant will get Rs. 500 per day, polling assistant Rs. 400, district-level master trainer Rs. 750 per session, and block-level trainers Rs. 500 per session. The daily food allowance for all officials has been fixed at Rs. 250 per day. Barred from contesting The SEC has clarified that preprimary teachers and other employees in government schools cannot contest in the local body elections. However, teachers and staff in self-financing, aided, and unaided schools can contest as candidates, an official press note issued here said.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IUML releases list of Corpn. candidates||With deadline for filing nominations for the upcoming local body polls ending on Thursday, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) finalised its list of five candidates contesting in the city Corporation late on Tuesday. The undue delay in announcing the final list of candidates is indicative of the protracted debates within the party regarding its candidates. Those selected The candidates are Milani Perera in Beemapally ward, Sajeena in Beemapally East, Anwar in Vallakadavu, L. Thankamani in Poonkulam and Pushpa in Karamana ward. Ms. Sajeena is a sitting councillor in the city Corporation, while Ms. Milani is the daughter of former Mayor Fredy Perera. Mr. Anwar is a dental doctor, who is currently the Secretary of the Vallakadavu Jamaath. Ms. Thankamani, a Dalit activist and a worker of the Women's League, had contested unsuccessfully in the same ward in 2010. Though sitting councillor Beemapally Rasheed’s name was under consideration earlier for the Beemapally East ward, there was opposition from within the party against the same person contesting several times. The IUML, a constituent of the United Democratic Front (UDF), had earlier demanded more than five wards which it is usually allocated. Status quo But, it later agreed to go with five seats following a decision by the State leadership to follow the status quo regarding the number of seats in all local bodies. The IUML managed to win only two wards in the city Corporation in the 2015 elections. It is expecting stiff competition in the Vallakadavu ward, where a rebel from the Congress had earlier begun campaigning. The IUML has failed to win the ward in recent years due to the presence of rebels. Rebel candidate Meanwhile, the UDF has to contend with one more rebel candidate, with sitting councillor Prathibha Jayakumar contesting as a rebel against the Congress candidate Attipra Santosh. Mr. Santosh had contested as a rebel candidate against the Congress candidate in the local body elections of 2010.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Open varsity seeks suggestions on plan||Sree Narayana Guru Open University has sought suggestions from the public for its approach plan for the next 10 years. Consultations will be held with the Chancellor, Chief Minister, Higher Education Minister, the State Planning Board chairman and various people’s representatives as part of the ongoing exercise, Vice Chancellor P.M. Mubarak Pasha said. email them He added that the views of individuals from various walks of life, organisations and collectives involved in various avenues would also be collected. Suggestions regarding the activities of the universities can be submitted to plan.sreenarayanaguruou@gmail.com. In addition, those interested in participating in webinars proposed to be held for the same purpose are requested to send their details, including name, e-mail address, mobile phone and the organisation represented to webinar.sreenarayanaguruou@gmail.com before December 1. The university had recently sought opinion regarding the courses that could be introduced under the distance education mode.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chargesheet filed in twin-murder case||Long-running political animosity and provocative threats from rival sides led to the double homicide of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists in Venjaramoodu on the Onam eve on August 30, the investigation team noted in its chargesheet filed in the local court on Wednesday. The investigation team led by Attingal Dy.SP S.Y. Suresh named nine accused in the chargesheet submitted at the Nedumangad Judicial First Class Magistrate Court I on the 80th day of the crime. Conspiracy factor The police also stated in the document that they intended to probe further the possibility of conspiracy behind the attack. The police, which investigated the twin murder of DYFI activists Haq Mohammed and Mithilaj, arrested Sajeev, Unni, Sanal, Ansar, Shajith, Najeeb, Ajith, Sathi, all hailing from Pullampara, and Preeja of Madapuram, who allegedly provided refuge to the prime accused. The murders were purportedly linked to the political rivalry that had worsened during the general elections of 2019 when DYFI and Congress workers clashed in Thembamoodu. The twin murder case had sparked tension in the area with the Congress and CPI(M) accusing each other of orchestrating the incident. While the CPI (M) squarely blamed Attingal MP Adoor Prakash of sponsoring the attack, the Congress alleged involvement of Vamanapuram legislator D.K. Murali’s son. However, with the police unable to gather evidence to corroborate the allegations, they plan to pursue such leads that could arise.  Nine accused named in the chargesheet Incident had sparked tension between Congress, CPI(M) workers
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Five poll expense observers for capital||The State Election Commission has appointed five observers in Thiruvananthapuram district for monitoring the election expenditure of the candidates in the upcoming local body elections. The observers have been appointed at the block panchayat, municipality, and Corporation levels. G.S. Bindu, senior deputy director, audit office of the Kerala State Housing Board, is the expenditure observer in the Corporation. Shyla Ubaid, joint director, State Audit Department, is the observer for the Chirayinkeezhu and Varkala block panchayats and the Attingal and Varkala municipalities. Salamma Baselios, joint director, State Audit Department, is the observer for the Nedumangad, Vamanapuram, and Kilimanoor block panchayats and the Nedumangad municipality. W.J. Suthan, deputy secretary, Finance Department, will monitor the election expenditure in the Nemom, Pothencode, and Vellanad blocks. M. Geetha, joint director, audit wing, Kerala University, is the expenditure observer for the Parassala, Perunkadavila, and Athiyannoor block panchayats and the Neyyattinkara municipality. The officers will keep an eye on the expenses incurred for the election campaigns by the political parties and candidates and the election process in their respective jurisdiction. Handbook District Collector Navjot Khosa released the handbook on green protocol for the elections prepared by the Haritha Keralam Mission and the Suchutwa Mission.
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rishiraj Singh warns of action against Surendran||Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Rishiraj Singh has denied that jail authorities had allowed unsanctioned visitors to see UAE gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh in a sly bid to influence her at the behest of those in power. BJP State president K. Surendran had alleged that the jail authorities had allowed certain persons to meet Swapna to secretly persuade her from giving evidence against those at the apex of the administration. Mr. Singh said he would be constrained to seek legal recourse against Mr. Surendran if the latter did not withdraw his statement and tender an unconditional apology. Swapna is currently a COFEPOSA detainee at the Attakulangara Women's Prison here. Mr. Singh clarified that prison authorities had allowed only Swapna’s husband, mother, children, and brother to visit her. The interviews were permitted in the presence of jail authorities and Customs officials after 3 p.m. on Wednesday. The Prisons and Customs Departments vetted all requests to meet Swapna. The interactions were video-recorded and entered in the prison register, Mr. Singh said.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pay pension to ailing ex-employee: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Wednesday ordered the Handicrafts Development Corporation of Kerala Ltd. to pay the pending pension in four instalments to an ailing former employee who had retired eight years ago, so that she could pay for a surgery required to sustain her life. The commission has asked the Principal Secretary, Industries, to pay in the months from December to March her pending dues. The officials concerned would be held responsible if her life is endangered by the delay in payment, said the order. The commission had earlier passed an order in March 2019 based on a complaint filed by her. Financial state The corporation requested more time, claiming that it could not pay due to its precarious financial situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the commission maintained that the order was passed much before the pandemic struck. The complainant had undergone two surgeries and had postponed a third one due to financial difficulties.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District reports 468 new cases||The district reported 468 new COVID-19 cases when 5,771 tests were performed over the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the district dipped to 5,947 on Wednesday. This is the first time that the number has fallen below the 6,000 mark after the district experienced an alarming surge in COVID-19 infection rates. As many as 579 patients recovered from the infection, according to the district administration and health officials. Of the new cases reported on Wednesday, locally transmitted infection accounted for 346 cases, while health officials were unable to trace the contacts in as many as 113 cases. The day’s cases included five health-care workers and four persons who had travelled to the district from elsewhere. The death toll, meanwhile, has risen to 507, with three more recent deaths attributed to the pandemic. The deceased included a 44-year-old man from Pathamkallu, an 87-year-old man from Pothencode, and a 72-year-old man from Madathara. The death toll due to the pandemic had crossed the 500 mark in the district on Tuesday. At present, 25,488 persons are in quarantine in the district as part of the containment measures. This include 1,609 persons newly quarantined on Wednesday. As many as 25,338 persons are in home isolation while 150 others are in institutional quarantine.  Three recent deaths attributed to the pandemic
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Soft skill programme for educated youth||The Kudumbashree district mission plans to conduct a soft skill development programme for educated youth in the district. The free ‘Connect to Work’ training will be provided by the Additional Skill Aquisition Programme (ASAP) of the Higher Education Department. Project’s aim It will guide the youth in the 18-35 age group to find wage employment, connect them to the job market, and develop their life skills. They will be equipped to attend interviews and develop effective communication skills. The training will be provided in a centre set up in each of the 11 blocks in the district. The centres have been equipped with laptop, monitor, and projector. Each centre will train 33 youths. The trainees will be paid travel expenses. The trainees have to be Kudumbashree members or members of Kudumbashree families, or belong to a below the poverty line family, and have ITI or polytechnic diploma or a degree as qualification. In Chirayinkeezhu block, the Attingal Community Development Society (CDS) is the training centre, in Athiyannoor it is the Karakulam CDS, Pothencode Pothencode CDS, Kilimanoor Pulimath CDS, Nedumangad Vembayam CDS, Nemom Kalliyoor CDS, Vamanapuram Nanniyode CDS, Varkala Cherunniyoor CDS, and Vellanad Kattakada CDS. Interested persons can submit applications at the Kudumbashree CDS concerned.  They will be equipped to attend interviews and develop communication skills.
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Jal Shakti awards for Ernakulam, Wayanad||Ernakulam and Wayanad districts have won the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti’s awards for excellence in implementing various components of the Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin). The two districts are among the 20 selected from 718 districts across the country for their work in waste management and sanitation. Proper implementation of components such as individual and community toilets, solid and liquid waste management, information dissemination, utilisation of funds, and reporting were the parameters for selection. Though the first phase of Swachh Bharat Mission (Gramin) was completed in 2019, all districts were declared open-defecation free in 2016 itself. Then, it became one of the first States to focus attention on waste management. The second phase of the mission aims at collection of non-biodegradable waste from every house and recycling it. This started getting implemented in the State in the first phase itself. Haritha Karma Sena units have been formed in over 90% of grama panchayats in Ernakulam and Wayanad districts for collection of waste and work on material collection centres and resource recovery centres completed. Collection centres Together under the Centrally sponsored Swachh Bharat Mission and the State’s Haritha Kerala Mission, more than 900 material collection centres and 152 resource recovery centres have started functioning in various local bodies. This had helped in bagging the honours, a statement from the Suchitwa Mission said. The Union Minister for Jal Shakti will present the award at an online function organised by the Drinking Water and Sanitation Department on World Toilet Day on Thursday.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Low pressure area likely over the Arabian Sea||Fishers have been advised not to venture out to sea as a low pressure area is likely to form over the southeast Arabian Sea around Thursday. The India Meteorological Department Meteorological Centre here said on Wednesday that it is very likely to move westnorthwestwards and concentrate into a depression over southeast and the adjoining eastcentral parts of the Arabian Sea during the subsequent 48 hours. Fishers who are out at sea have been advised to make for the nearest coast. The districts of Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode in Kerala and the Lakshadweep islands can expect isolated heavy rainfall on Thursday, the IMD said. Yellow alerts have been issued for the regions.
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF: flyover testimony to corruption||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Wednesday sought to defend the arrest of former Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju in the Palarivattom flyover case. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan said multiple agencies had examined the flyover construction and found it to be flawed and a threat to public safety. The government had submitted the expert committee report to the Supreme Court, which sanctioned the demolition of the bridge. The decommissioned flyover was a testimony to the entrenched corruption in the previous United Democratic Front (UDF) government. The UDF was defending Mr. Kunju out of political compulsion than conviction. Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran said the Enforcement Directorate’s investigation into a money-laundering charge against Mr. Kunju had blown the lid off the Palarivattom corruption case. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had no recourse but to arrest Mr. Kunju.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||5 plaints on code violation||A monitoring cell formed in the district in connection with the model code of conduct for the local body elections received five complaints at its first meeting held on Wednesday. The complaints pertained to the use of government buildings for displaying graffiti and other campaign material. Four complaints were referred to the squad on the code and one to the anti-defacement squad. The cell will meet every two days.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MoU signed on building energy-efficient structures||The CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST) here has joined hands with the University of Applied Sciences and Arts of Southern Switzerland (SUPSI) for research and development in the area of building-integrated photovoltaics (BIPV). A rapidly growing segment across the globe, BIPV systems incorporate solar cells in walls, roofs, tiles, railings and even curtains turning buildings into energy-efficient structures and at the same time giving them that sleek, futuristic look. An Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was exchanged in this regard by CSIR-NIIST director A. Ajayaghosh and ISAAC-SUPSI director Roman Rudel recently in Bengaluru. The venture will be led by Adersh Asok, scientist, Photosciences and Photonics Section, CSIR-NIIST; and Pierluigi Bonomo, Head, Swiss BIPV Competence Centre, SUPSI. The proposed activities would open up avenues for research, technology exchanges and joint projects, NIIST officials said. How it works “In simple terms, BIPV systems replace conventional construction materials with photovoltaic materials in building construction. For example, glass-glass PV modules where the solar cells are set between two glass panes,” Dr. Asok said. The CSIR-NIIST is already engaged in R&D on BIPV, prototyping and demonstrating innovative optics solutions which have generated industrial enquiries and research collaborations. The sector is expected to register an impressive growth between 20 and 30 billion square metres of new constructions in the coming decades, according to the CSIR-NIIST. The SUPSI, with its Swiss BIPV Competence Centre, is a global leader in the BIPV field since 2004, according to the NIIST. In October 2019, the CSIR-NIIST and SUPSI had also jointly organised the first Indo-Swiss workshop on ‘Building Integrated Solar Energy Systems.’
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Last date extended for talent search exam||The last date for applying for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) stage-one online examination has been extended to November 25. A copy of the online application has to be submitted to the school Principal or head teacher, a statement from the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) said. For details, call 0471 2346113, 9633244348, 9744640038 or e-mailntsescertkerala@gmail.com
19 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One transfer allotment results||Transfer allotment results for admission to Plus One seats vacant after vacancy-seat admission will be published on Thursday morning. Applications for district/inter-district school/combination transfer allotment were received till Wednesday evening.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll symbols allotted to parties||The State Election Commission has allocated symbols to the various political parties contesting in the upcoming local body elections. The symbols allocated for the parties are Marxist Leninist Party of India (Red Flag) – blackboard; Democratic Social Justice Party – camera; Kerala Kamaraj Congress Party – cricket bat; Communist Marxist Party (M.V.Rajesh faction) – ink pot and pen; Bharath Dharma Jana Sena Party – pineapple; Bharatiya Sablok Party – pressure cooker; Communist Marxist Party (M. Ajeeb faction) – Water tap; and Socialist Republican Party – ship.
19 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two more special trains to State||Two more inter-State fully reserved special trains have been sanctioned by the Railway Board. Kochuveli-Shri Ganganagar weekly special (06312) will leave Kochuveli at 3.45 p.m. on Saturdays from November 21 and reach Shri Ganganagar at 2.15 a.m. on Tuesdays. In the return direction, Shri Ganganagar-Kochuveli weekly special (06311) will leave Shri Ganganagar at 12.30 p.m. on all Tuesdays from November 24 to reach Kochuveli at 7.10 p.m. on Thursdays. Ernakulam Junction-Patna Junction biweekly superfast special (02643) will leave Ernakulam Junction at 5.15 p.m. on all Mondays and Tuesdays from November 23 to reach Patna Junction at 8 p.m. on Wednesdays and Thursdays. Patna Junction-Ernakulam Junction biweekly superfast special (02644) will leave Patna Junction at 2 p.m. on all Thursdays and Fridays from November 26 to reach Ernakulam Junction at 4 p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays, a railway release said.
19 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Greens protest against Anakkayam project||Environmental and human rights activists in Thrissur on Wednesday expressed solidarity with the Samara Samithi that called for a Statewide agitation against the proposed Anakkayam small hydroelectric project. The protesters demanded the government to withdraw the project, which is against the forest and forest dwellers. Former Mayor of Thrissur K. Radhakrishnan, Western Ghats Joint Protection Committee activist K. Sivaraman, National Alliance of People’s Movement (NAPM) State convener Sarat Chelur and other environmental and human rights activists joined the protest by maintaining COVID-19 guidelines. Protest meetings were organised at the Thrissur Collectorate and KSEB office. The Anakkayam project, coming up in the buffer zone of Parambikkulam Tiger Reserve, is conceived as a tail race scheme of the existing Sholayar power project, using the water flowing after power generation. The out-flowing water will be made to pass through another tunnel and a turbine to produce power for which, the KSEB claims, there is no need for any additional storage facilities. But environmental activists allege that a vast stretch of evergreen forest, which is home for rich varieties of mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians, has to be cleared for the proposed project. Extensive blasts have to be done for making a five-km long tunnel in the highly eco-sensitive area, which witnessed many landslips during floods in 2018.
19 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur registers 703 more cases||Thrissur reported 703 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday while 793 persons recovered from the disease. There are 7,812 active cases in the district and 89 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 52,766 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 44,559 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 680 people contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. Of them, 97 patients are above the age of 60 and 60 are children below 10. In all 5,224 patients are under home observation and196 were admitted to hospitals on Tuesday. Containment zones Meanwhile, division number 29 of the Wadakkanchery municipality and ward 3 of the Varantharappilly grama panchayat were included on the list of containment zones. Curbs removed Division number 11 and 14 of Wadakkanchery municipality and ward 6 and 7 of Kaipamangalam panchayat were removed from the list of containment zones on Wednesday.
19 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||No violations in Vice Principal posting: Devaswom||Justifying the appointment of Vice Principal (VO) at Sree Kerala Varma College, Thrissur, the Cochin Devaswom Board has said that there is no violations of rules in the posting. In an official press release on Wednesday, the board said: “According to University Grants Commission (UGC) regulations (Section IV - released on 26-2-2020) a senior faculty member can be appointed as Vice Principal. The UGC regulation has also clarified that the order is with effect from 18-7-2018”. College legacy “The Kerala Varma College is one of the prestigious colleges under the Cochin Devaswom Board from 1950, which has produced many eminent personalities. Considering the legacy of the college, the State government has allotted a Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) fund of Rs. 13.5 crore for the development activities. The Cochin Devaswom Board took a decision to create a post of Vice Principal and to divide duties of the Principal as the development activities are going to take off. The appointment of the VP was totally according to the UGC guidelines,” said A.B. Mohanan, president, Cochin Devaswom Board. The board took a decision in this regard on September 23 after taking into consideration the responsibilities given to Vice Principals at other colleges and issued the appointment order of the Vice Principal on October 30, he noted. ‘Senior-most candidate’ “R. Bindu, who has been appointed as Vice Principal, is the senior-most associate professor in the two colleges — Sree Kerala Varma and Sree Vivekananda — under the Devaswom board and the head of the English Department at Sree Kerala Varma College. She has the eligibility to be appointed as VP,” Mr. Mohanan said. Principal of the college A.P. Jayadevan submitted his resignation to the management on Tuesday allegedly in protest against appointment of Dr. Bindu, former Thrissur Mayor and wife of Left Democratic Front convener and CPI(M) State secretary in-charge A. Vijayaraghavan’s wife, as Vice Principal.
19 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Undergo COVID test before campaign: DMO||Considering the safety of people, it is advisable that candidates and campaigners undergo COVID-19 screening tests before going for electioneering, District Medical Officer (DMO) K.J. Reena has said. “Teams going for house visits should not have more than three persons. Candidates and campaigners should keep a safe distance of 2 m from people. Party workers and the people at houses should compulsorily wear masks and should not pull them down from nose and mouth while speaking.” Use social media The DMO also urged the candidates and political parties to avoid notices and printed materials and to use social media for campaigning. Campaign meetings should not be held in small and closed rooms. Candidates and team members should wash their hands frequently. People going for election campaigns should keep away from children, elderly people, pregnant women and patients. They should also avoid shaking hands with voters.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Grim reminder||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Caution, piety team up||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Polls during a pandemic||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fight for rights||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All in the family||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spreading light||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Question of right||
19 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP supports remarks made by Somu on Nandyal incident’||Accusing the YSRCP and the TDP for adding communal colour to the Nandyal family suicide case, BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Wednesday said that the TDP criticised the court of law for granting bail to the accused police personnel and it was nothing but ‘contempt of court’. He dared the ruling and the lead opposition party to have an open discussion on the suicide of the family members of Shaik Abdul Salaam. “If the TDP is so concerned about putting behind bars those out on bail, it should first seek cancellation of the bail granted to its State unit president K. Atchannaidu,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan said. Mr. Reddy comments came after the comments made by BJP State president Somu Veerraju raked a row. “The BJP supports the statements made by Mr. Veerraju,” said Mr. Vishnuvardhan. ‘Special interest’ He asked ‘why the YSRCP was taking a special interest in the Nandyal incident and not reacting in a similar fashion to the other suicide cases’ reported from the State. ‘Want culprits punished’ “We stand for justice to Salaam’s family and want the culprits punished. But, why did the TDP and YSRCP react with undue haste in the granting of bail issue without having faith in the judiciary? Similar concerns are also expected in the cases related to the YSRCP and the TDP leaders who are out on bail,” said Mr. Vishnuvardhan. The BJP leader further said that the TDP and the YSRCP were resorting to ‘vote-bank politics ahead of the by-elections to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency. Dig at Naidu Taking a dig at N. Chandrababu Naidu, Mr. Vishnuvardhan asked why the TDP president waited till November 7 or 8 to react to the Nandyal incident though it took place on November 3. He also found fault with the YSRCP government for introducing the ‘religion column’ in the information given on grama and ward volunteers on the website.
19 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power sector staff reject agreement with govt.||The United Electricity Workers’ Union (UEWU) has rejected the agreement reached by the State government with power sector employees in Andhra Pradesh to study the payment pattern in Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat and then implement the payment structure and employment conditions for the contract staff. UEWU general secretary M. Bala Kasi, while addressing the media here on Wednesday, condemned the YSRCP government ‘for going back on its promise of merging the contract staff into the respective organisations - AP-Genco, DISCOM, and AP-Transco soon after coming to power’. “The announcement was made in the Assembly by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Now, he refuses to honour the promise,” said Mr. Bala Kasi. Working conditions The working conditions are different in other States and agreement should be made based on the local conditions and the promises made by Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his a Padayatra in the run-up to the 2019 elections, he said. All the contract employees of the power utilities will form into a Joint Action Committee (JAC) after the nation-wide strike on November 26 to protest the proposed reforms in the power sector, which were ‘detrimental to the consumers and employees’, he said. Strike on Nov. 26 Giving a call to the employees to make the November 26 strike a success, Mr. Balakasi said the State government should study the Telangana model which merged all the contract employees and made them permanent, apart from ensuring pay parity at the basic level. “It is a joke on the employees to tell them their services cannot be regularised as Finance Ministry approval was not there for such a measure,” Mr. Bala Kasi added.
19 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICDS PD handed over to govt.||District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Wednesday handed over the Integrated Child Development Services(ICDS) Project Director, Chinmayi Devi, to the State government. Allegations Discrepancies in the supply of eggs to anganwadi centres in Mudigubba, OD Cheruvu, Amadaguru and Nallamada, and alleged lackluster behaviour in the conduct of an inquiry into the issue, flouting of rules in the notification of anganwadi posts, and going on leave without informing the higher bosses for 15 days from November 16 have gone against Ms. Chinmayi Devi. Joint Collector A. Siri (VWS&W) has been given the full additional charge as the Project Director of the Integrated Child Development Services
19 November 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No light at end of tunnel for tourist guides of Borra Caves||Borra Caves, located at an elevation of 2,300 feet, draw tourists from different places across the country. They are also a good revenue earner for the AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC). Lakhs of tourists visit the caves and the rush peaks during the festival and winter season from October to January every year. The caves drew about 5 lakh visitors on Sundays during November 2019. The rush fell to 2 lakh during weekends in November, this year in view of the pandemic threat, but it is fast picking up. However, the services of tourist guides, who were recruited by the APTDC on contract basis about 25 years have not been regularised till date.  Training session “We were given training in Hyderabad and 20 of us have been posted at Borra Caves over two decades ago by the APTDC as contract staff. We have to work from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and are paid Rs. 16,000 a month without any additional benefits. Five of our colleagues had died due to various reasons over the years but no compensation was paid to their families by the corporation,” says Somesh Borra, a tourist guide. “Many of us have completed our degree and PG but have not got promotion. We belong to the ST community but even the rule of reservation is not being implemented,” he says. “When Ms. Chandana Khan was the Special Chief Secretary of AP Tourism and Culture, she had issued an order directing that tourist guides appointed on contract basis should be paid on par with regular employees. The order was said to have been withdrawn by those who had succeeded her,” says Somesh, who has done his PG from Andhra University. “Before the APTDC took over the caves, they were under the control of the local tribal communities and guides. After APTDC came, Samata had a discussion with the then Sub Collector, Paderu, in 1992-93, and got proceedings that the 20 tribal guides would be paid 20% from the ticket income. This was continued till 1999 but later stopped,” says Ravi Rebbapragada of Samata, who was instrumental in getting the historic Samata judgement from the Supreme Court that the basic process of recruitment and payment is unconstitutional. “Since then we have been asking the government to give 20% of the revenue to the Borra Panchayat. Though the panchayat got a grant once or twice but the issue has not been settled,” adds Mr. Ravi.
19 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour marks Nagula Chavithi||After an eight-month-long gap due to restricted movement in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, women in large numbers came out to take part in puja formalities, thanks to the Nagula Chavithi festival on Wednesday. The festival is celebrated on the fourth day after Deepavali amavasya on the auspicious Karthika Masam as a thanksgiving by farmers for freeing their farms of rodent menace. Women devotees thronged the anthills and village temples to offer milk and special dishes to the deity which represents the world of snakes. The devotees, who missed pujas in the public at several festivals, particularly the Ganga Jataras, Vinayaka Chavithi, Varalakshmi Vratam, and latest the Deepawali showed much enthusiasm to celebrate the Nagula Chavithi. Clad in traditional clothes, women devotees started reaching the anthills and local temples dedicated to local deities of Puttalamma, Nagulamma and others in the similar order, right from early hours. Milk abhishekam While milk abhishekam dominated the rituals, only a small section of devotees offered eggs to the deities. The devotees also circled round the banyan and peepal trees, symbolically clothing them with threads, at many places. At Tirupati, the temple of Lord Siva at Kapilatheertham saw considerable rush, followed by the women devotees performing pujas at anthills. Nagula Chavithi fervour also pervaded all over the district, particularly in the rural areas. Meanwhile, with sharp decline in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district, there was an air of neglect among the devotees in wearing face masks. Heavy rush Vijayalakshmi, a septuagenarian in Srikalahasti, with a family tradition to visit the temple of Lord Nagaraja at Nagarcoil in Tamil Nadu annually either on Naga Panchami or Nagula Chavithi festivals, said: “For the first time in five decades, I missed visiting Nagarcoil this year. With reports of COVID-19 being active once again in Kerala, we have to postpone the travel. Next year, we hope to compensate by celebrating both occasions there, visiting twice. Today, I did pujas at Chakreswara Swami temple,” she said. Heavy crowds were witnessed at various temples in Srikalahasti. Another women devotee, Shanti (55) of Nagari town, observed that of all the festivals, women would feel at home with Nagula Chavithi. “This gives us an opportunity to perform pujas ourselves. We can perform abhisekham to Lord Vasuki ourselves. No need to move in queuelines and we feel the bliss of being one with nature by worshipping anthills and ancient trees,” she said.
19 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||President to visit Tirumala on Nov. 24||President Ram Nath Kovind is scheduled to make a one-day pilgrimage to Tirumala, abode of Lord Venkateswara, on November 24. According to a press release, the President, along with his entourage, will land at Renigunta airport near Tirupati by a special IAF flight at 10.45 a.m., and would reach Sri Padmavati Guesthouse at Tirumala by road at 11.40 a.m. Mr. Kovind will have darshan at the Tirumala temple at 12.40 p.m. He would be back at Renigunta airport and fly to Ahmadabad at 4.10 p.m. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan would be reaching Tirupati on November 24 morning to receive the President. Meanwhile, Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy on Wednesday reviewed the arrangements for the visit of the President at a meeting. Apart from the Srivari temple, Mr. Kovind is scheduled to visit Sri Varahaswami temple at Tirumala and Sri Padmavati temple at Tiruchanur. Mr. Jawahar Reddy asked the officials to take the necessary steps to ensure the implementation of all the COVID-19 protocols during Mr. Kovind’s visit. Chittoor Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta, SP Ramesh Reddy, Joint Collector Veerabrahmam, TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, JEOs P. Basant Kumar and Sada Bhargavi, CVSO Gopinath Jatti, were present in the meeting.
19 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP hails TTD’s move in defamation cases||Telugu Desam Party State general secretary and former MLC B. Changal Rayudu on Wednesday hailed the decision of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to proceed with defamation cases against those who resorted to baseless allegations against the TTD. In a letter addressed to TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, the TDP leader said that this move of the TTD would go a long way in protecting the sanctity of Tirumala temple, besides preventing others from making baseless allegations against the temple organization in future. “The TTD had paid an amount of Rs. 2.05 crore ,which belongs to the devotees, to file defamation against two persons for Rs. 100 crore each. The TTD’s decision to proceed with the defamation cases is a welcome sign,” the statement said.
19 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bamboo pit viper makes its way to Nagari hills||The priests of Lord Shiva temple at Kailasanatha Kona at the foot of the Nagari hills in Chittoor district were taken aback when they sighted a green snake in coils close to a rock cavity of the hill wall on a rainy day in November. At first it was mistaken for the common Indian green vine snake (pasirika pamu). When the reptile made its appearance twice this month, a priest had realised that it was a deadly viper. The forest officials confirmed that it was a bamboo pit viper. It is for the first time that the species has been sighted in the Nagari hills, a cragged terrain circling the region of Puttur, Nagalapuram and Nagari. Though the hills are known for the regular reptile species like cobra, Indian krait and some other non-venomous snakes, the presence of the bamboo pit viper is a new addition. Forest officials said that the bamboo pit viper was rarely found in the Eastern and Western ghats, though they are widespread in the northeastern States. Altitudes of 2,000 meters are generally considered congenial for the species to thrive, coupled with wet weather conditions. Making its habitat along the sand beds of rivulets and bamboo groves along the mountain slopes, these viper species prey on aquatic life and also hunt small birds. Dramatic presence As Nagari hills are surrounded by plains and not endowed with any perennial streams or rivulets, the presence of the bamboo pit viper comes as something dramatic. Its presence is also considered a welcome sign for the Nagari hills as an indicator that the green cover has improved remarkably. Forest Range Officer (Satyavedu) J. Prasada Rao said that the bamboo pit viper was not a regular reptile species to be found in the plains of Chittoor district. “There is a lot of confusion between the green vine snake and the bamboo pit viper. It is difficult to sight both species under camouflage in their habitats nestled amidst green foliage,” he explained. The official said that recently some residents of a village under the Sri City zone sighted a similar species in a well. Before a rescue team reached the spot, the snake had disappeared into a cavity, leaving a doubt whether it was a green vine snake or a bamboo pit viper.
19 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed in road mishap||Two persons from Venkatagiri town of Nellore district were killed on the spot, when their motorcycle collided with a lorry at Nellaballi cross on the Puthalapattu-Naidupeta NH, 35 km from Srikalahasti, on Wednesday morning. The impact was such that the bodies were flung onto the roadside and their bike turned into a mangled steel. Poor visibility due to fog was said to be the reason behind the mishap. The deceased, identified as Pawan (35) and Balakrishna (28), were on their way to Srikalahasti, and the lorry was towards Nellore, when the mishap occurred. The Naidupeta police shifted the bodies to the area hospital for autopsy. Lorry confiscated The lorry was confiscated and its driver taken into custody. A case has been registered.
19 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy keeps parents, police on tenterhooks||A 12-year-old boy from Sattenapalli had his parents and police teams on the tenterhooks for over 24 hours. The boy enacted a kidnap drama to ‘make his parents fall in line.’ The incident which took place on Tuesday, however, ended in a whimper and the boy admitted that it was stage-managed with the help of a worker at his father’s textile shop. According to the police, they received a complaint from Thumma Venkateswarlu, proprietor of Sri Devi Textiles, that his son, Thumma Vinay Kumar, has been kidnapped and the kidnappers demanded Rs. 50 lakh to free the boy. Special teams formed The Sattenapalli Town Police registered a case and special police teams were formed and a control room was also opened at DGP office to coordinate the efforts. Meanwhile, the ‘kidnappers’ started demanding money. First it was Rs. 50 lakh, later they came down to Rs. 10 lakh, and finally it was Rs. 15,000. The police got into the act, and asked the parents to place a bag in a car as was demanded by the kidnappers. Boy counselled Even after for more than three hours, none turned up and the boy came out from bushes and told the police that the kidnappers left him and fled the spot. Later, when the boy was ‘counselled’ by the police, he revealed the ‘drama’ and said that he was feeling quite irritated at home and shared his feelings with the worker who advised the boy to stage a kidnap drama so that the parents fall in line.
19 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State not ready to hold local body polls: Sajjala||Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that the State government is not ready to hold the local body polls in the wake of the warning on the second wave of coronavirus infections . Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told the media that the stand taken by the State Election Commission was objectionable and the YSRCP had reservations over the decisions taken by State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar in the last few months. ‘Unilateral decision’ “The SEC had deferred the local body polls when there were very few COVID-19 cases in March this year. Now, we are witnessing a high incidence of infections and we are being warned of a second wave . How can the SEC take an unilateral stand without consulting the government?’’ he asked.
19 November 2020||JAGGAIAHPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Bid to play a trick on friends of CI||Cyber offenders have created a fake account in the name of Jaggaiahpet Circle Inspector P. Chandrashekar on social media group and posted comments seeking money from friends. Smelling something fishy, a few friends and well-wishers on Wednesday called up Mr. Chandrashekar and enquired about his health condition. The alert police officer responded and took the matter to the notice of the higher officials. He appealed to his friends and family members not to respond to the fake accounts and alerts. “Some unidentified persons, created a fake account in the name of ‘Chandra Pulla’ and posted comments that my health condition is not good. My friends urged to send Rs. 10,000 and above. The account and the postings are false,” Mr. Chandrashekar clarified. Warned The CI in a selfie said the cyber offenders created an account in his name and were making efforts to get money. Stern action would be taken against the fraudsters, he warned. Meanwhile, cyber experts said that hackers were creating fake accounts on various social media groups and were resorting to extortions. They appealed to the account holders to verify their accounts and change the passwords to prevent hacking. “This is not the first case. Hackers are on the prowl. They have been creating fake accounts and resorting to crimes from unknown places. Officers, VIPs and celebrities are requested to check their accounts frequently and change their passwords to prevent hacking,” said an expert.
19 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entries invited for best youth assn. contest||East Godavari Nehru Yuva Kendra is inviting applications from the youth associations for the best district youth association contest and selection to recommend the eligible association for the State-level contest. In an official release issued by District Youth Coordinator, Nehru Yuva Kendra, S. Keerthana, has said that the youth associations should submit their details of the activities such as training programmes conducted for the youth on leadership skills and environment protection. The applications should be submitted on or before November 29 at the Nehru Yuva Kendra office in Kakinada city. Contact details The best association will be awarded the case prize of Rs. 25,000.More details can be obtained over phone number 0884-2376063.
19 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police from 5 districts deployed for Tungabhadra Pushkaram||Safety of devotees will be given top priority and will ensure everyone visiting the Pushkar Ghats during the Tungabhadra Pushkaram from November 20 to December 1 adhered to COVID-19 norms for smooth conduct of the religious fare, Kurnool Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli said on Wednesday. As part of inspecting various ghats in the districts, the SP along with trainee IPS officer Kommi Pratap Shiva Kishore inspected arrangements at Naguladinne, Guruzala, and Ramalingeswara Pushkar Ghats in Yemignur constituency and ensured proper barricading was done. Parking lots have been designed and basic amenities set up close to the ghats. Mr. Fakkeerappa said in all 5,000 police personnel, including those from Andhra Pradesh Special Police, would be deployed at the 23 ghats. They come from Anantapur, Chittoor, Prakasam and Kadapa in addition to the local force from Kurnool district. Among the security staff to be deployed are nine special parties (450 personnel), 927 constables, and 413 ASIs. In all, 84 women police personnel would keep a watch at the ghats and supervising all these personnel would be three Additional SPs, 14 DSPs, 46 Circle Inspectors, and 99 Sub-Inspectors. Meanwhile, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath will review on Thursday the readiness of the district administration and police personnel with regard to the conduct of the Pushkaram from November 20. The Chief Minister will participate in the rituals at Sankal Bagh ghat in Kurnool on Friday afternoon.
19 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||PDDF to step up campaign to realise Ramayapatnam port||The Prakasam District Development Forum(PDDF) on Wednesday decided to give a push to the movement for location of a central public sector port at Ramayapatnam. The prolonged delay in setting up a central port in the district belied the hopes of the people of the backward district, who waited to see port-led industrial development, PDDF president Ch.Ranga Rao told a media conference here on Wednesday. The PDDF would move the Supreme Court if needed and mobilise civil society organisations and leaders cutting across political lines for a protracted struggle to achieve the demand, PDDF leader P.Govindaiah, also a noted lawyer, asserted. ‘No concrete steps so far’ It was unfortunate that though the State government had given its consent to the Centre for locating a major port at Ramayapatnam instead of at Dugarajapatnam in the wake of the Niti Aayog raising questions over the viability of the latter site for the project, the Centre had not taken concrete steps for anchoring the port in Prakasam district so far, he said. He expressed concerns over reports that the State government was mulling development of port-led industries in the Kavali region in Nellore district instead of in Prakasam district, diluting the objective of the project to provide logistics support to National Industrial and Manufacturing Zone and Donakonda industrial corridor. Acharya N.G. Ranga Kisan Samastha general secretary Ch.Seshaiah questioned the sincerity of the ruling YSR Congress Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party which had launched a series of stirs during the previous the TDP regime. But they had failed to ground the project when now in the saddle. Congress farmers wing State vice-president V.Rajagopala Reddy said the State was entitled to a port under the State Reorganisation Act akin to Polavaram irrigation project. The State had been a sufferer on both the counts as the Jagan Mohan Reddy Government failed to convince the Centre on the State’s cause.
19 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases decline in South Coastal A.P.||The intensity of coronavirus came down further in South Coastal A.P. as the region recorded zero deaths for the second successive day. The number of fresh cases was just little over 60 in the region in a span of 24 hours while the toll remained unchanged at 1,067. As many as 576 persons in Prakasam district and 491 in Nellore district have so far succumbed to the viral disease, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Wednesday night. The cumulative confirmed cases in the region increased slightly to 1,23,576 with 62 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. However, the number of active cases dipped further to 1,832 as 157 patients recovered from the illness during the period. The recovery rate improved further to 98.05% as 1,21,168 patients have recovered from the disease so far. The total number of positive cases marginally increased to 62,534 in Nellore district as 38 persons got infected in the last 24 hours. With 97 patients recovering from the illness during the period, the number of active cases declined to 1,228. So far, 61, 306 patients have won the battle against the disease in the district.  No new active clusters The number of recoveries were double the number of new cases in Prakasam, which had no new active containment clusters. Only 24 persons got infected in the district during the period, taking the total number of positive cases to 61,042. The caseload came down further to 604 as 60 patients were discharged during the period on recovery. So far,59,862 have recovered from the disease in the district, where only one death occurred in the last one week. Government General Hospital in Ongole accounted for 390 deaths so far. COVID-19 Care Centres no longer have any positive cases in the district. Over 370 asymptomatic cases were treated from at home and the remaining persons, including five in a critical condition, were getting treatment at the nine designated COVID-19 hospitals.
19 November 2020||TANUKU,ANDHRA PRADESH||West Godavari student wins NSS award||A student, B. Gayatri, of S.K.S.D. Mahila (UG and PG) Autonomous College, Tanuku, in West Godavari district, has won the ‘NSS best volunteer’ award under Adikavi Nannaya University, for exhibiting best performance in NSS activities, according to Mahila Kalasala correspondent Chitturi Subba Rao. S.K.S.D. College principal G. Indira Kumari, administrative officer D. Subba Rao, NSS programme officers G. Aruna Kumari and A. Naganna complimented Ms. Gayatri for winning the award.
19 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||M.P. Chief Minister offers prayers at Balaji temple||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan offered prayers at the hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara on Wednesday. He was accompanied by his wife Sadhana Singh Chouhan and other family members. Mr. Chouhan visited the temple a week after the crucial byelections in that State that gave the eight-month-old BJP government a comfortable majority in the Assembly. The party won 19 of the 28 Assembly constituencies that went to polls. As part of his two-day pilgrimage, Mr. Chouhan reached the temple town late on Tuesday and after an overnight stay, he visited the Srivari temple on Wednesday morning. Mr. Chouhan was accorded a traditional welcome upon his arrival at the ‘Mahadwaram’ (main entrance) by TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy. He prayed the presiding deity in the sanctum sanctorum. He was rendered ‘Vedasirvachanams’ by the priests and Mr. Reddy presented him a memento and laddu prasadam. Later, Mr. Chouhan and his family members took part in the Sundarakanda Parayanam at Nada Neerajana Mandapam.
19 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord to go for Karthika Vanabhojanam on Nov. 22||Karthika Vanabhojanam, the community dining programme, will be observed at the temple of Lord Venkateswara on November 22. As is the practice, the event will be organised at Parvetu Mandapam on the banks of the Gogarbham dam amid the thick Tirumala forests about 2 km from the town. The processional deity Lord Malayappa will be taken out to the mandapam in a procession on Gaja Vahanam and his two divine consorts on a separate palanquin. The priests will carry out Snapana Thirumanjanam followed by mass dining programme. In view of the festival, the TTD has cancelled all the day time arjitha sevas performed inside the temple. 25-day puja The TTD has also resolved to observe special pujas relating to Lord Maha Vishnu for 25 days from November 19 to December 13 at its Vasantha Mandapam seeking universal welfare. The event will be telecast live on SV Bhakti Channel.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP averse to facing local body polls fearing drubbing: Yanamala||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu has stated that the Governor should cooperate with and give full freedom to the State Election Commission (SEC) in conducting the local body elections. The polls should be conducted in a peaceful manner, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said in a statement on Wednesday. He said the interference of the Chief Secretary was unwarranted when the electoral process was midway. It was unfair on the part of the official to suggest that video-conference was not necessary. ‘Constitutional obligation’ “As per the Article 243 k(3) of the constitution, it is the responsibility of the Governor to transfer the government machinery if the Election Commission makes a request. Hence, the Governor should uphold the Constitution,” the TDP leader said. The ruling YSRCP was afraid of facing the local body elections in February. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was scared of facing the oppressed section of voters. “It is only out of sheer fear of defeat and rejection by all the harassed weaker sections that the ruling party is afraid and unwilling to face the elections in February,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said. “While the Central government and other State governments are conducting elections for both the local body and the Assembly, the A.P. government is trying to avoid the democratic process on unacceptable pretexts,” he alleged. The ruling party’s fears were not without basis as all the affected sections were unifying and rallying together with the common goal of giving a rude shock to the YSRCP government, he said. The voters were waiting to teach a bitter lesson to the YSRCP. “It is escapism on the part of the YSRCP if it tries to postpone the elections in the name of carving out new districts. The government should honour the 73rd and 74th constitutional amendments,” the TDP leader said.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State stays below 2,000 cases for 10 days in a row||The State reported fewer than 2,000 new coronavirus infections in 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, for the tenth day in a row. With the new cases, the cumulative tally went up to 8,57,395. The death toll increased to  6,899, with nine new deaths reported in the past day. The death rate remains at 0.80%. As many as 1,236 new infections were detected as 69,618 samples were tested, registering single-day positivity rate of 1.78%. The overall positivity rate for 93.3 lakh tests came down to 9.19%.  Recovery rate Meanwhile, the recovery rate slightly increased to 97.27% with a total of 8,33,980 recoveries including 1,696 in the past day. At present, there are 16,516 active cases in the State. Only six out of the 13 districts in the State reported deaths. Chittoor, Krishna and West Godavari reported two deaths each while Anantapur, East Godavari and Guntur reported one death each. Eight districts reported less than 100 new infections, while West Godavari reported the highest number of new cases. The district-wise new infections tallies are as follows: West Godavari (220), Krishna (194), Guntur (181), Chittoor (157), East Godavari (155), Kadapa (60), Visakhapatnam (53), Srikakulam (51), Anantapur (49), Nellore (38), Vizianagaram (28), Kurnool (26) and Prakasam (24). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,20,940), West Godavari (90,941), Chittoor (82,443), Guntur (71,426), Anantapur (66,284), Prakasam (61,042), Nellore (60,968), Kurnool (59,998),Visakhapatnam (57,448), Kadapa (53,793), Srikakulam (45,132), Krishna (43,727) and Vizianagaram (40,358). Recovery rate in Vizianagaram, Kurnool and Kadapa districts is nearly 99% and the same for Anantapur, Srikakulam and Prakasam is over 98%. The six districts have only 2,433 active cases as of Wednesday.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Large chunk of students switch from private to govt. schools||The State is witnessing a reverse migration of students from private schools to government schools, thanks to the educational reforms ushered in by the government. A major chunk of parents who preferred to send their wards to private institutions due to lack of proper infrastructure and shortcomings in other areas in the State-run schools in the past, are now shifting their preferences. Realising the need for reforms in the education sector, the government designed a series of initiatives like Nadu-Nedu and Jagananna Vidya Kanuka that not only extended financial assistance to mothers willing to send their children to government schools but also created the much-needed infrastructure in the schools. According to statistics, the student enrolment in government schools this year is 42.46 lakh, up by 2.68 lakh, compared to last year’s 39.78 lakh . What is noteworthy is that 2,01,833 students have opted to migrate from a private school to a State-run school in just one year and the officials attribute this trend to the successful implementation of the schemes. Facelift A massive exercise to revamp over 45,000 schools across the State has been taken up under Nadu-Nedu programme. Besides improving infrastructure, schools are equipped with English language labs to facilitate modern learning. Currently, 15,715 schools are being given a facelift in the first phase scheduled to be completed by January. The Jagananna Vidya Kanuka, yet another key welfare scheme, aims at grooming a confident future generation of students by investing on them today. Under this, students up to Class 10 receive school kits that comprise uniforms, books, shoes, socks, belts and school bags.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Betting gangs going unchecked in Nellore: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has said that it is unfortunate that Nellore district, once popular for its stalwarts like Potti Sriramulu, Bezawada Gopala Reddy and Puchalapalli Sundarayya, has now become a hub of betting gangs and their unchecked extortions and exploitation. Mr. Naidu has deplored that what began as the ruling YSRCP’s targeted harassment against the TDP activists and leaders have now extended to all sections of society including Muslim Minorities, Dalits, tribals, BCs and even temples and philanthropic organisations. Addressing a meeting of Nellore Lok Sabha party leaders on Wednesday, the TDP chief expressed concern that the entire Nellore district was coming under threat from the illegal activities of betting gangs which were looting the people with their oppressive ways. The YSRCP leaders became defamed among the people due to their anarchic activities. Crop losses Stating that Nellore district farmers suffered heavy losses, Mr. Naidu said that the district paddy farmers lost Rs. 750 crore. The YSRCP became a laughing stock as there was looting in the form of ‘Jagananna putty' which weighed 1,150 kg while the actual putty weighs only 850 kg. Law and order The former Chief Minister said that torching of temple chariots took place in two districts. Silver lions were stolen at Durga temple in another district. Three persons were tonsured in three districts. Murders, lynchings, gang rapes, suicide pacts and suicide attempts became common and routine in the State, Mr. Naidu alleged.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atchannaidu faults CS letter to SEC||TDP State president K. Atchannaidu on Wednesday took exception to the Chief Secretary’s letter to the State Election Commissioner requesting that the plan to conduct local body elections in February be reconsidered. In his letter to the Chief Secretary, Mr. Atchannaidu said the request had come as a shock to the people of the State. The State Election Commission, after careful examination of the situation, proposed to conduct the elections in February 2021, the TDP leader said, and added, “It is sad that the senior bureaucrat, who is supposed to be neutral and impartial, is playing into the hands of the ruling party. The founding fathers of the Constitution have put democracy as the primary concern of our political system.” “The ruling YSRCP has been attacking constitutional bodies ever since assuming power in the State. It is wantonly trying to stop the process for narrow political gains,” Mr. Atchannaidu alleged. “It is your duty and responsibility to ensure that the elections are conducted as per schedule. This will not only help in strengthening the local bodies but also consolidates democracy further,” the TDP leader observed in his letter.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police refute inaction charges by farmer||The district police said that the allegations made by Lakshmi Narasimhan, a wman farmer from Karnataka, on cheating in aquaculture by a local farmer and inaction by police are not true. In a statement, Gudivada DSP N. Satyanandam said Ms. Narasimhan took 147 acres of land on lease at Nandiwada village for aquaculture, but she set up ponds in only 65 acres. During the investigation, the DSP said, it was revealed that Ms. Narasimhan did not pay the lease amount and other amounts due to some feed companies. “Some people also lodged complaints against the woman farmer. We are investigating the complaints of both the parties,” the DSP said.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central aid sought to set up new medical colleges||YSRCP Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has urged the Central government to provide financial support to Andhra Pradesh in setting up medical colleges in the State. In a letter (dated November 12) to Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Mr. Vijaya Sai Reddy said the State government was planning to establish new medical colleges and upgrade the existing ones, for which it required financial assistance from the Central government. The total cost would be Rs. 13,500 crore, he said. Post-bifurcation, Andhra Pradesh was left with Tier II and Tier III cities. The absence of Tier I cities had hindered the private healthcare sector from offering speciality services. The situation that had arisen out of the COVID-19 pandemic furthered the need of the State to have stronger healthcare, he said. The MP recalled that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August in this regard.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||D.El.Ed second year exams in December||Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) second year examinations for the 2018-20 batch will be conducted in December. A statement released by the Director of Government Examinations on Wednesday said that the candidates of the previous batch of D.El.Ed. who had failed were also eligible to appear for the examination as private candidates. Examination fee The last date for remittance of examination fee by the candidates to the Principals concerned without late fee is December 1 and with a late fee of Rs. 50 is December 7. The last date for remittance of examination fee by the Principals to the government treasury without late fee is December 2 and with a late fee of Rs. 50 is December 8. December 9 is the last date for submission of Nominal Rolls (NRs) in the office of the District Education Officers concerned and December 11 is the last date for submission of NRs by the DEOs in the office of the DGE.  Applications The weblink to upload the applications online will also be made available from November 21, said the statement.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers’ body drops protest plan||Leaders of Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation have called off their proposed protest on November 21 after they got a positive response from the Education Minister A. Suresh on Wednesday. The leaders met the Minister and Commissioner of School Education Vadrevu Chinaveerabhadrudu at the Secretariat and put forth issues related to their transfers, promotions and urged them to address them at the earliest. After giving a patient hearing, the Minister agreed to some of their demands and said that the other issues would have to be looked into before taking a final call, the leaders said. After the meeting with the Education Minister, the feederation eaders announced their decision to call off the protest proposed on November 21.
19 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tejaswini case: police speed up probe||The Disha Mahila Police, who are investigating the murder case of engineering student V. Divya Tejaswini, took B. Nagendra Babu, the suspect in the case, into custody on Wednesday. The girl, who was pursuing engineering in a private college at Bhimavaram, was found dead with multiple stab injuries at her residence in Kristurajupuram in the city on October 15. Nagendra Babu, who claimed that he married Divya Tejaswini, was also found with stab injuries in the same room of her house. Disha Mahila Police, which filed the custody petition of the suspect in court, got three days custody from November 18 to 20. After medical check-up, the investigation officers took Nagendra Babu into custody. The case is under investigation.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam wins plaudits from British Medical Journal for COVID fight||The district of Visakhapatnam has won plaudits from the British Medical Journal (BMJ) in its recently published paper ‘Combating the COVID-19 pandemic in a resource-constrained setting: Insights from initial response in India’. In the paper, the journal appreciates the work done by the district administration in fighting the pandemic through ‘convergence in an urban setting’. Several countries were selected for the study and India was a natural choice. The study focussed on the response to the pandemic in the initial days from January 17 to April 20, and Visakhapatnam was appreciated for its response to the pandemic in the urban setting, based on data given by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), District Collector V. Vinay Chand said. The paper appreciated the innovative approaches taken by the district administration in converging resources and manpower from multiple departments to form an effective task force to fight the pandemic. Visakhapatnam had always been in focus, as it has the largest urban area in the State with multiple factors such as industries, port, railways, and an airport, as well as its urban population of over 2.5 million that could spur the spread of the virus. But it did better and even as on date, it is in ninth place among the 13 districts in the State with a caseload of around 57,900, lower than districts such as Anantapur, Chittoor, East and West Godavari, Guntur, Kurnool, Nellore and Prakasam. “Ever since the first case was detected in the last week of March, our count has been below 20 till the last week of May. It started to grow only after the Unlock process began in the middle of June. But that spike was expected to come with the process of removing the lockdown,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. Convergence The factor projected in the BMJ paper and data given by ICMR, Visakhapatnam was appreciated for its innovative convergence methods in the initial days in a resource-constrained setting. Speaking about the convergence methods, the Collector said, “Initially we were constrained from all sides. We did not have the required beds with oxygen supply or ventilators, PPE kits, oxygen supply, sanitisers, manpower in the medical field or hospitals to take care of COVID patients. But what worked well for us is the setting up of specific committees to handle respective tasks.” The district administration constituted 22 committees such as an isolation committee, cluster containment committee and testing committee. “Each committee comprised experts from various fields and their tasks were clearly cut out. The isolation that took care of hospitals treating COVID patients had senior pulmonolgists, district officers, doctors from DMHO and a Joint Collector heading it. Similarly, the cluster management committee had epidemiologists, doctors from community medicine, resources from the civic body and police to form the committee. It was teamwork that saw us through in the initial days, despite being constrained on all fronts,” he said. “The good work done in the initial days is paying dividends now. Today, the infection rate has dropped from 20% to 1% and we have over 6,000 beds with oxygen supply and ventilators, over 20 hospitals, sufficient PPEs, and we are prepared for the worst,” said Mr Vinay Chand.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anthills witness festive rush on Nagula Chavithi||Women and young girls, dressed in traditional attire, made a beeline for anthills and burrows to offer prayers on the occasion of Nagula Chavithi in the early hours of Wednesday. With the number of anthills, colloquially known as snake pits, dwindling in the city, devotees had to travel long distances searching for them on the Andhra University grounds, Government Polytechnic and the green belt along the National Highway-16. Thousands of people thronged the AU College of Engineering (AUCE) campus and the District Collector’s sprawling bungalow premises on the south campus of Andhra University. Though the gates were barricaded, devotees managed to make their way into the premises to pour milk and eggs into the anthills and underground burrows on the premises. The roads leading to AUCE were chock-a-block with people going to the anthills. Women offered prayers and children lit fireworks after the puja. There were reports of some miscreants creating artificial burrows near Appu Ghar in order to collect eggs put into them by devotees. Meanwhile, social distancing norms went for a toss as devotees offered prayers in close proximity with dozens of other people near the anthills and burrows.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hope Hall Girls’ School cries for govt. assistance||A 150 years ago, education for girl children in Visakhapatnam was a forbidden affair. It was considered taboo and the elders in the family questioned the necessity of educating a girl child. People who tried to start a school faced resistance and left disappointed. But all did not lose hope. In 1853, Harriet Mary Hay, the wife of Rev. John Hay, who was then managing the London Mission High School for boys, started a school for ‘native caste girls’. The move was questioned, and caste prejudices entrenched at that time prevented people from upper castes sending their daughters to school. Thus began the only school launched exclusively for girls, which still stands tall on its foundations but is in a shambles due to want of repairs. The school was started in Chengalrowpeta by Mary Hay, and braving resistance, the then woman missionaries went from door-to-door urging parents to send their daughters to school. Apart from getting small funds from the London Mission, the school was supported by the Godey family, said Edward Paul, a chronicler of local history. The school began functioning with just two admissions, and in 1898, Rev. Morris Thomas, with funds from the London Mission, built a hall and named it ‘Hope Hall’. The school then came to be known as ‘Hope Hall London Mission Girls School’. In 1911, the school with 40 students was taken over by the Canadian Baptist Mission (CBM) and in 1914, it was raised from primary to a higher elementary school with government recognition.Till date, the school is housed in the hall that was built by Morris, and is called CBM Aided Hope Hall Upper Primary School. Twilight years Today, the school that was started in Old Town area with a mission to educate local girls, is tucked away in a slum and is in bad shape, a far cry from its glorious history. Till 20 years ago, there were about 650 students in the school, but at present, the number has dropped to 42. The teachers’ strength was around 20 till a decade ago, but now there are only two teachers, including the headmistress. All are aided teachers and with retirements over the years, the government has failed to recruit or develop this historic school. No aid from govt. Though the 15-inch brick-and-mortar wall and the cobbled-stone flooring stand the test of time, the old tiled roof gave way during Cyclone Hudhud in 2014. The tiles have been replaced by asbestos sheets and apart from the salaries of the two teachers, the school receives no aid from the government. Even the watchman’s salary, the family which has been on the campus for the last 50 years, is borne by the teachers from their salary. The teachers bear the stationery costs and depend on donations from alumni, philanthropists and NGOs. “Many of our students have become doctors and are in good jobs. They come to our rescue at times,” said Mr. Krishna, who has been teaching at the school for the last 25 years. “The endeavour to start schools for girls started in 1867, with G.L. Narasinga Rao’s daughter Godey Surya Prakasha Rao, starting a school, but they are non-existent today. Only Hope Hall still stands tall, but for how long?” lamented Mr. Edward Paul.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM introduces OpenAthens facility||GITAM Deemed to be University has announced that the faculty, research scholars and students can use OpenAthens services to access all e-resources. The OpenAthens facility was initiated by GITAM Centre for Advanced Technology Solutions (CATS) as part of the ongoing National Library Week 2020 celebrations. OpenAthens is an authentication system that provides remote access to the library’s online resources via single sign-in. Most libraries temporarily closed their physical operations because of the COVID–19 global pandemic. Educational institutions and parents are turning to online learning during the coronavirus pandemic. The switch to virtual classes and the use of online resources to complete coursework and research assignments needed to be implemented quickly and extensively. Many libraries immediately updated their websites with quick links to available online resources, easy borrowing access options. OpenAthens is a software that makes a digital library powerful, because it enables the user to access online journal articles, e-books and databases whenever he/she wants and from anywhere, according to GITAM Chief Technology Officer Gopalakrishna. The OpenAthens services allows the user to use their official email account. This subscription would give more insight into how the e-resources are being used the university community. More services would be added to OpenAthens depending on the usage, he said. GITAM Deemed to be University Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna appreciated the CATS wing for providing remote access to the university community. He said that students and faculty can access an online article from home to enhance their knowledge using OpenAthens.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nutan Naidu released on bail||Television actor Nutan Naidu, who is accused of tonsuring a Dalit and impersonating a senior IAS officer and was lodged in custody for the past 70 days, was released on bail here on Wednesday. On September 4, Nutan Naidu allegedly tried to impersonate retired IAS officer P.V. Ramesh in a bid to help his wife, who is the prime accused in the Dalit tonsuring case. On August 29, Pendurthi police arrested seven persons, including Nutan Naidu’s wife, for allegedly assaulting, abusing and tonsuring P. Srikanth, their former employee, on August 28 at their house in Sujatha Nagar. Grave allegations Nutan Naidu had allegedly made video calls to his wife Priya Madhuri twice from Hyderabad during the tonsuring incident. He allegedly abused and threatened Srikanth. On August 29, masquerading as P.V. Ramesh, he allegedly called Andhra Medical College (AMC) Principal Dr. P.V. Sudhakar and some other individuals and asked them to refer the main accused Priya Madhuri, his wife, to a hospital citing health issues.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials inspect road laid by tribals||Assistant Project Officer of the Employment Guarantee Scheme, Koyyuru, Pudiraju, and his team visited Jajulabandha village, where the tribal people constructed a road with their ‘shramdan’. The tribal people of Jajulabandha and Kummarla of Moolapeta panchayat of Koyyuru mandal constructed the road in four months. On the directions of the ITDA PO Venkateswar Salijamula, the team came to inspect the road. The APO told the tribal people that funds could have been sanctioned for construction of the road, if they had informed the officials before taking up the work. Villagers M. Venkata Rao and G. Lakshman told him that they had brought it to the notice of the officials several times. They had taken up the work on their own as pregnant women had to be carried in ‘dolis’ for eight kilometres as vehicles were unable to come to these villages in the absence of roads. They also told him that their village has no power supply. They appealed to the APO to consider sanctioning of funds for the work done. The APO assured them that the work done under ‘shramdan’ would be placed in the next budget and funds would be sanctioned. Koyyuru CPI(M) leader Y. Appalanaidu was present.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,424 tonnes of maize sent to Bangladesh||A 42-wagon rake was loaded with 2,424 tonnes of maize to be sent to Benapole in Bangladesh, officials of the Waltair Division said. This is the first maize rake of this season. Transportation of agricultural products by train is economically beneficial to consignors. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava appreciated the efforts of officers and staff of the Division for securing business to new destinations, which is a long lead traffic. He said that Railways was always proactive in rendering support and encouragement to freight customers. After setting up of Business Development Unit (BDU) by the Railways, regular interactions were being held with the freight customers to communicate the policies, incentives and measures adopted by Railways for the safest and cheapest mode of transportation, he said.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo earns Rs. 3.60 lakh as devotees make a beeline||As anticipated by the Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) authorities, there was a huge turnout at the zoo on the occasion of ‘Nagula Chavithi’ here on Wednesday. The IGZP witnessed 6,725 visitors on Wednesday, almost 10 times the number of visitors on Tuesday. This was the second day that the zoo was open after being closed for almost eight months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. On Tuesday, 672 visitors visited the zoo park and the revenue collected was Rs. 42,264. But on Wednesday, with 6,725 visitors, the zoo collected Rs. 3.60 lakh in a single day. Officials expect that the zoo will see a better turnout during the weekends during the ‘Karthika Masam’ as many are likely to organise picnics and get-togethers. Officials said that they checked the body temperature of every visitor before allowing them into the zoo, and did not allow those who had come without wearing a mask. Officials also strictly instructed the visitors not to light fireworks at the snake pits. Many who had come to offer prayers were told to leave after finishing their prayers to avoid crowding, in the wake of COVID-19.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||There are ways to live well with COPD: experts||Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) causes breathlessness, chronic sputum production and cough. COPD is the third leading cause of death globally and is prevalent in low-resource countries. Exposure to tobacco smoke is the most common risk factor. Inhaled toxic particles and gases, outdoor and indoor pollutants, childhood lung infections and alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency are some of the other causes The goal of World COPD Day is to raise awareness and present new knowledge and novel therapeutic strategies for COPD. This year’s theme is: ‘Living Well with COPD - Everybody, Everywhere.’ It wants to send a positive message to both patients and healthcare providers that although COPD does not have a cure, there are many ways to actively live well with the disease. “This campaign aims at raising awareness for interventions like pulmonary rehab, physical activity, self-management, nutrition and importance of social and mental well-being,” says K.S. Phaneendra Kumar, consultant pulmonologist, KIMS ICON Hospital. Proper use of inhaler can significantly impact treatment response in COPD and is an important part of disease management. Older age, multiple devices, and lack of previous inhaler education are all risk factors for poor inhaler use and adherence. Proper selection of inhaler depending on patient preference and ability is needed, he says ‘Staying healthy is crucial’ Depression and anxiety are common in COPD. In addition to mind-body techniques and cognitive therapy, pulmonary rehabilitation also reduces anxiety and depression. Staying healthy and preventing other serious illness can help COPD patients slow the progression of the disease and reduce mortality. Pneumococcal vaccination and yearly influenza vaccination are advised in COPD individuals. Although there is no cure for COPD, actions to improve quality of life can go a long way in improving the health of patients, adds Dr. Phaneendra Kumar.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre trying to privatise limestone mines: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) has alleged that the Centre was trying to privatise the limestone mines of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) at Jagayyapeta and Madhavavaram in Andhra Pradesh. In a statement here on Wednesday, CPI(M) Greater Visakha City committee secretary B. Ganga Rao demanded that the State government write a letter to the Centre opposing the proposal. He alleged that the Centre, which failed to allocate captive iron ore mines to VSP, has now appointed a consultant to privatise the limestone mines held by Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. The consultant was asked to suggest measures to privatise the mines and terminate the services of workers, who were employed there, Mr. Ganga Rao claimed, adding that the measures were part of a greater plan to privatise VSP. Mr. Ganga Rao said that the non-allocation of iron ore mines to VSP was resulting in the production cost going up by Rs. 3,000 a tonne for VSP, thereby reducing its profits. The allocation of captive mines to a private steel plant while denying the same to a public sector unit like VSP indicates the stepmotherly attitude of the Centre towards the latter, he alleged. Alleging that the BJP government was taking measures to hand over VSP lands to POSCO, Mr. Ganga Rao said that it would deliver a severe blow to the progress of North Andhra.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto-rickshaw driver arrested for murder||The city police on Wednesday arrested a 20-year-old youth for his alleged involvement in a murder that was reported at Gollapalem under Bhimili police station limits on November 13. The accused was identified as V. Ganesh (20), an auto-rickshaw driver and a resident of Gollalapalem. According to police, on November 13, a woman named G. Papayamma, a resident of Gollalapalem, had gone to a guesthouse in the area for work. She noticed Ganesh near the guesthouse. Upon questioning, he told her that he was searching for his missing cows. Later, Ganesh allegedly snatched away her chain and fled. Papayamma reportedly suffered injuries in the incident. With the help of another woman, she reached her house and found that the safe in her house was broken into and her valuables stolen. Later, Papayamma died reportedly due to the injuries inflicted on her by the accused. Based on a complaint lodged by Papayamma’s son G. Sathyam, Bhimili police registered a case and arrested Ganesh. Police said that the accused is an ITI dropout and started driving an auto-rickshaw for a livelihood. He was allegedly addicted to vices and had started to commit petty theft to supplement his income. Police said that the accused was involved in several thefts in the village. Further investigation is on into the case.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees only 53 cases in 24 hours||The district reported 53 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours by Wednesday afternoon, taking the total caseload to 57,960. This is the third day in a row that the district has reported its least-ever single-day tally in the last 10 days, health officials said. On November 16, the number of daily cases reported was 25, followed by 42 on November 9. On November 15, the single-day tally was 57. The highest single-day tally in the last 10 days was 97 on November 10. Since the last 10 days (November 9), the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district stood at 673. The COVID-19 bulletin released by the district administration also said that no deaths were reported in the same period and the death toll stands at 498. The COVID-19 recovery rate is inching towards 97% with 102 more persons being discharged or recovered from the virus, taking the tally to 56,157. Active cases further declined to 1,305, at just 2.25% of the total cases. There are no ‘very active’ clusters in the district any more. As on date, there are 11 active clusters and 318 dormant clusters, the health bulletin said.
19 November 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Candidates told to collect job letters||The appointment orders for candidates selected for the posts of Welfare Assistants and Education Assistants at Village Secretariats in the district, will be issued on Friday. Selected candidates have been asked to collect their appointment orders from the Office of the Joint Director of Social Welfare, Buddha Bhavan, Sector-9, MVP Colony, and attend counselling. For details, contact 0891-2551001.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GICE course on industrial safety||Government Institute of Chemical Engineering (GICE), Visakhapatnam is offering a one-year certificate course in ‘Industrial Safety’ for the last two years. This course is under the affiliation of State Board of Technical Education and Training, Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada. Principal, GICE, Visakhapatnam, Dr K.V. Ramana, said in a release on Wednesday that the course is useful for employees having experience in industry and unemployed engineering graduates. For this year, applications are available at Government Institute of Chemical Engineering, Visakhapatnam from November 20, and the last date for receiving filled-in applications is November 30, 2020, he said. Mr. Ramana also said that engineering graduates or industrial experienced candidates with diploma or B.Sc with Physics or Chemistry subjects are eligible for the course. For more details, contact Mr. Ramana on 912342065 or course coordinator Dr. B.V. Lakshmana Rao on 9912340281.
19 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth dies in accident at Ananthagiri||A 22-year-old youth died in a road accident at Thattavalasa area in Kasipatnam panchayat under Ananthagiri police station limits of Visakhapatnam Agency. Though the incident allegedly occurred on Tuesday night, it came to light on Wednesday morning after a few locals found him lying unconscious. The deceased was identified as K. Chanti (22) of S. Kota in Vizianagaram district. Ananthagiri Sub-Inspector K. Sudhakar said that Chanti had gone to visit a relative in Ananthagiri on Tuesday. He was returning home on his motorcycle at 9.30 p.m. Upon reaching Gummakota road, Chanti hit a tree on a steep curve reportedly after losing control over his motorcycle. He fell into a ditch and is said to have died on the spot. Since the Agency areas are witnessing a dip in night temperatures, people are not venturing out after dark, which is why his body was discovered only in the morning. Meanwhile, his parents were under the impression that he had stayed back at their relative’s house and so thought nothing of it when he failed to return home on Tuesday night. On Wednesday morning, passersby found him dead with severe injuries. The body was shifted for post-mortem. Ananthagiri police have registered a case.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Environmental concern||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perched precariously||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Religious fervour||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Who cares?||
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction of houses will begin on Dec. 25: CM||While congratulating them for their leadership in tackling the COVID-19 situation , the Chief Minister directed the Collectors to continue to focus on management of cases to further reduce positive cases . He said the government targeted to have 1,00,000 Arogya Mitras by the year-end. The empanelled hospitals would have at least one Arogya Mitra to support beneficiary verification, authentication, query management, grievance redress and handling emergency cases. TIDCO houses With regard to TIDCO housing, the Chief Minister said that the TDP government had left a debt burden of Rs. 3,200 crore, of which Rs. 1,200 crore was cleared in two phases.  The government would start a week-long campaign from December 23 asking the beneficiaries of TIDCO houses to choose between the schemes formulated during the TDP and YSR Congress governments.
19 November 2020||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Farmers suffer as middlemen get cotton from elsewhere||The new agriculture law, which allows farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country, has come as a bolt from the blue for cotton farmers in Adilabad district as produce brought from other districts by ‘middlemen’ is given priority in purchase while local farmers are kept at bay. The middlemen are having a field day as they were prevailing in disposing the produce they procured from ‘outside’ farmers on ‘commission basis’, and locals are waiting for their turn with tokens in their hands. Farmers are alleging that post Diwali, a large quantity of cotton from Gandhari and other parts of erstwhile Nizamabad district is seen at agriculture market yard in the town with middlemen, in collusion with officials of the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI), playing a key role. “They (middlemen) are procuring cotton from Nizamabad and other places for a commission of Rs. 500 to Rs. 1,000 per quintal and selling it in Adilabad, while the CCI is rejecting our cotton on the grounds of high moisture content,” a farmer from Jainath mandal said. The Corporation is also rejecting the local produce as the length of the cotton ball was reportedly less than 30 mm this season and slashed the minimum support price. “It has become a major issue now. The CCI is not supposed to purchase cotton from other market circles and local farmers are suffering due to their decision,” senior farmer leader B. Govardhan Reddy told The Hindu . He said that they have sent a list of local farmers to CCI from whom they should procure cotton. “When they are not purchasing from tenant farmers, how come their system allows them to purchase cotton from other districts with middlemen getting the produce to market,” he questioned. Mr. Reddy said that a large number of mini trucks from Nizamabad are coming to Adilabad market. When contacted CCI’s cotton purchase officer Rayapati Purnachandra Rao said they were purchasing the cotton as per the government norms and the MSP was directly sent to farmers’ bank accounts. He refused to comment on middlemen intervention in the market.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||EC slams brakes on flood relief grant||Thousands of people living in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits who eagerly waited at MeeSeva centres to apply for Rs. 10,000 flood relief from Telangana government were left disappointed on Wednesday afternoon after they were informed that the registration for and distribution of the relief is kept on hold till completion of election process in the municipality limits. The GHMC elections will be held on December 1 and votes will be counted on December 4. The results will be announced after completion of counting of the votes. From Wednesday morning, people stood in queues for their turn to submit application forms for the flood relief. However, the situation changed in the afternoon. Model code of conduct The Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) on Wednesday directed the State government to immediately to put on hold the registration and distribution of the relief to the flood affected families, including depositing Rs. 10,000 in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries in the twin cities as the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) is in vogue now. The GHMC stated that Rs. 486 crore as flood relief was distributed to 4.86 lakh people from October 20 to November 13 based on house to house enumeration in flood affected areas. “Subsequently, the families not covered were asked to register at MeeSeva centers, and during the last three days, 2.86 lakh people have submitted their applications through the Mee-Seva centres. Out of this, 1.78 lakh could be verified, and an amount of Rs. 178 crores was deposited in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The scrutiny of other applications is under process and will be taken up after MCC is lifted,” as per a press note. Over 6L families covered On the whole, 6.64 lakhs families were covered under flood relief in Hyderabad since October 20 and Rs. 664 crore was distributed. The registration and distribution of the flood relief to eligible families will resume after completion of the election process in the GHMC area.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Majlis Bachao Tahreek applies for re-registration||The Majlis Bachao Tahreek, after being unable to re-register itself with the Telangana State Election Commission, is unlikely to contest the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls. However, the party leadership on Wednesday held deliberations to decide a way forward. The party formally came into being in the month of September in 1994. The move came after All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen legislator, the late Aman Ullah Khan, broke ranks with the party over disagreements, and floated the MBT. In connection with the GHMC elections, it was in 2009, that MBT founder’s son, Amjed Ullah Khan, was elected corporator of Azampura division. The MBT has been a principal opponent of the AIMIM in its bastion. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Khan said, “We found out very late that we were de-registered by the State Election Commission. We were not invited for all party meetings ahead of elections so we started wondering what happened.” After this, Mr Khan explained that MBT leadership, including its president Majeed Ullah Khan, have been in contact with officials continuously to get the party re-registered. “At this juncture, we have been thinking about what should be done about the upcoming GHMC elections. We are exploring possibilities of either supporting independent candidates, or fielding independent candidates, or not contesting. The election notification came out of the blue and has left us with little time.” Mr Khan explained that the MBT was previously registered as an unrecognised party with the Election Commission of India as well. A proforma of application for registration as political party with the TSEC was filed on October 5. In a letter to the MBT, the TSEC pointed to certain issues in the application. On November 10, it issued a notice calling for objections to the MBT leaders’ intention of registration.
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Target BJP, not Modi’ is TRS poll strategy on social media||The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) reckons the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) as its potential opponent in the GHMC elections but is clearly not bringing Prime Minister Narendra Modi into its criticism radar. The bombardment of social media posts with pictures and videos, created and being dumped into WhatsApp groups and Facebook pages, just a day after the GHMC poll notification was out, clearly indicate its strategy. Stay away from criticising PM Modi is the apparent direction from TRS working president and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao. It doesn’t want to antagonise North Indian communities among whom Mr. Modi enjoys tremendous support. “Why bring in the PM in a hyper-local election,” seem to be its plan. Invest in KTR for the city to continue on the growth path is the direct message to voters through these posts. The posts make it clear that there is a single leader and it is KTR. All the posts give this underlying message as bytes of his speeches at national and internal events promoting Hyderabad to the world, collage of his pictures on flyovers, roads, bridges and sharing the dais with international personalities apart from video clips of speeches are the focal point of the campaign. The BJP as a party is, however, the target in several posts charging it with failure to bring funds to Telangana and Hyderabad. While the posts accuse the BJP of taking a communal line, interestingly one of them is a collage of pictures of BJP leaders Bandi Sanjay, Raghunandan Rao and Dharmapuri Arvind participating in Id celebrations. “Why are they then indulging in religious rhetoric,” asks a party leader. TRS is also going hyper-local this time penetrating into the division-wise WhatsApp groups with messages on developmental activities in those particular divisions. “We have set the agenda with discussion on development and will not fall into the communal discussion trap,” says Manne Krishank, social media campaign in-charge. “Mana Telangana Mana KCR Mana Hyderabad.” The social media team plans to record bytes of 10,000 people highlighting development in their areas, thus negating any BJP effort to change the narrative. The team also plans to come out with a video everyday countering the fake messages or narratives to be dumped in cyber space.  We have set the agenda with discussion on development and will not fall into the communal discussion trap. “Mana Telangana Mana KCR Mana Hyderabad.”  Manne Krishank  Social media campaign in-charge
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. slashes prices of RT-PCR test at private labs||Telangana government on Wednesday has slashed the prices of RT-PCR tests in private labs. Earlier, Rs. 2,200 was charged if a sample was collected at a private lab. It has been reduced to Rs. 850. And Rs. 2,800 was charged if samples were collected from home, which is now slashed to Rs. 1,200. The revised prices includes all charges such as for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and others. In an order issued on Wednesday, State Health department’s Principal Secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi directed all hospitals, institutions, labs to display the revised tariff prominently and strictly comply by the orders. The State’s Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao advised people to avail free of cost COVID-19 tests at government testing facilities. The government facilities where the RT-PCR tests are conducted include Gandhi Medical College, Osmania Medical College, Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Sir Ronald Ross Institute of Tropical and Communicable Diseases, Institute of Preventive Medicine, ESIC Medical College, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics, Railway Hospital in Lallaguda. All of these are located in Hyderabad. In Warangal, the RT-PCR tests are conducted in Kaktiya Medical College. In Siddipet,Government General Hospital offers the facility. Government Medical College in Mahbubnagar too offers the test. CB NAAT test is conducted in Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Adilabad, Government General Hospital, Nizamabad, Government General Hospital, Suryapet, Area Hospitals in Gadwal and Kothagudem, District Hospital in Karimnagar. Besides, Rapid Antigen Test is offered in 1,076 government facilities. The list is available in the daily media bulletin in the websitewww.covid19.telangana. gov.in
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Flood relief distributed in an inhuman way: Revanth||Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy said that the government should take responsibility for the death of a woman, Munawwar, while in the queue seeking flood relief assistance, and it was a shame how people were being treated in such queues. Mr. Reddy said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and MA&UD Minister K.T. Rama Rao were more interested in gaining political mileage using government money and do not have any concern for people affected by the floods. If that was the case, financial assistance would have been given in an orderly fashion and not by forcing people to queue up in front of E-seva centres. He alleged that more than Rs. 200 crore out of the Rs. 550 crore have been siphoned off by TRS leaders and it was a shame that such a ‘loot’ happened when people were in distress. “People will teach the TRS a lesson for their misdeeds,” he claimed. At a press conference, AICC spokesperson Shravan Dasoju charged the State Election Commission (SEC) with stopping flood relief assistance at the behest of the Chief Minister. He said after asking the SEC to issue orders stalling the financial assistance, KCR was trying to blame the Congress. “The Congress is demanding only to stop the cash distribution and application process at E-Seva and Mee-Seva centres. We are asking for direct money transfer to the accounts of the last victim of Hyderabad floods,” he explained. He criticised the SEC for showing double standards and alleged that it was acting like a puppet in the hands of the CM. “Wonder why the SEC has reversed the decision within 24 hours. What prompted you to suddenly issue orders stopping flood relief? You are behaving like KCR’s slave,” he fired. Mr. Sravan said, “Thousands of people including women are standing in big queues without food or shelter due to the mindless decisions taken by mindless KCR and KTR. People are putting their valuable lives at risk due to the pandemic. This pathetic situation is seen across the divisions, which is so painful and indigestible”. According to him, the GHMC administration did not prepare any comprehensive reports as to how many houses have been destroyed, partially damaged, and furniture or electronic equipment washed away. Neither they are submitting the report to the State government nor sending it to the GoI. However, both TRS and BJP criticise each other for not providing aid.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Face mask is main vaccine for next several months’||For the next six months at least citizens should maintain ‘COVID-19 discipline and face mask - covering the nose and mouth, will continue to be the ‘main vaccine’ in the battle against the coronavirus pandemic, cautions CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) Director Rakesh Mishra on Wednesday. "There is no major change in either the virus or the transmission but some kind of fatigue seems to be set in among the people. We can control the situation by adopting our new lifestyle of avoiding social gatherings, wearing face masks when outside, hand washing and personal hygiene," he affirms. A 'peak' or 'plateau' has not been distinctly visible across the country but while it is quite possible the person to person transmission may have come down a bit but “we are not yet out of the woods,” he said. For the sake of safety of the 'other' person whether young, old or with co-morbidities, "we need to exercise caution", maintains the Director. Dr. Mishra says there is "no harm" in requesting people to wear masks properly if they are not doing so in any setting. Low case numbers being reported could be because the “infection rate is less,” however, it could also be due to “low testing numbers, where the testing is being done and due to over-reliability on rapid antigen tests when RT-PCR is the recommended gold standard for those with symptoms.” Other possible reasons could also be lack of reliable data by various agencies involved and, therefore, more proactive approach may be needed by the governments departments. "People are not so scared anymore and realise those with mild or asymptomatic need not rush to hospital and spend a lot of money. This also explains some reduction in hospital load of COVID-19 patients. Things are yet uncertain as wherever there is greater vigilance, like in Delhi, cases are spiking, he points out. As he has been stating from the pandemic outbreak, Dr. Mishra feels Indians and South Asians could have been exposed to a COVID-19 kind of virus earlier which may explain stronger resistance shown against the current pandemic in this part of the world. It is also not ruled out that our genetic make-up is better suited to build up this resistance. "Studies are underway to find out more about this," adds Dr. Mishra.  Low case numbers being reported could also be because of low testing numbers.   Rakesh Mishra, CCMB Director.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Corporators a key cog in the wheel of city’s development||Doubt and confusion cloud the minds of citizens if they have to get some work done by government offices. Working their way through the hierarchies and multiple sections in a department can be a tedious affair. And if the work is related to damaged roads, streetlights, irregular water supply or any infrastructure in their respective locality, the responsibilities are, more often than not, passed on. It is in such situations that the role of municipal corporators come into prominence. Prepping for the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, these elected representatives said their job is to act as the main link between citizens and government departments concerned. Ameerpet corporator N. Seshu Kumari said elected representatives are supposed to know which official or a section in a department has to be contacted to get a work done. “When people bring issues to our notice, we are supposed to know the point of contact,” she said, adding that corporators can be reached at offices located in their respective wards. Besides, their phone numbers are displayed on the GHMC website. Ahmednagar corporator Ayesha Rubina explains that they are supposed to coordinate with respective departments to resolve issues related to infrastructure such as roads, streetlights, public parks and sanitation. “Besides, we have to find loopholes in the infrastructure and try to come up with ideas which will improve living conditions of the people,” she said. Ms Rubina said that they can do more as part of their job such as utilising funds under Urban Community Development Wing of the corporation. “The funds can be used for development activities in urban communities. Around 3% of the funds can be used for people with special needs,” she said. Secretary of the Forum for Good Governance M. Padmanabha Reddy said that the elected representatives help in identification of beneficiaries of various schemes and help officials at the ward level in proper implementation of GHMC Act.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A thousand hopes now put on hold||After orders were issued to keep on hold the registration and distribution of Rs. 10,000 financial aid to flood-affected families in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, many were left clueless and struggled to make sense of the sudden curbs. A few people who had not been able to register for the relief on Tuesday returned to MeeSeva centres on Wednesday early morning. Those looking for a centre did not have to search for too long as serpentine queues which spilled onto the main roads helped them figure out that it was a MeeSeva centre. Patience was a little hard to keep there. In fact, stray incidents of people manhandling each other were witnessed in Khairatabad and Kawadiguda. Police deployed on the spot had a tough time controlling them. At the centre on Dharam Karam road, applicants waiting since morning constantly questioned police on why they are not being allowed inside. Some in the queue were seen carrying their toddlers and children while other family members stood at a distance. “I could not submit the form though I waited since Tuesday afternoon till late in the night. I came back to the MeeSeva centre at 6.30 a.m. on Wednesday and continued to wait. A friend of mine who submitted the form yesterday has received the relief amount,” said K. Balraj, a resident of Yosufguda. Another elderly person who was found sitting on the steps beside the queue kept enquiring about the last date for receipt of the application forms. Many of them were agitated when they were informed in the afternoon that the registration and distribution of the Rs. 10,000 relief amount has been kept on hold as per instructions of the Telangana State Election Commission to the State government as the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) has come into effect. GHMC elections are scheduled to be held on December 1. Women waiting at the centre on Dharam Karam road entered into arguments with the police who tried to send them away. Even an hour after the announcement, people refused to leave the centres and said they would wait until the forms were submitted. At a few places, there were protests. After brief agitation, people left the centres.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Scope for stronger Indo-U.S. ties stressed||Led by US Consul General Joel Reifman, speakers at a meeting organised by the Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) on Wednesday underscored the contribution of people to people ties in strengthening India-U.S partnership. They also sought to highlight the opportunities available to bolster the partnership, especially the role Hyderabad as a pharma hub and a leading manufacturer of affordable medicines globally, could play by collaborating with the U.S. in the area of vaccines. Addressing the interactive meeting, organised on a virtual platform by FTCCI, the U.S. Consul General said over the years the strategic partnership, private sector collaboration and people-to-people ties between the two countries have grown. “As we emerge from the current [COVID-19] crisis, we will leverage our partnerships, especially those formed in Hyd., among U.S. and Indian firms, universities, and governmental research organisations,” a release quoted Mr. Reifman as saying. FTCCI president Ramakanth Inani said the trade and industry body would be keen on working closely with the U.S. Consulate in furthering the bilateral trade. Lot of glonal businesses were looking to shift their businesses from China to other countries and India was perceived as a strong candidate to host their new bases in Asia, he said.
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Public toilet hoardings singing praises of TRS pulled down||As civic body officials began stripping walls of political posters and banners, the dysfunctional toilets set up by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on footpaths will also lose their utility as billboards. The newly-built toilets are plastered with advertisements of ruling party TRS and its achievements. Most of them are under lock and key awaiting inauguration. Now, with the announcement of GHMC election schedule, the advertisements will have to be removed by the civic body. The ‘Compendium of Instructions’ for the GHMC elections have clear instructions about advertisements, their locations and misuse of official buildings. “No person shall print or publish, or cause to be printed or published, any election pamphlet or poster which does not bear on its face the names and addresses of the printer and the publisher thereof,” says one of the clauses which is part of the guidelines to enforce the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) for the elections. “The compendium is a source of information for citizens so that they don’t have to put up with loud noise or posters on their walls. It even specifies the decibel level for campaigning during day and night time,” says K. Sai Teja, an activist. “With wider awareness about the rules, hopefully, we will see a streamlined campaigning,” says Mr. Teja who posted a soft copy of the document online. Citizens who find their walls defaced by election posters can take the help of police and election officials to enforce the rules. “Disfigurement of any public or private place an offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend up to 3 months or with fine which shall not be less than one thousand rupees but which may extend up to 2,000 rupees or with both. Abetment of such disfigurement is also made punishable under Section 5 of that Act. Under section 6 thereof, the police officers are empowered to remove, erase, pull down and destroy objectionable advertisements,” says the Prevention of Disfigurement of Open Places and Prohibition of Obscene and Objectionable posters and Advertisements Act, invoked by the poll officials. The MCC also has clear guidelines about surrogate advertisements.  The compendium is a source of information for citizens so that they don’t have to put up with loud noise or posters on their walls. K. Sai Teja, Activist
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banda Karthika joins BJP||The Congress party suffered another blow in Telangana and the twin cities with the former Mayor Banda Karthika Reddy formally joining the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) along with her husband and erstwhile Congress leader Banda Chandra Reddy and their followers in the presence of Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and party central observer Bhupendra Yadav on Wednesday. Ms. Kartikha Reddy announced that she was joining the party without any preconditions and attracted by the policies of the Modi government in the Centre, and also convinced that the BJP is the only party which can take on the Telangana Rastra Samiti (TRS) and develop the twin cities. “I have been impressed in the manner in which the BJP leaders worked as a team for the Dubbak byelection victory. The Congress party has ditched us twice and never recognised our services to the party. I am sure justice will be done here and will strive to get majority to the party in GHMC,” she said. She charged the TRS of resorting to ‘election gimmicks’ and criticised the Rs. 10,000 ‘temporary’ sop to the flood affected families. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, MLC & city president N. Ramchander Rao, D.K. Aruna, Vivek Venkataswamy were present on the occasion. Ms. Karthika Reddy was the first lady Mayor for the GHMC and held the post for a two-year term between 2009-2011 before handing over the baton to Majlis party as per the pact then between both the parties. The former Mayor has been elected from Tarnaka division and had contested 2002, 2009 and again in 2015 but lost in the polls the first and in the last municipal body polls. She has been the general secretary of the Congress and her husband Mr. Chandra Reddy has been the secretary after rising up the ranks from the National Students Union of India (NSUI). While she is likely to be among the ‘star campaigners’ identified for campaign in the next month polls, it is reliably learnt that top party leaders had assured the couple that their candidature will be seriously considered for the Secunderabad Assembly constituency in the next elections.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharatiya Janata Party releases first list of 21 candidates||The Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has released its first list of 21 candidates late on Wednesday night. These are: Pathergatti - Anil Bajaj, Moghalpura - P. Majula, Puranapul - K. Surendera Kumar, Karwan - K. Ashok, Langar Houz - S. Pushpa, Toli Chowki - K. Roja, Nanal Nagar - K. Karan Kumar, Saidabad - K. Aruna, Akbarbagh - Naveen Reddy, Dabeerpura - Mirza Akhil Afandi, Rein Bazar - Eeshwar Yadav, Lalithbagh - M. Chandrashekar, Kurmaguda - U. Sunita, IS Sadan - J. Swetha, Riyasathnagar - Mahender Reddy, Chandrayanagutta - J. Naveen Kumar, Uppuguda - T. Srinivas Rao, Gowlipura - A. Bhagyalakshmi, Shahalibanda - Y. Naresh, Doodhbowli - Niranjan Kumar and Old Malakpet - K. Renuka. “Candidates with high winning chances and not just loyalty to the party are being considered more than anything else apart from social factors,” explained a senior leader, wishing anonymity. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, National OBC president K. Laxman, party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, organising secretary Mantri Srinivas, former MP Vivek Venkataswamy, MLC N. Ramchander and others are in the selection committee. Fresh from the Dubbak byelection victory, the party was certainly taken aback by the GHMC poll advancement. “If we have had a month, we could have been better prepared, but nevertheless the party is gearing up for the challenge buoyed by the bypoll victory,” said another senior leader.  Bad roads, inadequate drinking water supply and sewerage network, public transport and tardy progress of 2-bedroom housing will be highlighted as TRS government failures in the campaign to begin with. Later, the party will also unveil the manifesto under preparation on its own plans for the twin cities, informed top leaders.
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Engg. dropout held for stealing Rs. 29.50 lakh||A 22-year-old engineering dropout who fled with Rs. 29.50 lakh cash belonging to his roommate was arrested by the Keesara police of Rachakonda Commissionerate within 24 hours of committing the crime on Wednesday. The stolen cash was recovered intact from Avula Naresh of Dharmasagar in Warangal. Addressing a press conference, Commissioner of Police Mahesh M. Bhagwat said that the victim, K Yogeswar Rao, 25, an engineer with the National Academy of Construction, shared a flat with three of his friends, including Naresh, at Nagaram. During COVID-19 lockdown, the accused lost his job and went home. He came to know that Rao lost his key to their room where his hard earned savings of Rs. 29.50 lakh were kept in a suitcase. “So, Naresh hatched a plan to make a quick buck by stealing his friend’s money and as per his plan, he came to Hyderabad on Tuesday. When no one was in the room, the accused sneaked in and went off with the cash,” Mr. Bhagwat said. Later, when Rao noticed that the cash was missing, he approached Keesara police and lodged a complaint, based on which special teams were formed, who zeroed in on Naresh, who was later arrested. He was remanded to judicial custody.
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. releases first list of candidates||Congress released the first list of its 29 candidates drawn from across the city ahead of the GHMC elections scheduled for December 1. The remaining will be released on Thursday. The candidates include Pathi Kumar (Kapra), S. Sirisha Reddy (AS Rao Nagar), M. Rajitha (Uppal), Musku Shailaja (Nagole), Jakkidi Prabhakar Reddy (Mansoorabad), Gurram Srinivas Reddy (Hayathnagar), Sangeetha Naik (Hastinapurm), Punna Ganesh Nirmala Netha (RK Puram), B. Venkatesh Yadav (Gaddiannaram), Rizwana Begum (Suleiman Nagar), Sanam Srinivas Goud (Mailardevrapally), Bathula Divya (Rajendrangar), Vasavi Bhaskar Goud (Attapur), Mahipal Yadav (Kondapur), Ilias Sharif (Miyapur), Kousar Begum (Mallapur), Gopishetty Raghavender (Moosaapet), Amulya (Old Bowenpally), Satyan Sri Rangam (Balanagar), Gottimukkala Vishwatejeshwer Rao (Kukatpally), Kuna Srinivas Goud (Gajula Ramaram), B. Venkatesh (Suraram), Bandi Lalitha (Jeedimetla), Mariamma Chacko (Neredmet), P. Uma Maheshwari (Moula Ali), Geedi Srinivas Goud (Malkajgiri), T.V. Tapaswini Yadav (Goutam Nagar) and A. Manjula Reddy (Begumpet).
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State to host Assistive Tech summit next month||The State government through the Telangana State Innovation Cell (TSIC) is organising Assistive Technology Summit 2020 on December 3. The first such State-led event focused on Assistive Technology, its theme will be “AT for all – making affordable Assistive Technology accessible to everyone,” an official release said on Tuesday after Industries and IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan launched the poster of the summit. Noting that the Summit coincides with the International Day of Disabled Persons, the release said the event comes at a time when lack of awareness and high cost comes in the way of people with disability to access assistive technology. According to an estimate, there are over a billion people worldwide impacted by disability. The summit, which aims to lay foundations of a robust AT-ecosystem in the State, will be bringing together key players across the country in the AT space, such as researchers, innovators, investors, social enterprises, NGOs, expert users and government organisations, to discuss building affordable solutions, easing the access to solutions for Persons with disabilities (PwDs) and collaborations to sustain the ecosystem further. At the poster launch, Mr. Ranjan said PwDs and their attendants suffer a lot in transacting basic issues as a part of their day to day living. Telangana, a State known for nurturing and adopting innovative ideas, is attempting to motivate innovators and makers to design more products and solutions for the benefit of PwDs. TSIC Chief Innovation Officer Ravi Narayan said the summit will is the largest such in the AT Space. The summit comprises an AT exhibition, keynote sessions, success stories and panel discussions. The AT Exhibition will see innovators from school to college-level and entrepreneurs across India with a major focus on Telangana, who have devised affordable solutions for PwDs.
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two MANUU films selected for science film festival||The Instructional Media Centre (IMC) of Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) has achieved yet another feat with two short films - Al Zahrawi and Sir C V Raman - created by it selected for the 10th National Science Film Festival of India to be held online from November 24 to 27. The Science Film Festival of India is a mega event to promote the science and technology being organised by the Ministry of Science of Technology in association with Tripura State Council for Science and Technology. The selected film, Al-Zahrawi , is in Urdu language and directed by Omar Azmi, producer grade I, whereas the second film, Sir CV Raman, made in Urdu and Hindi languages, is directed by M. Mohammed Ghouse, production assistant. Mr. Rizwan Ahamd, Director, IMC., congratulated both the directors of selected films. Prof. S M Rahmatullah, Vice-Chancellor I/c and Prof. Siddiqui Mohd Mahmood, Registrar I/c also congratulated the team.
19 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC: Does MLA Ramesh hold a German passport?||Justice Challa Kodandaram of the Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the Central government to ascertain if the Vemulawada MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh of the ruling TRS party was holding a German passport. The judge passed the direction on Wednesday after hearing a writ petition filed by the MLA challenging the Union Home Ministry’s order revoking his Indian citizenship. The judge directed the Centre to write to the German government to confirm the citizenship status of Mr. Chennamaneni Ramesh. The government should ascertain if he was holding a German passport or citizenship. The matter was then posted by the High Court after four weeks for next hearing.
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||page 3 Given election code of conduct AIMIM-associated charitable organisations temporarily halt relief measures||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen has temporarily halted philanthropic activities carried out by its charitable and educational wings. The move comes after the Election Code of Conduct came into force from November 18. Sources from the party said that workers met the Telangana State Election Commission to seek clarity if relief work, especially after the floods of large parts of the city, could proceed. After this, it was decided to temporarily halt the activity.
19 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Smear campaign against me on social media: Tummala||Senior TRS leader and former minister Tummala Nageswara Rao on Wednesday lodged a complaint with Khammam Police Commissioner Tafseer Iqbal seeking action against those spreading fake news on social media that he was joining some other party. Mr. Rao has furnished some supporting evidence in the form of social media messages along with his complaint to the police commissioner, who in turn referred it to the cyber crime wing for appropriate action, sources said. In his complaint, Mr. Rao named five persons B Dileep, Sk Saddam, Sk Mukthar, M Saidarao, and B Vijay, and some others accusing them of running a ‘smear campaign’ against him on social media to tarnish his reputation. The former minister sought stringent action against those behind the ‘malicious campaign’. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Rao said the false propaganda was part of a conspiracy hatched by some persons to malign his reputation and harm the interests of the TRS for their narrow political gains. Without naming anyone, he said, “Those who conspired to defeat the party in the last Assembly elections for their selfish political gains are indulging in mudslinging against me. We did not get the expected results in the last Assembly elections in the district due to sabotage by some selfish elements. Mr. Rao unsuccessfully contested from the Palair constituency in the 2018 Assembly polls. Pledging his loyalty to Mr. KCR, he said he would strive for the victory of TRS in the ensuing elections to the GHMC, Khammam Municipal Corporation and other elections in future.
19 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Protest over foisting of cases against CPI (M) leaders||Strongly condemning the alleged foisting of cases against several CPI (M) district leaders for organising protests against the ‘financial burden’ posed by the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) on people, the CPI (M) district committee held a demonstration in front of the municipal corporation office here on Wednesday. Siege laid The party cadres laid a siege to the civic body office condemning the alleged registration of cases against several leaders of the CPI (M) district committee for holding a demonstration in protest against the Layout Regularisation Scheme in the town on October 9. Mild tension prevailed when the police dragged away several protesters during the demonstration at the civic body office. Addressing the demonstrators, the CPI (M) State committee member Y. Srikanth alleged that several party leaders were implicated in cases for highlighting people’s issues through peaceful protests. The party will further the cause of the common man by organising agitations in a peaceful manner till the Government Order (GO Ms No 131) pertaining to the LRS is scrapped, he said. The party State committee member M Bharathi, district committee members Y. Srinivas Rao and Y. Vikram, among others, took part in the protest.
19 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Police seize 70 kg ganja from car||The seizure of a huge consignment of ganja worth Rs. 10.50 lakh from a car at Tirumalayapalem on the Khammam-Warangal highway on Tuesday revealed the spurt in ganja smuggling by inter-State ganja peddling gangs in the pandemic times. The task force personnel in coordination with the local police seized about 70 kg of ganja from a car bound for Thorrur in Mahabubabad district during a vehicle checking drive in the mandal headquarters town of Tirumalayapalem on Tuesday afternoon. The seized contraband originated from the Agency areas of Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district, sources said. A suspected ganja peddler from Julurupadu mandal in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district was detained after the contraband was seized from his car. The task force police had earlier seized 458.15 kg of ganja worth about Rs. 45.81 lakh in four separate cases in the district in the last couple of months. Frequent surprise vehicle checks by the police mainly in the Left wing extremism affected border areas of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district resulted in seizure of a huge quantity of more than 6,000 kg of ganja from inter-State ganja peddlers in different places mainly in Bhadrachalam division so far this year, sources added. Attempts by the ganja peddlers to smuggle the contraband by concealing them in consignment of toys, chocolates and biscuits were foiled by the police with timely detection.
19 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Trident management fails to clear arrears||The problem of sugar cane farmers at Zaheerabad is back to square one once again. The management of Trident Sugars, located on the outskirts of the revenue divisional headquarters town, has failed to clear the arrears of about Rs. 12.74 crore for about 1,200 farmers for the past two years. Meetings held Finance Minister T. Harish Rao had held two meetings with farmers and representatives of the factory management in the recent past. In the first meeting held at Collectorate, it was decided to go for auction of assets of the factory. It was also decided to divert the sugar grown by the farmers to other factories at Sangareddy and Margi in Kamareddy district. In the second meeting held at MCHRD at Hyderabad, Mr. Harish Rao gave ample time to the management to pay arrears to farmers. They were directed to pay the arrears amounting to about Rs. 13 crore including wages to the staff in two instalments – Rs. 5 crore on November 11 and Rs. 8 crore on November 18 – and the representatives of the factory who attended the meeting promised to keep their word. Officials are not sure whether the factory management could keep the promise for second instalment as it has failed in releasing the first instalment amount. “The small farmers are at the receiving end and they are unable to perform some family functions as their amount was stuck with the factory management for the past two years. We do not know when they receive the amount but surely not in the near future as recovery will take time under Revenue Recovery (RR) Act,” said M Panduranga Reddy, a sugar cane farmer from Zaheerabad. He said that the recent auction of movable assets by revenue officials had fetched about Rs. 3 lakh. “The movable assets have to be auctioned first followed by machinery and land as per RR Act. As the movable assets were auctioned we are proceeding for the second step. Our intention, including that of the Minister, is not to trouble the management as it would harm the interest of farmers in the long run. But what can we do when the management repeatedly fails to keep its word?” asked an officer on condition of anonymity.
19 November 2020||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||IITH to host international workshop||The Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad (IITH) will be jointly hosting a nine-day international online workshop on ‘Advanced Functional Analysis and its Applications 2020’ from Dec. 16 - 24, 2020, along with the National Institute of Science Education and Research (NISER), Bhubaneswar. Interested participants can register for this conference at https://sites.google.com/iith.ac.in/decemberworkshop/registration-and-dates?authuser=0. The last date for registration is November 30.
19 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Secretary of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) G. Jayaraj has urged the authorities to address problems at paddy procurement centres in the district. In a memorandum submitted to the officials of civil supplies here on Wednesday, Mr. Jayaraj alleged that about two kilograms of paddy per quintal are being collected and set aside from the procurement centres illegally. He also urged the officials to provide new gunny bags.
19 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao has directed officials to speed up the land acquisition process in the district stating that it was the main requirement for various projects. Presiding over a review meeting held here on Wednesday, Mr. Rao said that land was required for Kaleshwaram canals, National Investment and Manufacturing Zone (NIMZ), by-pass roads, road widening, grid roads and connecting roads. He stressed upon the co-ordinated efforts of officials from various departments. Additional Collector G. Veera Reddy and officials of various departments participated in the programme.
19 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Kondapur police arrested a man for allegedly killing his daughter. According to Circle Inspector Shivalingam, Katike Mastan was against having a daughter and wanted to get rid of her. On November 14, on the pretext of attending a marriage, Mastan left home and returned late in the night while everybody was sleeping. He then took his four-year-old daughter on his motor-cycle to Malkapur tank and threw her. He moved into the village the next day as if nothing had happened. Suspecting him, police grilled Mastan when he confessed.
19 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Forest rejuvenation plan a model to emulate, says DGP||Director General of Police (DGP) M. Mahender Reddy said that the efforts put in by the district officials and the Forest department yielded results and this model can be emulated across the country. Mr. Reddy along with a team of 60 IPS officers visited the rejuvenated forest area near Gajwel, Mission Bhagiratha at Komatibanda, forest college, double bedroom houses at Mutrajpally and Tunkibollaram, integrated office complex, education hub, Kondapochamma reservoir and other places on Wednesday. “We have rejuvenated the forest area by using stock roots. Deep trenches will be dug around the forest area so that animals do not go out. Thirty varieties of fruit bearing plants are grown in the forest, resulting in returning of monkeys and other animals. Not only that, rejuvenated forest will reduce temperature and pollution,” R. Shobha, Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF), said explaining the efforts put in by the officials. Forest was rejuvenated on 157 hectares at Singayipally, semi-mechanical plantation in about 105 hectares, and in about 1,000 hectares in Komatibanda area, she added. Mr. Reddy said that forests were being rejuvenated in a planned and scientific manner with inspiration from Kerala and Tamil Nadu.
19 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,TELANGANA||Gurukulam students get pat for digital ID card project||Srikakulam Joint Collector J. Nivascongratulated the students of AP Balayogi Gurukulam of Duppalavalasa, Srikakulam district, on making digital identity cards for implementation of COVID-19 protcol. The ninth class students -- Yagati Yashwant, P. Giri and others -- made digital cards which alert people if anyone comes close without following physical distancing norms. Red light and alarm will get activated immediately if others come very closely. The Collector praised college coordinator Y. Yashodha Lakshmi, principal D. Devendra Rao and technical trainer Shiva Santosh Kumar for encouraging the students to come out with new ideas.
19 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Vasalamarri to be developed like Ankapur||District Collector Anita Ramachandran said the development model of Ankapur village will be replicated in Vasalamarri of Turkapally mandal, the village adopted by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, to make it self-sufficient. The District Rural Development Office along with the Agriculture department, on Wednesday, organised an awareness trip for residents of Vasalamarri to Ankapur. About 270 residents, 30 each in nine State transport corporation buses, along with panchayat secretaries, Accredited Social Health Activists and Anganwadi teachers, were taken to Ankapur. The villagers had a look at the types of crops being cultivated at Ankapur, technology in agriculture, market and export system, and interacted with the people of Ankapur. Village Ankapur, located about 15 km from Nizamabad district headquarters, in Armoor Assembly constituency is predominantly agriculture-driven, and the priority of crop selection is also in commercial crops such as turmeric, tobacco, groundnut and maize. Most of the farmers practice inter-cropping, and none of the agriculture fields are left empty in any given month, officials said. Addressing the visitors, State Cooperative Marketing Federation chairman M. Ganga Reddy explained that a variety of crops have ensured flow of revenue for farmers, and Ankapur residents gather frequently to discuss innovations in farming and village development. He also explained the role of the village seed processing centre in driving the exports. Ms. Ramachandran said all of the practices and techniques followed at Ankapur would be replicated at Vasalamarri.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Another punch in the face for traders||Traders and market associations fear that the Delhi government’s decision to shut markets in response to the sudden spate in COVID-19 cases in the city will dent their hopes of retrieving some of the loss caused by the lockdown. Besides, it will affect business during the ongoing marriage season. At the same time, the decision to restrict attendees at marriages has dampened the spirits of families and banquet hall operators. “Business in Connaught Place had just begun to pick up and now there is the fear of it being affected once again. I am completely on board with the government taking any step necessary to control the disease but stricter enforcement of social distancing norms is the solution. Not shutting shops,” said Atul Bhargava, president of the New Delhi Traders’ Association (NDTA). Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal said traders had a tiny window to break even on the losses triggered by the lockdown. “The [wedding] season is on till January. The problem is lack of enforcement when it comes to illegally set-up shops in large markets like Chandni Chowk, where following social-distancing norms are impossible,” he said. A lockdown was the simplest solution to curb virus spread, but it wasn’t so for shopkeepers, opined Anil Gupta, a trader based in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar. “We are already following social distancing guidelines. If the government has any doubt, they should randomly check busy markets and fine shopowners for violating norms,” he said. At C.R. Park, shopkeepers have started stocking up, lest a lockdown is imposed. Saraswati Halder, a grocer, said: “When we heard there is a possibility of a lockdown, we immediately decided to stock up on grains like rice. Last time when the lockdown was imposed, everyone was caught unawares and items were flying off the shelves within minutes. This time, we want to be as prepared as possible.”  Pooja Kapoor, a resident of north-west Delhi, who is getting married in a banquet in west Delhi on November 25, said her family is worried. Wedding blues “It is a tense situation. The Chief Minister can’t play with numbers like that. He should not have given the relaxation in the first place. Only wedding gatherings do not contribute towards the spread. And if the concern is for public health then he should ideally close all restaurants, cinema halls, religious places and other social gathering spots,” she said. The family has invited 200 people as allowed earlier and it’ll be embarrassing to tell them not to come, she said. Vikaas Gutgutia, MD of FNP Gardens, says they are booked to host 10-12 weddings each in the coming days across 11 venues but are now anticipating changes or delays. “Many clients who were to get married in May had pushed their wedding to November- December. They are again looking to postpone it to the next year. Because of these cancellations and alterations, all the associated units have been affected,” Mr. Gutgutia said.  (With inputs from Nikhil M Babu, Hemani Bhandari, Jaideep Deo Bhanj, Shinjini Ghosh, Saurabh Trivedi and Jatin Anand)
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Head Constable gets out-of-turn promotion||Seema Dhaka, Head Constable at the Samaypur Badli Police Station, became the first police personnel in Delhi to be granted ‘out-of-turn promotion’ under the incentive scheme. She had traced 76 missing children, out of which 56 were under the age of 14, officers said on Wednesday. On August 7, Delhi Police Commissioner S.N. Shrivastava had announced the grant of additional incentives, including out-of-turn promotion, for any Constable or Head Constable who rescues 50 or more missing children below 14 years...within 12 months. At least 15 children should be aged less than eight years. Moreover, Asadharan Karya Puraskar was announced for those who rescued 15 or more missing children below 14 years — five out of them aged less than eight years — within 12 months. Not just Delhi These 76 children were reported missing from various police stations of Delhi and Ms. Dhaka had put sincere efforts and traced them within a span of two and half months from the national capital and other States. Ms. Dhaka said that she has rescued these children not only from Delhi but also from other States. She rescued two children from West Bengal, two from Hoshiyarpur district of Punjab and several from Gurugram, Ghaziabad, Noida, Bihar etc. “There was a painstaking case in which a girl studying in Class 8 was kidnapped by her neighbour in Alipur area and sold to a man in Meerut. After four years, the girl’s parent received a call from her. They came to me crying and wanted to see their daughter. Following protocols, I traced the location of the mobile phone and rescued her,” said Ms Dhaka. By the time she was recovered, she was already a mother of two, she added. “A lot of times I went for raid in NCR on my own expense because at the end, the smile of the parents meeting their children after a long time matters to me. I live in a joint family and get a lot of support,” added Ms. Dhaka. She joined the force on July 3, 2006. After her promotion, she was posted in South-East district till 2012. She was later transferred to Outer district in 2012 and from there, she went to Rohini and later to OutervNorth, the police said.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Defer govt.’s proposal till all-party meet: BJP||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Wednesday urged Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to defer a decision on the government’s proposal to close city markets due to a spike in COVID-19 cases as well as limiting the number of attendees at wedding gatherings to 50 till an all-party meeting on the pandemic. This, even as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority issued an order to reduce the ceiling of visitors at wedding gatherings to 50 from 200, followed Mr. Baijal’s approval of a proposal in this regard from the Delhi government. “People have made all the preparations for weddings. Hotel-banquet halls have been booked, cards have been distributed and other preparations have also been completed. In such a situation, the number of people attending the wedding has suddenly been reduced. This decision will definitely create problems for many people,” Mr. Bidhuri stated in a letter to the L-G. Mr. Bidhuri urged the L-G to direct the Delhi government to fulfil its responsibilities and ensure strict adherence to the use of masks, sanitisers, thermal scanners in markets and social functions in addition to social distancing rules. “At the all-party meeting on Thursday, besides these issues, I will also raise the issue of Chhath celebration as it is a question of the faith of millions of people in Delhi,” Mr. Bidhuri said.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Institutions like JNU should lead the way: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday said that in the prevailing scenario of epidemics and pandemics, the National Education Policy 2020 states that it is critical for higher education institutions to take the lead in undertaking research, and universities like Jawaharlal Nehru University should be at the forefront. Mr. Kovind was speaking at the fourth convocation ceremony of JNU, which was conducted virtually at which as many as 603 students were awarded Doctorate of Philosophy degrees from 15 different schools and centres in various disciplines. The President asked students to draw inspiration from the exalted centres of learning in ancient India and try and create an original body of knowledge, which is utilised for dealing with contemporary global challenges. “Universities in Takshashila, Nalanda, Vikramshila and Vallabhi had set high standards of teaching and research.That ancient system, which had many elements of modernity, produced great scholars,” Mr. Kovind said.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports highest COVID-19 deaths so far||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi crossed the five lakh-mark, with 7,486 new COVID-19 cases having been reported in the last 24 hours, as per a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 131 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours – the highest so far – taking the total number of deaths to 7,943. Of the total 5,03,084 cases in the city, 4,52,683 people have recovered and there are 42,458 active cases. A total of 62,232 tests were done in the past 24 hours. The positivity rate was 12.03% and the overall positivity rate till now is 9%. The number of containment zones was 4,444 on Wednesday. About 91.7% of ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment and 86.8% of such beds without ventilators were full by Wednesday night, as per government data. Also, 55.3% of the total 16,884 beds available for COVID-19 treatment was occupied. AAP attacks Centre AAP on Wednesday attacked the BJP-led Centre over provision of ICU beds. “On Sunday, the Centre promised to establish 250 ICU beds within 24 hours in Delhi. Subsequently, in the next 48 hours, 500 beds were promised to us. Three days have passed and we have not even received the first 250 beds promised to us,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said. He also said that more than half of the COVID-19 patients in Delhi hospitals are from U.P. and Haryana. “We are happy to provide them with quality healthcare but this shows the utter failure of CM Yogi Adityanath and CM Manohar Lal,” the AAP leader said.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU new academic session begins with virtual orientations and college tours||The first day of college for thousands of Delhi University (DU) undergraduate students turned out to be a new experience sans campus activities, with orientations moving online due to the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Both, college orientations and department orientations, were conducted online by several colleges on Wednesday as the new session commenced. Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said, “Both orientations, were held online and it went well. A few larger departments faced certain technical glitches due to which the orientation was held in slots so that all students could be accommodated. Classes will begin in full swing from Thursday.” Several students spoke on the physical tours of respective colleges were now replaced with virtual tours. Kamalkali Majumdar, a student of Miranda House said, “The orientation was great and very well conducted. We even had seniors who spoke to us, members from the various committees and societies. After the main orientation was over, we broke into our own department orientations which was a lot more personal, where we interacted with all the professors and even we got to introduce ourselves. ” With the mode of teaching being shifted completely to online methods as of now, the university campus bore a deserted look.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Student groups including ABVP not in favour of renaming JNU||BJP National Secretary C.T. Ravi’s proposal that Jawaharlal Nehru University be renamed Swami Vivekananda University has not found flavour with students on campus with all major student organisations, including the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) opposing the suggestion. The BJP leader made the suggestion after PM Narendra Modi unveiled a statue of Swami Vivekanada last week. Shivam Chaurasiya, ABVP president at JNU said, “We are not in favour of any kind of changes. The statue is an honour for the student community here in JNU and we want to spread the idea of Swami Vivekananda among students.” Former JNUSU presidential candidate from the National Students’ Union on India, Prashant Kumar said that it was not for the first time that BJP leaders have called for a change in the name of the university and played “name change” politics. JNUSU president Aishe Ghosh from the Students’ Federation of India, said that instead of wanting to rename JNU, the government should build new universities and name them after whoever they like..
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Submit details of OBE results, HC tells DU||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Delhi University to submit details of the courses whose results for open book examination (OBE) have been declared and the time line for the declaration of results of the remaining courses. Justice Prathiba M. Singh asked the varsity to file an affidavit within five days. The High Court’s order came on plea by students that the results of their final-year exams, which were conducted in August, have not been declared yet and due to which they are unable to join higher studies.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Child safety- brief||Child Safety Week 2020 (November 14 to 20) has been witnessing a host of online events, webinars and content on social media that will help create awareness on the issue. A campaign called #ItCanWeCan will also be launched with videos on the facts of Child Sexual Abuse and how to play a role in preventing it. Child Safety Week is a people-led movement, set up by Arpan, an NGO, in 2019.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Hemani- wall collapse||A 67-year-old man died after a wall of a house fell in the lawn of his house in Vasant Kunj. The accused, an ex-serviceman, has been arrested, the police said. DCP (South-West) Ingit Pratap Singh said that bathroom wall of the accused’s fourth-floor house collapsed and the debris fell in the lawn of the victim, injuring him and his son.
19 November 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown aid: tribals yet to receive a penny||Four months after the Maharashtra Cabinet decided to extend assistance — cash and goods — to a few of the most backward tribes, landless labourers, and needy families from the tribal community facing financial brunt due to the lockdown, not a single rupee has been disbursed to any beneficiary. According to a source, who shared the information with The Hindu , the file on the decision is making rounds between the Tribal Welfare and Finance Departments, with no final call being taken. Cash and food On August 12, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government cleared the Khawati Grants scheme targeting 11.55 lakh tribal families across the State. Under this, each family was to be benefited by Rs. 2,000 being deposited in their bank or postal account and by receiving essential food items worth Rs. 2,000. But in the last four months, neither the amount has been credited to any of the accounts nor food items have been supplied to the families. The 11.55 lakh tribal families include four lakh families who were on MNREGA work for at least one day from April 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020; 2.26 lakh families of the most backward tribal communities; 64,000 families from Pardhi community; 1.65 lakh families who gained forest rights; and three lakh families, including landless labourers, widows, needy women, handicapped individuals, and orphans from the tribal community, who were to be decided by district collectors. The material worth Rs. 2,000 which was to be given included foodgrains, dal, salt, sugar etc. The State issued a government resolution dated September 9 and issued detailed guidelines on September 30 spelling out the procedure to deposit the money and how material should reach every targeted family. According to officials from the Tribal Welfare Department, when the State Cabinet cleared the decision in August, the move was to infuse some money into economy. ‘Tremendous help’ “While the tender process to procure material may take time, the amount could have been released before Deepavali. It would have been of tremendous help to poor tribal families before festivals,” the source said. When contacted, State Tribal Affairs Minister K.C. Padvi initially refused to comment. Later, he said that his department was working on speedy delivery of money. He did not comment on when the process would be completed.
19 November 2020||Mumbai,||BJP demands CBI probe into Palghar lynching||Almost seven months after three people, including two sadhus, were lynched over rumours in Maharashtra’s Palghar district, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded that the case be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) claiming that the State police had failed to deliver justice. BJP MLA Ram Kadam on Wednesday was detained by the police after he warned of an agitation in Palghar by going on to the site. The BJP termed it as a dictatorship of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The Congress, which is part of the MVA government, ridiculed the BJ,P saying that the demand for a CBI probe had come up because BJP workers who were part of the mob that killed three people had been arrested. “The Maharashtra Police have arrested over 100 people, including several BJP workers, in this case. Police officers who showed negligence have been transferred and suspended. The BJP wants to bring in the Central agency to ensure its workers are released,” State Congress general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said. Leader of Opposition in the Council and BJP leader Pravin Darekar said that demanding justice too had become a crime in the period of the MVA government. “Detaining a BJP MLA for warning of a protest is an indication of that. But no matter how oppressive you remain and no matter how many people you arrest, BJP and Hindutva activists will continue to fight for justice in Maharashtra,” he said. Presently, the Criminal Investigation Department of the Maharashtra Police is probing the case. On April 16, two seers and their driver while on their way to Surat from Mumbai were beaten to death by a mob in Palghar’s Gadchinchle village on suspicion that there were child-lifters. A total of 186 people have been arrested in this case till now.
19 November 2020||Mumbai,||Police summon Kangana, sister Rangoli for third time||The Mumbai Police on Wednesday summoned actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, for the third time to record their statements on November 23 and 24 for allegedly promoting enmity between two communities. The police have filed a sedition case against Ms. Ranaut and Ms. Chandel on the directions of the Bandra Metropolitan Magistrate court. “We have issued the third notice to the sisters and asked them to join and cooperate with the Bandra police in the investigation,” Deputy Commissioner of Police Abhishek Trimukhe said. Ms. Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiqui had earlier replied to the previous two notices saying his clients would be unable to appear for questioning as they were busy with the wedding of their brother in Himachal Pradesh till November 15. Munawar Ali, the complainant in the case, has accused Ms. Ranaut of creating “a bad image of Bollywood in the minds of people” and communal divide and rift between the people of two communities. In his complaint, he had claimed that Ms. Ranaut had been maliciously bringing religion in all her tweets. Mr. Ali has alleged that Ms. Chandel, who works as Ms. Ranauts manager, also tweeted with an intention to create a communal rift. The police have filed an FIR against Ms. Ranaut and her sister under Sections 153 (A) (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295 (A) (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments), 124 (A) (sedition), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. They have also asked Ms. Ranaut and her sister to appear before them.
19 November 2020||Nagpur,||Inter-state GST invoice racket busted in Nagpur||An inter-state tax invoice racket with fake transactions of over Rs. 131 crore and fraudulent input tax credit of over Rs. 26 crore was busted by the Nagpur unit of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), an official said on Wednesday. The racket involves three tax payers, one from Maharashtra and two others from Karnataka, who are involved in supplying labour and providing contract services, according to a release by the DGGI. The racket came to light when searches were conducted in remote areas of Chandrapur district against a taxpayer allegedly involved in issuing fake invoices and availing fraudulent input tax credit (ITC), it was stated. Further probe revealed that the taxpayer was fake and documents uploaded on the GST portal as proof of address like electricity bills etc, were all forged and fabricated, it was stated. According to the DGGI, details of two more taxpayers based in Karnataka were unearthed during the probe and it was revealed that the accused had taken GST registration on the same date, had declared same e-mail addresses and were sole suppliers/buyers of each other. Fraudulent ITC to the tune of Rs. 26.09 crore has been detected, the DGGI said, adding that the process has been initiated to apprehend the kingpin of the racket who is based in Karnataka.
19 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||16 injured after bus rams into underpass wall||Around 16 people were injured after a speeding bus crashed into the wall of an underpass at Kamothe on the Sion-Panvel Highway in the early hours of Wednesday. The private bus, belonging to Mohan Travels, which was coming from Kolhapur, was on its way to Badlapur. The bus was carrying around 25 passengers to Badlapur via Kalyan and after it reached the Sion-Panvel Highway underpass near the Kalamboli bridge, the driver lost control and dashed against the edge of the wall. The driver, Shankar Kamble (45), sustained grievous injuries and had been unconscious, the police said. The accident occurred around 6 a.m.. “Since the driver is unconscious, we have not been able to record a statement. We suspect that he was overspeeding and hence missed a speedbreaker,” police sub-inspector Anil Patil from Kamothe police station said. Among the 16 injured were another driver and a cleaner. All are getting treated at MGM Hospital in Kamothe. According to the police, most of the victims have suffered minor head injuries while some have had contusions. After speaking to the other driver, the police learnt that the bus had left Kolhapur on Tuesday night. The first driver was behind the wheel till the tollbooth at Talegaon. After crossing the tollbooth around 4 a.m., the shift of the second driver, Mr. Kamble, started and he took over the driving. According to the police, it does not seem that Mr. Kamble felt sleepy as he had taken a good break before his shift. The Kamothe police have registered a case against Mr. Kamble under relevant sections for rash and negligent driving along with causing hurt of the Indian Penal Code. “He will be arrested once he gets discharged after proper treatment,” Mr. Patil said.
19 November 2020||Pune,||Shetti warns govt. against ‘forced recovery’ from power consumers||After the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government said that it would not be able to extend any concessions in power bills to consumers, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti on Wednesday warned that attempts at ‘forced recovery’ would result in serious consequences for the ruling tripartite MVA. State Energy Minister Nitin Raut, who had earlier hinted at providing relief to domestic consumers saddled with inflated electricity bills during the lockdown period, did a volte face on Tuesday by stating that his department would not be able to provide relief, while putting the onus on the Centre and holding the erstwhile Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government responsible for the State’s mounting energy arrears. “Mr. Raut has been consistently saying that his government will be taking measures to provide relief and help consumers who have received inflated power bills, while hinting at concessions before Deepavali. Now, he is throwing his hands up and stating that he will ensure stern recovery. Is this the good news that he had promised for harried consumers?” asked the former MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur. Mr. Shetti, who had cast in his lot with Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in the 2019 general elections, is one of the four nominees to the State Legislative Council put forward by the NCP, a coalition partner in the MVA. The farmers’ leader said that if the MVA ministers kept up with such irresponsible utterances, then it would not be long before common people lost their faith in Mr. Thackeray’s government. “Commoners and small farmers suffered most during the lockdown. It has been our [SSS’] ongoing demand that the State government waive off power bills during the COVID-19-induced lockdown. How does it expect smaller businesses to cough up the money when everything has been shut for the past half-year?” Mr. Shetti asked. Castigating Mr. Raut for his announcement, he said that the minister ought not to make such proclamations unless he had a green signal from senior leaders of the MVA government. “In the event that the State government attempts forced recovery, then we will hit the streets and protest strongly,” Mr. Shetti warned. Defending his announcement, Mr. Raut tweeted: “The Covid-19 pandemic has affected the financial position of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL). However, the biggest blow to the MSEDCL was delat by the previous BJP government for not even showing average efficiency and in their non-recovery of electricity bills. As a result, during their rule, the MSEDCL’s arrears has now shot up to Rs. 50,000 crore.”
19 November 2020||Washington D.C.,||Official who refuted poll fraud claim fired||In his latest effort to fight the outcome of a presidential election he is yet to concede, U.S. President Donald Trump fired senior Department of Homeland Security (DHS) official Christopher Krebs who had countered his claim that the election was rigged. Mr. Trump announced the firing on Twitter. “The recent statement by Chris Krebs on the security of the 2020 Election was highly inaccurate, in that there were massive improprieties and fraud — including dead people voting, Poll Watchers not allowed into polling locations, ‘glitches’ in the voting machines which changed votes from Trump to Biden, late voting, and many more. Therefore, effective immediately, Chris Krebs has been terminated as Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency [CISA],” he said in a tweet, which Twitter marked as disputed. Mr. Krebs has led the CISA since it was formed two years ago. The President’s allegations of “massive improprieties” are unsubstantiated. His campaign and some allies have filed lawsuits in a number of battleground States, but none of these have thus far successfully overturned any results. Earlier on Tuesday, Mr. Krebs had tweeted,“59 election security experts all agree, ‘in every case of which we are aware, these claims either have been unsubstantiated or are technically incoherent’”. On Monday, 59 scientists and officials — many of them computer scientists and security researchers — had released a letter stating that to their knowledge, there was no “credible evidence” that the outcome of the election in any State had been altered as a result of being technically compromised. “Honored to serve. We did it right. Defend Today, Secure Tomrorrow. #Protect2020,” Mr. Krebs tweeted on Tuesday evening after he had been fired. Mr. Krebs had told officials last week that he expected to be fired, as per reports in the American press.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Who won the war over Karabakh?||A fter six weeks of fierce fighting, Armenia and Azerbaijan agreed to end military operations in and around Nagorno-Karabakh in a ceasefire brokered by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Some 2,000 people, including combatants and civilians, are estimated to have been killed in the war. What led to the war? In 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed, the newly independent Armenia and Azerbaijan went to war over Nagorno-Karabakh, which had been an autonomous region within Azerbaijan during the Soviet years. Armenians have made historical claims over the enclave, which is largely populated by ethnic Armenians. By the time the all-out war came to an end in 1994, Armenia had captured Nagorno-Karabakh and seven surrounding districts from Azeri forces, which amounted to some 13% of Azerbaijan’s territory. In September, Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev launched the offensive vowing to take back Nagorno-Karabakh and other Armenian-occupied districts. In six weeks, Azeri forces, backed by Turkey-supplied armed drones and other equipment, cut through Armenian defences and retook territories, including some 40% of Nagorno-Karabakh itself. Russian role Russia, which has a security agreement with Armenia, remained neutral in the early days of the war when Turkey threw its weight behind Azerbaijan. Russia brokered a ceasefire two weeks into the conflict, but it didn’t hold. When Azerbaijan defeated Armenian troops and captured territories, Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan sought Russian help. But President Vladimir Putin said the security guarantee is for Armenia, not for the Armenians in Nagorno-Karabakh. But Russia was apparently concerned about the rapid change in the status quo and the more assertive security role Turkey was playing in its backyard. By the third week of October, Russia established small military outposts along the Armenian border, apparently to prevent the conflict being spilling into mainland Armenia and also to send a message to Baku. In the same week, Russia conducted a massive air strike in Syria’s Idlib against Turkish-backed militants, killing dozens of them, which is seen as Moscow’s warning to Turkey. Mr. Putin accepted Azerbaijan’s victory (as the ceasefire allows Azeri troops to take control of the territories they have seized) but prevented a total defeat of Armenia. Under pressure from a decisive Moscow, both sides agreed to cease the operations. Terms of the truce According to the ceasefire, Armenia agreed to withdraw its troops from much of the territories around Nagorno-Karabakh. The core of the enclave with ethnic Armenians and Stepanakert as its capital would remain outside the control of Azerbaijan. Baku will build a road linking the newly captured territories to Nakhchivan, an autonomous republic of Azerbaijan which has been geographically separated from the mainland. As the broker of the truce, Russia would send some 2,000 peacekeepers to the region, who would patrol between the Azeri troops and Nagorno-Karabakh, including the Lachin corridor, which connects the enclave with Armenia. In sum, Azerbaijan gained territories, but not the whole of Nagorno-Karabakh. Armenia lost territories it controlled since the 1990s but avoided a total defeat as much of Nagorno-Karabakh would remain independent of Azeri control. And Russia gained a bigger foothold in the region with its troops being deployed within Azerbaijan. Challenge from Turkey That Russia could enforce the ceasefire and keep Turkey and western countries out of the final talks shows that Moscow remains a dominant power in the South Caucasus. Moscow had wanted to send peacekeepers to the region, but both Armenia and Azerbaijan were not open to the idea earlier. Now, Russia can do that. But the war also showed that the Russian dominance in the region could be challenged. Turkey backed Azerbaijan throughout the war against Moscow’s wishes and made sure that the Azeri side prevailed. On Wednesday, the Turkish Parliament approved sending troops to the region to join an observation post despite the ceasefire mandating only Russians to deploy peacekeepers. If Turkey continues to play an assertive role in the region through ally Azerbaijan, a reluctant Moscow would face a new rival in its backyard.
19 November 2020||DETROIT,||Michigan GOP backtracks, certifies results||In an abrupt about-turn, Michigan’s largest county on Tuesday night unanimously certified election results showing Democrat Joe Biden defeating U.S. President Donald Trump, hours after Republicans first blocked formal approval of voters’ intentions. The initial move was quickly condemned by Democrats, election experts and spectators at the Wayne County Board of Canvassers online meeting as a dangerous attempt to block the results of a free and fair election. “We depend on democratic norms, including that the losers graciously accept defeat. That seems to be breaking down,” said Joshua Douglas, a law professor at the University of Kentucky. The State vote certification process is usually a routine task, and the ultimate resolution in Wayne County propels Mr. Biden toward formal victory in Michigan. Still, Tuesday’s chaotic developments are likely to sow more doubt among Mr. Trump’s supporters in the election results and could galvanise Republicans in other States to try to look for ways to slow down the final steps in making his loss official. Formal certification Republicans are also trying to stop formal certification of the election results in other swing States, including Arizona, Nevada and Pennsylvania. Mr. Biden crushed Mr. Trump in Wayne County, a Democratic stronghold, by more than a 2-1 margin and won Michigan by 1,46,000 votes, according to unofficial results. His victory reversed Mr. Trump’s surprise 2016 gains in the industrial Midwest and put Mr. Biden on the path to clearing the 270 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House. Still, Mr. Trump and his allies have launched an array of attacks on the integrity of the election and numerous lawsuits aimed at slowing down the formal vote certification process. Each State certifies its election results and the Electoral College meets December 14 to codify the results. Unsuccessful litigation In Michigan, Mr. Trump allies and Republican poll challengers have spent days launching unsuccessful litigation. It’s against that backdrop that the Wayne County Board of Canvassers met on Tuesday. In a rare and extraordinary move, they did not bless the will of Detroit-area voters. Instead, the panel split in a 2-2 vote, with Republicans voting against certification of the results. Monica Palmer, one of the two Republicans, said poll books in certain precincts in Detroit were out of balance. Jonathan Kinloch, a Democrat on the panel, said the discrepancies were the result of “human error” and called it “reckless and irresponsible” to not certify the results.
19 November 2020||Tehran,||Will return to nuclear deal if U.S. sanctions are lifted: Iran||Iran will “automatically” return to its nuclear commitments if U.S. President-elect Joe Biden lifts sanctions imposed over the past two years, its Foreign Minister said Wednesday. Tehran’s return to its commitments “can be done automatically and needs no conditions or even negotiations,” Mohammad Javad Zarif said in comments published in the state-run Iran daily. Decades old U.S.-Iranian tensions escalated after U.S. President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew from a landmark nuclear agreement in 2018 and reimposed, then reinforced, crippling sanctions. While Mr. Trump has sought to maximise pressure on Iran and isolate it globally, Mr. Biden has proposed to offer the Islamic republic a “credible path back to diplomacy”. Mr. Zarif argued that “America is obligated to implement Resolution 2231 as a member of the United Nations and its Security Council,” pointing to the UNSC resolution that enshrined the 2015 nuclear deal. “If it does carry out this resolution and sanctions are lifted, and there are no obstacles to Iran’s economic activities, then Iran will carry out” its obligations under the deal, he said. Iran has since May 2019 gradually suspended most of its key obligations under the agreement. Mr. Zarif described Mr. Biden as a “foreign affairs veteran” whom he has known for 30 years. Once in the White House, Mr. Biden could “lift all of these [sanctions] with three executive orders,” he said.
19 November 2020||JERUSALEM,||Israel strikes Syria after finding bombs on border||Israeli warplanes struck Iran-linked targets in Syria overnight after troops uncovered roadside bombs along the frontier in the Golan Heights, the Israeli military said Wednesday. Syrian state media said the strikes killed three Syrian soldiers. A Syrian war monitoring group said the strikes killed 10, including the three Syrian soldiers and at least five Iranians. The report could not be independently verified, and an Iranian official denied any Iranians were killed in the strikes. Israel has launched hundreds of strikes against Iran-linked military targets in Syria over the years but rarely acknowledges or discusses such operations. This time, officials appeared keen to publicise the discovery of the bombs and the retaliatory strikes as a message to Iran and Syria. “I, once again, remind our enemies — Israel will not tolerate any violation of its sovereignty on any front,” Defence Minister Benny Gantz said in a statement. “The Syrian regime is accountable for what happens on its territory or out of its territory.” Israel’s shadow war against Iran and its allies has escalated in recent months, with cyberattacks and exchanges of fire with militants in Syria and Lebanon. The Israeli military said the anti-personnel mines had been placed near one of its positions in the Golan Heights by a “Syrian squad led by Iranian forces”. Israel said the latest strikes targeted sites belonging to Iran’s elite Quds Force and the Syrian military, including “storage facilities, headquarters and military compounds,” as well as Syrian anti-aircraft missile batteries.
19 November 2020||London,||U.K’s Labour denies key post to Jeremy Corbyn||The leader of Britain’s main opposition Labour party on Wednesday refused to readmit his predecessor Jeremy Corbyn to its parliamentary ranks, intensifying a row over anti-Semitism. Keir Starmer was elected leader in April, taking over from Mr. Corbyn after his thumping election defeat to U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservatives last December. Mr. Starmer has vowed to root out anti-Semitism in the party that opponents alleged went unchecked and flourished under Mr. Corbyn. But six months into the job, the row shows no sign of abating. Last month, a report by the U.K.’s Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) found Labour under Mr. Corbyn had broken the law in its “inexcusable” handling of anti-Semitism complaints. Mr. Corbyn had refused to accept all its findings. That prompted his immediate suspension pending an internal investigation, and the “whip” was withdrawn, meaning he could not sit with other Labour MPs in the House of Commons. But his party membership was restored on Tuesday by a party disciplinary panel. Mr. Starmer nevertheless said he was not prepared to allow the socialist campaigner back into Labour’s parliamentary ranks.
19 November 2020||Washington,||Pelosi to lead Democrats in U.S. House||Democratic lawmakers on Wednesday chose U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, 80, to lead the party into the Joe Biden era and preside over their narrow House majority as the most powerful person in Congress. “Congratulations to @SpeakerPelosi, once again elected by House Democrats to be our fearless leader and nominee for Speaker of the House for the 117th Congress!” the Democratic caucus tweeted. Ms. Pelosi, the chief nemesis of outgoing President Donald Trump in Congress, has led her House caucus since 2003. A formal House floor vote for the speakership occurs in January after the new congressional session begins, and shortly before Mr. Biden takes office as the 46th U.S. President.
19 November 2020||Washington,||U.S. to reduce troops in Iraq, Afghanistan||The U.S. will slash troop levels in Afghanistan and Iraq to their lowest in nearly 20 years, the Pentagon said on Tuesday, prompting security worries among allies and fear on Kabul’s streets after President Donald Trump pledged to end conflicts abroad. Rejecting concerns that precipitous drawdowns could give up security gains after years of fighting, Acting Defense Secretary Chris Miller said around 2,000 troops would be pulled from Afghanistan by January 15. Five hundred more would return from Iraq by the same date, leaving 2,500 in each country. Mr. Trump had made ending overseas wars one of his key promises and U.S. forces in Afghanistan had already been reduced from about 13,000 following a deal with the Taliban.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Amid a judicial slide, a flicker of hope on rights||There can be no better way for a judge of the Supreme Court of India to mark his birthday by celebrating the glorious constitutional duty that has been entrusted to him and his peers as officers of the highest court in the land. Last week, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud did precisely this, when he remarked, “[W]e are a constitutional court... If we as a constitutional court do not lay down law and protect personal liberty, then who will?” It was a salve for those who have doubted the Court’s ability to protect basic human freedoms in the country. An expeditious hearing But even as the Court seems to have shown some self-awareness after an arguably long time, the circumstances in which this statement was made diminished its value considerably. The statement was made during the hearing that concluded in granting interim bail to TV anchor Arnab Goswami in a matter that was listed a mere one day after the petition was filed. The application before the Supreme Court was in appeal against the decision of the Bombay High Court to refuse to entertain Mr. Goswami’s habeas corpus petition, citing procedure that no bail can be granted in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution and requiring him to apply to a lower court for appropriate relief. The Bombay High Court, in issuing that order, merely followed the law. In response, in a unique turn of events, Mr. Goswami sought relief — simultaneously — from both the trial court (a sessions court) and the Supreme Court. This is arguably the first time that an accused has moved both the lowest and highest courts together. The larger concern here is the decision of the Supreme Court to offer, barefacedly, Mr. Goswami special treatment of an order that ordinary citizens of this country cannot even dream of. Indeed, the entire process, starting with the original application at the Sessions Court in Alibaug, to the High Court in Mumbai, to the top court, was concluded in a total of only seven days. The extraordinary speed at which the judicial system seems to have worked to entertain Mr. Goswami’s plea is one thing to note. But observers are also surprised that the Supreme Court listed the matter for the very next day after receiving the petition, despite having placed the case under the Defect List after identifying a host of defects (at least nine) in his petition. If similar leeway was given to every citizen, the judicial system would be viewed with less suspicion and more benevolence. In these circumstances, it comes as no surprise that an individual like Kunal Kamra, a comedian, makes certain remarks, albeit crude, on the series of unfortunate events; arguably, this is the view of a large section of the general public. This case has now become a textbook example of what power and influence can do for you in this country. Mr. Goswami, whom I regard as an exemplar non-journalist in the Indian media today, covered his bases by being the ‘loudest voice in the room’, and his arrest had many in the corridors of the Secretariat buildings scurrying to suddenly, and uncharacteristically, defend “free speech”. The executive’s actions For the past few years, particularly since the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government took power at the Centre, the performance of the judiciary has deteriorated to disappointing lows. It no longer stands on the pedestal of chief protector of freedoms: the government has done so much damage to personal liberty, but the courts, and especially the Supreme Court, have watched this indiscriminate and often, literally, violent trampling of dissent like mute spectators. This is hammered home in incident after incident, and case after case: in the haphazard arrests of students and teachers made after the Delhi riots; in the treatment of dissenters against the patently unconstitutional Citizenship (Amendment) Act; in the persecution of veteran public intellectuals and social justice leaders in the wake of the Bhima-Koregaon violence; in the blatant disregard of the case of the political detenues in Kashmir.... The list is disappointingly long and getting longer still. Most recently, the 83-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights leader, Father Stan Swamy, who is suffering from Parkinson’s disease, and has been arrested in connection with Bhima-Koregaon, requested to be given a straw and a sipper in jail. Instead of granting him immediate relief, which would have been the most appropriate humanitarian response, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court gave the prosecution two weeks’ time to reply. Elsewhere, the Supreme Court had earlier refused to entertain the petition of a journalist from Kerala, Siddique Kappan, who has been detained without any basis in Uttar Pradesh for over a month now, directing him to lower courts instead. The Court has now agreed to take up the matter later this week only after the journalist’s family approached the Court again, seeking similar treatment as Mr. Goswami, asking if they were not citizens of this country. Bail applications That the Supreme Court’s lightning response to Mr. Goswami’s plea is an exception to the rule is highlighted by the general position the Court appears to have taken in bail matters. In its April 2019 decision, in National Investigation Agency vs Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali on the interpretation of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the Court essentially created a new doctrine that an accused must remain in custody throughout the period of a trial, even if evidence against the person is eventually proven inadmissible (and the accused is acquitted). The Supreme Court said that in considering bail applications under the UAPA, courts must presume every allegation made in the first information report to be correct, and the burden rests on the accused to disprove the allegations. This is virtually impossible in most cases. The litigious impact of this is tragic: bail hearings under the UAPA are now a mere farce; and high barriers of proof mean that individuals can be detained indefinitely. But wait, it gets worse. The Supreme Court’s interpretation was on the UAPA alone, and not on general criminal procedure. But it has left a glaring loophole for rampant abuse by the government, police and prosecution alike. It has now become commonplace for dissenters to be charged (usually without any valid proof) with sedition or criminal conspiracy and under the UAPA. It no longer matters that evidence is weak. Once the UAPA is included in the first information report, lower courts have their hands tied. Bail must be refused outright, without examining the evidence, for this is what the Supreme Court has directed. This pattern of arrest, first information report, prosecution and outcome have been followed in many cases involving dissent since the Supreme Court decision came about. The effect is dangerously reminiscent of the draconian preventive detention laws dating back to the dark days of the Emergency, where courts universally deprived people access to judicial remedy. A relegation Whatever Justice Chandrachud might eloquently and passionately espouse in court, the bitter truth is that personal liberty has been relegated to the background in Indian jurisprudence today. A recent study by The Indian Express of 10 cases involving free speech that were heard by the Supreme Court earlier this year (https://bit.ly/2Uzr9N4) revealed that the Court gave relief only when the state and the petitioner were in agreement, and refused to do so when the state expressed objections. This article would not have been written if Justice Chandrachud’s observations were the norm, i.e., wherever personal liberty is involved, the matter is taken up the next day and resolved at the earliest. But his observations come as a ray of hope: it is reassuring that there is at least someone in the Supreme Court thinking and speaking about personal liberty. As custodians of the Constitution, this is the bare minimum that a Supreme Court judge should be doing. Could it be that the sentinel on the qui vive is slowly coming to life again? Justice Ajit Prakash Shah is retired Chief Justice, Delhi and Madras High Courts, and former Chairperson, Law Commission of India
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The need for ‘maximum government’||In the new set of relief measures announced by the Finance Minister, job creation has moved to the forefront. This shows that the government has finally accepted that the unemployment rates are very high, a fact it has so far been suppressing or dismissing. This is a welcome change given its usual ostrich-like behaviour when it comes to hard economic facts. But recognising a problem is only the first step towards solving it. What hasn’t changed, to our dismay, is the government’s core belief in ‘minimum government’, which ties its hands when it comes to fiscal measures even in such harsh economic conditions, created to a great extent by its own lack of governance during the COVID-induced lockdown. As a result of that lockdown, Indians got both a COVID-19-induced health crisis and, in an attempt to control it, a severe economic crisis. The ball is in the people’s court If you look at these relief measures, announced in three tranches — Atmanirbhar 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 — what the government seems to be saying to the people and businesses is: ‘if you do this, we will award you with this and this’. The ball is being put in the court of those who are suffering instead of the government taking the responsibility of steering the economy out of this turmoil. Take Atmanirbhar 1.0, for example. Out of the Rs. 20.9 lakh crore package, Rs. 17.9 lakh crore worth of measures were below-the-line ones, such as credit guarantees and liquidity easing. Things are not very different in the other two tranches as well. These measures are made on the assumption that they will induce the business sector to start the virtuous cycle of investment and induce households to increase consumption despite evidence to the contrary. Corporate investment is limited by sales and/or credit. While drying up of either sales or credit can bring about a decline in investment, a revival in investment requires a revival of both. This is a very important lesson for a policymaker. The fact that sales are low means factories are running below capacity. If the existing equipment is not being fully utilised, why would businesses add further to capacity just because the cost of loans has declined or the access to credit has been eased? While this is, in general, true for both big businesses as well as MSMEs, for the latter, sales/profits are even more binding as a constraint because the pockets of MSMEs do not run as deep as those of the big fish. So, however detailed the credit package may be for MSMEs, in times of deep economic crises, they will not deliver as they will be wary of taking more loans. As for the households, if there is a cloud of doubt over future incomes (or dwindling current income), they would not be inclined to take more consumer or housing loans just because credit is easily available at lower rates of interest. If I am not sure of a regular salary in the immediate (or even distant) future, which affects my capacity to pay EMIs on these loans, however low they may be, I won’t take the risk of taking a loan. Moreover, even if there were takers for these loans, if the banks are burdened with bad loans as a result of past decisions, they may be wary of releasing credit. In order to increase their margins to cover for these losses, the banks, since early 2019, data from the Reserve Bank of India confirm, have chosen not to pass on the fall in the policy rate to the consumers in which case the very premise of a fall in the cost of loans is violated. The data suggest something more. On the one hand, banks are functioning well below their capacity in terms of extending credit. On the other, despite a fall in investment, there is consistent growth in the corporate sector’s current assets, a proxy for their liquidity position, which means the sector is not short on liquidity. Such credit lines, guarantees or the low cost of loans, therefore, hardly have an effect on reviving demand in the economy. These actors can at best play a supporting role, not the lead one. What does this mean for the magnitude of the stimulus? Neither do these numbers show up in the government’s books (which is by design) nor in the business or household balance sheets. It means these figures just stay on paper. They are something for the government to brag about. Unfortunately, this seems to be the preoccupation of this government instead of really engaging with the economy and trying to find real solutions. The demands If none of this is working, what can? A lot has been written about this, so I will just summarise the demands here. The foremost demand, from which others follow, is that FRBM should be kept in abeyance, both for the Centre and the States, and the government should inject a fiscal stimulus of at least Rs. 10 lakh crore and borrow to finance it or, if required, monetise the deficit. This stimulus could comprise, among other things, free ration and other essentials like oil, soap and cooking gas for a period of six months; cash transfer till employment opportunities are back; and an urban employment guarantee law. Given that this pandemic has exposed the precarious health sector, we can spend our way out of this crisis by building a robust public health infrastructure on the principle of public provisioning instead of walking down the insurance route which has spectacularly failed in the U.S. This has also opened an opportunity to think about climate change. There cannot be a better time than this for a green deal, which addresses both the demand and supply side of emissions as well as acts as the much-needed fiscal stimulus which has long-term implications. A comprehensive green deal can be planned, partly financed by the government and partly by carbon tax, which not only changes the energy mix of the economy but also makes the poor and the marginalised a part of a sustainable development process. This crisis has provided us with an opportunity to rethink our health, economic and climate policies. We can choose to act on these or walk down the beaten path. Whatever we choose, it will be good to remember that the future generations will never forgive us for losing an opportunity to fundamentally change course. Rohit Azad teaches at Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Decoding Biden’s presidency, for India and the world||There was a time not long ago when Indian attention was not riveted on the American election results. Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh and Narendra Modi have drawn India close to the happenings in Washington, together with fawning on prominent Indian-Americans and well-publicised warmth towards American leaders. Every country is trying to assess if a Biden presidency will be good, bad or neutral. Perhaps Mr. Modi does not know Mr. Biden well, but neither had he met Mr. Trump before Mr. Trump became President. Personal relations must never be over-estimated as a guide to foreign policy, which is best developed on the basis of objective interests. Hostility to a third country cannot constitute a foundation in a world with inconsistent priorities. Mr. Modi might have been prompted by the Indian community in the United States, but his ‘Namaste Trump’ event of February 2020 in Ahmedabad was ill-advised. The Biden administration will forgive but not forget. No wishing away Trumpism Despite being world leader in terms of economy, military size and technological prowess, fear and hatred were predominant features of the American elections. Hatred of Republicans and Democrats for each other, fear of what President Trump might do in vindictive destruction during the days before he leaves office, and dread that he might find some pretext not to quit at all. Offensive personal insults degraded the dignity of the process, and hatred of Mr. Trump translated into support for his opponent, even if it was the elder, lacklustre Mr. Biden. Fear caused the record turn-out, with over 78 million voting for Mr. Biden and over 73 million for Mr. Trump. The two parties will suffer fragmentation and internal conflict. Trumpism, still formidably popular as evidenced by the voting figures, will devastate the already diminished liberal and moderate wings of the Republican Party, while Democrats suffer clashes with progressives and centrists accusing each other for the party’s disappointing electoral results. Of particular discomfort for America’s image, Twitter, Facebook and mainstream TV channels issued warnings on the veracity of Mr. Trump’s messages and his incitement to violence. There is apprehension that before President Biden takes office in January, Mr. Trump will cancel many Obama-era regulations, nobble various agencies, promote his personal financial interests, and issue pardons including pre-emptively for himself against the threat of prosecution for crimes before and during his presidential tenure. With its President claiming for months that the polls were rigged, the simultaneous appeal of the American government (the U.S Embassy) to West Africa’s Côte d’Ivoire on its presidential election, to “show commitment to the democratic process and the rule of law”, was singularly ironic, and the refusal of the outgoing administration to provide briefings for its successor, adds grist to those who accuse the U.S. of hypocrisy. For decades, the U.S. situated itself as an arbiter for verifying democracy around the world, ignoring its own discrimination against black, Hispanic, native Americans and other minorities that makes it difficult and often impossible for them to vote. One in 11 African American adults is in prison, on probation or parole. A weakened America American global dominance has relied on economic, military and cultural power, and a foreign policy that operates on threat and force through its military deployed in nearly 800 bases in approximately 70 countries, and extravagant use of direct, secondary and extra-territorial sanctions which currently afflict an estimated 30 countries and territories. Unilateralism based on presumed exceptionalism masks America’s weakened moral and political authority and loss of confidence in its leadership. The U.S. political system is dominated by powerful corporations and entrenched interests which control politicians for their own interests and not those of the working population. Massive trade deficits reveal that the U.S. is no longer a manufacturing economy, and collapsing social conditions are indicators of deficiencies ranging from health care to civic infrastructure. India apprehends a lessening of American pressure on China as does Taiwan. Russia fears Mr. Biden would oppose the almost-complete Nord Stream pipeline, reprise his erstwhile campaigns against Russia in Eastern Europe, and that the incoming team of Obama veterans will pursue an aggressive interventionist policy. China fears more acute trade wars and an Obama-era hostile pivot to Asia. Israel and some Gulf states are warning against diminishing pressure on Iran. Venezuela, Iran and Cuba hope for a moderation in Washington’s Trump-era hostility. Europe seeks greater respect and consideration. Already these countries are laying down markers of their expectations. Biden’s concerns These fears and hopes may be unfounded. Mr. Biden’s preoccupation will be on his domestic agenda in a country divided down the middle. Half the electorate is seething with discontent stoked by Mr. Trump. Mr. Biden must deal urgently with the novel coronavirus pandemic, the economy and race relations; in his short tenure, he must work for a more equal society though Mr. Trump has packed the Supreme and Federal Courts with reactionary nominees. The 2,497 counties that voted for Mr. Trump generate only 29% of GDP, while 477 counties won by Mr. Biden contribute 70%, revealing the economic divide even as the stock market registers record gains. Mr. Biden is an emollient politician with political skills, but because Trumpism looms so large, much will depend on his relationship with Mitch McConnell, Republican leader in the Senate. The Senate has the right to confirm 1,200 of Mr. Biden’s appointments, endorse or reject treaties, and can frustrate restoration of membership of the World Health Organization, the Climate Change accord, the Iran nuclear deal, and restoring credibility to the World Trade Organization. The United States, not Britain, is the nation of shopkeepers. American business regards China as a major market and driver of its economic prospects, as do Japan and Australia. Without the impetus, driven for blatant political purposes, of the Trump administration, the future viability of the Quad formation is in doubt. New Delhi should concentrate on building its economy and re-set its external relations, reverting to the recently discarded formula of pluralist multi-alignment. Krishnan Srinivasan is a former Foreign Secretary
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Soumitra’s world||In the passing of Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengal has lost one more, perhaps the last, representative of its Renaissance generation. Chatterjee’s work as an actor was primarily limited to Bangla cinema and theatre as he was never really interested in venturing forth to Bombay, but his acclaim was universal. This was largely due to his association with Satyajit Ray, which gave his work international exposure. Chatterjee had studied Bengali literature in college and had been an announcer in All India Radio but his life changed when Ray cast him in Apur Sansar . The Master and Apu Despite the difference in their ages (Ray was born in 1921, Chatterjee in 1935), they shared a cultural and intellectual connection; they were both Renaissance men with varied interests. Whenever Ray cast Chatterjee, he was confident that the latter would be familiar with the literary background of the story, and that he would understand the larger cultural and sociopolitical context of the film. Their relationship was not just of a filmmaker and an actor. As Chatterjee always said, it was much more than that — Ray was Chatterjee’s intellectual mentor. There was a deep cultural affinity which led to a close working relationship over many films spanning many years. Ray had primarily two ways of working with actors. One involved directing them even when the shot was on, down to the last detail: looks, gestures, dialogue delivery and so on. The other method involved letting the actor go the way he or she wanted to shape the role based on the initial reading of the script, including changing the dialogue slightly if required. This invariably happened with Chatterjee, who got great latitude from not only Ray but also other good directors with whom he worked. He was always honest and dedicated to his craft, and well prepared before he came to the set. During the shooting of Ganashatru , a film in which I worked with Chatterjee in 1990, the long association that he shared with Ray allowed him to internalise the character. He would merge his personality and body language with that of the role innately. Ganashatru anticipated the unfortunate turn of events in India since the 1990s. Ray, after suffering for a long time with personal illness, was perturbed by the rise in irrationality and intolerance during the period and that was one of the reasons why he made the film, which was an adaptation of Henrik Ibsen’s play, ‘An Enemy of the People’. Chatterjee played the character of a doctor who is branded a “public enemy” by local administrators for trying to temporarily close a famous temple which distributes holy water and for correctly identifying it as the source of a bacterial epidemic in the small town where the story is situated. A public intellectual The character shared the same beliefs on tolerance and rationality as Chatterjee himself. He was as much a public intellectual who took strong political positions as he was an accomplished actor, exemplified fairly recently in his forthright views during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act/National Register of Citizens protests last year. He was unequivocally a man of the Left like a lot of people of his generation (the post-Ray, Mrinal Sen, Shyam Benegal, Ritwik Ghatak generation). He had a clear social and political conscience and he never fought shy of expressing his political beliefs even if he was not an out-and-out activist. Being a well-known actor was just one part of his persona. Just as Ray would have been known as an accomplished calligrapher, illustrator, writer and musician if he had not made films, Chatterjee would have been known as a playwright, poet, and writer, among other things, if he had not been an actor. Despite his versatility and intellectual depth, his feet were always on the ground and he was a level-headed person without any airs or frills. Chatterjee’s death has come at a time when there is a crisis of conscience almost everywhere, with the rise of intolerance, communalism and aggressive nationalism. But these are ebbs and flows which are always a part of social dialectics. Chatterjee unfailingly gave his wholehearted support to building a progressive consciousness. It is for the younger generation to take this spirit forward. There is a Society that does valuable work to preserve Ray’s legacy by collecting, protecting and disseminating his work. It would be worthwhile to do something similar in Chatterjee’s memory, so that his films, plays and other work find a permanent home, for future generations to cherish and learn from. That would be the best tribute to the man who will forever be etched in our memory as the protagonist of Apur Sansar . Dhritiman Chaterji is an actor
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The storage tale of two vaccines||A week after Pfizer announced encouraging results of its mRNA vaccine for COVID-19 based on an interim analysis of a large Phase-3 trial that is underway, data from the Phase-3 trial of the vaccine of the U.S.-based Moderna revealed very encouraging results. The interim results of Moderna’s mRNA vaccine show that it has 94.5% efficacy in preventing COVID-19. The interim analysis, which was based on 95 cases, found that 90 participants in the placebo group had symptoms of COVID-19, while only five participants in the vaccinated group had developed symptoms. Importantly, Moderna revealed that the vaccine might be able to prevent severe disease. A striking difference More than the marginally better efficacy of the Moderna vaccine compared with the Pfizer vaccine, the striking difference lies in better thermostability at relatively higher temperatures. The stability of the Moderna vaccine at -20°C for up to six months, 2°C-8°C for 30 days, and at room temperature for up to 12 hours will be critical for the broad roll-out of the vaccine in most countries, particularly in developing countries. In contrast, Pfizer’s mRNA vaccine requires storage at -70°C to -80°C, which makes vaccine shipping and storage logistics a nightmare even in developed countries. If making available storage facilities at such low temperatures for hundreds of million doses of the vaccine is a challenge even in the U.S. and other developed countries, it will be impossible for countries in the Global South to establish such facilities at scales in a short time. Against this background, Moderna’s vaccine offers great promise. While Pfizer will surely be examining the possibility of reformulating the vaccine to make it stable at higher temperatures without compromising the effectiveness of the vaccine, the ready availability of such a vaccine from Moderna increases the probability of wider access in most countries when millions of doses are manufactured. On November 12, Germany-based CureVac too reported that its mRNA vaccine is “stable” for up to three months at 5°C and up to 24 hours at room temperature. Most districts in India that are under the universal immunisation programme already have facilities to store huge volumes of the oral polio vaccine at -20°C. Hence, Moderna’s mRNA vaccine can be made available in most parts of the country as it remains stable for 30 days at 2°C-8°C. However, no vaccine manufacturer in India has tied up with Moderna to make the vaccine in India, and as on October 31, “discussions about the terms of India’s potential participation” in GAVI’s COVAX Advance Market Commitment for COVID-19 vaccines were only getting “underway”. A novel technology platform The Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals Limited, a subsidiary of Emcure Pharmaceuticals Limited, is also developing a mRNA vaccine. It has completed animal trials and may soon begin human clinical trials. According to the CEO, Dr. Sanjay Singh, the vaccine has been found to be stable for more than 45 days at 2°C-8°C. Apparently, Gennova was very clear from the beginning that a mRNA vaccine that requires extremely cold storage facilities will not be feasible for India and hence worked on a novel technology platform that will allow the vaccines to remain stable at higher temperatures. Improving the thermostability of mRNA vaccines boils down to the nature of the lipid nanoparticle that binds the mRNA and the clean mRNA preparation in cGMP (current Good Manufacturing Practice) conditions. The charge interaction between the lipid nanoparticle and the mRNA renders stability to Gennova’s vaccine at higher temperature — 2°C-8°C, says Dr. Singh. Margaret Liu, a vaccine researcher who chairs the board of the International Society for Vaccines, explains lipid nanoparticle encapsulation as “putting chocolate inside a candy coating so the chocolate doesn’t melt”. Despite the encapsulation with lipid nanoparticles, mRNA, which is very fragile, might fall apart, thus necessitating storage at low temperatures. prasad.ravindranath@thehindu.co.in
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Reinventing cities||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a reimagining of urban planning and development to make cities and towns healthy and liveable after COVID-19 reflects the reality of decrepit infrastructure aiding the virus’s spread. At the Bloomberg New Economy Forum, he emphasised resetting the mindset, processes and practices for safe urban living, and acknowledged that governments actually do little for the working millions. In the first hundred days of the pandemic, the top 10 cities affected worldwide accounted for 15% of the total cases, and data for populous Indian cities later showed large spikes that radiated into smaller towns. Rapid transmission in Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Chennai was the inevitable outcome of densification and an inability to practise distancing norms. In globally recognised Dharavi, which has one of the world’s highest slum densities, epidemiologists attribute a seemingly low viral impact to screening and herd immunity. The pandemic’s full social impact, especially among the poorer quintiles, has not been adequately measured here or elsewhere, and as the Prime Minister said, it is only clear that the cities “are not as they were before”. If governments are serious about the reset moment — he likened it to a post-World War reconstruction plan — they must resist returning to business-as-usual. Good, affordable housing is the cornerstone of a sustainable and healthy city, but it also represents India’s weakest link. Unlike speculative housing investments, well-designed rental housing that is key to protecting migrant labour and other less affluent sections remains poorly funded. Mumbai is estimated to have added only 5% of rental housing in new residential construction (1961-2000), and that too led by private funding. The post-COVID-19 era, therefore, presents an opportunity to make schemes such as the Centre’s Affordable Rental Housing Complexes deliver at scale, focusing on new good houses built by the state — on the lines of the post-war reconstruction in Europe, Japan and South Korea. The Ministry of Housing, which has thus far focused on a limited set of expensive showpiece smart cities, could work on this imperative with the States, digitally aggregating and transparently publishing data on demand and supply for each city. It is also an open secret that laws on air pollution, municipal solid waste management and water quality are hardly enforced, and tokenism marks the approach to urban mobility. Past scourges such as cholera, the plague and the global flu pandemic a century ago led to change — as sewerage, waste handling, social housing and health care that reduced disease. Governments are now challenged by the pandemic to show the political will to reinvent cities.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||New challenges||With the late night call on Tuesday between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President-elect Joseph Biden done, Indian and U.S. officials can begin their formal interactions on the future of bilateral relations. The two leaders listed out their priorities, according to separate statements issued by the External Affairs Ministry and the Biden-Harris transition team. According to the readouts, the leaders committed to strengthening the Indo-U.S. Comprehensive “Global” Strategic Partnership, and cooperating on global challenges including the COVID-19 pandemic, affordable vaccines, climate change and the Indo-Pacific region. Mr. Biden’s readout also included “strengthening democracy at home and abroad”, which was dropped from the MEA version, indicating New Delhi’s discomfort. Critical and recent comments made by Mr. Biden and Vice-President-elect Kamala Harris over Jammu and Kashmir, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and actions against NGOs should not make the Modi government shy from engaging with the U.S. on these issues. Most remarkably, the leaders did not dwell on traditional security issues, global terrorism, conflict regions or even trade, but instead charted areas for Indo-U.S. cooperation that are more in line with their current challenges and indicate Mr. Biden’s own immediate priorities. On COVID-19, Mr. Biden and Mr. Modi have their work cut out, given that the U.S. (over 11 million cases) and India (over 8 million cases) remain the top two worst affected countries, and showing daily increases. Making affordable vaccines available to their afflicted populations will be the immediate challenge. On the need for economic recovery, their projected policies do not appear to be too divergent. Unveiling his administration’s economic revival policy, Mr. Biden announced a plan to “Buy American”, and to ensure no government contract goes to companies that do not make their products in America. The Modi government has already launched its “Atmanirbhar Bharat” programme on similar lines, with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar making it clear that the globalised economy and trading arrangements have been assessed as detrimental to India’s manufacturing industry. On climate change, a decision by the U.S. to re-enter the Paris Accord will be welcomed by India, that is also hoping to promote cooperation on the International Solar Alliance that it co-founded in 2016 with France. But it is unclear if Mr. Biden would revive the earlier U.S. promises of funding green technology that Mr. Trump cancelled when he walked out of the Paris Accord. Finally, it is significant that Mr. Biden expressed his commitment to the Indo-Pacific policy, but New Delhi will be keen to see just what shape the new administration intends to take in its measures to maintain a “secure and prosperous” Indo-Pacific, and how far the Biden Administration will challenge China’s moves in the region.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Burma Protest||Members of the Burma Deputation have presented a petition to Mr. Montagu, Secretary of State for India protesting against the establishment by the Burma Government of a publicity bureau and proposal to establish an official newspaper at estimated cost of Rs. 40,000 per annum. The petitioners urge on grounds of public policy it is inexpedient that a newspaper should be published by Government. No one will know how far the opinion expressed are official or how far they are those of the editor. Officials when they speak, speak with a sense of responsibility attaching to their high office, who will be responsible for statements made in this paper. The petition concludes: We contend that the legislative Council, public speeches and press communiques, if full use is made of these means, furnish ample opportunities for the Burma Government to explain its policy and we urge the publicity bureau is unnecessary and the project of a newspaper is unfair.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Mechanised moon walk (From an editorial)||Russia has scored a dramatic surprise with its Luna 17 probe by landing a vehicle on the moon which can transmit a wealth of information to its base at Baykonour. Soviet scientists have already made full use of the information provided by the Luna 16 probe which brought back samples of rock and dust from the dark side of the moon. Western scientists had expected Luna 17 to be a repetition of the earlier exercise but the new unmanned vehicle which was carried to the moon’s surface on the back of a bigger machine is a complex affair which can not only collect samples but analyse them on the spot and transmit the data back to earth. It is expected to collect gravimetrical data, search for water, make seismic measurements and study heat currents in the planet. The Americans also planned a series of unmanned lunar and interplanetary spacecraft called Pioneer, Ranger, Surveyor, Lunar Orbiter and Mariner. Like Luna 16, Ranger 7 landed on the moon in 1964 and transmitted a set of excellent photographs. But Surveyor, which has not yet been launched, was the one which was expected to perform all the functions which Luna 17 is now doing. Thus the Russians have forged ahead of their rivals in this type of unmanned space exploration.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Vedanta bids for BPCL, major foreign player too in the race||Mining conglomerate Vedanta has put in a preliminary expression of interest (EoI) for buying the government’s stake in Bharat Petroleum Corp. Ltd. (BPCL), for which a major foreign player too is said to be in race. A special purpose vehicle floated by the BSE-listed Vedanta Ltd. and its London-based parent Vedanta Resources submitted an EoI before the close of deadline on November 16. “Vedanta’s EoI for BPCL is to evaluate potential synergies with our existing oil and gas business,” the company said in a statement. “The EoI is at a preliminary stage and exploratory in nature.” Sources in the department handling the sale said that a major foreign player was among the 3-4 entities whose EoIs were received by the close of the bidding on November 16. The other potential investors are foreign funds but their identity was not immediately disclosed. The government is selling its entire 52.98% stake in India’s second-largest fuel retailer as part of plans to raise a record Rs. 2.1 lakh crore from disinvestment proceeds in 2020-21. But, the BPCL share price has plunged by close to a fourth since the strategic sale was approved in November last year. At Wednesday’s closing price of Rs. 383.20 on the BSE, the government’s stake in BPCL is worth just over Rs. 44,000 crore. Also, the acquirer would have to make an open offer for buying another 26% from the public, which would cost about Rs. 21,600 crore. Vedanta’s interest in BPCL stems from its $8.67 billion acquisition of oil producer Cairn India about a decade ago. The company produces oil from oilfields in Rajasthan.
19 November 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Acquisition of LVB to boost DBS India business’||The Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) draft scheme to amalgamate the troubled Lakshmi Vilas Bank into DBS Bank India will strengthen the business position of the wholly owned unit of Singapore’s DBS Bank Ltd. in India by adding new retail and small- and medium-sized customers, Moody’s Investors Service said in a statement. “We estimate that DBS India’s customer deposits and net loans will increase by about 50%-70%... LVB will also add around 500 branches to DBS India’s 27 branches,” Moody’s said. It said the acquisition would be positive for depositors and senior creditors of LVB as the bank would benefit from parental support from DBS, “a very strong bank.” LVB’s rescue process flagged deficiencies in the bank resolution mechanism as the moratorium restricts full and timely payments, thus leading to a temporary default, Moody’s added.
19 November 2020||Chennai,||Liquidity is sufficient, says LVB’s administrator||The RBI-appointed administrator of Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd. (LVB) on Wednesday stressed that the bank, which was placed under a 30-day moratorium on Tuesday, had adequate funds to meet depositors’ requirements and would emerge stronger once the Indian unit of Singapore’s DBS Bank completed its takeover of the private lender. “There is no run on the bank’s deposits,” T.N. Manoharan, the administrator, told journalists on a conference call. “As an administrator, I will cater to the interests of depositors. There is sufficient liquidity in the bank and the needs of depositors will be taken care of,” he added. Assuring customers that LVB’s operations would return to normal by Thursday, Mr. Manoharan said the bank had got into trouble after it shifted focus from retail to corporate lending and found many of the corporate loan accounts turning into non-performing assets. Earlier in the day, commotion prevailed at some branches of LVB in the city with depositors, including several senior citizens, unable to withdraw even the Rs. 25,000 allowed under the moratorium as the bank took its IT system offline to update it.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||IMF foresees legacy scars from COVID-19 crisis||Despite the hopes of a COVID-19 vaccine emerging soon, the global economy remained on tenterhooks as new cases were surging worldwide, Gita Gopinath, chief economist at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), said on Wednesday. Observing that the world economy hadn’t returned to pre-pandemic levels yet despite a rebound in recent months, Ms. Gopinath said that the crisis triggered by the virus was likely to scar future economic activity as companies, governments, students and the worst-hit sections of the workforce would have to cope with the pandemic’s ‘legacies’. ‘Lives and livelihoods’ “The pandemic has had a tremendous cost in terms of lives and livelihoods lost. While the world economy has rebounded from the depth of its collapse in the first half of this year, we are still far from returning back to the pre-pandemic levels in almost all parts of the world,” she said in a discussion at the Bloomberg New Economy Forum. “Indeed, there has been positive news on the vaccine front, which makes us hopeful but that said, we are right now still living through an increased spread of the virus with record number of cases in the world, and that is going to impact economic activity. We also have to keep in mind there will be many legacies from this crisis that will weigh on economic activity in the future,” added Ms. Gopinath. Stressed balance sheets “There will be corporates with stressed balance sheets, there will be governments with large amounts of debt. We have a generation of students impacted by loss of schooling, the job market is recovering in some places strongly, but if you look at low-income workers, women and young workers, they are very hard hit,” Ms. Gopinath said. Green investments While there were concerns about a jobless recovery, the IMF economist urged countries to push for green investments as part of the recovery process as they were more job-intensive. “This has the benefit of increasing jobs, output and enabling a transition towards a growth path where you don’t have to worry about climate risks,” she said. ‘All hands on deck’ Tata group executive chairman N. Chandrasekaran said that the scale of India’s lockdown and the ‘accompanying recession, technically the first in India’s history, had really put the focus on getting everybody back to work’ and getting growth back in the short term. “Literally, all hands on deck have been solely focused on getting the economy back and also avoiding a catastrophe of any kind,” observed Mr. Chandrasekaran, who was also part of the discussion.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Extend PLI to laptops to help tap $100-bn market’||The manufacturing of laptops and tablets presents a $100-billion opportunity for India by 2025 provided there is a ‘conducive policy environment’ and incentives, the India Cellular and Electronics Association (ICEA) said on Wednesday. In a report titled ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat: India’s Turning Point’, the industry body pitched for a PLI scheme for manufacturing of laptops and tablets on the lines of the one introduced for mobile phones in April 2020. “To reach the National Policy on Electronics, 2019, targets and for turning into a global manufacturing hub, we cannot depend on mobile phones manufacturing alone,” ICEA Chairman Pankaj Mohindroo said. The report noted that the global market for these products is expected to be about $220 billion per year over the next five years. In India, the market size is estimated to continue to be about $7 billion for the same period. “This presents an opportunity for India to ramp up the export of ‘Made in India’ laptops and tablets. Making in India for the world will give us a manufacturing value of $100 billion by 2025,” the report said.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Post-festival demand will be key: Nestle India CMD||Even as rural markets continue to drive demand for Nestle amid expectations that urban markets will turn “reasonably positive”, Suresh Narayanan, CMD of the India arm of the FMCG major said the next couple of months were critical to see how demand stabilises after the festive season. “What we need to watch out [for] very clearly, is the post-Diwali phase. I would really watch for the next 2-3 months, how things stabilise on the demand front,” Mr. Narayanan said during an online media interaction on Wednesday. “Since we are just coming out of this terrible economic hole, I think we have to give ourselves some time to see whether things have really stabilised or whether the demand that we have seen has been largely... pent-up demand because I’m looking at it from a multi-sector point of view,” he added. Nestle saw smaller towns emerging as “heroes” during the pandemic, helping mitigate some impact of low demand from larger metros. Mr. Narayanan said that in the first quarter of 2020, urban growth was at 13%, surpassing the rural growth rate of 8-9%. “In Q2 2020, the situation changed. For Nestle, the urban growth was about 0.7% and rural growth was 1.7%. In Q3, the urban growth was 6% and the rural growth was upwards of 12%. So, this year there has been a reversal,” Mr. Narayanan said.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Apple halves App Store commission||iPhone maker Apple on Wednesday said it had slashed its App Store commission by half to 15% for small businesses earning up to $1 million (about Rs. 7.4 crore) per year on the platform. In the past, Apple and Google have been criticised for the high commissions charged from app developers. In a statement, Apple said the new developer programme will accelerate innovation and help small businesses and independent developers propel their businesses forward.  The move also assumes significance as Apple has been aggressively expanding its presence in India, which is home to a large developer base.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||AIBOC moots PSB suitor in place of DBS||A day after the RBI put in public domain a draft scheme of the merger of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with the subsidiary of Singapore-based DBS, public sector banks’ (PSBs’) officer union AIBOC on Wednesday said the amalgamation was not in national interest, and demanded that the merger be consummated with a PSB. The proposed merger of cash-strapped LVB with DBS Bank India seemed to be a ploy to provide entry of foreign banks into the country in a big way, All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) president Sunil Kumar said.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Danfoss to invest Rs. 100 cr. in power drives||The Indian subsidiary of Denmark-based heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) firm Danfoss is planning to invest Rs. 100 crore in expanding production of power drives at Oragadam in Chennai, said Ravichandran Purushothaman, president, Danfoss India. “We have decided to expand our current range of power drives that calls for an investment of Rs. 100 crore [from] January 2021 onwards,” he added. Danfoss started making drives at its Oragadam factory in September. These are extensively used in industries such as food and beverages, plastics, air compressors and by original equipment manufacturers of textiles.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Cipla inks licensing deal with Belgium’s MultiG for distribution of COVID-19 antibody test kit||Drug major Cipla on Wednesday said it had signed a licensing agreement with Belgium-based MultiG for distribution of their COVID-19 rapid antibody test kit, Covi-G, across most emerging markets and Europe. This agreement is part of Cipla’s efforts to enhance global access to life-saving treatments and diagnostic infrastructure for patients in need, the company said in a regulatory filing.pti
19 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Engineering exports face heat of rising steel prices: EEPC||Engineering exporters body EEPC India on Wednesday said a sharp rise in steel prices in recent months had dealt a crippling impact to exporters. “Exporters are deeply concerned... steel prices have increased from Rs. 35,000 per tonne to Rs. 42,000, in the past six months for a product like Hot Rolled Coil, an essential raw material for the engineering industry,” chairman Mahesh Desai said.
19 November 2020||LONDON,||Zverev gets past Schwartzman to stay alive||Germany’s Alexander Zverev stayed in contention at the ATP Finals as he beat Diego Schwartzman 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 in his second round-robin match on Wednesday. The 23-year-old World No. 7 knew his hopes of reaching the semifinals would be as good as over if he suffered a second loss, having been beaten by Daniil Medvedev on Monday. Just as he had done against favourite Novak Djokovic on Monday, Schwartzman got an early break of serve only to fall away in disappointing fashion as the 2018 champion Zverev broke back twice to take the opening set. Zverev looked on course for a comfortable win as he led 3-1 in the second set but appeared to lose focus. Drawing level Schwartzman grabbed his chance to win five of the next six games and extend the match into a decider which the German dominated. Meanwhile on Tuesday, reigning champion Stefanos Tsitsipas beat Russian seventh seed Andrey Rublev 6-1, 4-6, 7-6(6) to keep his chances alive. The sixth seed’s win ensured that Dominic Thiem, who had ovecome Rafael Nadal earlier in the day, became the first player to qualify for the semifinals. Tsitsipas saved a match point in the final set tie-break against Rublev before the Greek sealed his first win of the week and eliminated his opponent.  The results:   Group Tokyo 1970: 5-Alexander Zverev (Ger) bt 8-Diego Schwartzman (Arg) 6-3, 4-6, 6-3.   Group London 2020: 6-Stefanos Tsitsipas (Gre) bt 7-Andrey Rublev (Rus) 6-1, 4-6, 7-6(6).   D oubles: Group Bob Bryan: 4-Marcel Granollers (Esp) & Horacio Zeballos (Arg) bt 1-Mate Pavic (Cro) & Bruno Soares (Bra) 7-6(4), 6-7(4), [10-8].   Group Mike Bryan: 5-Wesley Koolhof (Ned) & Nikola Mektic (Cro) bt 2-Rajeev Ram (USA) & Joe Salisbury (GBr) 7-6(5), 6-0 .     Liive on Sony Ten 2 (SD & HD), 7.30 p.m. & 1.30 a.m. (Friday)
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bugatha to defend his title at Delhi Half Marathon||Srinu Bugatha will be back to defend his title as the Indian winner in the Elite men’s category at the 16th Airtel Delhi Half Marathon later this month against strong challenge from the likes of Avinash Sable and Abhishek Pal. Bugatha also won the Tata Mumbai Marathon earlier this year while Pal won the title in 2018, edging past Sable in a close finish in the final five kilometres. Sable is the current National record-holder in 3000m steeplechase and is training for Tokyo next year, having already qualified for the Games. Monika in the fray The competition among the women will be tougher with former winner Monika Athare, last year’s runner-up Parul Chaudhary, Chinta Yadav and Sanjivani Jadhav in the fray. While Parul won the Half Marathon race at the Mumbai Marathon this year with a new course record, Monika finished third. Registrations for all race categories are open till November 27 on the event website airteldelhihalfmarathon.procam.in
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Ishant starts bowling full tilt at NCA||India’s senior-most fast bowler Ishant Sharma on Wednesday bowled full tilt at the National Cricket Academy with an aim to get fit for India’s four-match Test series in Australia, starting December 17. Ishant was ruled out of the Indian Premier League after playing just one game for Delhi Capitals against Sunrisers Hyderabad as a “left internal oblique muscle tear” ended his campaign prematurely. Ishant has been at the NCA doing his extensive rehabilitation work under the watchful eyes of director Rahul Dravid and head physio Ashish Kaushik. On Wednesday, ESPNCricinfo on its twitter handle, posted a minute-long clip of the 32-year-old bowling from his full run-up. Dravid and chief selector Sunil Joshi watched Ishant bowl. He was mainly bowling single stump with NCA coaching staff like Paras Mhambrey and Mansur Khan also in attendance. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, in a recent interview to PTI , had said that they are expecting Ishant to get fit before the first Test in Adelaide. “Yes, we are expecting Ishant to be back for the Test matches. He has already started bowling from shorter run-ups and short spells. He has bowled at NCA. “But as there is a BCCI protocol for fast bowlers, Ishant will be playing the two first-class games in Australia,” Ganguly had said. Chance to emulate Kapil If Ishant manages to play three games in Australia, he will join Kapil Dev as the second Indian fast bowler to play 100 Tests. He is also three wickets shy of reaching 300 wickets, which will also be a landmark achievement even though the slowest among all speedsters who have reached that particular milestone.  We are expecting Ishant to be back for the Test matches in Australia Sourav Ganguly,BCCI president
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Mendonca earns his second GM norm||Young Indian International Master Leon Luke Mendonca won a GM chess tournament in Hungary, with a round to spare, to close in on the coveted Grandmaster title. The 14-year old from Goa triumphed in the First Saturday GM November 2020 event in Budapest on Monday to earn his second norm. He needs one more to earn the GM title. Mendonca (Elo 2516) finished with 7.5 points and clinched the title with a round to spare. He remained unbeaten and recorded victories over two GMs. He had six wins and three draws in the nine-round championship. In October, Mendonca had won the Rigochess International Chess Festival GM tournament in Hungary to earn his maiden GM norm. “I am extremely happy with my performance, having won the tournament and the norm with a round to spare,” he said from Budapest. In the opening round, Mendonca drew against higher-rated GM Plat Vojtech of the Czech Republic (Elo 2562). In the next, Mendonca beat Hungarian GM Fogarasi Tibor, which the Indian rated as his best victory in the tournament. Away from home Mendoca has been away from home for nine months, along with father Lyndon, playing events in Europe. Mendonca doesn’t seem to be in a hurry to get back to India as he is eyeing his final GM norm. He will be taking part in an invitational tournament near Budapest from November 21. “We had planned (to play) Rigo’s GMRR event but the organisers cancelled it. So, we decided to play this event (Kumania Mestervernseny). “It has been a challenge to stay in Europe and for him to compete in events. It has been difficult to plan for tournaments due to the uncertainty. But it has been rewarding one though,” said Mendonca’s father. They plan to return to India for Christmas but hope that Mendonca will become a GM soon. “We hope to be back (in India) for Christmas. But we are taking it one day at a time.” Mendonca interacts with his coach Vishnu Prasanna in Chennai on a regular basis with extended sessions on non-game days.  I am extremely happy with my performance, having won the tournament and the norm with a round to spare   Mendonca interacts with his coach Vishnu Prasanna in Chennai on a regular basis with extended sessions on non-game days
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Bumrah and Shami may be rotated||India’s premier strike bowlers Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami are unlikely to play all the upcoming six white-ball games against Australia as the team management would like to keep them ready for the four-Test series starting December 17. India is starting its two-month tour of Australia with three ODIs followed by as many T20 Internationals — to be played between November 27 to December 8 in Sydney and Canberra. According to sources in BCCI, Bumrah and Shami’s workload management is paramount for head coach Ravi Shastri and bowling coach Bharath Arun in case Ishant Sharma is not available for the first Test. The first red ball warm-up game at Drummoyne Oval will be played between December 6-8. But, India’s second and third T20Is will be coinciding with the first warm-up game for the Tests. “If both (Bumrah and Shami) play the T20 Internationals (on Dec 4, 6 and 8), then they will have one warm-up match less which I don’t think the team management will fancy at this moment,” a source said. Tye for Richardson Fast bowler Andrew Tye on Wednesday replaced Kane Richardson in Australia’s squad for the upcoming ODI and T20 series against India after the latter decided to be with his family in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
19 November 2020||PARIS,||Spain swamps Germany to qualify||Ferran Torres grabbed a hat-trick as Spain condemned Germany to its worst defeat in 89 years on Tuesday, winning 6-0 in Seville to qualify for the UEFA Nations League Finals and join France, which beat Sweden 4-2. “This has been a black day for us,” admitted coach Joachim Loew after Germany’s heaviest defeat since losing by same margin to Austria in 1931. Germany came into its final game in League A, Group 4 on top, a point clear of Spain, and only needed a draw to qualify for the Finals in October next year. But Alvaro Morata headed Spain in front in the 17th minute, Torres crashed in the second on 33 minutes and City teammate Rodri headed in to make it 3-0 before the end of a first half in which it lost Sergio Canales and skipper Sergio Ramos to injury. Germany’s defence was posted missing as Jose Gaya burst through and squared for Torres to get the fourth on 55 minutes, and Fabian Ruiz teed up the 20-year-old Torres to complete his hat-trick beforeMikel Oyarzabal completed the rout.  Important results:   League A: Group 3: Croatia 2 (Kovacic 29, 65) lost to Portugal 3 (Ruben Dias 52, 90, Joao Felix 60); France 4 (Giroud 16, 59, Pavard 36, Coman 90+5) bt Sweden 2 (Claesson 5, Quaison 88).   Group 4: Spain 6 (Morata 17, Ferran Torres 33, 55, 71, Rodri 38, Oyarzabal 89) bt Germany 0.   League D: Group 1: Malta 1 (Guillaumier 54) drew with Faroe Islands 1 (Jonsson 70); Group 2: Gibraltar 1 (Brandle 17-og) drew with Liechtenstein 1 (Frick 44) .
19 November 2020||ORLANDO,||Prajnesh enters second round||Fourth seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran defeated lucky-loser Sadio Doumbia of France 6-3, 7-5 in the first round of the $52,080 Challenger tennis tournament here on Tuesday. Prajnesh is scheduled to play Tung-Lin Wu of Chinese Taipei in the pre-quarterfinals. Seventh seed Ramkumar Ramanathan, however, lost to another lucky-loser, Nick Chappell of the USA, 6-3, 6-4. In the ITF men’s event in Egypt, Siddhant Banthia bounced back to down third seed Bogdan Bobrov of Russia 4-6, 7-6(4), 6-3. In the women’s tournament, qualifier Anna Brogan of Great Britain put it across fourth seed Rutuja Bhosale 7-6(4), 7-6(3) by in the first round.  The results:   $52,080 Challenger, Orlando: First round: Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Sadio Doumbia (Fra) 6-3, 7-5; Nick Chappell (USA) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-3, 6-4.   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh: First round: Arnaud Bovy (Bel) bt Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-3, 6-4; Siddhant Banthia bt Bogdan Bobrov (Rus) 4-6, 7-6(4), 6-3; Gauthier Onclin (Bel) bt Arjun Kadhe 6-4, 5-7, 6-4.   Doubles, pre-quarterfinals: Martin Borisiouk (Blr) & Muthu Adhitiya Senthilkumar bt Benjamin Dhoe (Bel) & Mariano Navone (Arg) 6-1, 7-6(7).   Women, first round: Anna Brogan (GBR) bt Rutuja Bhosale 7-6(4), 7-6(3) .
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘It will be tough to ignore split captaincy calls if Rohit does well’||Former Pakistan pacer Shoaib Akhtar feels Rohit Sharma leading the Indian Test team against Australia in Virat Kohli’s absence is a no-brainer, and the-much awaited series will be his “best chance” to stake claim for captaincy in one of the limited-overs formats. Calls have been growing for spilt captaincy in the Indian team since Rohit led Mumbai Indians to a fifth title in the IPL. Rohit has also led India to an Asia Cup title in Kohli’s absence. Though Ajinkya Rahane is the vice-captain on paper, Akhtar sees Rohit taking over leadership duties from Kohli following the first Test at the Adelaide Oval. The India skipper will be returning home after the series-opener to attend the birth of his first child. Speaking to PTI , Akhtar said: “My take on it is pretty simple. From what I know Virat is very keen to take the team forward. It all depends on how fatigued he is feeling. He has been playing non-stop since 2010, has got 70 centuries and a mountain of runs under his belt.” “If he is feeling fatigued, then he should think about giving the leadership role to Rohit in one of the formats (preferably T20s). “I could see the boredom on his face during the IPL, may be it was because of the bio-bubble situation, he seemed a bit stressed out. It all depends on how he feels. Rohit has been ready for captaincy for a while.” The series will also be Rohit’s first in overseas conditions as an opener and he faces a tough task in facing the likes of Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood. “Rohit is one of the greatest batsmen India has produced. Now he also understands the real value of his talent. Best chance “Australia will be his best chance to prove himself as captain. He should grab it with both hands. He has the talent and ability to lead the team. It will be a tough test for India and I would look for these kind of situations as a player. “The whole world would be looking at Rohit as captain and batsman. If he does well for himself and the team, then there should be a debate about split captaincy.”
19 November 2020||Dubai,||Qualifying process for women’s cricket event in 2022 CWG unveiled||Six highest-placed teams in the ICC rankings as on April 1 next year along with hosts England will get direct qualification to the 2022 Commonwealth Games’ women’s T20 competition, which will make its debut at the quadrennial showpiece in Birmingham. Women’s cricket will be a part of the Commonwealth Games for the first time ever when the 2022 edition gets underway in Birmingham from July 28 to August 8. The ICC and the Commonwealth Games Federation unveiled the qualification process for the event on Wednesday. “Besides England, six other highest ranked teams in the ICC Women’s T20I Rankings as of April 1 next year will also qualify directly for the eight-team tournament, which will be held in Edgbaston,” the ICC said in a statement. It will only be the second time that cricket will feature in the event after a men’s competition was part of the Games in Kuala Lumpur in 1998. The Indian women’s team is currently placed third in the ICC standings behind England. The remaining one place will be allocated to the winner of a Commonwealth Games Qualifier, the format and details of which will be announced in due course. The deadline for the Qualifier is January 31, 2022. Since athletes from the Caribbean will be representing their countries and not the West Indies (as they are affiliated with the ICC), the winner of a designated qualifying tournament will decide which country gets to compete if the West Indies get a slot, the release said.
19 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Sathiyan set to feature in Japanese League||India’s star paddler G. Sathiyan is all set to leave Chennai for Tokyo on November 23 to compete in the top division of the Japanese League. He will be representing Okayama Rivets. Ranked No. 32, the Indian will will play eight matches for his club and his first match will be on Dec. 10. Sathiyan said he will return to India on Dec. 30. “I am very excited. All the top paddlers from Japan and Korea will play. I will be the underdog and if I can pull off some big upsets, it will be really great,” Sathiyan told The Hindu here on Wednesday. The two-time Pro-tour winner said playing the senior National championships will be the top priority. “If it [Nationals] happens, I will, in all probability, play.”
19 November 2020||Hyderabad:,||Ashwa Jauhar for feature event on opening day||Ashwa Jauhar, who is well prepared, has an edge over his rivals in the Dodla Pratap Chander Reddy Memorial Million (1,100m), the main attraction of the opening day’s races of the Hyderabad Winter Season 2020-21 here on Thursday (Nov.19).  BEGINNERS PLATE (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat.III), 12.55 p.m.: 1. Mehrzad (13) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Waitoma (2) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 3. Brilliant View (17) Suraj Narredu 57, 4. Elmira (12) A.S a ndesh 57, 5. Kapell Bruke (18) Kiran Naidu 57, 6. Stepper (7) Rafique Sk 57, 7. Merry Dane (1) Gopal Singh 55.5, 8. Elegant Stroke (11) Nakhat Singh 55, 9. Four One Four (Late Safra) (14) Kuldeep Singh 55, 10. Let It Be Me (15) G. Naresh 54.5, 11. That’s My Speed (5) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 12. Twenty Twenty (8) Abhay Singh 54.5, 13. Magic Street (10) Darshan R N 54, 14. Blue Valentine (4) Surya Prakash 53, 15. Capriconia (9) Ashad Asbar 53, 16. Hip Hop (16) C.P. Bopanna 53, 17. Negress Princess (3) Jodha R S 53 and 18. Sun Dancer (6) Afroz Khan 52.5.  1. BRILLIANT VIEW, 2. ELMIRA, 3. WAITOMA   DECCAN STAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat.II), 1.30: 1. Her Legacy (12) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. Ashwa Yashobali (7) Rafique Sk 58.5, 3. Loch Stella (11) C.P. Bopanna 58, 4. Rapid Fire (10) Jitendra Singh 57.5, 5. Sitara (5) Akshay Kumar 57, 6. Beyond Limits (1) Santosh Raj N R 55.5, 7. La Mer (3) Md. Ismail 54, 8. Meritocracy (9) B.R. Kumar 54, 9. Blazer (8) P. Trevor 52.5, 10. Soul Empress (2) Gaddam 52.5, 11. Conscious Gift (6) A. Sandesh 51.5, 12. Star Gazer (13) Nakhat Singh 51.5 and 13. Dancing Doll (4) Afroz Khan 51.  1. SITARA, 2. CONSCIOUS GIFT, 3. BLAZER   GRAND ENTRY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2.05: 1. Galloping Gangster (8) Santosh Raj N R 62.5, 2. Dandy Man (2) Suraj Narredu 61.5, 3. That’s My Magic (5) Md. Ismail 61, 4. Premier Action (1) Akshay Kumar 58.5, 5. Ayur Shakti (10) Irvan Singh 57, 6. N R I Vision (9) Abhay Singh 56, 7. Ice Warrior (6) Nakhat Singh 54.5, 8. Lombardy (7) P. Trevor 52, 9. Mark My Day (3) B.R. Kumar 51 and 10. Sublime (4) Gopal Singh 50.  1. LOMBARDY, 2. DANDY MAN, 3. GALLOPING GANGSTER   DECCAN STAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2.40: 1. Asteria (1) Kiran Naidu 60, 2. City Of Blossom (6) Ashad Asbar 59, 3. Makram (Late Rahil) (13) Afroz Khan 58, 4. Strategist (10) Irvan Singh 57.5, 5. Marina Del Rey (3) G. Naresh 56.5, 6. Max (2) S.Zervan 55.5, 7. Esteva (8) Akshay Kumar 55, 8. Flamingo Fame (4) Santosh Raj N R 54, 9. Classy Guy (9) C.P. Bopanna 53, 10. Sporting Smile (5) Jitendra Singh 53, 11. Dunkirk (7) Darshan R N 52, 12. Wah Ms Zara (12) Rafique Sk. 52 and 13. Best In Show (11) Kuldeep Singh 51.  1. ESTEVA, 2. CITY OF BLOSSOM, 3. MAX   SRISAILAM PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Linewiler (18) Afroz Khan 60, 2. Aintree (16) A. Sandesh 59.5, 3. Red Snaper (4) G. Naresh 59.5, 4. Buttonwood (17) Rohit Kumar 59, 5. Angel Tesoro (1) B.R. Kumar 58, 6. Royal Romance (15) A.A. Vikrant 57, 7. Aerial Combat (13) Akshay Kumar 56.5, 8. Good Connection (9) P. Trevor 56.5, 9. Hidden Hope (2) Suraj Narredu 56.5, 10. Trump Star (10) S. Zervan 56.5, 11. Sterling King (7) Rafique Sk 53, 12. Vijays Simha (3) Kuldeep Singh 53, 13. Prime Gardenia (14) Abhay Singh 52.5, 14. Surseine (5) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 15. Fleur (12) Surya Prakash 51.5, 16. Forever Bond (6) Ajeeth Kumar 51, 17. Break The Ice (8) Jitendra Singh 50.5 and 18. Royal Valentine (11) Nakhat Singh 50.5.  1. GOOD CONNECTION, 2. AINTREE, 3. HIDDEN HOPE   DODLA PRATAP CHANDER REDDY MEMORIAL MILLION (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden 2-y-o only, 3.50: 1. Akido (1) Nakhat Singh 56, 2. Ashwa Jauhar (5) Suraj Narredu 56, 3. Costello (3) S. Zervan 56, 4. Greek’s Ace (11) Ashad Asbar 56, 5. Horse O’ War (9) Gaurav Singh 56, 6. Jarvis (10) P. Trevor 56, 7. Quality Warrior (6) A.Sandesh 56, 8. Bold Bidding (8) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 9. Born To Be (4) A.A.Vikrant 54.5, 10. Galwan (2) Irvan Singh 54.5 and 11. N R I Style (7) Darshan R N 54.5.  1. ASHWA JAUHAR, 2. JARVIS, 3. QUALITY WARRIOR .  GRAND ENTRY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 4.25: 1. Artistry (8) Gaurav Singh 62.5, 2. Egyptian Prince (3) Surya Prakash 61.5, 3. Guiding Force (1) Kiran Naidu 61.5, 4. British Empress (4) Rohit Kumar 60, 5. Big Brave (11) Gopal Singh 57, 6. Lockhart (10) Ajeeth Kumar 57, 7. Rhythm Selection (Late No Compromise) (5) Ashad Asbar 56.5, 8. Star Of Tiara (7) A.Sandesh 54, 9. Mr. Shanghai (6) Darshan R N 53.5, 10. Ashwa Bravo (9) Suraj Narredu 53 and 11. Mind Reader (2) B.R. Kumar 52.5.  1. ASHWA BRAVO, 2. GUIDING FORCE, 3 ARTISTRY   OWN OPINION PLATE (1,200m), Maiden 3-y-o and upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Unstoppable (14) Deepak Singh 60, 2. Amyra (17) P. Trevor 59, 3. Belle Springs (2) A. Sandesh 59, 4. Just Incredible (5) Darshan R N 58.5, 5. Machismo (Late Rathasapthami) (18) Gaurav Singh 58, 6. Beautiful Luv (3) Ashad Asbar 57.5, 7. Fashion Universe (6) Akshay Kumar 57.5, 8. Always Success (4) Kuldeep Singh 57, 9. That’s My Star (8) Md. Ismail 57, 10. Xfinity (16) Afroz Khan 57, 11. Africanus (7) S. Zervan 55.5, 12. Due Diligence (1) Neeraj 55.5, 13. Melting Ice (9) Nakhat Singh 55.5, 14. Millennia (15) Ajit Singh 55.5, 15. Misty River (13) Irvan Singh 55.5, 16. Star Of Fashion (11) C.P. Bopanna 55.5, 17. Moringa (12) Ajeeth Kumar 55 and 18. Turf Winner (10) G. Naresh 55.  1. FASHION UNIVERSE, 2. BELLE SPRINGS, 3. AMYRA  Day’s Best: LOMBARDY  Double: GOOD CONNECTION — ASHWA BRAVO  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8. Mini jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (iii) 6, 7 & 8. Tanala: All races.
19 November 2020||London,||India’s England series could have spectators||A five-match Test series against India will headline England’s bumper home summer in 2021 as the country’s cricket board on Wednesday unveiled a provisional fixture with plans to get crowds back into the stadiums. The matches against India are scheduled for August-September. Earlier this year, England hosted Pakistan and the West Indies in twin Test series behind closed doors due to the raging COVID-19 pandemic, before welcoming Australia for a series of limited-over matches. However, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) now seems eager to stage the return of fans into the playing arena from the next season onwards depending on the COVID-19 situation. During their last tour in 2018, Virat Kohli-led India lost the Test series 1-4.   India’s provisional schedule for 2021 Test series: Aug. 4-8: 1st Test at Trent Bridge, August 12-16: 2nd at Lord’s, Aug. 25-29: 3rd at Headingley, Sept. 2-6: 4th at the Oval, Sept. 10-14: 5th at Old Trafford .
19 November 2020||Sydney,||Saha back at nets, on road to recovery||Veteran wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha was back at the Indian team nets here on Wednesday, showing signs of recovery from a hamstring injury with four weeks left for the Test series opener.  On Wednesday, Saha was seen facing throwdowns at the nets from the Sri Lankan left-arm specialist Nuwan Seneviratne and Indian right-arm bowler Dayananda Garani. He didn’t keep wickets and the extent of recovery couldn’t be ascertained from the video uploaded by BCCI in the social media. Fast bowler Andrew Tye on Wednesday replaced Kane Richardson in Australia’s squad for the upcoming ODI and T20 series against India after the latter decided to be with his family in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
19 November 2020||Karachi,||PCB chief Ehsan Mani confident of hosting more international teams||Pakistan Cricket Board chairman Ehsan Mani believes the successful and event-free conduct of Pakistan Super League 5 has enhanced the image of the country and exuded confidence of hosting more international teams next year. Mani, who was brought in by Prime Minister Imran Khan to set things in order in Pakistan cricket, said he was happy to have fulfilled his commitment of hosting the entire PSL this year at home. “I reiterated this when the event was suspended prior to the play-off stage, and despite several challenges, uncertainties and doubts, I am delighted that the PCB has fulfilled another commitment and promise to the loyal and passionate Pakistan cricket fans and supporters,” he said after the summit clash on Tuesday night. “With the COVID-19 situation being an evolving one, the PCB will continue to monitor and work with the authorities to explore ways of allowing fans to attend matches when international cricket and Pakistan Super League matches are held in 2021. “We look forward to hosting South Africa under the Future Tours Programme agreement in January/February 2021 and leading international cricketers will also return to feature in the Pakistan Super League 2021, which will be played at the back of the home series against South Africa.”
19 November 2020||Melbourne,||Watson slams BBL’s rule changes||Former Australia all-rounder Shane Watson has lashed out at his country’s cricket board for introducing new rules in the upcoming Big Bash League, calling them “gimmicks” and “misguided attempts” to revitalise the T20 event. The country’s cricket board has decided to introduce three new rules — Power Surge, X Factor Player and the Bash Boost — in the 10th edition of the BBL which is set to begin on December 10. Misguided attempt “I read today that the BBL is introducing these new gimmicks, such as the Power Surge, the X Factor Player and the Bash Boost in a misguided attempt to reinvigorate the tournament,” Watson wrote in a blog post on his T20 website. “I just can’t seem to get my head around why there are people out there who are trying to reinvent the wheel when the wheel was not broken.” Power Surge allows the batting team to call for a two-over PowerPlay at any point from the 11th over, while shortening the usual six over PowerPlay to four overs at the beginning of the innings. The X Factor player, on the other hand, is an option of calling in a substitute player — named as either the 12th or 13th player — who can replace a batsman or a bowler after the 10th over of the first innings. Points system altered The points system has also been altered with three points awarded for a win and one bonus point (Bash Boost) will be on offer for the chasing team if they are ahead of their rivals’ 10-over score. Watson, who retired from all forms of cricket during the 13th IPL earlier this month, said the changes will make the game more complex. Watson played 59 Tests, 190 ODIs and 58 T20Is, scoring 10,950 runs and taking 291 wickets for Australia.
19 November 2020||London,||Hurst supports ban on children heading ball||England's 1966 World Cup hat-trick hero Geoff Hurst says children should be banned from heading the ball due to so many of his generation suffering from dementia. Several of Hurst's 1966 team-mates have been diagnosed with dementia, the most recent Bobby Charlton. Another sufferer, Nobby Stiles, died last month. Charlton's brother Jack, Ray Wilson and Martin Peters — the other England goalscorer in the 4-2 win over the then West Germany in the final — were also diagnosed with it and have died in the last three years. Hurst is one of only four members of the side still alive — Bobby Charlton, George Cohen and Roger Hunt being the others. Research has shown ex-footballers are three-and-a-half times more likely to die of dementia than the general population. “There seems to be a particular group of people who were suffering,” Hurst told the Daily Mirror on Wednesday. “I go back to my practice days at West Ham, we had a ball hanging from the ceiling, we would head it for 20 minutes. “Then we'd play head tennis in the gym and, in the practice on the field, we'd be practising near-post, far-post headers, and you could head 20 or 30 balls in the space of half an hour.” The 78-year-old West Ham great said banning children from heading the ball would be a good thing as their brains are not yet fully developed. “It would be a very strong and sensible suggestion,” he said. “I think stopping at that young age, when the brain has not matured, must be looked at. “I don't think it would destroy the enjoyment of kids' football or grassroots football.”
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Protecting the good||Lord Krishna says in the Gita that He comes to protect the good, kill the wicked and to establish dharma. Dharma is never destroyed totally. But it is sometimes threatened, when evil people gain the upper hand, and torment the virtuous. At such times, He comes to the rescue of the good. The main purpose of His avataras is to save the good, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. To accomplish this, naturally He must kill the evil ones, and automatically dharma again regains supremacy. That is why He talks of protecting the good first, before He talks of killing undesirable people and re-establishing dharma. There are four types of people who seek Him, Krishna says. They are as follows: those who have lost their wealth and want to regain it; those who are looking to acquire wealth; those who want to experience the self, and those who surrender to Him, for they seek nothing but the Lord Himself. The last category are jnanis, and Krishna says they are very dear to Him. He says that although all His devotees are important to Him, it is the jnanis who rank the highest. Protecting such people becomes imperative, when they are threatened, and hence the Lord takes avataras. When He begins the task of protecting the good, those who are ill disposed towards the good are naturally destroyed, just as flourishing rice crops crush emerging weeds and prevent them from spreading. There is a sloka that says that when Rama was born as the son of Dasaratha, the Vedas too arrived, through the words of sage Prachetasa (Valmiki). In other words, through Valmiki, the Vedas appeared as the Ramayana. Equally, it can be said that when the Lord took birth as Krishna, the Vedas appeared as the Vishnu Purana, and as Srimad Bhagavatam.
19 November 2020||Karachi,||England to tour Pakistan after 16 years||England will make its first trip to Pakistan in 16 years for a two-match T20I series next October as part of a reciprocal agreement reached between the two cricket boards. The two games, to be held in Karachi on October 14 and 15, will form part of the 2021 T20 World Cup build-up. Both the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) and its counterparts from Pakistan on Wednesday confirmed that the tour will take place just before the mega-event in India.
19 November 2020||Montevideo,||Brazil beats Uruguay||First-half goals from Arthur and Richarlison helped Brazil to a 2-0 win over Uruguay, which had Manchester United striker Edinson Cavani sent off in their 2022 World Cup qualifier on Tuesday. Five-time world champion Brazil was fortunate to be two goals up at half-time after Uruguay had hit the woodwork twice at either end of the half. The victory left Brazil is on top of South America’s qualifying standings with 12 points. with four wins from four games. Uruguay has six from four matches. The win also extended Brazil’s long reign of dominance over La Celeste, who have not beaten their fierce rivals since 2001.  Cavani’s sending off with 20 minutes to go capped a miserable night for his side, despite having the better of things for much of the first half. Chilean referee Roberto Tobar showed him a yellow card after his lunge caught Richarlison on the ankle. But after a VAR check, that changed it to red, leaving Cavani incredulous; he left the pitch reluctantly.  The results:   At Montevideo: Uruguay 0 lost to Brazil 2 (Arthur 33, Richarlison 45).   At Quito: Ecuador 6 (Arboleda 7, Mena Delgado 9, Estrada Martinez 32, Arreaga 39, Plata 78, Estupinan 90+1) bt Colombia 1 (Rodriguez 45+1-pen).   At Caracas: Venezuela 2 (Mago 9, Rondon 81) bt Chile 1 (Vidal 15).   At Asuncion: Paraguay 2 (A. Romero 19-pen, Kaku 72) drew with Bolivia 2 (Moreno 41, B. Cespedes 45).   At Lima: Peru 0 lost to Argentina 2 (Gonzalez 17, Martinez 28) .
19 November 2020||London,||Alvaez to face Smith on Dec. 19||Canelo Alvarez will return to the ring in a super middleweight title fight against Callum Smith on December 19 in the United States, the boxers announced on Wednesday. Smith’s WBA super middleweight belt will be on the line when he faces one of boxing’s most popular fighters. The location has not been announced. Neither man has fought since last November, when Alvarez (53-1-2) stopped Sergey Kovalev in 11 rounds to take the WBO light heavyweight belt. Smith (27-0) won a unanimous decision over John Ryder in his hometown of Liverpool. “I’ve been wanting a big fight since becoming world champion,” the 30-year-old Smith said in a statement, “so I’m pleased that during these challenging times we can deliver to the fans a fight between the very best in the division. “I truly believe I will beat him and will prove that 168 lbs. is my division.” The 30-year-old Alvarez, whose only loss was to Floyd Mayweather Jr. in 2013, wrote on his Instagram account that he’s “ready more than ever.” “The wait has been long but I promise it will be worth it,” the Mexican fighter wrote.
19 November 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Anisha, Pratyushraj win||Third seed Anisha Sivakumar beat second seed Anya Gupta 6-0, 6-3 in the girls’ final of the AITA talent series junior tennis tournament at the DLTA Complex on Wednesday. In the boys’ final, top seed Pratyushraj Goel bounced back from a slow start to outplay third seed Aarav Chawla 4-6, 6-0, 6-1. Tournament director Richa Bakshi presented the prizes. She announced that the tournament scheduled next week, the AITA Championship series under-16 event for boys and girls was being cancelled owing to the Delhi government’s revised stand on the COVID-19 situation in the Capital.  The results (finals): Under-14: Boys: Pratyushraj Goel bt Aarav Chawla 4-6, 6-0, 6-1.   Girls: Anisha Sivakumar bt Anya Gupta 6-0, 6-3 .    Satyam Sagu’s century and Tusya Kumar’s four wicket haul helped TN Memorial down RCC Academy by 137 runs in the B.R. Sharma memorial cricket tournament.  The scores:   TN Memorial 307/8 in 20 overs (Satyam Sagu 113, Puneet Chahal 52, Amey Singh 43, Vaibhav Sood 3/36, Ishan Beniwal 2/56) bt RCC Academy 170 in 32.1 overs (Vaibhav Sood 89, Ishan Beniwal 36, Tusya Kumar 4/8, Akib Khan 3/25).    Three wickets each by Mayank Malhotra and Kartik Shaukeen saw Players Academy beat Mount Club by nine wickets in the Shanti Devi memorial cricket tournament.  The scores: Mount Club 99 in 31.2 overs (Mayank Malhotra 3/18, Kartik Shaukeen 3/29) lost to Players Academy 100/1 in 21.4 overs (Yajas Sharma 45 n.o., Vedansh Siotia 36) .      Opener Parvesh Dahiya struck an unbeaten 112 while Ankit Redhu (4/46) and Yogesh Sharma (3/34) were among the wickets as Om Shri Sai Cricket Academy beat Rajpura Academy by 32 runs to enter the quarterfinals of the Ganaur Premier League.  The scores:   OSS Academy 205/4 in 40 overs (Parvesh Dahiya 112 n.o., Lakshay Thareja 40) bt Rajpura Academy 173/9 in 40 overs (Tej Preet Singh 45 n.o., Ankit Redhu 4/46, Yogesh Sharma 3/34).    An unbeaten 51 by Tanuj Dagar saw Moh Maya Club overhaul an easy 97-run target by nine wickets against CAF in the Unique Cup T20 tournament.  The scores:   CAF 96/8 in 20 overs (Anukul Singh 3/12) lost to MMC 97/1 in 12 overs (Tanuj Dagar 51 n.o., Archit Malik 26 n.o.).    Man-of-the-match Vansh Bedi scored an unbeaten 105, Arnav Dhawan made 53 not out and Rishi Rawat claimed five wickets as Udaybhan Academy thumped Sant Kabir Academy by 10 wickets in the third Vicky Bandrey memorial under-16 cricket tournament.  The scores: SKA 173 in 40 overs (Akash Yadav 40, Rishi Rawat 5/21, Rushal Saini 3/46) lost to Udaybhan Academy 174 for no loss in 21.4 overs (Vansh Bedi 105 n.o., Arnav Dhawan 53 n.o.) .    Top seeds Aditya Chauhan and Harleen Kaur Dhanda won the boys and girls titles in the AITA Championship series under-16 tennis tournament at Chandigarh, on Wednesday.  The results (finals):   Boys: Aditya Chauhan bt Aarush Sharma 6-1, 6-2; Girls: Harleen Kaur Dhanda bt Radhika Vasudeva 6-4, 6-1 .
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 07:42 IST,||Sudoku - November 19, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Thriving in a crowd||The canopy of trees at Therku Veedhi, in Srirangam, just about hides the concrete jungle that it has been fitted into. The strongest of the 10,000 saplings of 53 native tree species that were planted here on December 20, 2019, have grown into a forest where birdsong punctuates the sibilance. The ‘Nandavanam’ project, carried out in collaboration with the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple, is one of several urban ‘green islands’ that have been initiated in Srirangam, Samayapuram and Lalgudi by the Tiruchirappalli City Municipal Corporation, using the Miyawaki afforestation method recently. “The standard method of planting individual saplings in public areas is problematic in an urban setting. We had to contend with disturbed underground drainage, bad soil quality and overhanging electricity lines, while preparing the area for plantation. That’s when my brother, a horticulturist, suggested that we consider planting trees in a group rather than individually,” says S Vaidhyanathan, former Assistant Commissioner, Srirangam Zone, who initiated the project last year. In Chennai, the Greater Chennai Corporation plans to develop at least 10 urban forests by the end of the year, in the capital’s south region. “Our first project in Kotturpuram, is on a site that was getting repeatedly misused as a dumping ground. The forest that has grown there since we planted saplings on January 25, has transformed the area with its greenery,” says Alby John Varghese, Greater Chennai Corporation’s Regional Deputy Commissioner (South). The Inner Wheel women’s voluntary organisation also recently inaugurated a Miyawaki forest project at the Secretariat Gardens in Chennai. “This year, the theme of our club is ‘Nurture the Nature’. With cities becoming very polluted, we felt Chennai needed this,” says Meera Jagdish, vice president, Inner Wheel Club of Madras. The ranks of green cover advocates who follow the Miyawaki technique — a method of sowing very young seedlings close together in small plots of land, to create a forest within 25-30 years — are growing by the day. Named after the Japanese botanist and academic Akiro Miyawaki, the method has found favour among those who want to restore vegetation on degraded land within a short term. Some of the enthusiasm may also be partly due to the fact that India is party to the pledge in 2015 made to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCC) to restore the green cover of 33% of its geographical area by 2022 (only 24% is reportedly covered at present). Taking root Over the past few years, Miyawaki forest projects have been literally springing up all over the country, thanks to Municipal authorities and environmentalists who seemed to have found their métier in this method. The Telangana State Government is experimenting with a version of Miyawaki through the ‘Yadadri’ method of dense plantation with no definite spacing between the saplings, which has shown good results in Warangal. In Tamil Nadu, green warriors are trying to evolve a backyard forest model that will be an income generator for small-scale farmers while rejuvenating local ecology. “A natural forest takes 100 years to grow. But in the Miyawaki method, where plants compete for sunlight, and therefore tend to grow upwards faster than sideways, we get the same result in around 20-25 years. It will be a reasonably grown forest within 5-10 years, so it is possible for us to see them take shape in our lifetime,” says M R Hari, managing director, Invis Multimedia, Thiruvananthapuram. A firm proponent of the idea, Hari has been part of several Miyawaki projects in Kerala in collaboration with Nature’s Green Guardians Foundation (NGGF), an NGO. The most recent of these has been a drive to create 22 micro-forests in tourist destinations in 12 districts of the State, with two micro-forests each planned in 10 districts while one each is being planned in Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta. Last year, Hari travelled to Japan, mainly he says, to see how these forests fare after 30-40 years. “I visited the Miyawaki forest in Yokohoma that had been planted in 1970, which means it was over 50 years old. I became convinced that this would work for us in India too,” he says. A personal interaction with Professor Miyawaki led to the initiation of a mini forest on a 400 square metre plot in the Government Higher Secondary School in Chalai, Thiruvananthapuram, under the guidance of scientists Elgene O Box (Geography Department, University of Georgia, Athens, USA) and Kazue Fujiwara (Emeritus Professor of Yokohama National University). “We launched the project on January 29 this year to celebrate Professor Miyawaki’s 93rd birthday,” says Hari. Conditional sustainability Despite the high success rate, many ecologists have reservations about its sustainability in Indian climes. Says author and conservationist Pradip Krishen, “I have seen no pictures of Miyawaki plantations in India that look anything more than tennis-courts filled with dense stands of plants, all competing for light and therefore growing very fast. Even if they plant native species inside Miyawaki plots, it bears little resemblance to properly restored forests, especially in dry, deciduous forests which exist in most parts of this country.” Besides being a concept more suited to a temperate region with dense coniferous stands, Miyawaki afforestation has other hurdles that make it unsustainable in India, says Krishen, who served as the park director of Rao Jodha Desert Rock Park in Jodhpur until March this year, and has been restoring degraded desert habitats since 2006. For public good The Miyawaki method is not ideal for those looking to grow trees for timber or fruit within a short period. “Miyawaki afforestation should be carried out on public land so that it is beneficial to everyone. We avoid planting trees with commercial value,” says Anand Panimaya, a veterinarian-turned-IT professional and organic farmer who initiated a micro-forest project on land belonging to a temple in Kumbakonam in 2018. Panimaya prefers the forests to be impenetrable, to preserve their natural wealth. “You can go around our green island, but not into it. There’s a mini ecosystem that starts forming in the Miyawaki forest. The leaves start falling, and when they decay, they form the humus which develops the growth of other living things like insects and small reptiles,” he says. Besides using such plots for educational tourism, paths around the forests could also help create a healthier lifestyle. “Regular exposure to forest-type environments improves health parameters like blood pressure and heartbeat. It has been scientifically proven that when you have green spaces, automatically your mood and spiritual health improves, and even the rate of crime decreases,” says Panimaya. As for the ongoing debate about its efficacy, Panimaya says, “There is no one right way of doing a Miyawaki forest. As long as you are caring for the forest as an ongoing effort, it is a good way to increase the green cover.” Praising the interest and awareness created among students and institutions by the plantation drives, Varghese says, “For the first time, we are seeing people coming together and celebrating trees.” He adds, “Methods used may not be exactly the same, but it is wonderful to see the community spirit fostered by the activity of planting saplings that will grow into a forest one day.”
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Flight mode on||Earlier this year, when the country went into lockdown and commercial flights were grounded, those stranded away from home resorted to private jets, often pooling resources to afford the cost. Flight paths have changed steadily since then as the beleaguered travel industry found ways to repackage what was once an unaffordable luxury for most travellers. Sachit Wadhwa of Mumbai-based Book My Charters that offers private jets, helicopters and yacht says his four-year old company recorded a 60% surge in clients this year. “One of the contributing factors has been first time flyers,” he says. “There were also those waiting to commute in a medical emergency, executives who had to urgently travel on business, and clients flying to their vacation homes.” Though domestic commercial flights resumed in May, Wadhwa says his business started picking up from June. “With the pandemic, safety has become the first priority for most flyers. They do not want to sit with strangers. Only 25% want meals on board, the rest prefer sealed food like chips and cookies. There is still a bit of paranoia,” he explains. What started off primarily with emergency and repatriation flights now sees leisure travel too. “Within India, Goa is where people are flying to, considering it does not require an e-pass. Some of the countries such as the UAE, the UK and Maldives, with which India has travel bubbles, are also seeing a lot of traffic,” says Kanika Tekriwal who started JetSetGo in Delhi in 2014. Her fleet has 28 aircraft; she now gets four to five clients per week opting to fly to these destinations. These can average at around Rs. 5.5 lakh. Wadhwa observes that the current work from home situation has given rise to a new trend: burnout holidays. “With work from home and extended hours, I don’t see a difference in holiday or non-holiday season. We have clients who tell us that they are so tired with working seven days a week that they just quickly take off for two to three days to Male, Goa, Dehradun or even Port Blair,” he says. Another trend he notices is that people now prefer spending more time at one destination. So, the private jet drops them off and then flies back to pick them up seven days later. While Wadhwa’s fleet of 20 aircraft draws a mix of travellers, Chennai-based King Jets’s clients, mostly, are serious business fliers. As of now their solo Gulfstream G-150 aircraft is occupied around five days a week, shuttling between Chennai and Mumbai, Delhi, Coimbatore, Bengaluru. “Some of them also bring their families on board,” says Sunilkumar of King Jets, which started operations in 2015. Tekriwal, on the other hand, says she has seen a sharp drop in her business clients. Earlier, we averaged at 35-36 bookings per day. Now we are doing 12 bookings a day,” she says. But she did see an increase in requests for leisure travel after the restrictions eased. “The surge in leisure trip requests grew by almost 70%,” she says. She also saw many one-way flight bookings; these were mostly people shifting their bases temporarily for a month or two as they continued working from home. “Earlier the margins were much higher. Now we are investing so much in safety and sanitisation but we are selling at the same cost. It is a price-sensitive customer.” The cost varies depending on the type of aircraft and number of engines it has. The general charter range starts at about Rs. 70,000 per hour for an eight-seater plane and can go up to six to seven lakhs for expensive models like Global 6000, Gulfstream G550, Falcon 8X. “The perception of luxury associated with private jets is slowly changing. Now, people are looking at booking a jet for weddings so a group of 20 can travel together to a destination,” says Wadhwa. “There were a lot of conservative rich in the country who were not ready to spend on things like charter flights but now we are seeing a surge,” he adds. While the pricing may be a deterrent for many, operators believe that the advantages of flying in a charter aircraft are compelling. Services are available in almost 200 cities across India and these jets also fly to cities and towns that have limited connectivity. Some of them have no airports but only airstrips with no commercial flights. For example cities like Dhule and Baramati and districts such as Umaria. Flights are direct without layovers and clients can enjoy privacy. Since the jet is booked by a client they can decide when they want to fly. “For a business traveller who wants to fly in and out of a meeting, he no longer has to wait for a flight nor rush his meeting to catch a commercial flight,” says Sunilkumar. “And the flyer can head to the flight just 15 minutes before take off... They have separate gates dedicated to them.” Tekriwal says people are now appreciating the importance of private aviation in the country. In September 2020, Delhi got its first General Aviation Terminal Facility for private jets. “Earlier, it used to take a car 20 minutes to get to the plane from the gate. But now it takes just five minutes,” she says. All the charter companies say most clients are from Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. These include entrepreneurs, the start-up community as well as young holidaymakers who together charter an aircraft with family and friends, and split the cost. As Sunilkumar says, “With private jets almost getting into a character similar to that of cabs, this is how travelling will be in the new normal.”  Pretty fly Around the world, resorts, retreats and estates are tying up with air charter companies to fly in guests for daycations and getaways. This includes anything from an eight course meal to a 10-day safari.  Other than charter, there are a few companies that also lease out aircraft. In such a case one can customise the aircraft and even have their logo on the cutlery on board.  Flying private saves time as one can escape the arrive two hours before departure rule that commercial flights require.  Most private jets have their own separate gates and terminals.  It’s your space and you do not have to share it with unknown people.  A lot of remote locations are accessible.  Reduced touch points
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A matter of perception||Sathya NJ chanced upon a video of Nasser — who was sporting a bushy beard — attending the Tamil Film Producers Council meet earlier this year. The actor’s unkempt beard caught Sathya’s attention and he began to visualise Nasser in a vintage, western look. In actor-comedian Vivekh’s case, it was his salt and pepper makeover that impressed Sathya, who saw him through a different lens, as a uber-cool gangster. Both cases resulted in a viral photoshoot, with the actors posing for his concept designs. The ‘what if’ triggered an idea. Sathya began reimagining Tamil film personalities as a lockdown activity, now he intends to continue the project as a series. This formed the base for his designs, though he admits that he has been grinding the same batter. “It is not that the designs are exceptional. The innovation lies in the thinking and I had a gut feeling this would work and it did,” says Sathya over phone from Chennai, a day before the shoot of Ravana Kottam , in which he plays a supporting character. Sathya says he wanted to break the perception audiences have about actors, known for playing supporting characters. The intent is to bring these less-spoken-about artistes to the fore, and give them a different dimension. For instance, comedian Manobala, who audiences usually see in plain, formal clothes. Sathya saw him in a different shade, in a yellow jacket with a white T-shirt and jeans, in a yellow background. The designer admits that it was difficult to sell his idea to celebrities, who, he says, were outright uninterested at first. He had to follow-up on senior actors such as Nasser and Vivekh for weeks, sometimes, months, to get their approval. “Nasser sir was hesitant till the last moment. However, when he saw the first photo of himself in the costume, he got excited. In fact, he called me after the shoot and said, ‘If you aren’t satisfied with the work, I don’t mind dropping in for a reshoot’.” Turning the spotlight on Sathya got a similar response from Vivekh. This photoshoot was such a hit on Twitter, with over 23k likes, that people compared the actor’s style statement to stars Ajith Kumar and Vikram (from Dhruva Natchathiram ). Vivekh finally posted a tweet, asking fans not to compare and respect individuality. “Vivekh sir gifted a Tommy Hilfiger watch after the shoot, and said that he has been getting offers to play a hero,” says Sathya. He states that his intention is not to style actors in the limelight. “Some of the heroines asked me to style them. But I don’t want to compromise on that front. That’s not my plan. I would prefer styling someone like Seetha ma’am [actor], who we have approached,” he says. Actors Mansoor Ali Khan, Karunas and his wife Grace, choreographer Sandy, television personality Gobinath and Bigil girl Indraja Shankar are a few others he has styled so far. He adds that the goal is to style 100 celebrities. “Directors, too, are beginning to think of actors in a different light. That’s success, according to me,” he says.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The dolphins of Kovalam and other stories||Over a hundred dolphins swimming alongside each other in clear blue waters. And a few whales too. It was a lucky day for Kovalam-based Hanif Mohammed Q and guests on his boat. “It’s another world out there,” says Hanif, recalling the sight. An interior designer, Hanif has been fishing out of passion for 15 years, and owns two boats. He knows the wonders of the sea first-hand, and wants to share it with others. “I take people on small trips into the sea,” says the 40-year-old, adding that from July to August, and February to March, guests can witness the migration of dolphins. “I want to encourage parents to show children the outdoors; to let them experience Nature at its best,” he adds. “They can learn about the sea, among a lot of other things,” he says, adding how once, his guests released turtles caught in a fishing net. He is now in the process of setting up his company, called South Fin for leisure trips, as well as finalising essentials such as changing rooms and toilets. “We will launch in 10 days or so,” he says. Hanif has launched yet another recent venture: Fresh Fins, an initiative that lets people from Chennai order fresh fish online. “My intention is to help small boat fishermen make a better living,” he says. With less financial support from the Government and no access to facilities to store their catch, these fishermen often end up selling to middle-men for a pittance. “I want to take their catch directly to customers,” he explains. Right now, he sells catch from over 45 boats from Kanyakumari to Ennore and 90% of his team, right from call-centre executives to delivery persons, are from Kovalam. “There are 40 people in my team right now, and we deliver as far as Mogappair and Anna Nagar West,” he says. Apart from eliminating middlemen and ensuring small boat fishermen get a good price for their catch, Hanif wants to familiarise people with seasonal fish and promote sustainable fishing. “Customers should get used to the idea of eating what is local and seasonal,” he says. “This way, they will be able to enjoy a wide range as opposed to the usual vanjiram that big boats bring from as far as Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.”  For details, visit freshfins.in. To know more about the fishing trips — prices depend on the distance and number of people — call 9696089696.     In season Anchovy  Indian whiting  Indian mackerel  Japanese threadfin bream  Sea bass  Croaker  Grouper
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Dollars in the stream||Remember the last time you held a concert ticket in your hands and showed it off on social media? The pandemic has robbed us of that excitement, but UK-based mobile ticketing platform DICE is here to alleviate the sadness. Founded in 2014, DICE is a plaform that allows one to discover and attend live events. The company has previously worked with Kanye West, Charlie XCX, A$AP Rocky and Billie Eilish among others. DICE launched in India last month; its founder-CEO Phil Hutcheon says, over video call from the UK, “We see a great amount of interest internationally for Indian musicians, and we want to tap into an important market that is also diverse. Last year, we launched in the United States and we saw a lot of traction. In a way, that readied us for more expansion.” He points out that his company has been working to create ambient productions to mimic a concert environment. “We are committed to recreating high-end production value, and this will also keep the artiste motivated and the audiences motivated because they are, after all, spending money on that ticket to enjoy the concert,” he explains, adding that ticket prices are in the artiste’s location currency. Livestreams from India have kicked off: Raghav Meattle performed on November 15 along with Rahul Shah, Sooraj and Niyati Mehta. On December 3, Anushka Manchanda aka NUKA will be hosting a concert, and December 12 will usher in virtual festival RetroFuture 2.0. DICE claims that more than 4,000 virtual concerts have taken place globally via the platform since April 2020.  Arnav Banerjee, DICE’s India head, says the pandemic made musicians resort to social media live performances “where little to no money is made”. “DICE helps them to turn a profit and also feel enthused during a time of no concerts,” he remarks, adding that the company would also round up venues from where the livestreams would take place. “It is a wonderful way to create jobs in these difficult times. Concert production houses have taken a hit during the pandemic, so we have to help adapt to that.” India’s diverse market also presents DICE with opportunities to tap into genres like Carnatic and Classical, something Arnav notes “is in the pipeline”, before adding, “These genres always generate a lot of local and international interest. Right now, we are focussing on taking Indian musicians in a phased manner.” The company also has a strict anti-scalping policy — meaning, there is no second-hand selling of tickets. If a customer is unable to attend a concert, the ticket is merely transferred to another customer at the same price with no mark-up. “We wanted the space to be as democratic as possible and that system has earned us a lot of trust in the music industry,” Phil explains. DICE’s app has a clean UX (user experience) relaying emphasis on the events. Its algorithm has the option to sync with Spotify or Apple Music library, so that DICE can recommend concerts and festivals for you. So, how does DICE make a profit? “We have fees, a set commission that is typically 10%, but this can vary. The big difference with DICE is that fans see the full price upfront so there are no nasty surprises at the end, and we work hard to keep the price fair for the fans,” Phil adds.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The road to discovery||Is it a car? Is it a home? Is it a studio? It is all of those rolled into one, and is called the Road Ashram. The modified car called Road Ashram has been a dependable companion to Siddhartha Dutta, Neha Chaturvedi and Ahmer Siddiqui, who started on a journey together on October 4 from Delhi. Since then, the three-member team has been on the road, covering the entire Northeastern belt, Bihar, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, raising awareness and money for COVID-19 relief. They were recently in Chennai for a day en route to Puducherry and Kanyakumari. Along the way, they witnessed and documented stirring stories. “This is a crucial time in history. The pandemic is not just a health crisis in India; it is humanitarian crisis as well,” says Mumbai-based Siddhartha, who calls himself the navigator and trivia machine of the group. The trip was the result of conversations between him and his long-time friend Ahmer, both of whom work in the non-profit sector. “During the lockdown, we were privileged enough to be in the comfort of our homes. But when we kept seeing photos of migrants walking long distances to reach their homes, it troubled us.” The two decided to do something about it. Roping in filmmaker Neha Chaturvedi from Agra, they embarked on a journey across the country’s borders, documenting tales of people whose livelihoods have been hit. Along the way, they also met several like-minded people and changemakers. They plan to cover 25,000 kilometres and 30 states during this trip, which is likely to conclude by mid-December. “We plan to put all the stories we chronicle as a documentary, so that future generations will know about these times,” says Ahmer, who is in charge of the wheel and drives about 10 hours every day. In a village near Forbesganj in Bihar that is known for pottery, they met a man who went without food for several days. In Walong in Arunachal Pradesh, they met someone who had to travel 50 kilometres to make a phone call. “Ironically, all this is happening in a country that is talking about online classes,” says Siddhartha. While Siddhartha and Ahmer have personally financed the entire trip, they do have a lot of help at hand. They are often invited by well-wishers to stay with them, thanks to their posts on social media. Sometimes, the State Governments help; in Tripura, the three were put up in a Government guest house. Their sole companion is what they describe as the road ashram. For the current Tamil Nadu leg of the trip, Ahmer is extra cheerful; his 12-year-old son Arsh has just joined them. “Education is not just about schools and grades. He needs to see the world, too.”  For details, log on to www.roadashram.in
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Brothers in arms||If the relentless Maara (played by Suriya) and a fiesty Bommi (Aparna Balamurali) have been the talk of the town for the past week, courtesy Soorarai Pottru , Maara’s dependable accomplice Captain Chaitanya Rao aka Che, too, has been turning heads. Is it the character’s cocky demeanour, the uniform, the crew cut or the actor that is responsible? It is hard to say. Perhaps, it is a combination of them all. Judging by the reaction on Instagram, Krishnakumar Balasubramanian aka KK who played Captain Che has made a powerful impression. From a 1,000-odd followers, the Chennai-based theatre practitioner and actor leapt to 66.2K (and counting) in the span of a week. Praise, comments and love letters have also been steadily pouring in; not to mention a host of active, dedicated fan pages. KK credits the love and recognition to the Soorarai Pottru team. “I believe that when there is a script in place, most of the work is already done for the actor and you just go with the flow,” he says, adding that it has been an overwhelming week for him: “crazy is the word,” he says. Familiar to Chennai’s theatre fraternity as The Little Theatre’s artistic director, Soorarai Pottru has been KK’s first outing in film after a 10-year hiatus, (His debut film Kadhalagi released in 2010 and tanked at the box office). Funnily enough, his role in Soorarai Pottru was the consequence of a new hairstyle. In 2019, while in Thailand for a Muay Thai training course, he posted videos in his fresh ‘crew cut’ on social media. When she saw them Poornima Ramaswamy, the costume designer of the film, felt he fit the bill for Che. This led him to audition for the role and in turn meet Sudha Kongara, the director. “I met Sudha and we hit it off really well. She was just wonderful to talk to and she had no qualms about talking about the script. And, of course, Irudhi Suttru (Kongara’s debut movie) is a lovely, progressive film that I loved watching,” says the 34-year-old. Che, as a character, was well-defined before it reached him, says KK. “The director was very clear about what she wanted. I was told this guy is an alpha male, a ladies’ man, a topper who is damn good at what he does... but all that matters to him is his friends. The idea of how this man communicates with Maara was very clear to me: ‘on an equal footing’ sort of a situation,” he says. In the moment KK says the highlight of working with Suriya is that, “the man just gives you so much [to work with].” The scene where Maara and Che get into a verbal fight, shoving and pushing at each other, is testament to this. “Funny thing about that scene though, is that every time I walked off angrily to sit on the bike, it just refused to start,” he adds, laughing. The time on set was coloured by light-hearted moments like these, he recalls. In scenes where Suriya is in focus while KK and Vivek Prasanna (who played the character Seby) are in the backdrop, inside jokes were the norm. “But, while dubbing we realised that the mic had caught most of our nonsense,” he laughs. “When the vibe on set is such, it’s easy for actors to improvise. Having said that, imagine Nedumaaran’s female version... that’s Sudha; a stickler for detail, she made sure she got what she wanted.” More than a decade in theatre, in roles that include direction, lighting and scripting, has fine-tuned KK’s performances. “I am not really dependent on the film industry to make my bread and butter,” he says, adding “I really enjoy theatre.” As and when good scripts come his way, he won’t hesitate to venture into cinema as well, he adds. “But, nothing is in the pipeline as yet.” Meanwhile, KK says he intends to continue working with children via The Little Theatre. “Some of my biggest teachers have actually been children. They don’t have any disguises. If you work with a child, you really understand the craft.”
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Drawing with ketchup||A wooden swing hangs from a cactus. The same cactus sports a yellow sunflower on its head. Nearby, a dog and a crocodile enjoy ice creams on a unicycle. Modern, street art and graffiti cover the walls at Art Cafe. “No matter what your mood, there is an art work to suit it,” says actor Vijay Adiraj. Known for his anchoring skills and famous for his roles in Tamil serials like Chitthi , Annamalai and Payanam , Vijay started the café last week along with his wife Rashna, a classical dancer. The couple had been mulling over the idea of getting into the food business for a while. “The lockdown and downturn of economy put us through tough times. We thought we should do something outside our comfort zone but it should be something we are passionate about, something young,” says Vijay. That is how the cosy, 28-seater basement café came about. “It is a very Instragammble, selfie-oriented place,” says Rashna adding that they made a conscious effort to keep the menu pocket-friendly. It includes dishes such as French fries with gravy, pizzas, wraps and burgers. Vijay and Rashna decided to throw the place open to young artists. Besides wall art, there are installations, which include a curtain of mud cups hanging over the coffee machine. Since the café revolves around all things art, it is open to artists showcasing their works for free. The work on the walls will change every year so as to display more young talent.  Art Café is located at 251 Basement, Sriman Srinivasa Road, Alwarpet
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Marvel’s 616’: Alison Brie, Gillian Jacobs talk about their new docu-series, comics and superheroes||Following the success of their superhero franchise such as Iron Man and The Avengers series, Marvel now brings out an anthology: Marvel’s 616 , an eight-episode documentary that explores the company’s legacy of creating characters and storytelling to reflect the world as we know it. Each episode, helmed by different filmmakers, showcases the intersections of storytelling, pop culture, and fandom within the Marvel universe. Some of the talent directing the episodes are Hollywood actors Alison Brie ( GLOW, Bojack Horseman ) , Gillian Jacobs ( Community, LOVE ) and Paul Scheer ( Black Monday, The League ). Ahead of the show’s première, the three stars, along with executive producers Sarah Amos and Jason Sterman, talk to MetroPlus over a Zoom call. Edited excerpts: Do you have a favourite female Marvel character?  Gillian Jacobs: I would have to say Ms. Marvel (Kamala Khan) is my favourite! I was not familiar with her before I started working on this documentary. It was really my experience of falling in love with a comic character through preparing for this show, that I think most people have when they’re much younger and start reading comics as kids. How did you prepare for a project of this magnitude that’s aimed at a global audience?  Jacobs: Well, Marvel Comics gave us some suggestions of people to interview. But then I read a book about the history of Marvel as a company, and learned so many things about women who worked in comics. It was really exciting to even just be able to have their faces and names in this doc, and hopefully it will inspire people to go research more about them.  Alison Brie :My process was sort of the opposite, because unlike Gillian who had to do a ton of detective work, I had more of a set agenda to go and watch these students experience these plays. So, first it was about familiarising myself with the Spotlight programme, which is a Marvel initiative where they commissioned playwrights to write these one acts, based on characters from the Marvel universe, for high school students. So it’s like Thor and Loki in high school, we have Squirrel Girl going to college, and Ms. Marvel and her sort-of high school tale, and so on. What can we expect from the superhero genre in the coming years?  Paul Scheer: Superheroes really reflect the world outside of our window. It is something that Stan Lee [Marvel Comics legend] always said. It’s not about the powers, it is about the people and how they react. I imagine we are going to see the Marvel universe grow in diversity and inclusivity. Marvel’s 616 will stream on Disney+ Hotstar on November 20
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||A matter of perception||Sathya NJ chanced upon a video of Nasser — who was sporting a bushy beard — attending the Tamil Film Producers Council meet earlier this year. The actor’s unkempt beard caught Sathya’s attention and he began to visualise Nasser in a vintage, western look. In actor-comedian Vivekh’s case, it was his salt and pepper makeover that impressed Sathya, who saw him through a different lens, as a uber-cool gangster. Both cases resulted in a viral photoshoot, with the actors posing for his concept designs. The ‘what if’ triggered an idea. Sathya began reimagining Tamil film personalities as a lockdown activity, now he intends to continue the project as a series. This formed the base for his designs, though he admits that he has been grinding the same batter. “It is not that the designs are exceptional. The innovation lies in the thinking and I had a gut feeling this would work and it did,” says Sathya over phone from Chennai, a day before the shoot of Ravana Kottam , in which he plays a supporting character. Sathya says he wanted to break the perception audiences have about actors, known for playing supporting characters. The intent is to bring these less-spoken-about artistes to the fore, and give them a different dimension.
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||The dolphins of Kovalam and other stories||Over a hundred dolphins swimming alongside each other in clear blue waters. And a few whales too. It was a lucky day for Kovalam-based Hanif Mohammed Q and guests on his boat. “It’s another world out there,” says Hanif, recalling the sight. An interior designer, Hanif has been fishing out of passion for 15 years, and owns two boats. He knows the wonders of the sea first-hand, and wants to share it with others. “I take people on small trips into the sea,” says the 40-year-old, adding that from July to August, and February to March, guests can witness the migration of dolphins. “I want to encourage parents to show children the outdoors; to let them experience Nature at its best,” he adds. “They can learn about the sea, among a lot of other things,” he says, adding how once, his guests released turtles caught in a fishing net. He is now in the process of setting up his company, called South Fin for leisure trips, as well as finalising essentials such as changing rooms and toilets. “We will launch in 10 days or so,” he says. Hanif has launched yet another recent venture: Fresh Fins, an initiative that lets people from Chennai order fresh fish online. “My intention is to help small boat fishermen make a better living,” he says. With less financial support from the Government and no access to facilities to store their catch, these fishermen often end up selling to middle-men for a pittance. “I want to take their catch directly to customers,” he explains. Right now, he sells catch from over 45 boats from Kanyakumari to Ennore and 90% of his team, right from call-centre executives to delivery persons, are from Kovalam. “There are 40 people in my team right now, and we deliver as far as Mogappair and Anna Nagar West,” he says. Apart from eliminating middlemen and ensuring small boat fishermen get a good price for their catch, Hanif wants to familiarise people with seasonal fish and promote sustainable fishing. “Customers should get used to the idea of eating what is local and seasonal,” he says. “This way, they will be able to enjoy a wide range as opposed to the usual vanjiram that big boats bring from as far as Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.”  For details, visit freshfins.in. To know more about the fishing trips — prices depend on the distance and number of people — call 9696089696.     In season Anchovy  Indian whiting  Indian mackerel  Japanese threadfin bream  Sea bass  Croaker  Grouper
19 November 2020||November 19 2020 00:00 IST,||Drawing with ketchup||A wooden swing hangs from a cactus. The same cactus sports a yellow sunflower on its head. Nearby, a dog and a crocodile enjoy ice creams on a unicycle. Modern, street art and graffiti cover the walls at Art Cafe. “No matter what your mood, there is an art work to suit it,” says actor Vijay Adiraj. Known for his anchoring skills and famous for his roles in Tamil serials like Chitthi , Annamalai and Payanam , Vijay started the café last week along with his wife Rashna, a classical dancer.   Art Café is located at 251 Basement, Sriman Srinivasa Road, Alwarpet, Chennai
19 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||50 Haryana students test positive for COVID-19||Around 50 students of various senior secondary schools in Rewari and Jhajjar districts of Haryana have tested positive for COVID-19 over the past fortnight. Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal told The Hindu that many students had tested positive in schools across the State during routine health check-ups but there was no proposal to withdraw or amend the order for holding classes. He said the department was monitoring the situation. It is estimated that around 100 students have tested positive in Rewari and Jhajjar since schools opened in September. The Rewari district education department has shut two government schools for 15 days after 25 students were found infected. Six students in Pali and 19 students in Kund tested positive during medical examination of employees and students at a camp organised recently by the district health department. “Samples of 46 students in Kund and 32 in Pali were taken. The results came back on Tuesday. Usually, we shut the school for 48 hours in the event of any positive COVID-19 case, but this time the two schools have been shut for 15 days. The principals and headmasters of all schools have been directed to get their premises sanitised,” District Education Officer (Rewari) Rajesh Kumar said, adding that the 25 students were asymptomatic. Random Sampling Similarly, around 25 students across a dozen government senior secondary schools in Jhajjar tested positive for COVID-19 this month. The samples were taken randomly from among 1,000 students. “A total of 34 students have tested positive for COVID-19 in government schools since September,” said District Education Officer (Jhajjar) Brahmprakash Rana. The Haryana government had allowed all schools to hold guidance sessions for Class IX-XII students in the last week of September. The students were allowed to attend school only with the written consent of their parents. In October last week, the education department directed holding of regular classes for three hours daily.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19: ICMR to collect 8k more samples from Delhi for RT-PCR tests||Following Home Minister Amit Shah’s meeting on Sunday with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi government has received ventilators and bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) machines from the Centre and the ICMR has decided to increase the number of samples from Delhi that can be sent for RT-PCR tests in the former’s labs, by nearly 8,000 a day, officials told The Hindu . Also, about 58.1 lakh people live in high-risk areas for COVID-19, including containment zones and busy markets, and the highest number of such people are in the south-west district and lowest in the north-east district, as per Delhi government data. About 57-58 lakh people will be covered in a door-to-door survey, starting Friday, to find people who have developed symptoms of COVID-19, according to officials. Though the 11 districts raised a demand of 11,400 teams to conduct the exercise in four to five days, the government has decided to go ahead with 9,500 teams. Delhi government has received 188 ventilators and 49 BiPAP machines from the Central government as of Wednesday evening. “The Delhi government received the machines today and they will be installed in city hospitals from tomorrow,” a Delhi government official said. The government is yet to officially comment on the development. A BiPAP machine aids in breathing by helping to push air into the lungs. About 90% of ICU beds with ventilators in Delhi were occupied by Tuesday night. “Earlier labs under ICMR were taking about 2,000 samples from Delhi for RT-PCR testing. Now it has been increased to nearly 10,000 samples,” a health department official said.  After the Sunday’s meeting the MHA had said that it had decided to hold house-to-house survey in Delhi. But in a meeting on Monday, it was decided that the survey will bed conducted in high-risk areas. Symptomatic people will be tested and isolated, so that they won’t further spread the disease. The South-West district has about 10 lakh people living in high-risk areas and the East has about 9.6 lakh people, while North-East district has only 80,000 living in high-risk areas, as per the data. Similarly, the South-West district has 740 containment zones, which is the highest among the 11 districts and the North-East has the lowest with 140.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||U.P. gets nod for teacher recruitment||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed pleas by the Uttar Pradesh Shiksha Mitra Association, which challenged the State government’s order of January 7, 2019 fixing the qualifying marks for the Assistant Teacher Recruitment Examination 2019 at 65 and 60 for the general and reserved categories, respectively. Giving the go-ahead for recruitment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in accordance with the results declared in May, a Bench led by Justice U.U. Lalit recorded an assurance by the State government that Shiksha Mitras would be given a last opportunity to attend the next recruitment examination, the modalities of which would be decided by the government. The court did not intervene against the State’s position that the cut-off percentage was increased by 20% to draw the best candidates. The court had earlier sought an explanation from the State government for changing the earlier cut-off of 45% for general category and 40% for reserved category.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Home Ministry outlines steps to curb virus cases in Delhi||The railways were in the process of equipping coaches with 800 beds for COVID-19 patients at Shakur Basti railway station in Delhi, the Ministry of Home Affairs said on Wednesday. As many as 45 doctors and 160 paramedics of the paramilitary forces have arrived in Delhi for COVID-19 duties. The MHA said the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) was going to add 250 additional ICU beds to the existing 250, besides creating 35 bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) beds in the next three to four days at its COVID-19 hospital near the IGI Airport. These came in the wake of 12 decisions taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday. Delhi has been witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases since October 28, when the daily rise breached the 5,000-mark for the first time and later crossed the 8,000-mark on November 11. “Forty-five doctors and 160 para-medics from paramilitary forces have arrived in Delhi for deployment at DRDO hospital near Delhi airport and at a COVID care centre at Chhatarpur..Remaining doctors and msedics will reach Delhi in the next few days,” the MHA said in a tweet. It had constituted 10 multi-disciplinary teams to visit more than 100 private hospitals for assessing the bed utilisation and testing capacity and identifying extra ICU beds. Visits by the teams were on. “The Indian Council of Medical Research [ICMR] and the Delhi government are working together to enhance RT-PCR testing capacity to 60,000 tests by the end of November,” the MHA said. Planning for a house-to-house survey was in the advanced stage. It was expected to begin by the end of the week and completed by November 25. “Bharat Electronics Limited has dispatched 250 ventilators from Bengaluru and they are expected to reach Delhi by the end of the week. The Union Health Ministry has delivered 35 BiPAP machines to the DRDO-COVID facility near Delhi’s IGI Airport,” it stated. To bring testing closer to people, the ICMR would help the Delhi government in deploying 10 mobile laboratories with a total capacity of 20,000 tests in a phased manner, beginning next week, it added.
19 November 2020||Jaipur,||Jats of 2 Rajasthan districts seek reservation in Central list too||Jats belonging to Bharatpur and Dholpur districts in Rajasthan on Wednesday demanded that the State government recommend their inclusion in the Other Backward Class (OBC) category for reservation to the Centre. Though the community enjoys the benefit in the State, the two districts have been excluded from reservation in the Union government’s services. A ‘mahapanchayat’ (grand congregation) of Jats was held at Pathena village near Bhusawar in Bharatpur district, where the members of the community threatened to launch an agitation unless the benefit of the Central reservation was extended to them. Bharatpur-Dholpur Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti convener Nem Singh said the State government had assured in 2017 that a recommendation would be made to the Centre, but there was no progress. The other major demand was withdrawal of criminal cases registered against Jats during their agitation between 2015 and 2017. These Jats were denied the reservation as they belonged to the ruling class during the pre-Independence era and were not considered socially or economically backward. Though the State government incorporated them in the authorised list of OBC category on August 23, 2017, the issue has been hanging fire with the Centre. The Union government had included Jats in the OBC list in 1999, followed by the State in 2000. The community has been getting the benefit in jobs and education from both the Union and State governments in 31 of the 33 districts. Mr. Singh said similar mahapanchayats would be organised in the Jat-dominated areas in both the districts and a massive agitation launched to exert pressure on the State government.
19 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab govt. nod for new telecom guidelines||To create robust telecommunication infrastructure with adequate bandwidth to promote information technology, e-governance and e-commerce in the State, the Punjab Cabinet on Wednesday approved a set of new guidelines under a single-window policy to replace the existing norms. The new guidelines will supersede the Telecom Policy notified on December 5, 2013 and December 11, 2015, said an official statement, adding that the amended policy was aligned to the Right of Way (RoW) Rules, 2016. The meeting was chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. “This decision would enable speedier permissions for installation of telecom towers, poles etc. and RoW clearances for laying of optical fiber cables etc,” said the statement, adding that the single-window policy envisages providing online clearances through Punjab Business First Portal in a time-bound fashion, with the provision of deemed clearances built into the new guidelines. The Cabinet also decided to defer implementation of the Punjab State Council for Agricultural Education Act, 2017, till June 30, 2021.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s AQI deteriorates, enters ‘poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated to enter ‘poor’ category on Wednesday, while that of Gurugram was in ‘moderate’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. “The AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and it is forecast to be in ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category for tomorrow. It is forecast to further deteriorate to the higher end of the ‘poor’ to the lower end of the ‘very poor’ category on Friday and Saturday,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 211 on Wednesday, worse than 171 on Tuesday, as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 141 and 207 respectively. The air quality of Delhi worsened on Wednesday as the surface winds were calm and boundary layer wind direction was north-westerly, which was favourable for the effect of stubble burning in neighbouring States to be felt in Delhi. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi was estimated to be only 8% on Wednesday.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||Yamuna cleaning: Delhi CM meets DJB officials||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday chaired a meeting with Delhi Jal Board (DJB) officials on the swift implementation of a concrete plan to clean up the Yamuna and reduce pollution in it by 90% by March 2023. The DJB presented a detailed action plan on the reuse of around 400 MGD against the existing capacity of 90 MGD of water as well as various steps that will be taken to improve the quality of the existing STPs, including upgrading all the equipment in the STPs. The DJB’s action plan seeks to reduce 90% pollution in the Yamuna by March 2023 and all the steps will have different milestones to be completed by March 2021, 2022 and 2023. According to the government, the DJB said four major interventions devised for the cleaning up of the Yamuna would include treating of around 150 MGD of polluted water coming from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh by natural wetlands and aeration method. It would also consist of trapping waste water in small or big drains at STPs, steps would be taken to improve the quality of the existing STPs and all the sludge and the septage from the septic tanks across Delhi will be collected by the DJB for reuse in bio-gas plants to generate electricity and gas.
19 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea against ban on Chhath celebrations||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday rejected a plea challenging the city government’s decision to ban Chhath Puja celebrations at public places, like ponds and riverbanks, in the Capital owing to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The court remarked that the petitioner, Shri Durga Jan Seva Trust, “has lost sight of the COVID-19 pandemic situation in Delhi where even as per the Delhi government, a third wave is under way”. “While religious sentiments of all sections of the society must be respected, the right to life and health of the public at large cannot be sacrificed at the altar of a right to celebrate a festival, however, significant it may be for a particular community,” the High Court remarked. It highlighted that the daily infection rate in the past one week is hovering between 7,800 to 8,593. “The daily death rate has crossed double figures and has touched 104 just a few days ago. Even as on date, there are 42,004 active cases of COVID-19 infection in Delhi,” the court said. “In such circumstances, the petitioner/trust cannot expect the respondent/State to permit it to organise Chhat Puja for over two lakh persons at a public place in Delhi,” the court observed. The court said “this is the time to contain the infection and not to escalate it,” while dismissing the plea.
19 November 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Cracks in BJP, JJP ties after bypoll loss’||Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda on Wednesday claimed that after the Congress’s win in the recently held Baroda Assembly by-election, cracks have emerged among the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party and the coalition government in Haryana is all set to fall under the weight of its mistrust any time soon. “The Chief Minister had publicly stated that the BJP did not get JJP’s vote. In such a situation, the JJP should clarify if it accepts or rejects this statement of the Chief Minister. It is clear to everyone that the Baroda results have created a crisis of confidence among coalition partners,” said Mr. Hooda said at a press meet. He said the roadmap for the upcoming fight against the government will be announced by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on December 13.
19 November 2020||JAIPUR,||9 projects to tackle Jaipur’s traffic woes||Nine new projects for construction of road over bridges (ROBs) and underpasses have been finalised for resolving the road traffic issues in Jaipur. All the projects will start in March 2021 and will be completed in 12 to 18 months. Rajasthan Urban Development Minister Shanti Dhariwal, who inspected the project sites in the State Capital, said the expenditure would be decided after the preparation of detailed project reports. New ROBs and underpasses would make movement in the city easy and hassle-free and reduce congestion on roads, he said.
19 November 2020||Guwahati,||Importance to girl child behind best sex ratio: Khandu||Equal importance to girl child is among several factors behind Arunachal Pradesh recording the best sex ratio in India, Chief Minister Pema Khandu has said. A 2018 study based on the Civil Registration System said Arunachal Pradesh had 1,084 females born per thousand males followed by the adjoining north-eastern State of Nagaland with 965 and Mizoram with 964. “There are two-three indicators behind the surge. First, in tribal societies, there is no discrimination against females. There is equality. Secondly, there is institutional delivery and the records say so,” Mr. Khandu told The Hindu from State capital Itanagar. “Most importantly, we give equal importance to the girl child. In fact, in some societies, girls get more importance,” he added. The Chief Minister said the data had made his government more motivated to work for girls and women. Govt. programmes “The Government of India has several programmes to take women forward. This includes the issue of nutrition of children,” Mr. Khandu said. Statistics with the State’s Education Department over the last 10 years showed girls in Arunachal Pradesh had by and large performed better with more opportunities provided to the remotest of corners, the Chief Minister said. The sex ratio had also reflected in government jobs, Mr. Khandu said. “In group A and B of government services, there is an increased ratio of women employees. Women are doing well in social services. In politics also, they are getting their space,” he said. The 60-member Arunachal Pradesh Assembly has three women MLAs — all from the Bharatiya Janata Party elected in 2019. This is a record for the frontier State.
