20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry issues new guidelines for workplaces||The Union Health Ministry announced fresh workplace guidelines on Tuesday. With the easing of the lockdown measures and with more offices/workplaces starting operations, the Ministry directed that anyone diagnosed as a suspected/confirmed case of COVID-19 should immediately inform the office authorities and isolate themselves. While there was no need to close the entire office building/halt work if one or two cases were detected, a large outbreak would require that the building be shut down for 48 hours and disinfected, it stated. The guidelines make it mandatory to maintain a physical distance of at least one metre to be followed at all times along with use of face covers/masks. ICMR to relook The Ministry also said that no decision has been taken as yet to replace hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), introduced as a game-changer to arrest the spread of COVID-19, as a prophylactic, with HIV combination drugs, after reports of experts demanding that it be dropped from the safety guideline list of drugs prescribed for high-risk persons, including healthcare workers. With experts questioning the effectiveness of HCQ, a senior health official said the drug was under review “but no decision has been taken to drop it just yet”. Since the COVID-19 situation was a dynamic one and now with the lockdown being relaxed, a relook was being done by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). India on Tuesday reported 5,680 new cases, taking the tally to 1,06,425, according to data from the State Health Departments. The number of active cases stood at 60,885, while 42,224 people have recovered. With 158 deaths on Tuesday, the toll rose to 3,316. “The country is registering a recovery rate of 38.73%,’’ noted a Ministry release. A record number of 1,08,233 samples were tested on Monday, taking the total so far to 24,25,742, it said.
20 May 2020||Srinagar,||Separatist leader’s son among 2 militants killed in encounter||Tehreek-e-Hurriyat (TeH) chairman and separatist leader Muhammad Ashraf Sehrai’s son was among the two Hizb-ul Mujahideen militants killed on Tuesday in an 11-hour-long operation in a congested locality of Srinagar’s old city. Four security personnel were injured, and over 10 houses were damaged. “Two militants were killed in the operation that was launched late on Monday night in the Nawa Kadal area. Sehrai’s son Junaid Khan, a ‘divisional commander,’ was assigned the task of heading the Central Kashmir areas. The second militant Tariq Ahmed Sheikh was from south Kashmir’s Pulwama,” said Jammu & Kashmir Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh. Two rifles were recovered from the encounter site. Mr. Singh said Junaid had come to the old city “to lure youth into militancy and encourage grenade throwing”. After establishing contact with the militants around 3 a.m., the security forces decided to hold fire till the morning. They engaged the militants in a gunfight around 9 a.m.  ‘Clean operation’ “The operation was a clean one. Only one house caught fire and it was controlled immediately. In the process of evacuating civilians, a policeman and a CRPF jawan were injured. Two more CRPF jawans were injured in the final assault as the remaining militant hurled a grenade. All the injured are stable,” said Mr. Dilbagh Singh.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||3 lakh evacuated as Amphan hurtles towards Bengal coast||Super cyclone Amphan, which has weakened slightly, is expected to make landfall between Digha in West Bengal and Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh on Wednesday afternoon, the India Meteorological Department (MD) said on Tuesday evening. About 3,35,000 people in West Bengal and Odisha have been evacuated. On Tuesday evening, the cyclone lay about 360 km south of Paradip in Odisha and 510 km south-southwest of Digha. According to the IMD's current estimate, Amphan would temper down to a ‘very severe cyclonic storm’ when it makes landfall. However, it would continue to generate strong winds at 155-165 kmph and inflict severe damage on the Odisha and West Bengal coasts. Telephone towers, powerlines, thatched huts and buildings with weak foundations are likely to be damaged and hoardings could become “flying like projectiles,” Director-General IMD M Mohapatra warned at a press conference. Very high wind speeds ranging up to 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph are expected, accompanied by heavy rainfall and storm surges of 4-5 metres in the coastal districts of the West Bengal. Districts of East Medinipur, South & North 24 Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, and Kolkata are expected to be impacted, he added. 35 NDRF teams The State government has evacuated about 3,00,000 perople from the coastal districts. “Do not venture out till the storm moves away. Many times it is the tail of the cyclone that causes maximum destruction,” Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee told residents. Odisha said 35,000 people were moved to cyclone shelters while field level staff were shifting people to identified shelters. 36 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in both States. Rescue and relief teams of the Army and Navy along with ships and aircraft of the Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard have been put on standby. Officials from agencies of the Department of Telecommunications and Ministry of Power have also been deployed to ensure maintenance of essential services, said a statement from the Ministry of Home Affairs. The Odisha government has deployed 16 units of the NDRF and 15 units of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force. Four districts — Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur — were likely to be severely affected.  (With inputs from Kolkata and Bhubaneswar)
20 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Hyderabad back in the groove after COVID break||Hyderabad got back in the groove on Tuesday as citizens poured into the streets to catch up on shopping and to reach offices which are being allowed to function from May 19. While many infotech companies still have a work from home policy, many government offices are functional as are some franchisee stores. Not many cabs were visible on the roads though the cab aggregators sent messages to customers about the availability of the services. However, many autorickshaws could be seen on the road picking up and dropping commuters over short distances. Some restaurants put out notices about parcel service being available. On the arterial roads of the city, many shops remained shuttered as shop owners awaited instructions about the odd-even rule. But the establishments that opened had no complaints. “Business is good. I had 12 customers till now. Usually Tuesday is a holiday but I realised there will be demand and opened the salon,” said Shrikant, who runs a hair-cutting salon and returned from his hometown Chevella after hearing Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement about easing of lockdown. Shopping spree The Tuesday market near Kishen Bagh was chock-a-block with shoppers hours before Iftaar. Besides fruits, vegetables, groceries and goods of daily needs there were colourful clothes. “I want to buy clothes for my daughter. The other shops have not opened I have to decide now as I don’t know if clothes will be available tomorrow,” said Razzaq who lives in the N.M. Guda area. Even shop owners faced the dilemma about re-opening their shops. “We thought we can open the shop today but the GHMC officials are marking the establishments with 1 or 2 to enforce odd-even rule,” said Muhammad Naseer of Rivaan Extension, a cloth showroom in Lad Bazaar. How the rule will be enforced remains to be seen as there are glitches. Two competing cafes near Charminar which are side by side have the same number 1 and one of them has another entrance marked with the number 2. So, while one of them has to be shut on odd days, the other will remain open on all days. “Where is the virus? There is no sign of virus. Our shops were shut unnecessarily and we have suffered huge losses as the stored goods got damaged,” said Mukhtar Khan who runs a 100-year-old grocery store in the Chowk area.
20 May 2020||GUNTUR,||‘Govt. firm on reviving economic activity’||As the YSRCP government approaches the milestone of completing one year in office, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced a series of measures aimed at putting the State’s economy back on track. Taking forward the welfare agenda, he said several schemes will be implemented from the last week of May. Addressing a marathon video-conference with Collectors and SPs on Tuesday, Mr. Jagan unveiled the action plan post lockdown, beginning with a massive boost to healthcare in rural areas, setting up of Rythu Bharosa Kendras, ramping up NREGS works. Pat for Collectors, SPs On COVID management, the CM, said: “ Looking at the figures, I can proudly say that we have managed to control the virus. I have tremendous faith in the capability of our Collectors and SPs. Our network of village volunteers, ANMs, doctors, police and municipal personnel has worked hard to achieve the result.” “We are setting up village/ward clinics. We should also gradually reduce cluster containment zones and create awareness on physical distancing and use of sanitisers,” he said. Mr. Jagan said Collectors and SPs have a major role in kickstarting the economy. All economic activities would begin with the exception of cinema halls, shopping malls and function halls. The CM announced a calendar of economic and welfare initiatives, beginning with crediting industrial incentives worth Rs. 905 crore in two instalments — on May 22 and in October. On May 26, Rs. 5,000 each would be paid to moulanas and pastors. On May 30, Rythu Bharosa Kendras would be inaugurated and on June 4, the Vahana Mithra scheme would be launched. On June 10, Rs. 10,000 each would be credited in the accounts of Nayee Brahmins, washermen, tailors and other traders. The YSR Netanna Nestam would be launched on June 17 and the YSR Kapu Nestam will be launched on June 24. On July 1, ‘104’, ‘108’ ambulances would be launched and on July 8, commemorating Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s birth anniversary, house site pattas would be distributed and zero interest loans would be given on July 29. On August 3, Vidya Deevena would be launched, forest land pattas would be distributed on August 9 and on August 12, ‘YSR Cheyutha’ would be launched. ‘Vasathi Deevena’ would be launched on August 19, and on August 26, 15 lakh housing sanctions would be launched.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Citizens remain wary of public transport, but rush to get haircut||The pandemic and the extended lockdown appears to have altered the pulse of the city. Though the State government further eased restrictions on Tuesday and allowed BMTC buses, autorickshaws and taxis to operate for the first time in nearly two months, citizens remained wary of commuting on public transport. While BMTC recorded low ridership even with limited services, taxi and auto drivers said business was down. Bus commuters had to buy passes, and many criticised BMTC for insisting that they by daily passes at Rs. 70 even for short distances. However, Bengaluru’s green lungs, Lalbagh and Cubbon Park, which reopened on Tuesday, saw many visitors. M.R. Chandrashekar, deputy director, Lalbagh, also in-charge of Cubbon Park, said crowds were on the higher side. The reopening of barbershops and salons saw people rushing to get the much-needed haircuts. The State government on Tuesday evening issued an SOP for parlours and salons. Apart from the usual precautionary measures such as wearing masks and screening customers, the SOP notes that sharp objects, such as disposable razors, should be kept in a leak-proof container with 1% hydrochloride solution. After the container is three-fourth full, it should be handed over to a biomedical waste handler.
20 May 2020||Mangaluru,||Locomotive of Shramik Special Express derails in Mangaluru||The locomotive of the Tirur-Jaipur Shramik Special Express derailed near Mangaluru in the early hours of Tuesday. However, no one was injured in the incident. According to Southern Railway officials, Train No 06188 passed the Padil Home Signal At Danger and the locomotive derailed at 1.35 a.m. While an accident relief train was ordered from Mangaluru Central, no passenger was injured, they said. Southern Railway arranged another locomotive from Mangaluru Junction and the coach formation with the new locomotive moved towards the destination at around 6.30 a.m., said a communique here. The derailment happened just before the Kulashekar tunnel where landslips had occurred last August. Southern Railway is in the final stages of track restoration at the affected site. The derailed locomotive was re-railed at 8.10 p.m.
20 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||12 more imported cases in State||The State reported 12 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, all of which were imported cases of infection. While four persons came from abroad, the remaining came from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here during his daily media briefing. Kannur accounted for five of these cases, Malappuram three, and Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Thrissur, and Palakkad one case each. The State has reported 642 cases so far, out of which 142 are currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals, while 497 have recovered from the disease. The State has put 72,000 people on surveillance, out of whom, except for the 455 who have been admitted in isolation rooms in hospitals, the rest are in home or institutional quarantine, Mr. Vijayan said. New hotspots Four new regions were added to the State’s hotspot list, taking the number of total hotspots in the State to 33. The additions are Koruthode in Kottayam district and Panoor municipality, Chokli, and Mayyil in Kannur district. Mr. Vijayan said that the results of the sentinel surveillance sample testing were ample evidence that community transmission was yet to happen in the State. He said that the State had tested samples from 5,630 persons so far, from selected vulnerable groups in the community like health-care workers, the elderly and those in quarantine to assess the extent of community transmission. However, 5,630 samples had returned a negative result while only four samples had been positive. Mr. Vijayan attributed this “success” to the stringent manner in which the State had been implementing the safety precautions against the pandemic, including physical distancing, hand washing, universal wearing of masks and the early quarantining of all possible suspect cases and their contacts. Since May 7, 74,426 people had come into the State from abroad and the rest of the country. From among these, the State has reported 105 imported cases of COVID-19.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Spike takes T.N. past 12,000 cases||In yet another spike, Tamil Nadu recorded 688 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. The State's tally now stands at 12,448*. Chennai witnessed a sharp increase, accounting for 552, or 80% of the fresh cases. This took its total to 7,672, of which 5,691 are active cases. The city also accounted for 58 of the 84 deaths so far in the State. Of the 688 patients — 407 men and 281 women — 87 had returned from abroad and other States. In fact, a few persons, who were under airport quarantine, tested positive for COVID-19 during the exit screening. Three more persons died in the State. A 64-year-old man, a resident of Tiruvallur, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 15. He was suffering from carcinoma of the stomach along with hepatic metastasis and diabetes. He died on May 18 due to respiratory failure, carcinoma of the stomach and hepatic metastasis. The second patient, a 72-year-old man and a resident of Chennai, had hypothyroidism and diabetes and was referred from a private hospital to RGGGH on May 18. He died within 1.5 hours due to respiratory failure, COVID-19 positive bilateral viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. The th‏ird, an 82-year-old man from Chennai, was admitted to RGGGH on May 11 and died on May 18 due to respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. The State’s recovery rate now stands at 39%, with a total of 4,895 persons discharged so far. This includes 489 persons who were discharged on Tuesday. There are 7,466 active cases, and 4,775 individuals suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are lodged in isolation wards. While Chennai topped the table with 552 cases, Chengalpattu reported 22 more cases and Tiruvallur eight cases. There were five cases in Kancheepuram, three in Thanjavur, two each in Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram, and one each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Nagapattinam, Ranipet, Theni, Thoothukudi and Tiruchi. Twenty-three persons, who arrived on a flight from Dubai on Monday, and one person who returned from the Maldives, have tested positive for COVID-19. Another 13 persons, who arrived by flights from Dubai, Kuwait and Malaysia and were in airport quarantine, tested positive during the exit test conducted on Tuesday. Earlier, they had tested negative for the infection. Till now, 54 persons who returned from other countries have tested positive, while 18 passengers, who initially tested negative, turned positive for COVID-19 during exit screening after seven days. Apart from this 49 persons, who arrived in various parts of the State from Maharashtra, and one person from Kerala, have also tested positive. Of the 49 persons, 20 tested positive in Tirunelveli, 10 in Kallakurichi, six in Karur, five in Thoothukudi, two each in Dindigul, Kanyakumari and Tenkasi, and one each in Cuddalore and Virudhunagar. Another 38 children aged 0 to 12 and 63 persons aged above 60 have tested positive in the State. The number of samples tested stood at 10,333, while the number of persons tested was 9,844. The total number of samples tested so far in the State is 3,48,174. Two more testing facilities were approved - the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Namakkal and VRR Diagnostics, Chennai. With this, there are 63 testing facilities in the State. Among those who had returned to the State in trains, the samples of 713 passengers is under process. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
20 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees two more deaths, 57 new cases||The State has reported two more COVID-19 deaths taking the toll to 52. Out of the 9,739 tests carried out in the past 24 hours, 57 turned positive and the tally has gone up to 2,489, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. One death each was reported in Chittoor and Kurnool districts. Kurnool district has the highest number of deaths at 20 among the districts and Kurnool and Krishna account for 70% of the casualties due to COVID in the State. Meanwhile, six of the fresh cases —five in Chittoor and one West Godavari — are linked to the Koyambedu wholesale market hotspot in Tamil Nadu. The number of recoveries continues to grow and 69 patients in various districts have recovered in the past day leaving 816 active patients under treatment. The total number of recovered patients is 1621. So far, 2,58,450 samples were tested in the State and the tests per million population ratio of 5,169 has been achieved. However, the district-wise break of fresh cases and recovered cases found no mention in the bulletin. Positivity rate The positivity rate of tests was at 0.96% and the recovery rate of patients was at 65.12%. The death rate was at 2.08%.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi sees biggest spike in a day with 500 cases||Five hundred new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total number to 10,554, said a government health bulletin. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far. Also, six more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 166. Of the total cases, 4,750 people have recovered and 5,638 are undergoing treatment. Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department Padmini Singla said in an order that 300-400 newcases were reported every day, but equivalent number of containment zones were not being declared by the District Magistrates. She directed the DMs to create containment zones as per the guidelines “in letter and spirit”. There are 70 containment zones in all in the city as of now. The Delhi government on Tuesday stopped mentioning the daily increase in the number of cases, deaths, recovered cases in the health bulletin and only mentioned cumulative figures. Of the 166 COVID-19 deaths, 52.41% were those above the age of 60, though senior citizens constitute only 14.23% of the total cases. Of the total positive cases, 70.39% are people under 50 years of age, but they comprise only 20.48% of the total deaths, said the Delhi government. A total of 1,45,854 tests have been conducted so far and 2,261 positive people are under home isolation.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||A.P. gas leak: SC declines to interfere with NGT order||The Supreme Court did not interfere on Tuesday with an order passed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), which ordered LG Polymers to pay Rs. 50 crore as interim compensation for the gas leak at its Visakhapatnam plant and set up a five-member fact-finding committee to inquire into the incident leading to the death of several innocents. Fact-finding committee A three-judge Bench, led by Justice U.U. Lalit, did not budge despite LG Polymers, represented by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, highlighting that multiple committees had been formed by several bodies, including the Andhra Pradesh High Court, the National Human Rights Commission and the Centre, into the gas leak which happened on May 7. The company also questioned how the NGT could take suo motu cognisance of the gas leak and form a fact-finding committee led by former High Court judge, Justice B. Seshasayana Reddy, when the High Court, a constitutional court, was already seized of the matter. Mr. Rohatgi said the company did not intend to create any deliberate roadblocks and had already deposited Rs. 50 crore with the district magistrate as ordered by the tribunal. The Supreme Court merely told the company to raise these questions when the case came up for hearing on June 1. It kept the company’s petition pending for consideration on June 8.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||4 succumb to COVID, 42 test positive in TS||An increase in number of COVID related deaths was observed in Telangana as four more deaths were reported on Tuesday. The number of deaths till May 19 stands at 38. The number of COVID-19 cases in the State continued to surge too as 42 more cases were detected on Tuesday. Of them, 34 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), and 8 are migrants from Yadadri, Karimnagar and Sircilla. Out of the four patients who died, three are above 67 years, and another is 38-year-old woman. They include a 70-year-old man and 68-year-old woman with pneumonia, 75-year-old man with co-morbidities and the 38-year-old woman who was obese. Till Tuesday, 1,634 cases were detected, out of which 585 are active; 1,011 were discharged and 38 people died. A total of 77 migrants tested positive till date.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,||149 new cases in State||With 149 new COVID-19 cases and three deaths, Karnataka recorded the biggest single-day spike on Tuesday. Over 75% of Tuesday’s cases are those with a travel history to Maharashtra. With 71 new cases, Mandya reported a major chunk of Tuesday’s cases. All of them were under quarantine after returning from Mumbai. Three deaths With three deaths, the toll in State touched 40. Karnataka’s fatality rate now stands at 2.8%. The deaths were reported from Ballari, Vijayapura, and Bengaluru. All the three had a history of ischemic heart disease along with other comorbidities.
20 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||RTC to start intra-State services from tomorrow||The A.P. State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will resume intra-State operations from Thursday (May 21). The officials said the operations would be resumed in a phased manner by taking all precautions needed to check the spread of coronavirus. “We are trying to gear up to ply buses to districts across the State in the initial phase. We need to tread cautiously in view of the possibility of the spread of the virus in the wake of public movement,” said a top official. Corporation VC&MD M. Pratap is scheduled to announce details on Wednesday.
20 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Schools to reopen on August 3||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said the fresh academic year for schools will start from August 3. Addressing a review meeting on the Spandana programme, Mr. Jagan directed officials of the Education Department to ensure completion of development works taken up in the first phase of Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu in 15,715 schools, by July-end. Last date extended The last date for submission of applications for various entrance tests in the State has been extended. An APSCHE statement said the last date had been extended till June 15 and students could apply till this date without late fee.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||State nod not necessary for Shramik trains||As lakhs of migrant workers continue to walk homes amid the lockdown, the Centre on Tuesday issued new guidelines stating that the schedule, destination and stoppage of Shramik Special trains will be decided by the Ministry of Railways based on requests from States. It said the movement of these trains shall be permitted by the Ministry in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs. A Railway spokesperson said a State should register passengers and send a request, after which the train would be run and the consent of the State government where the train would terminate was not necessary. The decision is bound to create confusion as States have to arrange facilities such as quarantine centres and transportation of the incoming passengers.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Application window open for JEE-Main||The application window for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Main will be reopened from May 19 to 24, according to a notice from the National Testing Agency on Tuesday. Students who had previously applied but now wish to change their centres can also do so between May 25 and 31. The examination was scheduled to begin on April 3. It was postponed due to the lockdown, and will be held from July 18-23. The online form is available on jeemain.nta.nic.in and can be submitted until 5 p.m. on May 24, while the fee can be paid online until 11.50 p.m.
20 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt., Cong. lock horns over buses||The confrontation between the Congress and the Uttar Pradesh government over supplying 1,000 buses to transport migrant workers escalated on Tuesday after an FIR was lodged against Sandeep Singh, personal secretary of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and the party State president, Ajay Kumar Lallu, for allegedly providing false information about the vehicles. Mr. Singh and Mr. Lallu were booked for cheating and forgery by Lucknow police while the latter was also detained near Agra wh-en party workers were staging a sit-in demanding that buses be allowed into U.P.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Temples likely to reopen by June 1||Temples across the State are likely to open their doors to devotees by June 1, with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department mulling over the issuance of e-passes to devotees.
20 May 2020||Srinagar,||NC, PDP say domicile law will change demography||The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party on Tuesday rejected the J&K Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020, and the J&K Grant of Domicile Certificate (Procedure) Rules 2020, saying “it was aimed at changing the demography of the erstwhile State of J&K”.
20 May 2020||Patna,||Nine migrants die after truck overturns in Bihar||Nine migrant workers were killed on Tuesday when the truck carrying them overturned while trying to avoid hitting a bus at Naugachhia near Bhagalpur. The workers were said to be working in Kolkata. They had left six days ago.
20 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Murder of SP leader, son caught on video||A Samajwadi Party leader and his son were shot dead at Fatehpur Shamsoi village in Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh after an argument over road construction, the police said on Tuesday. The murder was caught on video and it went viral.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Migrant labourers left in the lurch||Since Monday night, over 3,000 migrant labourers from across the city walked to BIEC but were not let in. Instead, they were made to board buses and dropped off to areas where they came from. Most of these buses were packed.
20 May 2020||YADGIR,||Work under MGNREGA inaugurated||Chief Executive Officer of Yadgir Zilla Panchayat Shilpa Sharma inaugurated a month-long programme “Badu Nirmana Maasacharane” (construction of field bund) under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Wadagera village in the district on Tuesday. Ms. Sharma asked workers provided jobs under MGNREGA to maintain social distancing and wear face masks while working. The work being taken up in four acres of land in Survey No 29/1 in the village has been sanctioned at Rs. 275 wages per day.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Class X exams to begin from June 15||The Class X board examinations have been rescheduled, and will be held from June 15 to 25, Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Tuesday.The exams were originally supposed to be held from June 1 to 12.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Discharge policy for patients revised||The Health Department has revised the discharge policy for COVID-19 patients. Those with mild symptoms and in pre-symptomatic stage admitted to COVID-19 Care Centres can be discharged after 10 days of testing positive or date of home isolation or date of admission of CCC, and with no fever for three consecutive days.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Workers assaulted by employer’s henchmen||A group of 150 brick kiln workers, who wanted to go back to their home town, were allegedly assaulted by their employer and his agents in Tiruvallur on Monday. The Vengal police have registered a case.
20 May 2020||Patna,||9 migrants die in Bihar accident||Nine migrant workers were killed on Tuesday when the truck carrying them overturned while trying to avoid hitting a bus at Naugachhia near Bhagalpur. The workers, who had boarded the truck carrying their bicycles, were said to be working in Kolkata. They left six days ago. The truck driver and the cleaner fled after the accident. The truck had entered Katihar district in Bihar from West Bengal and was crossing Bhagalpur to reach East and West Champaran districts, from where the workers hailed. Identities ascertained A police official said their identities had been ascertained. “The migrant workers had boarded the truck that was loaded with iron rods… Police recovered a few bicycles that were on the truck.” A few others were injured in the accident, he added. In another incident, a migrant worker was run over by a freight train early on Tuesday morning in Gopalganj district On Monday, six migrant workers were killed in road accidents in Bihar. The State has reported 1,442 COVID-19 positive cases and nine deaths so far. As many as 475 have recovered from the virus.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Guidelines issued for dentists||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday issued unified guidelines for dental professionals, warning that some patients making visits may be asymptomatic carriers of COVID-19. It emphasised that all those visiting a dental office must be treated with due precautions. Viral load “Most dental procedures require close contact with the patient’s oral cavity, saliva, blood, and respiratory tract secretions, and saliva is rich in COVID-19 viral load. Hence all urgent procedures should be undertaken only after consultation, tele-triage, consent, and through pre-fixed appointments only”, the Ministry noted. It said dental clinics would remain closed in the containment zones. However, they could continue to provide tele-triage. Patients in this zone could seek ambulance services to travel to the nearest COVID-19 dental facility. “In the red zone, emergency dental procedures can be performed, while the dental clinics in orange/green zones will function to provide consults. Dental operations should be restricted to emergency and urgent treatment procedures only,’’ stated the Ministry. Risk of cross-infection In the current pandemic, dentists, auxiliaries as well as patients undergoing dental procedures were at high risk of cross-infection. All routine and elective dental procedures should be deferred for a later review until new policy/guidelines were issued. Due to the high risk associated with the examination of the oral cavity, oral cancer screening under National Cancer Screening programme should also be deferred.
20 May 2020||Kolkata,||Lockdown to help in cyclone relief work||The Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Kolkata on Tuesday asked people in the city not to venture out and keep shops and other institutions closed when the super cyclone Amphan makes landfall on the West Bengal coast on Wednesday. “From Wednesday morning, wind speed in Kolkata will be from 75 kmph to 85 kmph. When the cyclone makes landfall, the wind speed will increase from 110 kmph to 120 kmph. We are issuing an advisory that there should be no movement of people in the city,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, Deputy DirectorGeneral of Meteorology, Regional Meteorological Centre, Alipore. Mr. Bandyopadhyay also said the damage due to the super cyclone could be “minimised as there are no fishermen in the sea due to spread of COVID-19 infection”. The beach resorts at Digha, Madarmani and Bakkhali have no tourists because of the lockdown. The COVID-19 outbreak is expected to be “an advantage” in disguise, a south Kolkata resident said, “as people are mostly locked at home”. Met officials have predicted that the wind speed will be 165 kmph to 175 kmph when the cyclone makes landfall between Digha in West Bengal and Hathia in Bangladesh. The official said the impact of the super storm is likely to be stronger than that of Cyclones Aila (2009) and Bulbul (2019). The eye of the storm will pass through east and southeast of Kolkata. The city along with adjoining districts will experience highspeed winds along with heavy rainfall. Representatives of Kolkata Municipal Corporation started evacuating people from old dilapidated houses in the city. Nearly one lakh people have been evacuated from the three coastal districts of South and North 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur. Storm surge Other than heavy rainfall accompanied by strong winds, the super cyclone is likely to cause a storm surge of four to five metres in the low-lying areas of South and North 24 Paraganas. In Purba Medinipur, the surge is going to be three to four metres. Officials of the Regional Meteorological Department said the storm surge is likely to cause heavy flooding.
20 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. govt. locks horns with Congress over buses||The confrontation between the Congress and the Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) government over supplying 1,000 buses to transport migrant workers escalated on Tuesday after an FIR was lodged against Sandeep Singh, personal secretary of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, and the party State president, Ajay Kumar Lallu, for allegedly providing false information about the vehicles. Cheating case Mr. Singh and Mr. Lallu were booked for cheating and forgery by the Lucknow police while the latter was also detained on the Uttar Pradesh-Rajasthan border near Agra when party workers were staging a sit-in demanding that the buses be allowed into Uttar Pradesh. The FIR was lodged under Sections 182, 420, 467 and 468 of the IPC on the complaint of Regional Transport Officer, Lucknow, R.P Dwivedi. Over 500 buses arranged by the Congress continued to be parked at the Uncha Nagla point as the party alleged that the Agra administration was not providing them permission to move to Noida and Ghaziabad despite a written nod by Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home. The FIR came soon after the Lucknow RTO released a report saying that out of the 1,049 buses submitted by the Congress, only 879 were found to be valid, while 31 turned out to be three-wheelers and the remaining 69 included an ambulance, 59 school buses, a pick-up van and a truck. Data were not available for 70 vehicles, while fitness certificates of 59 vehicles were not valid and insurance of 29 others had expired. The controversy escalated after the two sides exchanged a series of allegations over Ms. Vadra’s proposal to provide 1,000 buses to take migrant workers home. After the Congress submitted a list of 1,000 buses to the State on Monday, the Uttar Pradesh government accused it of providing false details and including details of three-wheelers, ambulances and goods carriers in the list of buses. ‘Playing politics’ Uttar Pradesh government spokesperson Sidharth Nath Singh accused the Congress of trying to “politicise the situation” of the migrant workers for photo-ops. “They have no sensitivity or sense of service towards the migrant workers,” he said. When the Agra administration did not allow the Congress buses to enter Uttar Pradesh, Ms. Vadra accused the State government of crossing “all limits” and even offered the BJP to stick its banners and posters on the buses as a bargain to allowing the buses to run. Ms. Vadra then requested the Uttar Pradesh government to allow the 879 buses found valid by it to run for the time being, and promised to deliver 200 more buses by Wednesday. “People are in a lot of agony. We cannot delay any further,” she said. The State government had earlier accepted the Congress’s request and asked it to deliver 500 buses to Ghaziabad and Noida by noon. However, the Congress sought time till 5 p.m., but the buses have been stranded on the border since.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition to hold joint meeting||Nearly two months after the Union government announced a lockdown on March 25, Opposition leaders, including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, will discuss on May 22 through videoconferencing the government's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Since the start of Lockdown 1.0, Opposition leaders like West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had been pushing for a joint meeting of the Opposition parties but it kept getting deferred, a senior leader told The Hindu . Now, Ms. Gandhi has taken the initiative to bring Opposition leaders together and preside over the meet. Though the Congress had initially extended its support to the Modi government, it is now very critical of the handling of the migrant workers’ crisis. The meeting comes just days after the Centre announced an economic stimulus package comprising a slew of reforms, such as opening up the defence sector and aerospace and relaxation of labour laws. Congress’s criticism “They [the government] have been opportunistic....It is bypassing the stakeholder consultation process. It is bypassing legislation in Parliament. It is bypassing a discussion in Parliament and all this will be resisted and challenged,” former Union Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram said on Monday when asked about the announcements. “If there is a genuine reform, they take the economy forward we will support it, but the people have to know the fine print,” he added. Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh took to Twitter to ridicule the Prime Minister on the stimulus package. Posting a chart that claimed how various international and national agencies had valued India’s package to be between 0.7% to 1.3 % of the GDP, Mr. Ramesh said, “Can all be wrong and only our Prime Minister be right?No. He is the Jagadguru of Jhoot!” “Our poor are on streets, starving & in pain ... In pursuance to PM’s promise for Corona relief to them, the govt opens up inter planetary space travel for private players. The joke is on our nation,” Congress treasurer Ahmed Patel said last Saturday. Mr. Patel has been in touch with senior Opposition leaders such as NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Mr. Yechury, and D. Raja of the CPI among others to firm up the final list of attendees for the meeting. In the recent past, Hindi heartland parties such as the BSP and Samajwadi Party mostly skipped such Opposition meets.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India, U.S. to collaborate on vaccine trials’||India and the U.S. plan to work together on vaccine research and testing for COVID-19, U.S. health officials said here on Tuesday, listing a number of other ways in which the two countries are working together. “U.S. and Indian scientists have been collaborating on key research questions fostering the development and testing of safe, cost-effective vaccines against a range of infectious diseases that could save innumerable lives in India, the United States, and around the world,” U.S. Embassy Health and Human Services (HHS) attaché Preetha Rajaraman told reporters at a briefing in New Delhi. “In the context of the current pandemic, partners under the Vaccine Action Programme (VAP) are planning to collaborate on the development and testing of vaccine candidates and diagnostics for COVID-19,” she added. The VAP, or the Indo-U.S. Vaccine Action Program (VAP), is a 33-year collaboration between the U.S. National Institutes of Health, the Indian Department of Biotechnology (DBT) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) along with other partners. Meanwhile, 50 ventilators from the United States are expected in India shortly, the embassy said, as part of the donation of 200 ventilators announced by President Donald Trump last week. ‘Part of funding’ The ventilators, which will be paid for by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), are part of $5.9 million in funding announced to date for India, said USAID Acting Director Ramona El Hamzaoui, briefing journalists about the work of the agency, adding that the amount was a part of a worldwide commitment of $900 million made available for combating the COVID-19 pandemic. “The United States government is providing access to high-quality, American-made ventilators to designated countries as soon as the domestic supply chain and vendors are able to produce and deliver orders,” Ms. Hamzaoui said. She added that USAID would facilitate a discussion between the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the manufacturer “to ensure that the local context and needs are considered before placing the final purchase order.”  The U.S. Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said it would separately fund the Government of India $3.6 million to support “prevention, preparedness, and response activities in India, in collaboration with and concurrence from the GoI.”
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||EPF rate cut to benefit employees, employers||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Tuesday said the employees’ take-home salaries would increase while the employers’ liabilities would reduce for May, June and July as the Labour Ministry had notified a 2% cut in the EPF contribution rate on Monday. Announced as part of the Centre’s economic relief package to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, the contribution rates for employees and employers had been reduced to 10% of wages plus dearness allowance from 12%. The reduction would not be applicable to the Central and State public sector enterprises or any other government-controlled establishment, the EPFO said in a statement. “Reduction in rate of EPF contributions from 12% to 10% of basic wages and dearness allowances is intended to benefit both 4.3 crore employees/members and employers of 6.5 lakh establishments to tide over the immediate liquidity crisis to some extent,” the EPFO said. ‘Higher take home pay’ “As a result of reduction in statutory rate of contributions from 12% to 10%, the employee shall have a higher take home pay due to reduction in deduction from his pay on account of EPF contributions and employer shall also have his liability reduced by 2% of wages of his employees,” it added.
20 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Amphan rains on distancing norms||Battling wild cyclonic winds, Ajit Das and his family members scurried towards a cyclone shelter in the port town of Paradip in Odisha’s Jagatsinghpur district on Tuesday afternoon. They had to struggle for space in a 3,000 sq.ft. area already occupied by 500 others. On a day when his home district Jagatisinghpur registered a big spike by reporting 23 COVID-19 cases, adhering to social distancing precautions should have been uppermost in his mind. Memories of 1999 But, for someone, who had witnessed the 1999 super cyclone and its trail of devastation, the COVID-19 pandemic did not evoke much fear. “Many lives could have been saved had people taken some precautions by shifting themselves to safer places in 1999. We don’t want to take chances this time. There is still room for uncertainty that you may or may not contract the coronavirus. But, you will surely invite trouble if you stay outside during the cyclone,” said Mr. Das. A similar sentiment was echoed by 70-year-old Sarat Chandra Tripathy at Pentha village in Kendrapara district, which is categorised as an orange zone with 38 active COVID-19 cases. “Fear of the coronavirus was not on anyone’s mind when we all rushed to the shelter. Saving life during the cyclone is the priority,” said Mr. Tripathy. The population of Pentha is about 600. About 300 people, who live in thatched houses and old concrete structures, spend hours in cyclone shelters whenever there are storms. Ujjal Mandal, who reached the Bagagahana cyclone shelter in Kendrapara early on Tuesday, found people keeping some phsyical distance. “But, the shelter will be jam-packed when the cyclone picks momentum,” said Mr. Mandal. Red zones  Cyclonic storm Amphan will have the maximum impact on districts such as Balasore and Bhadrak, both falling the in red category of COVID-19 zones. Initially, 567 cyclone shelters and 7,000 concrete buildings were identified to accommodate about 11 lakh people to be evacuated in 12 districts. By 4 p.m. on Tuesday, 35,000 people were shifted to cyclone shelters. As the cyclone moved away from the Odisha coast, the government breathed easy and focused only on six districts.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hotter oceans spawn super cyclones||Higher than normal temperatures in the Bay of Bengal (BoB) may be whetting ‘super cyclones’ and the lockdown, indirectly, may have played a role, meteorologists and atmospheric science experts told The Hindu . Super cyclone Amphan that is barrelling towards West Bengal is the strongest storm to have formed in the BoB since the Super Cyclone of 1999 that ravaged Paradip in Odisha, said Director-General, India Meteorological Department M. Mohapatra. Warmer waters Cyclones gain their energy from the heat and moisture generated from warm ocean surfaces. This year, the BoB has posted record summer temperatures a fall-out, as researchers have warned, of global warming from fossil fuel emissions that has been heating up oceans. “The BoB has been particularly warm. Some of the buoys have registered maximum surface temperatures of 32-34°C consecutively, for the first two weeks of May. These are record temperatures driven by climate change — we have never seen such high values until now,” said Roxy Mathew Koll, a scientist with the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology in Pune, who has also co-authored IPCC reports on oceans and the cryosphere. Cyclone Amphan intensified from a category-1 cyclone to category-5 in 18 hours, an unusually quick evolution. Last year Fani, a category 4 cyclone, which swept through the Odisha coast, was again fuelled by high temperatures in the BoB. While tropical cyclones in these seas are a typical feature of the summer months and play a role in aiding the arrival of the monsoon, Dr. Koll said warming around India is not longer restricted to just the BoB but also the Arabian Sea and the Indian Ocean. This makes storm prediction less reliable as well as disrupting monsoon patterns. Lockdown impact Another researcher said the elevated ocean temperatures this year could, in part, be explained by the lockdown. Reduced particulate matter emissions during the lockdown meant fewer aerosols, such as black carbon, that are known to reflect sunlight and heat away from the surface. Every year, increased particulate pollution from the Indo-Gangetic plains is transported towards the BoB and this also influences the formation of clouds over the ocean, said V. Vinoj, Assistant Professor, School of Earth, Ocean and Climate Sciences at the Indian Institute of Technology in Bhubaneswar. “Fewer clouds and more heat in the Bay of Bengal may have amplified the strength of the cyclone,” he told The Hindu. “We’ve observed that during the lockdown from March-April, BoB temperatures have been 1-3°C higher than normal. But the exact contribution from aerosols to this still to be determined.” He and his colleagues are working on a research paper on these lines.
20 May 2020||Srinagar,||NC, PDP say domicile law will change demography||The National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Tuesday rejected the J&K Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020, and the J&K Grant of Domicile Certificate ( Procedure) Rules 2020, saying “it was aimed at changing the demography of the erstwhile State of J&K”. An NC spokesman said the amended domicile law was made in exercise of power under the J&K Reorganization Act 2019, “which stands challenged in number of petitions before the Supreme Court”. “With the constitutional validity of the Act impugned and the petitions under the consideration of the court, the Government of India, in tune with the universally accepted principle of ‘constitutional proprietary’, is under an obligation to desist from exercising powers under the impugned Act, including the power to promulgate domicile law and rules in question,” the NC spokesman said. The party said the order was “unacceptable” and fraught “with widening the gap and inducing alienation”.  The PDP said: “Even a pandemic is no deterrent for the Government of India to continue with its disempowerment project for J&K. Orders like the one on domicile certificates don’t settle anything, neither do they cover up the August 5 fraud. The demographic change and disenfranchisement will further complicate the J&K issue which has claimed thousands of lives so far...” The J&K administration notified the domicile procedure on Monday, allowing eligible non-locals to apply for domicile certificates.
20 May 2020||Mumbai,||2,400 Indians to be evacuated from Sri Lanka||Two months after being stranded in Sri Lanka, 2,400-odd Indians finally have some ray of hope as the first repatriation flight from the island nation will fly to Mumbai on May 29. This delayed announcement has, however, only added to the confusion for Indians from various States who have been allowed to travel on this flight. The Air India flight on May 29 will fly from Colombo to Mumbai and then onward to Bhubaneswar and Kolkata, benefiting those from Maharashtra, Goa, Odisha and West Bengal. Among Indians wanting to return immediately are not just those who were on short holidays to the island nation, and have now spent two months with an unplanned budget, but also those who are employed there. Noida-resident Vineeta Singh is among those desperate to leave. An IT professional, Ms. Singh had gone to the island nation to spend time with her husband, a merchant navy officer. “It has been over two months now. My husband's ship sailed long ago and is en route to Russia. He is having sleepless nights and is sometimes unable to contact me due to a bad Internet connection. My father-in-law has been constantly trying to draw the government’s attention in India [to our plight],” she said. Ramakrishnan Srinivasan, who hails from Chennai, has been in contact with the Indian High Commission. “We have contacted the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka. They are trying their level best to send us back. But so far there has been no favourable reply. Unless they get government orders from India, what can they do,” he asked.
20 May 2020||COLOMBO,||Ranil lauds Kerala Minister’s efforts to combat COVID-19||Sri Lanka’s former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe has lauded Kerala Health Minister K.K. Shailaja’s leadership in “responding proactively and boldly” to tackle COVID-19. In a letter dated May 18, 2020, he said, “As the Minister of Health of Kerala, you have demonstrated that effective disease control is possible even though the resources are limited.” The ‘Kerala model’ in handling contagious diseases had succeeded, offering the rest of the world “many best practices”, including Kerala’s priority for conducting tests on highly vulnerable groups such as health workers, police and volunteers, he noted. Mr. Wickremesinghe said, “The extensive testing, including setting up of testing booths and effective identification of potential patients, resulted in having only four deaths out of a 35-million population, so far, the best in the region,” the leader of the United National Party observed. “Your leadership and efforts deserve appreciation in a context where most of the countries in the world are still struggling to contain the deadly virus”. In an interview to The Hindu in April, Mr. Wickremesinghe underscored the need for a regional, humanitarian response to COVID-19. “We [Sri Lanka], for instance, have a good public health system. So does Kerala. We can work together on that,” he had said. Effective strategy News reports in the international media of Kerala’s effective strategy, particularly Ms. Shailaja’s leadership, in effectively containing COVID-19 have been widely shared by Sri Lankans in the past few weeks. The Guardian ’s profile of the “rock star Health Minister” was shared across social media. Sri Lanka’s public health officials and the military are leading the country’s efforts in combating the pandemic. After about two months in lockdown, it is gradually opening up, with new regulations for public movement by allocating specific days to citizens, based on their national ID card numbers.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 unlikely to affect illicit drug supply||Movement restrictions owing to the COVID-19 pandemic may lead to an initial statistical reduction in drug seizures, but without a real change in terms of supply in the East and Southeast Asia region, according to the latest report from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC). Re-ordering of governments’ priorities and resources towards the pandemic could also jeopardise the efforts to strengthen drug prevention and treatment programmes, said the report on “Synthetic Drugs in East and Southeast Asia”. The report said that not every fluctuation in terms of drug seizures, prices, drug-related arrests or deaths in the coming months would be a direct or indirect consequence of the outbreak. “Organised crime groups active in the region have shown a high degree of flexibility to respond to shortages of supplies, raising risk levels on certain trafficking routes. The flexibility of the illicit economy, which does not have to wait for new rules and regulations to enter into force, should also not be underestimated,” it said. The UNODC said a large proportion of methamphetamine, the main synthetic drug of concern in the region, was manufactured, trafficked and consumed without the need for globalised supply chains. “Trafficking in the lower Mekong region also takes place in a variety of ways across borders which are porous and difficult to control ... While containerised trafficking exists, it is just one of many methods used...” said the report. Where movements were significantly affected, for instance couriers and body-packing through airports, methods would change quickly, leading to an initial statistical reduction in seizures, but without a real change in terms of supply.  Additional efforts would be required at the national, regional and international level to carefully analyse methods and trends to understand changes to drug markets in the wake of the pandemic, it added.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways to run 200 trains with timetable from June 1||The Railways on Tuesday announced that it would run 200 new trains with a timetable from June 1. The new trains would be in addition to the Shramik Special trains, whose numbers too would be increased. “Indian Railways is going to start 200 new timetabled trains from June 1, 2020. The routes and schedule of these trains will be intimated soon,” the national transporter said in a statement. These would be non-AC trains, booking for which would be done online. “No tickets will be sold at any railway station and prospective travellers should not come to the railway station to buy tickets,” it said. The Railways had earlier this month started running 15 pairs of special trains to and from New Delhi as part of efforts to restart passenger services after a gap of almost two months. For these trains, the advance booking period was kept at seven days. The Railways, which has till now run 1,600 Shramik Special trains ferrying about 21.5 lakh migrants in 19 days, added that it plans to double the number of these trains to bring more relief to migrants. “Indian Railways appeals to the migrants not to panic. Efforts are being made to ensure that all of them are able to travel to their home States at the earliest. Efforts will be made such that they will be able to board trains from Railway Station Head on the main line which is close to their existing location,” it added.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Transfer of probe to CBI not a matter of routine: SC to Arnab||The Supreme Court on Tuesday refused Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami’s plea to transfer the Mumbai Police probe into his broadcasts concerning the Palghar mob lynching to the CBI while extending his protection from arrest by another three weeks. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said that though freedom of the Press to speak truth to power ensured free people and nation, journalistic licence was not absolute but subject to certain reasonable restrictions under Article 19(2) of the Constitution. “India’s freedoms will rest safe as long as journalists can speak to power without being chilled by a threat of reprisal... The exercise of that fundamental right is not absolute and is answerable to the legal regime enacted with reference to the provisions of Article 19(2),” Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the 56-page judgment for the Bench, observed. The Bench, also comprising Justice M.R. Shah, confirmed its interim order on April 24 to transfer from Nagpur to Mumbai an FIR registered against Mr. Goswami accusing him of spreading hate through his April 21 broadcast. It said the Mumbai Police investigation into the FIR would continue. Transfer of an ongoing probe from the State police to the CBI was not a matter of routine, and should be done sparingly and in exceptional circumstances, the court said.  Mr. Goswami had accused the Mumbai Police of mala fide and conflict of interest as they came under the Maharashtra government of which the Indian National Congress was a ruling partner. He had also made accusations against the Police Commissioner. But the court said that the transfer plea was merely to “pre-empt an investigation by the police”.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Amphan hurtles towards Bengal coast||As many as 75 teams of Odisha Forest Development Corporation are in place to remove fallen and damaged trees while 340 gangs will carry out repairs of damaged power lines. For drinking water, more than 800 vehicles loaded with tanks have been kept ready. Of those evacuated in West Bengal, 200,000 are from South 24 Paraganas particularly from the Sunderbans. Teams of NDRF, State Disaster Response Force and BSF have been deployed. The Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Kolkata told people not to leave home when the cyclone makes landfall.
20 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Murder of SP leader, son in U.P. caught on video||A Samajwadi Party (SP) leader and his son were shot dead at Fatehpur Shamsoi village in the Bahjoi area of Sambhal district in Uttar Pradesh after an argument over road construction, the police said on Tuesday. The murder was caught on video and it went viral. The deceased were identified as Chotelal Diwakar and his son Sunil. Mr. Diwakar was initially fielded as an SP candidate in the Chandausi Assembly constituency but did not contest as the seat went to the Congress as part of a seat-sharing arrangement in 2017. The accused, Jitendra and Sarvendra, have been arrested, Superintendent of Police Sambhal Yamuna Prasad said. “An MGNREGA road was being constructed at Sansoi village over which the husband of the pradhan and a person called Savinder had a dispute. Firing ensued and two persons were shot. They died on the spot,” he said. The police said the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act had been invoked in the case. The SP, however, said caste was not a reason for the killing.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||State nod not necessary for Shramik trains||The May 1 standard operating procedure (SOP) had said these special trains would be run from point-to-point on the request of both the State governments concerned as per the standard protocols. This provision has been dropped in Tuesday’s SOP. The fresh SOP says, “The train schedule including stoppages and destination shall be finalised by MoR based on the requirements of the States/UTs and shall be communicated by the MoR to the States/UTs for making suitable arrangements for sending and receiving such stranded workers.” It said that train schedules and booking of tickets shall be publicised by the Railways. The States would have to ensure proper screening of passengers at railway stations and only asymptomatic ones would be allowed to board the trains.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Separatist leader’s son among 2 militants killed||He said 73 militants have been killed so far this year and not more 240 militants are still active in Kashmir. Police sources said the operation was launched after a technical input was “generated and worked upon” by senior CRPF officials. It was the second time in the past two weeks that Junaid was spotted in central Kashmir, based on the inputs generated online. With an MBA degree from Kashmir University, Junaid, alias Amaar Bhai, 29, joined the militant ranks on March 24, 2018, just days after his father was elected TeH’s chairman. Sehrai’s father is a close confidant of Hurriyat chairman Syed Ali Geelani and is expected to succeed him in the conglomerate. Junaid’s “handler and commander” Riyaz Naikoo was killed in Pulwama on May 7. According to family sources, police refused to hand over the bodies for burial in ancestral graveyards. They were instead buried in north Kashmir’s Baramulla as per the latest standard operating procedure, a police official said. The Srinagar encounter was the first major operation in the capital in the last two years. Internet and calling services on mobile phones, except BSNL, were snapped as a precautionary measure in Srinagar. Meanwhile, clashes broke out in parts of Srinagar. Several people converged on the encounter site after the operation.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||SC declines to interfere on NGT order on gas leak||The NGT, on May 8, had appointed a committee to “specifically report on the sequence of events, causes of failure and persons and authorities responsible, extent of damage to life, human and non-human, public health and environment — including water, soil and air, steps to be taken for compensation of victims and restitution of the damaged property and environment and the cost involved”. The NGT had also on May 8 issued formal notices to the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board, the Central Pollution Control Board and the Union Environment Ministry, seeking their responses.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Application window open for JEE-Main||The online form is available on jeemain.nta.nic.in and can be submitted until 5 p.m. on May 24, while the fee can be paid online until 11.50 p.m. The decision to reopen the application window is meant to cater to students whose alternate plans were disrupted by COVID-19 and want one last chance to apply, especially those whose international travel plans have been put on hold by the pandemic. While the announcement on Twitter by HRD Minister Rmesh Pokhriyal was widely welcomed by students, a number of them pleaded for a similar option for NEET, the medical entrance examination. The decision to allow change in centres will especially benefit students who had originally selected venues in cities like Kota, where they had been studying at coaching centres, but have now been forced to return home.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Health Ministry issues new guidelines||“Practise frequent handwashing [for at least 40-60 seconds] even when hands are not visibly dirty and use of alcohol based hand sanitisers [for at least 20 seconds] and respiratory etiquettes are to be strictly followed,” it said. “The respiratory etiquettes involve the strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing of used tissues properly,” the Ministry said. Any staff requesting home quarantine based on the containment zone activities in their residential areas should be permitted to work from home. Also, any staff reportedly suffering from flu-like illness should not attend office and seek medical advice from the local health authorities, it said.
20 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Frontline workers tested for COVID-19 in Ganjam||Over 363 frontline workers from temporary medical centres (TMCs) in Odisha’s Ganjam district have tested negative for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The testing was done as a fillip in the fight against COVID-19 in Ganjam. The district has the highest number of COVID-19 positive cases in Odisha. Till Tuesday afternoon, the district had recorded 307 positive cases. Most of the positive cases in Ganjam had emerged from the TMCs that house migrant workers who have returned from other States. Over 50,000 migrant workers have returned to Ganjam and have been placed under institutional quarantine in over 3,000 TMCs in the district. To avoid the possibility of community transmission of the virus from the TMCs that house the workers, security has been heightened around them. Police are keeping a strict watch on the TMCs using mobile patrolling units. Despite the efforts taken, certain elements have been attempting to break quarantine rules at the TMCs. On Monday, a person throwing polythene pouches of illicit liquor into a TMC at Bandhaguda village was caught by the personnel of the Badagada police station. Forty litres of illicit liquor was seized from possession of the arrested person. With many migrant workers returning from other States testing positive for COVID-19, Odisha’s total number of cases increased to 978 with the detection of 102 new cases on Tuesday.
20 May 2020||Bhopal,||4 violate lockdown, test positive for virus in M.P.||Four members of a family who had moved to their native town in Khargone district from Indore, the State’s worst-hit city, without taking permission from authorities have tested positive for COVID-19. They have ended up infecting four other members, said district officials. The couple and their two children, residents of Indore for more than 10 years, came to Maheshwar on May 5. “They took a rural route during the night to avoid detection by the police. They remained inside the house so quietly that even the neighbours didn’t notice they were back,” said Anand Singh Rajawat, Sub Divisional Magistrate, Mandaleshwar. Case registered But the police came to know of it and registered a case against them. Samples of 10 family members have been collected, said Mr. Rajawat. The administration had conducted a door-to-door survey in the area on May 3 for influenza-like illnesses. “We will have to conduct a survey again,” he said.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||41 NDRF teams deployed in West Bengal, Odisha||Forty-one teams of the National Disaster Response Force, including seven reserves, have been deployed in West Bengal and Odisha in view of the impending cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’, its chief S.N. Pradhan said on Tuesday. Addressing a press conference here, Mr. Pradhan said Cyclone Amphan was a second disaster coming in the time of already prevailing COVID-19, hence preparations had been made to that scale. Fifteen NDRF teams were deployed and five in reserve in seven districts of Odisha while 19 teams actively deployed and two in reserve in six West Bengal districts, he said. The NDRF Director-General said Amphan would be extremely severe cyclonic storm and its hit potential remained strong. “Hence, we have prepared according to that,” he said. Due to social distancing protocols in the wake of coronavirus, the cyclone rescue centres having a capacity to hold about 1,000 people would have only 400-500 locals, Mr. Pradhan said.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI alerts authorities to malware threat||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has sent alerts to all the States, Union Territories and the Central agencies on a malicious software threat that uses an update related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The alert related to banking Trojan and Cerberus has been sent on the basis of inputs received from the Interpol. It is primarily used to steal financial data, such as credit card numbers. “This malicious software takes advantage of COVID-19 pandemic to impersonate and send SMS using the lure of COVID-19-related content to download the embedded malicious link. It deploys its malicious application usually spread via phishing campaigns to trick users into installing it on their smartphones,” said the agency. The Trojan can also use overlay attacks to trick victims into providing personal information and can capture two-factor authentication details. Earlier this month, the Interpol launched an awareness campaign on cyberthreats during the COVID-19 outbreak, in coordination with the law enforcement agencies across the world.
20 May 2020||Mumbai,||Goa CM ‘appalled’ by Shailaja’s remarks||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday took strong exception to Kerala Health Minister K.K. Shailaja’s interview to BBC World News where she said the State only had three deaths ‘on record’, and that one of the COVID-19 fatalities in her State was of a man from Goa, who had travelled to Kerala to get treatment because of poor health infrastructure in the “Union Territory”. Dr. Sawant took to social media to express dismay at the Kerala Minister’s televised remarks, which he said contained factual inaccuracies. “I am appalled by the factually incorrect statements of Kerala Health Minister Smt. K. K. Shailaja Ji during her interview with the BBC regarding the death in Kerala of a COVID positive patient from Goa,” Dr. Sawant tweeted. “The said patient to our knowledge and as confirmed by Kerala IDSP [Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme] team is not from Goa and has not travelled from here for lack of health facilities,” Dr. Sawant said in a post on Twitter. Ms. Shailaja, later on Tuesday, clarified that the fourth COVID-19 fatality in the State was of a person who had come for treatment from Mahe, which is a part of the Union Territory of Puducherry, and not from Goa as she had said while speaking to the BBC. She also called Dr. Sawant and apologised for the ‘inadvertent’ error. The Goa CM had responded positively, she told The Hindu .
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Pippalayana’s advice||King Nimi asks Pippalayana, one of the nava yogisvaras, to describe the form of Lord Narayana, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse on Srimad Bhagavatam. Each of the nava yogisvaras talks to Nimi about different aspects of Bhagavata dharma. Nimi has already sought the advice of the first three yogiswaras, and now comes to the fourth — Pippalayana. Pippalayana says that this Universe owes its existence to Him. But you cannot attribute any reason for His presence. He is the One who is witness to the wakefulness, sleep and dream state of every individual. He controls and directs everyone. It is difficult to describe Him. Even the Vedas know the impossibility of such an attempt and admit that they are incapable of defining Him. He is the cause for this world. There are three gunas, namely sattva, rajas and tamas. From these three gunas came the moola prakrti. When the Lord’s glance fell on the moola prakrti, the tattvas came into being. From the tattvas, the indriyas and manas came. The One who supports all this is the Lord, who is the antaryami of everything. As for the types of births, there can be four ways in which birth can take place. Some jivas are born from eggs, as we see in the case of birds. Some are born from embryos, and this would include mammals. Some appear through seeds, as in the case of trees and plant forms. Some come from sweat, and this indicates various germs. When a person is asleep, his mind and indriyas do not function. But when he wakes up, he says that he has slept well! He does not know that the body is different from the atma. But as he develops bhakti towards the Lord, his mind is purified, and he then understands the nature of the atma and understands God too. Pippalayana concludes by saying that one must be rid of one’s flaws, to reach God.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Courts shirking their duty in J&K’||Former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Tuesday questioned the role of the courts in protecting human rights in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Mr. Chidambaram, in a series of tweets, talked of a ‘lockdown within a lockdown’ in J&K. “As we began Lockdown 4.0 yesterday, my thoughts were with the people of Kashmir who are in a terrible Lockdown within a Lockdown. The worst sufferers are Mehbooba Mufti and her senior colleagues who are still in detention...” he said. “I cannot believe that for nearly 10 months, the Courts will shirk their Constitutional duty to protect the human rights of citizens,” he said.
20 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||25 deaths, 395 fresh cases in Gujarat||Gujarat on Tuesday recorded 395 new COVID-19 infections and 25 deaths, bringing its total to 12,141 cases and 719 fatalities. The State is the second largest in COVID-19 casualties after Maharashtra. In Ahmedabad, 262 new cases and 21 deaths were seen on Tuesday. The city’s cumulative tally have increased to 8,945 cases and 576 deaths. There are now 5,346 active cases in the city. Ahmedabad’s death rate is almost 6.5%, which is nearly double the national average mortality rate.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Special flights to bring back more Indians||Twelve more destinations have been added to the list of countries from where India will bring back its citizens aboard special Air India flights. The additions include Finland, South Korea, Belgium, New Zealand, Netherlands, Kenya, Mauritius, Spain, Myanmar, Maldives, Egypt and Sri Lanka, according to an update shared by Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Twitter on Monday evening. This takes the total number of countries being connected under the second phase of the Vande Bharat Mission to 52. The mission, which kicked off on May 17, will be extended by 10 days and will conclude on June 13 instead of June 3.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Flights to resume if States agree’||Domestic flights to different cities will resume once the State governments express their willingness to open airports, Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Tuesday. “It is not upto @MoCA_GoI or centre alone to decide on resuming domestic flights. In the spirit of cooperative federalism, the govt of states where these flights will take off & land should be ready to allow civil aviation operations,” said the Minister in a message posted on Twitter on Tuesday. While the standard operating procedure for domestic flights was yet to be framed, the comment gives airlines a hint of what to expect in the days to come.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against labour law changes||The Supreme Court is soon to hear a a Kerala-based law student’s petition, which stated that changes made to labour laws amid the COVID-19 pandemic, supposedly to boost economic activity and market reform, amounted to forced labour in reality. Nandini Praveen’s petition, settled by advocate Kaleeswaram Raj and filed by advocate Nishe Rajen Shonker, said the ordinances and notifications issued by some States made “fundamental changes in the labour law framework of the country”. Besides the Centre, the petition made the States of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Goa, Assam, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh respondent parties. It said Haryana, Assam, Punjab and Goa had issued notifications extending the working hours. An Uttar Pradesh ordinance stated that “all factories and establishments engaged in manufacturing process shall be exempted from the operation of all labour laws for a period of three years..” subject to certain conditions. “Since the Code of Wages is suspended and the Payment of Wages Act is repealed, there is no statutory obligation for the factories and establishments to give timely wages to their employees. Therefore, the ordinance has essentially led to the abolition of minimum wages for labourers in these establishments,” the petition said in connection with U.P. “The impugned laws, by suspending welfare and health measures of workers and by increasing the work hours, constitute forced labour as widely defined by the Supreme Court,” it stated.
20 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Teams to keep an eye on tiger movement||With Cyclone ‘Amphan’ set to lash the coastal areas of West Bengal on Wednesday, the State Forest department on Tuesday formed rapid response teams to ensure that tigers from Sundarbans in South 24 Parganas district do not stray into nearby human settlements after the landfall. Chief Wildlife Warden Ravi Kant Sinha said a control room had been set up at Gosaba in the district to monitor the situation in the mangrove jungles 24x7. The department’s central control room in the Salt Lake area will be in constant touch with the Gosaba unit and keep a close watch on wildlife movement in the forest. The teams have been deployed with tranquilliser guns, net and speed boats.
20 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||MP plea over Governor’s lockdown ‘violation’||An Assam MP on Tuesday shot off a letter to Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla asking him if Governor Jagdish Mukhi had not violated the COVID-19 protocol of the MHA by visiting Kokrajhar. Biswajit Daimary, the Rajya Sabha member of the Bodoland People’s Front, pointed out that protocol requires people above 65 years of age to stay at home except for meeting essential requirements.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 18.50 crore in bank fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 18.50 crore, including 42 immovable properties in Punjab and Himachal Pradesh, in connection with a bank fraud. The properties belong to one Vikram Seth and his family members. The probe is based on an FIR registered by the CBI against Mr. Seth and others for cheating the Bank of Baroda, in connivance with some bank officials. The accused got sanctioned 19 loans amounting to Rs. 21.31 crore, which were routed through various accounts of associated firmsand siphoned off, it is alleged.
20 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Next 25-30 days crucial for containing spread of virus, Amarinder||Amid relaxations during the lockdown 4.0, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh directed the police to ensure strict compliance with safety protocols and ordered strict enforcement of the night curfew. He said the next 25-30 days would be crucial for containing the spread of the virus as the economy opens up, along with offices and commercial activities, after a 55-day curfew.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||KAKINADA||
20 May 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC: Return original certificates to doctor||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed the Dean of Madurai Medical College to return the original certificates of a doctor so that he could pursue higher studies and then come back to serve the State. The petitioner executed a bond for Rs. 20 lakh which was deposited with the Registrar (Judicial) of the High Court Bench so that it could be encashed by authorities concerned if he failed to join duty after the completion of the course. The court was hearing the petition filed by K. Gautham who completed his MBBS in 2013. He was selected for Diploma in Ophthalmology in Madurai Medical College under the All India Quota and executed a bond to serve the State after the completing the diploma. After the completion of the diploma in 2019, he was posted as Assistant Surgeon. However, he did not join duty as per the terms agreed upon and instead wanted to pursue further studies in DNB (Post-Diploma). He qualified with an All India Merit position in Ophthalmology. He filed the petition after the Dean did not respond to his request for the return of the original certificates to pursue studies. In his petition, he said he wanted to advance his skills and would come back to serve the State after completing the course. Justice P.D. Audikesavalu observed that the deposit made by the petitioner was an adequate safeguard to ensure that if he failed to join duty after the course was completed, the authorities concerned could seek to encash it. The Dean should forthwith return the original certificates under written acknowledgement that after completing the course, the petitioner would join duty and re-submit them. The compliance should be filed with the Registrar (Judicial) on May 20, the court said.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. revises discharge policy for COVID-19||The State Health Department has revised the discharge policy for COVID-19 patients and has issued comprehensive guidelines for the management of the pandemic. As per the revised policy, patients with mild or very mild symptoms, and those in the pre-symptomatic stage who have been admitted to COVID-19 Care Centres (CCCs), can be discharged after 10 days from the date of testing positive, or the date of the start of home isolation, or the date of admission to a CCC, provided that they have no fever for three consecutive days. Those categorised as moderate cases should be asymptomatic for three consecutive days, and oxygen saturation should be maintained without support. “They can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset — absence of fever without antipyretics, resolution of breathlessness and no oxygen requirement,” the guidelines said. In case symptoms persist and the demand for oxygen therapy continues, they can be discharged only after clinical symptoms are resolved and they have the ability to maintain oxygen saturation for three consecutive days. In line with the Government of India’s guidelines, the Department has said that there is no need for testing for both categories of patients prior to their discharge, and that patients should be advised to undergo home isolation for seven days after their discharge. Earlier, patients had to test negative twice to be discharged. For severe cases, discharge depends on clinical recovery. The patients should test negative for COVID-19 once under the RT-PCR testing method, after the symptoms are resolved. Reiterating the guidelines issued by the Tamil Nadu government for containment zones, the Department has said that containment operations would be considered to be over in 14 days, if there are no active cases in the zone during this period, starting from the date on which a positive case was last confirmed. A containment zone is formed around areas where a cluster of cases or clusters of cases emerge. A cluster is an area where more than five index cases have been reported or five or more families have been affected by COVID-19. If more than five index cases or five households are affected, then, in the case of a village, the entire village is demarcated as a containment zone, while the affected street or part of the street is demarcated in a Corporation or a Municipality. In the case of a multi-storey building, either the entire building or a part of it will be demarcated. In case of slums, families of positive cases, and their neighbours, could be shifted to institutional quarantine, if necessary, due to the factors of crowding and difficulty in maintaining physical distancing. All inter-state and international passengers arriving in Tamil Nadu, all symptomatic — Influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms — individuals with a history of international travel in the last 14 days, all symptomatic contacts of laboratory-confirmed cases, all symptomatic healthcare workers/frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVID-19, and all patients with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) would be tested. Asymptomatic direct and high-risk contacts of a confirmed case would be tested once, between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact with the patient. All hospitalised patients who develop ILI symptoms and all symptomatic ILI cases among returnees and migrants would be tested within seven days of developing the illness. An ILI case is defined as one with acute respiratory infection with fever of more than 38 degree Celsius and cough, while a SARI case is one with acute respiratory infection with fever of more than 38 degree Celsius and cough, and requiring hospitalisation.  There is no need for testing mild and moderate categories of patients prior to their discharge
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Desperation, lack of information drive these workers home||It is about 4 p.m. and the scorching heat spares none on the Chennai-Kolkata Highway (NH-16). Unmindful of the heat, Sunil Kumar Mehta is leading his group of seven friends walking near Puzhal hoping to reach their native place near Ranchi in Jharkhand. “We were working at a construction site at Ambattur. Our maalik was giving us salary for a month into the lockdown. But he stopped giving money from the second month. What do we do here?” asks Mr. Mehta. The group of eight has one cycle, which is loaded with water bottles to help them on the way. “Our maalik is okay if we stayed there, but where do we go for food without any money,” he asks. On spotting an autorickshaw, the group frantically enquires whether the vehicle can help them reach Nellore. “We heard that there are buses from Nellore to Ranchi, which costs Rs. 3,000 a person. Only if we reach Nellore we will know.” There are workers who have bought bicycles or have taken their own. Ismail Sheik is one such. “We started from Medavakkam after lunch. Our co-worker called to say he reached our native place, Murshidabad, yesterday. So, we too have started,” he says. But why are not they waiting for their turn to get on a train? Should not they heed the advice of government authorities? “We don’t read Tamil or English newspapers. We don’t have TV and what we hear on our phone is news for us. Also, some officials visited us and told us to remain in our camps, but for how long? It has been over 40 days,” says Mr.Sheik. A policeman checking vehicles leaving Tamil Nadu was seen sending back those migrant workers who did not have valid passes. But there is no clear information as to who is being sent to railway stations and who are being returned to their camps. Some without valid passes are sent to government camps for inter-State workers at Padiyanallur, Alamathi and Sholavaram. When The Hindu visited the government higher secondary school at Padiyanallur, a official was coordinating the buses to take these workers to either Chennai Central or Tiruvallur. “On reaching these railway stations, we will undertake thermal screening and send them home. We have sent about 2,000 people today,” says an official. A senior official involved in the inter-State movement of workers said: “We were facing certain issues in getting timely consent from the receiving State. Now that the Home Ministry has given certain clarifications, this issue will be sorted out. We’ll be sending more trains and provide safe transit to all workers who wish to return."
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crowds thin as Amma Canteens stop free food||The number of persons visiting Amma Canteen has dropped by over 50% with the Greater Chennai Corporation stopping the supply of free food. On Monday and Tuesday, many people, who walked into the canteens, left without having food as they did not have the money to pay. The average sales across the 407 Amma Canteen in the city, between April 23 and May 16, was around Rs. 3,000 a day. MLAs and NGOs picked up the tab for 62.89 lakh residents who visited the canteens during the period. After the canteens stopped free services on Monday, the average sales in the canteens dipped below Rs. 1,500 from Rs. 6,000 a day. Disappointed lot Many residents returned disappointed from canteens across the 15 zones of the city on Monday. An announcement of free food by the government on Tuesday triggered a rush at the canteens, but the free services had not started. “Many residents in areas such as Mylapore and West Mambalam returned from Amma Canteens without having food. This indicates the level of poverty in the city. Daily wage labourers rely on free food in the Amma Canteens. They do not have any source of livelihood during the pandemic. The Corporation should not have stopped free food abruptly,” said S. Mangala Raj, former councillor. According to Corporation officials, the sales from March 24 to May 16 came in at Rs. 5.70 crore, with 1.10 crore people having availed themselves of the benefit. About Rs. 2.9 crore was paid by MLAs and NGOs towards supply of free food to poor residents between April 23 and May 16. “We will start free supply of food at Amma Canteens on Wednesday. The free food will continue until the end of this month,” said a Corporation official.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||100 tests per lakh population required in Chennai, says expert||New challenges continue to emerge for Tamil Nadu, which has recorded 12,448 cases of COVID-19 so far. With the lockdown having been extended yet again, there are 11 more days to go. In an email interview, Prabhdeep Kaur, Scientist E/Deputy Director, Indian Council of Medical Research - National Institute of Epidemiology, who is on the panel of public health experts advising the government, specifies the areas that need to be focused on, testing requirements, and the way forward for the State.  With the lockdown having been extended till May 31, what should be the areas of focus for the next two weeks? Geographically, the focus should be on a few districts and zones of Chennai with a high infection burden. Strategically, focused testing, tracing, isolation and quarantine will be critical in reducing the spread of the disease. The third important factor is the careful management of mild cases. Asymptomatic or mild COVID-19-positive cases could either be hospitalised at a COVID Care Centre or opt for home isolation. While the former is absolutely necessary for individuals from densely populated neighbourhoods, for the rest, the latter may suffice. Also, close contacts who have tested negative should remain in quarantine for 14 days. The feasibility of home quarantine as against facility quarantine can be assessed depending on the locality. What is your assessment of the measures taken by the Tamil Nadu government during the 54 days of lockdown? Tamil Nadu performs the highest number of tests per day, thanks to the ramping-up of capacity in recent weeks. Contact tracing has also been implemented well. Good hospital infrastructure has enabled quality care. However, social distancing measures were not fully implemented, and there was poor compliance from the community in places like the Koyambedu market. There were challenges in the implementation of containment strategies in highly congested areas. The panel of experts has been stressing the need for more testing. Are the current testing figures, ranging from 10,000 to 14,000, including repeat samples, adequate for days to come? The testing requirement depends on the size of an outbreak in a given district. As we lift the lockdown, there will be more transmission, and testing requirements will definitely increase. All those who need to be tested as per the ICMR’s guidelines should be tested, if there are adequate resources. Our estimates suggest that given the current situation, Chennai requires around 100 tests per lakh population. There will also be additional testing requirements for travellers from other States. In your view, what are the things that should be avoided, and what should be enforced in the coming weeks? We should avoid sharing misinformation, and visits to public places should be limited to essential needs. The elderly and people with co-morbidities should stay at home to the extent possible. Lastly, stay away from social gatherings. We must continue to enforce compliance with norms like the wearing of masks at workplaces/public places and the use of floor markings in shops to maintain social distancing. In the last few days, many returnees from other States/countries have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. What kind of a strategy is required to handle this inflow, since more people are expected to arrive in the days to come? This is an area of concern, as the districts that are currently free of infection may get a wave of cases due to the influx of infected people from other areas. All travellers with symptoms should be tested, and those without symptoms should be quarantined. At the community level, what do you, as a public health expert, expect from the people? People should adapt themselves to the new normal. The working population should maintain distance from the elderly and those with co-morbidities. Active participation of communities by way of compliance with the norms on wearing masks and practising social distancing at workplaces and public places will tremendously augment the governmental efforts. People with fever and cough should stay at home and seek the advice of a doctor.  Tamil Nadu performs the highest number of tests per day, thanks to the ramping-up of capacity in recent weeks
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin, Vaiko pledge support to publishers’ demands||DMK president M.K. Stalin and MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Tuesday assured a delegation of newspaper publishers that they will support the “just demands” the publishers have placed before Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Stalin made the promise to the delegation, comprising N. Ram, Director, The Hindu Publishing Group, L. Adimoolam, publisher, Dinamalar , and R.M.R. Ramesh, managing director, Kal Publications ( Dinakaran ), who had sought his support. “Daily newspapers have been severely affected by the COVID-19 lockdown, and the publishers have already placed their demands before the Prime Minster. The DMK will stand by the media on this issue,” he said. “The Centre should reduce the customs duty on newsprint and settle outstanding advertisement bills, besides increasing the advertisement rate by 100%,” Mr. Stalin said. Soon after the delegation met him, Mr. Vaiko sent a letter to the Prime Minister, urging him to take necessary steps to provide relief. Pointing out that COVID-19 had brought down the advertising revenue to almost nil, and that the situation was expected to continue for a long period of time, Mr. Vaiko demanded a waiver of the customs duty on newsprint. “Increase the use of the print medium for government advertisements and announce a complete tax holiday for the next two fiscal periods,” he urged Mr. Modi.  Daily newspapers have been severely affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. The DMK will stand by the media on this issue
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Author Ravi Zacharias no more||Ravi Zacharias, 74, a renowned author-speaker and Christian apologist died on Tuesday at his house in Atlanta, Georgia, after a short battle with cancer. He was the founder of Ravi Zacharias International Ministries. Born in Chennai, he grew up in Delhi and later migrated to Canada. As a speaker, he travelled across the world and addressed U.S. military bases and students in several universities, including St. Stephen’s College, Delhi; Uppsala University, Sweden; Harvard University and Yale University. He has held several open forums and addressed the Annual Prayer Breakfast at the United Nations. Zacharias wrote several books — The Grand Weaver, Cries of the Heart and Walking from East to West . He started Wellspring International, a humanitarian arm of his organisation RZIM and reached out to vulnerable sections of the society, particularly women and underprivileged children. He is survived by his wife Margie and three children.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI arrests senior bank official on bribery charge||Days ahead of his retirement from service, a senior bank officer was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation on charges of demanding and accepting Rs. 7,500 bribe from a customer for releasing property documents on closure of a loan account. According to sources in the agency, Sankara Subramanian of Chennai lodged a complaint with the CBI’s Anti-Corruption Branch that W. Ravindran Samuel, senior manager of Indian Bank, Kellys Branch, had demanded Rs. 15,000 bribe and reduced the amount to Rs. 7,500 for releasing property documents. The complainant had given the document as collateral for his sister’s cash credit limit loan of Rs. 8 lakh taken for a business. He repaid the loan. After repaying the loan, Mr. Subramanian approached the official seeking return of the document when the latter allegedly demand bribe. However, he allegedly demanded the money for competing the closure formalities. After registering a case against Mr. Samuel under the provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, CBI officials laid a trap and arrested him soon after he accepted Rs. 7,500 from the complainant, the sources said. “Though property documents have to be returned to the customer after closure of loan account, we have been receiving complaints of some bank officials demanding bribe for issuing loan closure certificate or signing cancellation of hypothecation documents. In this case, the complainant had been trying to get back his original property documents since March this year but the Senior Manager insisted on the bribe,” an official said. He was produced before a Special Judge for CBI cases for judicial custody. The accused is due to retire on May 31.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Brick kiln workers assaulted in Tiruvallur||A group of 150 migrant workers in a brick kiln, who wanted to go to their home town, were assaulted allegedly by their employer and his agents in Tiruvallur on Monday. The Vengal police have registered a case. According to the police, Munusamy runs a brick kiln at Pudukuppam in Tiruvallur district. Over 300 workers from Bolangir district in Odisha were working for him. “As business has been poor due to the lockdown, they were not paid proper wages and relief did not reach them properly,” said K. Krishnan from Foundation for Sustainable Development. For the past few days, there had been some unrest among the workers after hearing that many others from their States walked to their native. “On Monday night, over 150 people, including women, elderly and children, decided to leave and started walking. However, owner of the kiln, his son and other agents stopped them. An argument ensued and in due course, the workers were assaulted by some goons. A few of them, including women, were injured in the attack,” he said. Following the attack, the Revenue District Officer inspected the site. “We asked them to give a complaint and now a case has been registered in Vengal police station,” said a revenue official. Meanwhile, NGOs want the district administration to inspect all brick kilns in the district. “An FIR has been filed by Vengal police for wrongful restraint, criminal intimidation, voluntarily hurting with weapons and use of obscene language and threatening the workers,” Mr. Krishnan added.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over Rs. 500 cr. spent on containment efforts, State govt. tells High Court||The State government on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that it had sanctioned Rs. 350.29 crore for COVID-19 containment activities, including for procurement of disinfectants, use of drones to spray them and he provision of food, shelter and personal protective equipment (PPE) to frontline workers. “In addition, frontline departments like the Health and Police Departments have been sanctioned funds to the tune of Rs. 149.79 crore and Rs. 6.5 crore for the purchase of medical equipment and protective gear, respectively,” it told the court in response to a public interest litigation petition. Providing a break-up, the government said that initially, Rs. 60 crore was sanctioned from the State Disaster Relief Fund on March 19. The money was allocated to the Health, Transport, Rural Development, Municipal Administration and Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Departments towards preparedness/preventive measures. Another Rs. 97 crore was released to all Collectors and the Police Department on March 24 for providing food, clothing, shelter and medical care to those who had been quarantined after testing positive for COVID-19. The funds were also supposed to be used for screening, contact tracing and purchasing PPE, it said. On April 8, Rs. 42.84 crore was sanctioned, of which Rs. 15.84 crore was given to town panchayats to curtail the spread of the pandemic and Rs. 22 crore to the Municipal Administration Department for purchasing disinfectants, disposable masks, gloves and other PPE.
20 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Shramik Specials’ to carry more people||The Southern Railway has been increasing the number of Shramik Special trains to help migrants travel to their native places from Chennai. The first train was operated from Chennai on March 9. Since then 22 special trains have been operated taking more than 30,000 passengers to various parts of the country. Thousands of migrant workers and their families have been waiting impatiently to go home. The Southern Railway has been steadily increasing the number of passengers being taken in these special trains. While physical distancing is advised for preventing the spread of COVID-19, the passenger capacity is also being increased. A senior official of the Southern Railway said that initially, when the special trains were operated, only 1,000 to 1,100 passengers were accommodated. To ensure physical distancing the middle berths were removed in the sleeper compartments in the 24-coach train. The normal seating capacity in the 24 coaches was around 1,670 passengers. The Southern Railway in the past few days had been increasing the number of passengers in these trains to around 1,400. The railway official said the number of passengers had been increased based on the recommendations of the Indian Railway Board and advisory from health officials. As per the railway board advisory, middle berths had been reintroduced. Railway Protection Force personnel are being deployed in coaches to ensure physical distancing. The railway official said a contingent of 10 to 15 RPF personnel would travel up to Renigunta mainly to assist the passengers in case of emergency and to ensure they kept personal distance. RPF personnel from other zones would take charge from Renigunta.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK abolishes panchayat secy. post||The AIADMK on Tuesday made two major organisational changes — abolition of the panchayat-level secretaries and wholesale removal of all office-bearers of the Information Technology wing. This was announced in separate press releases issued jointly by Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam, Chief Minister-cum-co-coordinator, and Deputy Chief Minister-cum-coordinator, of the party. Though the releases did not give any reason, sources in the party say the two actions had been “under consideration” of the party leadership for “quite sometime.” The party has a secretary for each of 12,525 village panchayats in the State. One of the releases said the panchayat-level secretaries would be given “alternative positions shortly.” The sources say the complaint against them was that they were “blocking branch secretaries from providing candid feedback” about the ground situation to union secretaries. Hereafter, the district unit would have office-bearers only at three levels — district, union and branch. As for the IT wing of the party, all the State-level office-bearers had been relieved of their positions. Instead, zonal secretaries were appointed to look after four zones — Chennai, Vellore, Coimbatore and Madurai. ‘Aspire’ K. Swaminathan, who was State secretary of the IT wing till March 2016, had been given charge of the Chennai zone; M. Kovai Sathyan, spokesperson, of Vellore; Singai G. Ramachandran, also former State secretary of the IT wing of Coimbatore, and V.V.R. Raj Sathyan, the party’s nominee for Madurai in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, of Madurai. Each zone had been allotted at least 10 district units. The Madurai zone would cover 18 district units; Coimbatore – 16, Vellore – 12 and Chennai – 10.
20 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Foundation stone laid for medical college in Tiruvallur||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for the construction of a government medical college at Perumbakkam in Tiruvallur district through video conference. The medical college is to be constructed at a total cost of Rs. 385 crore and would have 150 MBBS seats. While 60% of the funds would be borne by the Centre, the remaining would be borne by the State government, an official release stated. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh were present.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai hits 41 degrees C||As Cyclone Amphan moved further away from the Tamil Nadu region, several areas in and around Chennai sizzled, with the temperature soaring past the 40-degree mark. The weather stations in Chennai and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 41.3 degrees Celsius and 41.4 degree Celsius on Tuesday. Last year, the day temperature touched the month’s highest of 41.5 degrees Celsius on May 3 in the city. Officials said the extremely severe cyclonic storm, Amphan, is likely to move north-northeastwards and cross the West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts by May 20 evening. S.Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said as the weather system moved and took away the moisture, it changed the wind from cool easterlies to dry westerlies. The maximum temperature would gradually increase over the State. Fishermen were asked not to venture into the sea.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TANKER Foundation donates masks||TANKER Foundation donated 7,500 masks to the police force on Tuesday. Georgi Abraham, Founder Trustee, and Latha Kumaraswami, Managing Trustee, TANKER Foundation, handed over the masks to Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan. TANKER and La Renon had made these masks specially for the police.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class X board exams to be held from June 15 to 25||The Class X board examinations have been rescheduled, and will be held from June 15 to 25, Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Tuesday. The exams were originally supposed to be held from June 1 to 12. The earlier schedule had sparked concerns among students and teachers, with many questioning the need to conduct the examinations in early June, especially when there was no clarity on the lockdown situation. “Since the lockdown has now been extended till May 31, we have postponed the exams. Further instructions will be provided in the next few days,” Mr. Sengottaiyan said.  Each classroom will have not more than 10 students writing the exams, and 12,690 centres have been earmarked for the current year. “There is a chance of students attending the exams in the schools where they study,” the Minister said. As per the revised schedule, students will take up the language paper on June 15, English on June 17, Maths on June 19, optional language paper on June 20, science on June 22 and social science on June 24. The exam for the vocational subject will be held on June 25.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temples likely to reopen by June 1||Temples across the State are likely to open their doors to devotees by June 1, with the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department mulling over the issuance of e-passes to devotees. Over 40,000 temples under the control of the Department, as well as private temples, have been functioning during the lockdown with priests and other necessary staff alone. “Individual temples could decide the number of passes to be issued every day. This, we hope, will help restrict the number of visitors and enforce physical distancing, thereby ensuring the safety of all concerned,” said an official source in the Department. Many temples, including the Kapaleeswarar temple in Mylapore, have started webcasting their sayarakshai and pradosham pujas. Devotees can visit https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC06h4eTrorI7eYw5B8aR5Ag, the Thiyagarajaswamy Vadivudaiamman temple’s official YouTube channel, to view Wednesday’s pradosham puja, live, from 4.30 p.m.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant worker found dead||A 42-year-old migrant worker from Odisha was found dead on the Chennai-Kolkata Highway near Kavarapettai on Monday evening. The police identified the victim as Ram Biswas of Lachipeta in Odisha.
20 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ilaiyaraaja’s tech-savvy drummer, R. Purusothaman, dies||R. Purusothaman, the drummer and conductor of maestro Ilayaraja, died here on Tuesday. “He died of blood cancer,” said his elder brother and guitarist R. Chandrasekar. He was 70 and is survived by two sons. Purusothaman, Purus as he was known in the film world, and Mr. Chandrasekar, started working for Ilayaraja from the maestro’s first film Annakili .
20 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||More special trains planned from Coimbatore||Coimbatore district administration plans to operate six or seven more special trains for migrant workers. An official said nearly 21,000 workers have returned to their home States since the service was launched here on May 8. The trains were to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, Assam, Jharkhand and Rajasthan. The administration initially planned for 18 trains, targeting 20,000 migrant workers employed across the district. It was estimated that almost one lakh migrant workers are employed in the district in various sectors. “There are plans for six or seven more trains. Probably another 10,000 workers will be helped to return home,” the official said. The number of workers from States such as Rajasthan or Madhya Pradesh is very less in the district compared to workers from other States. Hence, the trains will be for States from where there are more workers here. Trains will not be operated to West Bengal or Odisha now because of rains in those States, the official said. The Salem Division of the Southern Railway operated two Shramik special trains from Tiruppur Junction and one train from Coimbatore for migrant workers on Tuesday. The 17th Shramik special train from Coimbatore left for Jaipur in Rajasthan on Tuesday. The train had 24 coaches and could accommodate 1,464 passengers. Around 500 migrant workers boarded the train at Coimbatore Railway Station at around 2 p.m., while the rest boarded the train at Salem Junction. This was the first special train bound for Rajasthan that was operated from Coimbatore. J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services, Salem district, said the passengers were screened before they boarded the train in Salem. Necessary arrangements have been made to provide food to the passengers during the journey, revenue officials said. According to officials, 347 passengers from eight districts -Salem, Erode, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, Tirupattur, Krishnagiri, Sivagangai and Chengalpattu - boarded the train from Salem. Though about 800 persons had initially registered for the journey, only 347 turned up for the travel at Salem. Railway officials added that the first train from Tiruppur Junction was bound for Sitamarhi in Bihar, which ferried 1,464 passengers in 24 coaches and left the railway station at 2 p.m. The second train, bound for Hatia Junction in Jharkhand, had 20 Linke Hoffmann Busch (LHB) coaches that ferried 1,600 passengers. The train to Jharkhand left at 6 p.m., officials said. As of Tuesday, eight Shramik special trains - five trains for Bihar and one train for Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh each – have been operated from Tiruppur. (W ith inputs from R. Akileish and Vignesh Vijayakumar )
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||No let up in vigil against COVID-19 in Coimbatore||The Health Department continues its vigil against COVID-19 though Coimbatore district has not recorded any fresh case of the disease for more than two weeks, and there is no containment zone now. The department collects swab samples from people who are having influenza like illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and also pregnant women whose delivery dates are approaching. Around 300 such samples are collected a day and they are subjected to Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)-based COVID-19 test, said an official from Health Department. All Government and private hospitals and clinics report details of people having ILI and SARI to the department which monitor’s their testing. Similarly, hospitals conduct COVID-19 test on pregnant women and the report is sent to the Health Department. People who enter Coimbatore district from other districts and other States are advised to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. In Coimbatore district, the vehicles travelled in by such persons are checked by the police, and staff from Health and Revenue Departments at 24 places, including major inter-State borders such as Walayar. If anyone is found to have fever or symptoms of COVID-19 during such checks, arrangements are made for their test. Others are advised to remain in home quarantine for the stipulated period after collecting their details, said the official. Meanwhile, swab samples are collected from people who come to Tamil Nadu from Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat and they are subjected to COVID-19 test even if they do not have symptoms of the disease. Apart from details collected at check posts, the Government also gets the whereabouts of those who travel from one district to another or enter the State from other States through the details they submit to obtain e-pass for the journey. This is also used for monitoring. According to Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani, who is overseeing COVID-19 management activities, it was the Central Government that should notify if the grading of the district is to be changed from orange to green zone.
20 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Five buses operated in Tiruppur||The Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) started operating on Tuesday five buses for government employees in Tiruppur district. TNSTC officials said the buses were operated from Udumalpet (via Palladam), Avinashi, Dharapuram, Kangeyam and Perundurai (via Kunnathur and Uthukuli) to the district Collectorate at Tiruppur. On Monday, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan addressed a letter to the General Manager of TNSTC Tiruppur Zone requesting for these five buses for the Collectorate employees. On Tuesday, TNSTC began the operation of an additional bus from Pollachi to Coimbatore District Collectorate, taking the total number of buses operated to seven in the district. Two buses were operated from Pollachi and one bus from Mettupalayam, Annur, Karumathampatti, Vadavalli, and Theethipalayam each, TNSTC officials said.
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to enforce safety precautions||In an effort aimed at preventing the spread of COVID-19 and ensuring that the city continues to have zero corona positive cases, the Coimbatore Corporation will deploy officers to make sure that people follow safety precautions. Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath told The Hindu on Tuesday that the civic body would deploy officers across the 100 wards in the city to ensure that people wore masks when they were on streets and maintained physical distance. The Corporation took the decision to ensure that the city was free of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and people continued to adhere to the safety precautions as there seemed to be some laxity in following them. The Corporation’s patrol teams would be similar to the patrol teams that the police deployed to maintain law and order. The vehicles would have public address systems to encourage people to maintain physical distance. And, the officers in the vehicles would hand over masks and also fine violators. The objective was not to fine the violators to shore up revenue, but to ensure that people abided by the safety precautions, he reiterated. Mr. Jatavath also said that he would soon be assigning areas to each officer, who would be patrolling the city in addition to doing their routine work. He also said the Corporation had written to the Coimbatore City Police requesting their help in the effort. Meanwhile, Collector K. Rajamani, in a release, urged people to use masks saying that it was important to maintain the situation that the district had seen no COVID-19 positive case in the last two weeks. Mr. Rajamani said that people entering the district would have to undergo 14-day quarantine and warned of action against those violating the norms.
20 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Taxis operated for essential services||As the lockdown regulations were being relaxed, taxi aggregators resumed their services in Coimbatore city, even though their vehicles are only allowed for essential services. Red Taxi, a taxi aggregator in Coimbatore, said that only 20 % of its vehicles have been plying on the roads from Monday. The taxis accept rides for only essential services, a spokesperson for Red Taxi said. “We are asking our drivers to not accept bookings from customers who are not using the taxi for essential services.” All the drivers have been asked to stick a copy of the government order, according to the spokesperson. A senior officer with Coimbatore City Police said that taxi services are allowed in the city for those essential purposes mentioned by the State government and that drivers using the vehicles for other purposes will be fined. Bike taxi aggregator Rapido also resumed its services in Coimbatore corporation limits on Tuesday. The mobile application will allow bookings only after the customer checks a box consenting that the bike taxi services are used for only essential services. When contacted, a Rapido official confirmed the development, but declined to comment further as an official statement is awaited. The government order issued by the State government on Sunday said, “Rental vehicles and Taxies must be used only for essential services like Agriculture, Business, Medical and Office purposes in these 25 districts (Intra district movement only) without TN e-pass. General public should avoid unnecessary movement from home (sic).”
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman bludgeons husband to death||A 32-year-old woman who took the body of her husband, whom she allegedly bludgeoned to death, to her native place in Salem district for burial was arrested by the police. Her brother-in-law who assisted her was also arrested. A. Priya, a daily wage worker, murdered her husband Annamalai (35) following a quarrel under the influence of alcohol at their house at Periyakuyili near Chettipalayam on Sunday evening. The police said that the woman bludgeoned her husband using a stone. She then sought the help of her sister’s husband K. Selvaraj (35) and the two took the body to Salem district for burial, making everyone believe that the man died of natural causes. Some of the relatives who found injuries on the body raised suspicions about the man’s death. They informed the incident to Magudanchavadi police station. Magundanchavadi police questioned Priya and Selvaraj and found that Annamalai was murdered. On being informed by the Magudanchavadi police, Chettipalayam police went to Salem and arrested the two.
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||House burgled||Unknown persons broke into the house of lottery baron Santiago Martin’s brother Vedhamuthu near Urumandampalayam on Tuesday and decamped with 50 sovereign jewellery. Police said the incident happened around 1 a.m. at the house located in Sri Ragavendra Colony. The burglars, wearing masks and gloves, opened the front door and tied up the housemaid sleeping in the hall and snatched her chain. The gang went to the room where Vedhamuthu and his wife were sleeping. They tied up the couple and took away the jewellery from the shelves.
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Residents oppose woman’s quarantine in a flat||Some residents of an apartment at Peelamedu Pudur here on Monday accused a woman staying there, who returned from Pune on Monday, of violating home quarantine restrictions. Police said the woman, a native of Karur, was doing a professional course in Pune in Maharashtra. She came to Coimbatore along with seven others on Monday. After getting screened at a hospital for COVID-19, she was advised home quarantine and she came to her relative’s flat at Peelamedu Pudur. When some residents of the apartment objected to her staying in the apartment, the Peelamedu police were informed. The police held talks with the residents and the woman. The police said the issue was settled and they did not receive any complaint from the woman or the residents.
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Cases against Maran, Bharathi||The police on Monday registered cases against DMK MPs Dayanidhi Maran and R.S. Bharathi for their remarks deemed offensive to the Scheduled Castes and Tribes. The National Commission for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has sought an action taken report against Mr. Maran in connection with his remarks. The Variety Hall Road police booked Mr. Maran on a complaint from one G. Jeganathan, for remarks made to journalists outside the Secretariat on May 13. Mr. Maran, who had accused Chief Secretary K Shanmugam of humiliating a DMK MP delegation, asked, “Are we third rate citizens? Oppressed?” Meanwhile, the Perur police in Coimbatore rural booked Mr. Bharathi based on a complaint lodged by a man, Rangarajan, who objected to the DMK leader’s comments in February about appointment of judges belonging to the Scheduled Castes during the erstwhile Karunanidhi regime.
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Collector warns of action||District Collector K. Rajamani on Monday warned of action against those who fly kites and damage electricity lines, poles, and transformers. In a press release, the Collector said the number of children flying kites has increased during the lockdown. However, there are also several instances of the kites and the kite threads damaging electricity infrastructure. There is also the risk of the threads hurting those who are walking or riding two wheelers. Those flying kites should take care not to hurt anyone or cause damage to electricity lines. If they fail to do so, action will be taken, he said.
20 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU invites application for convocation||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) has invited applications from its alumni to participate in the 41st annual convocation. A release said alumni or students whose results it had declared before March 31, 2020 were eligible to apply either online atwww.tnau.ac.inor by post after downloading application and instruction from the same website May 20 onwards. Interested candidates should send filled-in applications with other relevant documents (copy of provisional certificate, last semester mark sheet, two recent passport-size photographs and copy of bank remittance made online) by 5 p.m. on July 6.
20 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Effective steps continue to prevent spread of COVID-19 in Erode district||With the last COVID-19 positive case being reported in the district on April 14, the district administration along with the police department, Corporation and other local bodies continue to take effective steps to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the district. The district is one of the first in the State to report a positive case in March. Of the total 70 cases, 69 patients recovered while one elderly person died at the District Headquarters Hospital. The district is currently in the Green Zone. Wearing mask, washing hands with soap and maintaining personal distancing at shops and in markets are being stressed. Besides, people entering the district from other districts are sent to the 14 quarantine centres and are sent home after they tested negative. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that on an average 200 cases were registered against people for not wearing mask while shop keepers were asked to ensure personal distancing among customers. “When people from other district enter the city, police personnel at the check posts alert us and we monitor the persons,” he said. People can provide information on visitors from other districts or States to the Corporation control room at toll free number 1800 4259 4890, he added. Likewise, the public could contact the Collectorate control room at 0424-2260211, toll free number 1077 and WhatsApp number 96773-97600.
20 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special train from Erode to U.P. soon||Work is on to finalise the schedule for a Shramik special train to ferry over 900 migrant workers from Erode to Uttar Pradesh. People from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and other States work in Sipcot, Perundurai, and textile processing units, lorry offices, agriculture and few other sectors in the district. As many as 18,000 workers submitted applications to the district administration last month seeking permission to return home. The numbers dropped to less than 8,000 after most of the industries started functioning last week. Officials said that the administration has prepared a list of workers who will be sent in the first batch to their native places in Uttar Pradesh and a request has been placed before the State Government. Meanwhile, on Monday night, 150 migrant workers from Siruvalur and Kadathur areas were sent to their native villages in five buses, while another 90 workers were sent in buses to Salem from where they boarded train to their hometowns in Rajasthan. All the workers were screened for fever.
20 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Student dies of cardiac arrest||A 16-year-old polytechnic student suffered cardiac arrest here on Monday. The police said that K. Satheesh Kumar of Kamala Nagar in Karungalpalayam in the city was playing an online game in his mobile when he suffered cardiac arrest and fell onto the ground. He died on the spot. His father S. Kumar lodged a complaint with the Karungalpalayam police that there is no suspicion over his death. The body was taken to the District Headquarters Hospital and postmortem was conducted on Tuesday and the body was handed over to the relatives. A case under Section 174 CrPC was registered.
20 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Are more people entering T.N. from Karnataka border ?||While the inter-State border in Athibelle along Hosur-Karnataka border remains fortified, with the Karnataka police disallowing entry into that State even for those with e-passes with the exception of those willing to undergo institutional quarantine, the rules are clearly not the same for the entrants from Karnataka into Tamil Nadu. Hotspots Krishnagiri district has seen scores of fresh arrivals, mostly residents, who had travelled into Karnataka during the lockdown or were stranded in hotspots such as Chennai. Various parts of Krishnagiri town, in the past week, has seen a host of fresh arrivals. Most of them are residents returning home with the easing down of the lockdown. However, fresh arrivals in certain parts of the town have not witnessed follow up by authorities. The practice followed is that of “self-reporting” of new arrivals as opposed to follow up by authorities who are meant to co-ordinate with the staff monitoring the border checkposts. However, self-reporting even for home quarantine is seen to be less effective. Over the last two months, the control room has received 37 calls self-reporting arrivals, while 532 were calls made by neighbours alerting authorities to new arrivals. In the last week, with the ease up on the restrictions, the control room has received 45 calls, none self-reported. A revenue official in charge of contact tracing told The Hindu that the officials were relying on e-passes, where the data is passed onto the control room and from there the local team is alerted. Institutional quarantine “Based on e-passes, we have quarantined 1,052 persons from other States, and 3,483 persons from other districts. We insist on institutional quarantine of seven days for entrants from Maharashtra,” said the official. However, no such quarantine is mandated for those entering from hotspots such as Chennai. “It is difficult to verify and detect, when people travel in their own vehicles,” says the official. The porous nature of the border screening was evident, when the district reported its first two cases of COVID positive cases. The two persons had returned from Maharashtra in a hired vehicle during the third week of April and reached their home in a gated community in Hosur in the early hours of the morning. They had managed to get past the checkpost with the Maharashtra registration plate. However, the residents of the gated community woke up to see a car with the registration plate and alerted the authorities. The District Collector S. Prabhakar told The Hindu that there were ample communications in this regard to the public to self report their arrivals into the district. Toll free number Further to the communication, the Collector issued a fresh release urging the public to call 04343-230044; 04343-234444 and the administration’s toll free number 1077.
20 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Few or no COVID-19 cases recorded in clusters’||Areas which were previously identified as clusters in Madurai district now had a few or no active cases, said Collector T.G. Vinay. The four clusters in Madurai district were Sellur and Vandiyur in the district’s urban limit and Elumalai and Melur in the rural limit. According to a government order issued on May 4, a cluster is determined if an area has five or more cases. The Collector said that Melur municipality, which was recognised as a cluster, now did not have any active cases. The ‘index case' or the first identified person of a group of people testing positive for COVID-19 had been discharged, the Collector said. He added that all contacts of this case had also been discharged. “The only positive cases from Melur are from the rural areas,” he said. The Collector added that there were two ‘imported cases’ in Elumalai. They returned from Mumbai. Deputy Director, Health Services, Priya Raj, said that last month, there had been an extensive surveillance in areas marked as clusters. Over time, the cases had predominantly been sporadic, she said, adding though there were many cases identified in Melamadai area around two months ago, there had been a steep fall in the number of cases here too. She said that a mass discharge of 19 patients from Government Rajaji Hospital took place on May 16, when most active cases from Sellur too were discharged, she said. An official from the Corporation said there were three positive cases from Sellur area at the moment but they were not part of the area which was initially designated as a cluster. The area was monitored by health officials, disinfectants was sprayed thrice a day and vitamin and zinc tablets were distributed. Dr. Priya Raj said they would continue to take maximum number of samples from the district until there were no cases.
20 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vitamin tablets given to residents||Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inaugurated the distribution of vitamin tablets and kabasura kudineer powder to the members of residents' welfare associations on Tuesday, as a measure to boost their immunity to fight COVID-19. The Commissioner distributed these immunity boosters to the residents on behalf of four residents’ welfare association - Dharma Sastha Vihar Residents' Welfare Association of Muniyandipuram, Agrini Residents' Welfare Association of Andalpuram, Ramnagar Residents' Welfare Association of S.S Colony and Shanthi Sadan Apartments Residents' Welfare Association of Kochadai. Mr. Visakan said that it was difficult to identify people who are infected with COVID-19 and hence, a good immune system is essential to fight the infection. “Intake of vitamin C , zinc and homeopathy tablets can help in boosting the immunity of residents. Kabasura Kudineer is also said to improve immunity,” he added. He said that the Corporation has planned to distribute the tablets for free to one lakh households of 142 identified and 189 unidentified slums within the city. “There are around four lakh households under the civic body's purview. It was difficult to provide these tablets for free to all the residents in the city. Hence, all residents' welfare associations must procure these tablets and kabasura kudineer powder and distribute them to their members,” he urged. He also said that the civic body had deployed public addressing systems at 20 locations in the city to spread awareness about COVID-19.
20 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rural salons reopen, precautionary measures in place||After a gap of several weeks, salons in rural parts of Tamil Nadu reopened on Tuesday as part of the relaxation of lockdown curbs. M. Venkateswaran, who runs a barber shop in Matharai village in Madurai district, said the shop had remained closed since March 24, resulting in the loss of his only source of income. “It is a big relief to finally be able to open the shop. I had eight customers on Tuesday and earned a decent income after a long time,” he said. “But it was difficult to avoid physical contact while giving a haircut or a shave to the customer,” he said, adding, “To the extent possible, I tried to ensure that there was at least a one-foot distance between me and the customer.” M. Irulappan, a barber from Thuvariman village, said he disinfected his shop after each visit by a customer, as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. “I allowed only one customer to enter the shop at a time. Visitors were asked to wash their hands before entering the shop. I also told them that it was mandatory to wear a face mask before entering the premises,” he said. M. Prasanth, who runs a salon in Oomachikulam, said he had 10 towels available and ensured that each of them was used by only one customer. “At the end of each working day, I will thoroughly wash them using a disinfectant,” he said. He has decided not to offer a shaving service. “If a customer wants to have a shave, he has to remove his mask, which is risky. After hearing about cases of barbers testing positive for COVID-19, I have decided to take all necessary safety precautions,” he added.  It was difficult to avoid physical contact while giving a haircut or a shave to the customerM. VenkateswaranA barber
20 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cop killed||A Railway Police Force constable C. Maheswaran, 35 of Meyyanampatti, working in Madurai, was killed when a speeding car hit the motorbike on which he was riding near Andipatti pass on Tuesday. Police said he wasbrought dead to Government Rajaji Hospital.
20 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Probe begins||Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani said a preliminary inquiry into an alleged corruption charge against a staff at the hospital has been initiated on Tuesday. On Monday, an activist belonging to Makkal Satta Urimai Iyakkam S. Jeganesan complained to officials at the GRH about a staff collecting a bribe of Rs. 400 outside the labour ward. He said the staff sought the bribe from a relative of a woman who had delivered a baby. The activist said that he had petitioned the Dean on Tuesday morning seeking action to be taken against the staff. Dr. Sangumani said a team of doctors from the administration were involved in the inquiry and were preparing a report on the incident.
20 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hacked to death||In a drunken brawl between two friends, one of them was murdered near Melur in Madurai district on Monday night. Police said a fight erupted between M. Sivakumar, 45, and M. Prabhu, 24, over a dispute involving money after they consumed liquor at Sukkampatti. Prabhu took a machete from a cattle shed and hacked Sivakumar to death. Melur police are investigating.
20 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Illegal liquor bottles seized||Since the beginning of lockdown, the Namakkal district police have seized over 12,000 illegal liquor bottles. According to police, from March 25 to May 17, they have registered 307 cases against 333 persons for indulging in illegal sales of liquor. Police have also seized 12,928 liquor bottles stocked for illegal sales. They also seized and destroyed 516 litres of toddy, 308 litres of illicit arrack and 6,269 litres of fermented wash. Police also seized 33 vehicles used by miscreants for illegal sales. District Police Superintendent Ara. Arularasu said that those involved in distilling and sales of illicit liquor would be detained under Goondas Act.
20 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Uncertainty over opening of IMFL outlets in Pondy||Uncertainty prevails over the opening of the Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) outlets in the Union Territory on Wednesday. Liquor shops were closed for around 60 days due to the lockdown. The Cabinet on Monday decided to levy 50% tax on alcohol as “special corona fee,” and also permitted takeaways at IMFL outlets from 9 a.m to 7 p.m, starting Wednesday. A senior official in the Revenue Department told The Hindu that the decision to levy tax and re-open the outlets was yet to be notified. “The Cabinet decision was forwarded to the Lt. Governor for approval and notification. We can allow the shops to open only after the gazette notification,” the official said. Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Tuesday said she was closely “scrutinising” the Cabinet decision to re-open IMFL outlets. “I have received the file just now. And is being closely scrutinised,” she said in a WhatsApp message to a query from The Hindu .
20 May 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram Collector takes stock of damaged boats at Mandapam||Taking stock of the damage suffered by boats anchored at Mandapam, Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao on Tuesday said he would submit a detailed report to the State government seeking relief for fishermen. On Sunday night, following an IMD warning about Amphan cyclone, fishermen were advised to stay off sea. The anchored boats, including mechanised, country and fibre vessels, and vallams, were damaged in heavy winds that lasted over an hour. Some boats suffered damage due to collision with each other, fishermen and boat owners said. The Collector, accompanied by Deputy Director, Fisheries, M.V. Prabhavathi, Assistant Directors T. Yuvaraj and V. Abdul Khader Jailani and Tahsildars V. Murugavel and Abdul Jabbar, inspected the damages. Explaining the extent of repairs to be undertaken, fishermen association leaders also appealed to the Collector to get relief for them at the earliest and full compensation as they had no money to spend. Due to the pandemic, fishermen stayed indoors. Barring small and tiny fishermen, a majority of them depended on government relief so far. Spending money from their own pocket for the repairs meant borrowing from private money lenders, said Rayappan, a fisherman. Huge catch With Ramanathapuram district topping the fisheries sector in the State, the officials said they would certainly impress upon the government and get full relief for the fishers at the earliest. The district, which accounted for 237 km of coastal stretch, recorded a huge catch of 1.46 lakh metric tonnes of fish in 2019. As many as 1,500 mechanised boats, 4,500 country boats and other small vessels were used by the fishermen to net the catch, a press release said. Fishing was a major activity, next to agriculture, in the district, it pointed out. Port officials hoisted the second cage on Saturday, signalling to fishermen to stay off sea. With the COVID-19 pandemic, the government extended the curfew till May 30 and, hence, the fishermen expected early relief to repair their damaged boats.
20 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Pharmacies booked following youth’s death||Officials from the Department of Drug Control have registered a case against two pharmacies here in connection with the death of a youth from drug overdose. Police said that Ajith Kumar (17) of Annadhanapatti died after he allegedly injected himself with sedative tablets dissolved in water. Annadhanapatti police have registered a case. S. Gurubharathi, Assistant Director of Drugs Control, Salem Zone, said, “A case has been registered against two pharmacies, one in Kondalampatti and another in Thadagapatti for misuse of about 26 drugs including sleep-inducing pills and other psychotic drugs. The pharmacy in Thadagapatti had purchased these drugs without bills and had supplied it to the pharmacy in Kondalampatti. The Kondalampatti pharmacy has operated as the main contact point in the area for sale of such drugs without prescription or bills. The staff at the Kondalampatti pharmacy had allegedly sold these drugs without the knowledge of the pharmacy owner.” Mr. Gurubharathi said that a case has been registered under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act against the two pharmacies and necessary action was being taken. Officials have also sealed three pharmacies in Salem and one in Namakkal for selling medicines over the counter. As part of COVID-19 preventive measures, the department is also collecting details of persons buying fever medicines from pharmacies here ever day.
20 May 2020||Special Correspondent Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions stage protest in Coimbatore||Migrant workers and members of CITU staged protests in nearly 60 places in Coimbatore district on Tuesday demanding additional trains for the workers to return home. The number of migrant workers in Coimbatore is high and hence the number of trains operated should be more, the protesters said. Members of AITUC staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate against the changes in labour laws.
20 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||A positive impact on street dwellers||The pandemic, which has had a negative impact on the economy of the world, seems to have had a positive impact on a group of street dwellers here. Over 100 people, who used to spend their life at public places in the town, were picked up and lodged at a special camp set up at a government college near the new bus stand during the last week of March when the lockdown was enforced. Immediately, their personal appearance changed for the better with hairdressing and supply of new clothes. As days rolled on, their day-to-day activities have undergone a change thanks to efforts of Renewal Foundation, a non-governmental organisation. The street dwellers realised the importance of personal hygiene and learned to lead a happy life by remaining united with others. Slowly they learnt to keep the environment neat and tidy and came forward enthusiastically to plant and rear saplings on the college premises to make their stay at the special camp fruitful. “The change in their lifestyle had indeed made some realise their mistake of detaching themselves from their near and dear ones,” said Veeramani of Renewal Foundation. Last week, a woman, who had left her house at Needamangalam in a fit of rage over a domestic issue a few months ago and brought to the camp along with others, preferred to go back to her home. Subsequently, she got reunited with her family. Stating that efforts were being initiated to fulfil the aspirations of some other destitute persons to get reunited with their near and dear, he said the organisation was planning to identify safe and secure place of stay for these persons post lockdown as it did not want them to be left back on the roads again.
20 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers say ‘no’ to DBT||Delta farmers are upset over the Centre’s advice to adopt Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) instead of free power supply. S. Ranganathan, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, said any move to make farmers pay for use of electricity for their pump sets would increase the cost of cultivation and suggested that one way to nullify this effect was providing proper provisioning for power charges in the minimum support price declared by the governments every season. Increasing the MSP by 10 or 15 % on a regular basis would prevent farmers sliding into financial crisis, he said. G. Sethuraman, president, Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam, Tiruvarur, said collecting annual fixed charges per HP, a system proposed by the State government in the past, might be considered with major portion contributed as a subsidy by the State government along with a considerable annual increase in MSP. Arupathy P.Kalyanam, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Associations in Cauvery Delta Districts, said replacing the existing scheme with the DBT would add burden to the government machinery.
20 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Desilting work to be expedited||Earth-movers are to be brought from nearby districts to expedite desilting work in delta districts. Public Works Department officials said 130 earth-movers have been deployed for desilting and ‘kudimaramathu’ works taken up in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts. Since it had been planned to complete these works before release of water for irrigation from Mettur dam, 100 additional earth-movers would be brought from nearby districts. The State government had allocated Rs. 67.42 crore this year for taking up desilting of rivers and other water bodies to ensure proper supply of water for irrigation. While 165 works at a cost of Rs. 22.92 crore would be taken up in Thanjavur district, 106 works would be implemented at a cost of Rs. 22.56 crore in Tiruvarur district, 80 in Nagapattinam district at an outlay of Rs. 16.72 crore, nine in Pudukottai district at a cost of Rs. 1.74 crore, 20 in Tiruchi district at Rs. 1.76 crore, 11 in Karur at a cost of Rs. 1.38 crore and one in Ariyalur district at an estimate of Rs. 16 lakhs. Besides, 337 works have been identified under ‘kudimaramthu’ scheme in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Pudukottai districts. These works would be taken up at an outlay of Rs. 96.29 crores.
20 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,TAMIL NADU||Community role vital now, says Kerala CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday flagged community transmission as the emergent threat to the State’s COVID-19 containment strategy. The increase in the number of arrivals from abroad and other regions, including epidemic hotspots, in the country had caused an upsurge in SARS-CoV-2 positive cases. The situation required the active involvement of the community to prevent the spread of the disease. Elected panchayat and municipal members should form committees at the ward level. They should tour neighbourhoods and ensure the safety and welfare of persons in quarantine. Moreover, the committee members should fan out across neighbourhoods and persuade citizens to wear masks, observe social distance, wash their hands, and disinfect commercial premises. The committees have to ensure that aged persons and children under the age of ten are kept apart from persons quarantined at home. The Health and Police Departments should prepare a repository of the details of persons in quarantine in their respective jurisdictions. The police detected 2,036 cases of persons venturing out into the open without wearing masks. They found that 14 persons jumped home quarantine. The police would soon start levying fines on such violators. He said the panchayat and municipal watch system would spearhead the State’s pandemic prevention strategy. Their role and responsibilities would increase as the fourth phase of the COVID-19 lockdown progressed. The police and health authorities would assist them. Mr. Vijayan said wayside eateries could not serve food to customers. He did not specify about tea stalls. However, he reiterated that restaurants and eateries could only serve food as takeaways. Online classes The Chief Minister said private teaching centres should desist from offering on-premise tuition to students. They could teach students online. Hospitals should curb the rush of patients. He said textile shops, including multistoreyed ones, could open for business. But parents should leave children behind at home when they go shopping. Wholesale cloth showrooms and studios could open for business. The government could not allow people to travel crammed into private vehicles.
20 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat ward member murdered||Tension prevails in South Peikulam near Sattankulam in the district after a village panchayat ward member was murdered on Monday night. Police said M. Jayakumar, 38, an autorickshaw driver of South Peikulam, was the 6th ward member of Srivenkateswarapuram village panchayat under Alwarthirunagari panchayat union. He also had a shop in the village. When he was standing near his shop on Monday night, an eight-member armed gang that came on four motorcycles hacked him to death. Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan inspected the scene of crime. During investigation, the police found that Jayakumar, who had married a girl from another community a few years ago, had earned the enmity of a few people during the local body election. The police picked up one Stalin, president of Peikulam Traders’ Association, and Periyasamy, president of Venkateswarapuram village panchayat, for interrogation on Monday midnight, and the traders shut down their shops on Tuesday in protest. After releasing them on Tuesday morning, the police have picked up five others in connection with the murder.
20 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Textile traders fear loss of business||With no relaxation in sight for re-opening of air-conditioned textile showrooms before Ramzan, textile traders here are faced with the prospect of losing an important business season. According to sources, Ramzan sale accounts for about 25% of total business in a year. Many textile traders say that it is second best business season next to Deepavali. Traders, who were yet to open their showrooms since the imposition of lockdown on March 25, expected that the State government would permit them to resume their business with limited staff since May 18 so as to make use of the Ramzan demand. But there was no word on allowing resumption of trade by air-conditioned textile show rooms in cities. The absence of relief for textile showrooms in non-containment zones has disappointed the traders. Expecting brisk business in the Ramzan month, major retail textile showrooms in Tiruchi had stocked up their clothings and ready-made garments. They had devised business strategies to make use of the shopping season between April and May. Showrooms in Tiruchi receive customers not only from nearby districts but also from Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka and most of the Gulf countries in April and May. Only a handful of small time shops and roadside shops on Big Bazaar Street, Singarathope and Super Bazaar have opened shop while medium and large scale showrooms on NSB Road, Chinnakadai Street, Big Bazaar, West Boulevard Road and others remained closed. With just about five days to go for Ramzan, traders are keeping their fingers crossed. “It is really a tough time. The stark reality is that we have lost an important business season. We have remained closed for the past two months but we have to pay our overheads. In spite of severe strain on the finance, we have paid salary to all our employees,” said M. Roshan, Managing Director, Sarathas, Tiruchi. At least 10 showrooms in Tiruchi employ 500 to 1,500 persons. For showrooms that employed more than 1000 persons, the salary component alone runs into crores of rupees. It is said that except a few, many of them have paid salary for March and April. They are under pressure to foot the salary bill for May too without any work for their employees. Traders are of the view that the State government could have given at least conditional permission to resume business from May 18. It could have facilitated them to identify sources to meet the May salary bill, they say. “Being a large scale showroom, we face a number of problems. Pressure is mounting as we need to take care of unavoidable and standard expenditure. More importantly, we have to work hard to regain the business momentum,” said R. Muthukumaran, General Manager, Pothys, Tiruchi. Mr. Roshan feels that social distancing norms are here to stay for some time and traders are aware of it. Taking into account various aspects of safeguarding the industry, the government could devise a social distancing mechanism and safety protocol for textile showrooms. The traders were willing to cooperate with the government, he said.
20 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tourism industry seeks government support||With the tourism industry expected to take a long time to recover from the blow dealt by the pandemic, travel and tourism trade in the region is looking up to the government for some urgent financial support to stay afloat. It has been disappointed on “being ignored” in the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic package and hopes that the government would soon take note of its critical situation and come out with appropriate relief. In a recent representation to the Union Finance Minister and others, the Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) expressed shock over absence of any relief to the sector in the package. The travel and tourism trade provided direct employment to over 12% of the workforce in the country but yet no relief has been given to it, the association said but expressed confidence that the Centre would soon come to their aid. “The industry has been badly affected due to the lockdown. Most of us are facing a severe cash crunch as refunds from airlines are not coming through. Airlines are resorting to credit vouchers by asking passengers to travel at a later date. But this is not accepted by many customers who demand cash. Besides, we are struggling to pay salaries to our employees. We are badly in need of some urgent support in the form of interest-free loans and moratorium on loan repayments to stay afloat,” said S.Jaffer Sadiq, chairman, TAAI, south Tamil Nadu Chapter. The major demands put forward by the TAAI in its representation to the Centre include refunds for cancellation with waivers and advances of travel agents and tour operators from all airlines; a support fund/contribution towards payment of salaries and meeting establishment costs including electricity bills for a minimum of six months; waiver of statutory liabilities such as GST for a year; tax holiday and enhancement of working capital limits or overdrafts, free of interest and collaterals. “The tourism industry is a significant contributor towards the GDP but the sector is considered a luxury. Starting from roadside restaurants, tour guides, vendors to mid-sized travel agent firms, tour operators and restaurants like star hotels and transport companies belong to this industry and contribute to the economy. The livelihood of people involved in all these areas has been hit hard by the pandemic,” said G.Ravichandran, treasurer,Tamil Nadu Tour, Travel and Hospitality Association. Being an industry with minimum profit margins, it may take up to two years for the industry to recover fully, Mr.Ravichandran said. “We are not seeking freebies. We demand policies that would help the industry such as loans at concessional rates, equity infusions and tax relief,” he added.
20 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||11 more test positive||Eleven more persons tested positive for COVID 19 in central districts on Tuesday. Karur and Thanjavur districts recorded six and three cases respectively while Tiruchi and Nagapattinam registered one case each. According to sources, all 6 persons, who tested positive for COVID-19 in Karur, had returned from Maharashtra. Upon reaching their homes at Pallapatti near Aravakurichi on Monday, swab samples were lifted from them. After testing positive, they were admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Theranirajan, Dean, Karur Government Medical College Hospital, said that all patients were asymptomatic and they were doing well. The lone person, who tested positive for the virus in Tiruchi district on Tuesday, belonged to Woraiyur in the city. An employee of a private factory in Perambalur, he had visited the town for attending work. He is said to be responding well to the treatment. Collector S. Sivarasu said that the number of persons being treated in the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital had gone up to 20 with the addition of one more case. Of them, five patients were from Tiruchi district. Remaining 15 patients were from Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. Meanwhile, six persons of Karur and two from Pudukottai district, who were undergoing treatment after they tested positive for COVID-19 recently, were discharged from hospitals in the region on Tuesday. Two persons, who were discharged from the Government Hospital in Pudukottai on Tuesday, were from Illupur and Viralimalai taluks. Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari said that the discharged persons had been asked to be in home quarantine for seven days. A 24-year-old man from Kulathur taluk, who had returned from Maldives, was the only one undergoing treatment at the Pudukottai Government Hospital. Six persons, who had undergone treatment for the last two weeks after being tested positive for COVID-19, were discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. They were from Pallapatti and Karur areas. With this, the number of persons, who are still undergoing treatment at the KGMCH, has gone down to 26.
20 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New bridge planned across Kollidam||The State Highways Department is readying a proposal for construction of an overbridge, to a length of about one km, across the Kollidam connecting Kilikoodu near Kallanai with Edayathumangalam for access for people from Lalgudi to Srirangam, Tiruchi and Tiruverumbur areas. People on both sides of the river had been seeking a low-level causeway as the travel distance could be cut down drastically for the workforce from Lalgudi commuting to BHEL and ancillary industries in Tiruverumbur-Thuvakudi area. Now, they are required to take a detour and travel via Valadi, No.1 Toll Gate, Chennai Bypass Road, Ariyamangalam and Kattur. The overbridge would cut down the distance to the extent of at least 20 km. An Assembly Committee had espoused the cause of residents on both sides for a causeway several years ago. But the project was put in cold storage. Residents say that another reason for the delay was the priority accorded by the governments for the overbridge across the Kollidam near Poondi. The department has acknowledged the need for construction of an overbridge instead of causeway between Kilikoodu and Edayathumangalam in view of potential for substantial movement of vehicular traffic, sources said. Though Panayapuram, Uttamarseeli and Kilikoodu are in Srirangam taluk, the residents say road connectivity to Lalgudi would be of immense convenience. While Srirangam is located more than 15 km away, the distance from Kilikoodu to Lalgudi would be less than five km. People from these villages would rather go to the taluk government hospital at Lalgudi rather than taking the trouble of travelling till Srirangam, a resident said. According to A. Soundarapandian, MLA of Lalgudi, the Highways Department had formulated the project at an estimate of Rs. 70 crore. The need for people in Lalgudi town to take a circuitous route to Srirangam and Tiruchi city would be obviated if the overbridge is constructed, he said.
20 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Another batch of migrants return||Another batch of 494 Tamil Nadu labourers, who had been working in Maharashtra, arrived here by a special train from Pune on Tuesday. The labourers had registered themselves in the government portal expressing their desire to get back to Tamil Nadu. The district administration made arrangements for their transport by special buses to their native districts from here. The labourers were from 24 districts including 25 from Tiruchi district. Soon upon their arrival, the labourers were guided to special buses by ensuring personal distancing. A total of 12 buses were arranged to take the labourers to their respective districts including Ariyalur, Coimbatore, Dindigul, Erode, Karaikal, Karur, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Perambalur, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Thanjavur, Theni, Tiruvarur, Salem and Villupuram. Collector S. Sivarasu who was present at the railway station monitored the transport of labourers by buses to their respective districts. The 25 labourers from Tiruchi district were taken to the Government Polytechnic College at Sethurapatti near here and kept under quarantine for 14 days. The labourers were screened for COVID-19 and provided with food, a press release said.
20 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||More cases from Maharashtra come to southern districts||Tirunelveli district reported 20 more COVID–19 positive cases on Tuesday, with the total number of cases touching 226. Tenkasi’s tally touched 72 with the addition of two fresh cases. These cases were from Maharashtra. In Thoothukudi, the total number of positive cases rose to 91 with the addition of six cases. Of the new cases, five were from Maharashtra. Sixty people are undergoing treatment at Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital now. Kanniyakumari’s tally touched 49 as five positive cases, including two from Maharashtra and one from the Maldives, were detected on Tuesday. Now, 32 patients are under treatment at Asaripallam. One person who came from Maharastra tested positive in Virudhunagar district, taking its toll to 55. The man came with three others, all from Sivaganga, from Mahatrastra in a car. He finally came to his house at Kattanur. With 37 persons having been discharged, the total active cases now stands at 18. Madurai No one tested positive in Madurai district on Tuesday. In the one week since May 12, there have been 42 fresh cases, and 15 of them returned from Maharashtra and one from Karnataka. Fifty-three people are undergoing treatment and no one was discharged on Tuesday.
20 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur in safe zone, says Collector||“The number of cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) is coming down in Tiruppur District. That means we are in a safe zone,” Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said on Tuesday. Despite this, and with no fresh COVID-19 cases for the past 17 days, the district administration continues to maintain vigil, he said. The district saw a total of 114 COVID-19 cases, all of whom recovered. The last of the fresh cases was reported on May 2, and there was no active case after May 11. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that persons coming from outside the State were immediately placed under home quarantine and their swab samples lifted. Samples were also being lifted from those who entered from other districts and showed symptoms of COVID-19, those with ILI and SARI and pregnant women and they were placed in home quarantine. The number of persons under home quarantine rose from 941 on May 2 to 1,834 on May 18. However, the test results of the swab samples returned negative, including those of the people who had come from other States, he said. The Collector said strict enforcement of containment zones curbed the spread of COVID-19. Of the 114 cases, 112 were from the containment zones. The other two were returnees from the Koyambedu market in Chennai. With two weeks having gone by without any fresh case, all 32 containment zones in the district were released as of Tuesday, he said. The COVID-19 PCR testing laboratory at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital was functional from May 9, which allowed samples to be tested within the district. According to hospital Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, an average of 70 swab samples were being tested in the laboratory every day using the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) testing method. “We are in the process of recruiting more personnel,” she said, as the laboratory had only three medical personnel working on an eight-hour shift.
20 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested||Tiruppur South police on Tuesday arrested four men on charges of allegedly planning for dacoity. Maharaja, Kabilarasan, Guna and Eswaran were allegedly planning to rob multiple shops within the Tiruppur South police station limits, police said. The accused were booked under Section 399 (Making preparation to commit dacoity) of the Indian Penal Code and were remanded in judicial custody.
20 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Quick action helped control spread in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris has recorded only 14 COVID-19 cases so far, with 12 of them having completely recovered. The quick action of the district administration in closing the district’s borders to inter-State travellers when the first case was being reported in the State, as well as a strict monitoring policy of drivers delivering goods to places outside the district ensured that the number of cases remained low. The district administration had announced that the district would be closed to tourists on March 17 itself, with tourist attractions being shut down with immediate effect. The Nilgiris District Collector, J.Innocent Divya, said there were only two active COVID-19 cases in the district, with one being a driver who went to the Koyambedu Market in Chennai, and another woman a primary contact of one of the four drivers who also visited the same market and tested positive. The district administration also began testing drivers of goods vehicles delivering vegetables and supplies to other districts, including the 43 drivers who visited the market in Chennai. At present, there was only one containment zone in the district in Kil Kolikarai. Standard protocols that were in place across the State stipulating home quarantine for people returning from other districts and institutional quarantine for those returning from other states and hotspots would be followed, officials said.
20 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Warning||Civil Supplies-CID has warned against irregularities in quantity of essential goods supplied to family cardholders free of cost through PDS. Information on irregularities, hoarding and smuggling can be given to SP, Madurai Region, on 94981-04441 or DSP – 94981-04527. People in Virudhunagar can contact Inspector of Police – 83000-64001 and Sub-Inspector of Police – 94891-83910.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Anna Park might not be opened for public||The Anna Park in Yercaud might not be opened any time soon for public, however, about five lakh flowers have been readied at the site. The Anna Park is the major venue of the annual flower show hosted in Yercaud and the park has remained closed since the beginning of nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease. Authorities from the horticulture department started readying the park since January and flowers have started to bloom. As part of creating awareness among the public, the officials here have arranged flower pots to spread the message ‘Stay Home, Stay Safe’. A floral arrangement in the shape of a peacock has also been set up at the park. Meenakshi Sundaram, Assistant Director, horticulture department, said that about 10,000 flower pots were arranged as part of the flower show this and flower beds with exotic varieties have also been set up. According to officials, nearly 35 flower varieties including marigold, french salvia, aster, dianthus, ornamental kale, verbena, hydrangea, impassium balsam, disco belle, lisianthus and others were arranged for the flower. Officials said that seeds of some varieties were brought from Kolkata and pots were set up here. Nearly five lakh flowers, including flower beds with varieties like dahlia, dianthus and others have started to bloom in the park. Generally, five floral structures are set up as part of the flower show. In terms of readying the plants, the park is in a ready state and further steps would be planned based on decision regarding conducting annual summer festival, they added.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Double-edged impact of westerlies unfolds in southern districts||With the westerlies expected to start trending towards southern districts in a fortnight, heralding the onset of southwest monsoon, power managers and plaintain growers find themselves at opposite poles of nature’s effect. The strong winds will set the windmills rotating — leading to adequate generation of power — and bring relief to officials at Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO). At the same time, the gales have already flattened plantain crops cultivated in a few hundred acres in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi districts, leaving cultivators in distress. It is in May that the westerlies begin to blow across the southern districts in Tamil Nadu and foretell the arrival of the southwest monsoon in neighbouring Kerala and along the Western Ghats. Hence, TANGEDCO is now getting an average of 1,500 MW green power from windmills in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts. It is expected to cross 3,000 MW when wind turbines along Aralvaimozhi Pass in Kanniyakumari district also get into the act. No wonder, there is jubilation in TANGEDCO circles. However, banana growers in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts are a gloomy lot. The worst-hit are farmers in the ‘banana basket’ of Tirunelveli district — a lengthy stretch between Thirukkurunkudi and Cheranmahadevi near the Western Ghats. Here, the swirling winds have fractured over 30,000 plantain crop with bunches, which will be ready for harvest within a couple of months. On receiving information about the situation, Tahsildar of Cheranmahadevi Kanagaraj visited the affected fields at Pillaikulam, Ulagankulam, Odaikkarai and a few more areas. “The banana growers of the region have lost bunch-laden crop that was ready for harvest in August. Since we have suffered a huge loss, the government should give us due compensation,” said P. Perumbadaiyar of Thirukkurunkudi. Banana growers of Surandai and surrounding areas too have suffered extensive crop loss in nearly 50 acres. In Thoothukudi, farmers have lost over two lakh plantain trees in Koottaampuli, Kulaiyankarisal, Sivaththaiyapuram, Sivagnanapuram, Sawyerpuram, Veeranaickenthattu, Kaalaankarai and Aththimarapatti. They had appealed to the State government to release water from Papanasam Dam to save the standing crop. And Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami ordered the release of 400 cusecs of water from the reservoir for 17 days in May last. They were confident of a good yield only to have their hopes dashed by the roaring westerlies. Accordign to horticulture officials, 580 farmers from Thoothukudi, Thenthiruperai, Seithunganallur and Srivaikundam blocks have lost plantain crop cultivated in over 175 hectares and papaya grown in two hectares. “We will submit a report to the government seeking compensation to farmers who have suffered a huge loss,” said an official.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Spike takes Tamil Nadu past 12,000 cases||The third, an 82-year-old man from Chennai, was admitted to RGGGH on May 11 and died on May 18 due to respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. The State’s recovery rate now stands at 39%, with a total of 4,895 persons discharged so far. This includes 489 persons who were discharged on Tuesday. There are 7,466 active cases, and 4,775 individuals suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are lodged in isolation wards. While Chennai topped the table with 552 cases, Chengalpattu reported 22 more cases and Tiruvallur eight cases. There were five cases in Kancheepuram, three in Thanjavur, two each in Kanniyakumari and Ramanathapuram, and one each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Nagapattinam, Ranipet, Theni, Thoothukudi and Tiruchi. Twenty-three persons, who arrived on a flight from Dubai on Monday, and one person who returned from the Maldives, have tested positive for COVID-19. Another 13 persons, who arrived by flights from Dubai, Kuwait and Malaysia and were in airport quarantine, tested positive during the exit test conducted on Tuesday. Earlier, they had tested negative for the infection. Till now, 54 persons who returned from other countries have tested positive, while 18 passengers, who initially tested negative, turned positive for COVID-19 during exit screening after seven days. Apart from this 49 persons, who arrived in various parts of the State from Maharashtra, and one person from Kerala, have also tested positive. Of the 49 persons, 20 tested positive in Tirunelveli, 10 in Kallakurichi, six in Karur, five in Thoothukudi, two each in Dindigul, Kanyakumari and Tenkasi, and one each in Cuddalore and Virudhunagar. Another 38 children aged 0 to 12 and 63 persons aged above 60 have tested positive in the State. The number of samples tested stood at 10,333, while the number of persons tested was 9,844. The total number of samples tested so far in the State is 3,48,174. Two more testing facilities were approved - the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Namakkal and VRR Diagnostics, Chennai. With this, there are 63 testing facilities in the State. Among those who had returned to the State in trains, the samples of 713 passengers is under process. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||419 persons arrive in Tirunelveli by special train||A total of 419 persons arrived from Pune in a special train at the railway junction here on Tuesday. Waiting officials from the districts took the passengers comprising 239 (Tirunelveli), 72 (Tenkasi), 64 (Thoothukudi) 16 (Kanniyakumari) 26 (Virudhunagar) and two (Ramanathapuram) with them. The passengers from Tirunelveli were divided into two groups and taken to isolation wards in Government Siddha Medical College Hospital and Government Engineering College. After their body temperature was recorded, samples for analysis were collected from them. “While passengers suffering from fever were taken to the isolation ward in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital immediately, others were allowed to go to their native places. If anyone among them is found to be positive, an ambulance will be sent to their home to bring them to the hospital,” said a health official.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||As on May 19      Persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Tuesday) Persons recovered: 145 Death: 1 Active cases: 0    Home quarantined: 1,893 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on Tuesday) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
20 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Now, masks made of silver from Kolhapur||An enterprising jewellery designer from Maharashtra has been successful in selling masks made of silver that can be worn as an ornament during weddings and other ceremonies. Sandeep Sangaonkar from Kolhapur in Maharashtra is selling the masks, that weigh around 20-30 grams each, at Rs. 2,600-Rs. 3,000. He has sold around a dozen sets, he said. These masks are only ornamental and have no filters or cleaning membrane attached, Mr. Sangaonkar told The Hindu . Interested may contact him on Ph: 9890126027.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC resumes services, but passengers baulk at ‘expensive’ day passes||After a gap of nearly two months, Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) resumed city bus services on Tuesday morning but faced criticism for insisting that passengers buy daily passes priced at Rs. 70 even for short-distance travel. For the first time, it introduced weekly passes priced at Rs. 300. Buses were operated from major bus stands such as Majestic, Shivajinagar, and Shantinagar. However, the number of commuters was considerably low. C. Shikha, managing director of BMTC, said the hope is that ridership will gradually increase in the coming days. In total, the BMTC operated 2,106 buses during the day. As a precautionary measure, BMTC allowed only pass-holders to board buses, but many passengers were reluctant to do so after they learned that they would have to buy a daily pass even to travel short distances. Siddaraju, a commuter at K.R. Puram market, said, “The daily pass costs Rs. 70 and I need to go to M.G Road, for which the usual fare is around Rs. 20. But now I have to pay Rs. 70 minimum. I don’t know what kind of a system this is.” Another passenger, Nanjunda Swamy, criticised the BMTC’s insistence on passes. “I wanted to travel from ITI to Nagawara, which costs Rs. 40. Why should I spend an additional Rs. 30? At a time when the BMTC is running limited services, they should allow us to buy tickets,” he said. Others pointed out that they should be allowed to purchase passes online rather than at depots. For the most part, ridership remained low even at Majestic. However, the wait time was long, as BMTC was operating only a limited number of services and allowing only 30 people to board one bus. Frustration among commuters was evident at Majestic. Sumangala, who had to wait for over half an hour, said this system would be untenable once more people ventured out of homes totake public transport. Ms. Shikha said they would look into some of the issues raised by the public, but maintained that passes would remain mandatory.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All but two districts have COVID-19 cases||With a huge spurt in the number of positive cases day after day, all districts in the State except Chamarajanagar and Ramanagaram now have COVID-19 cases. Raichur, Koppal, and Chikkamagaluru that remained COVID-19 free till last week, have now started reporting cases. While Raichur and Koppal reported seven and three cases, respectively, Monday onwards, Chikkamagaluru entered the list of affected districts on Tuesday with five cases. 12th position Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister who is the COVID-19 spokesperson, attributed the spurt in numbers to inter-State travel history. Despite the spurt, Karnataka stands at 12th position in terms of positive cases, he said. Admitting that none of those who are coming from other States had been tested in the States from where they were coming, the Minister said: “The Chief Minister on Monday announced the State’s decision to restrict travellers from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu to Karnataka till the situation improves there. It might help us in controlling the spread.” When pointed out that a large number of trucks and other goods transport vehicles enter Karnataka transporting vegetables, fruits and other commodities from these States, the Minister said: “We are screening all drivers of trucks coming from these States at check-posts before allowing them. Besides, we are also sanitising the trucks at check-posts. We followed a similar approach in Chamarajanagar and it helped us to a large extent.” From May 16 till date, five trains have pulled into the State and 1,527 people have landed in the city. All of them have been screened and quarantined here. Of these, two have been symptomatic so far, he said. While those coming from other countries are tested twice (once after they land and one at the end of the quarantine period), those coming from other States are being tested once at the end of their quarantine period, he said. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said all asymptomatic inter-State returnees from States with high positivity and high numbers will be tested before they are released from quarantine. Testing capacity The State’s testing capacity has increased with 46 labs, including 28 government labs, approved by the ICMR. “We are now on an average testing of around 8,000 samples a day. Our target is to cross 10,000 samples per day by May 30,” he said. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said the State has tested 1.56 lakh samples as on Tuesday.  The Chief Minister has announced the State’s decision to restrict travellers from Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu till the situation improves there. It might help us control the spread.S. suresh KumarPrimary and Secondary Education Minister
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Several migrant labourers left in the lurch||Mohammed Harun, 58, a mason from Bihar who works in Shivajinagar walked 20 km on Monday night to reach the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC). “Others from Bihar working in the city came to BIEC a few days ago and were able to get a seat on a train,” he said. But to Mr. Harun’s misfortune, by the time he reached BIEC, the gates were closed. The authorities were not allowing any more migrants in as the centre was at maximum capacity. Since Monday night, over 3,000 migrant labourers from across the city walked to BIEC but were not let in. Instead, they were made to board buses and dropped off to areas where they came from. Most of these buses were packed and no norms prescribed by the government — mandatory sanitisers and only 30 passengers per vehicle — were followed. Unable to either house or stop the exodus of migrant labourers from the city to BIEC, the police on Tuesday decided to shut down the facility. “It was meant to be a temporary shelter for those walking to their home towns in north India. But now, people think they will be able to secure a berth on trains if they come to BIEC. It is unmanageable, and so we have decided to shut down the facility,” said K.V. Sharath Chandra, IGP, Central Range. On Tuesday morning, BIEC housed 4,500-odd people, but by late evening nearly 2,000 had boarded trains to various States. But the police are not allowing anyone else to enter. Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao requested migrant workers to remain in their accommodations and contact the local police for details on train services. Homeless in the city But most of the labourers have nowhere to return. Jadhav Burman, 31, came to BIEC Tuesday morning with 20 others, all hailing from Cooch Behar in West Bengal. They spent Rs. 3,000 to get a lift on a truck from Kanakapura Road, only to be sent back. “The company we were working for had provided accommodation, but withdrew it when we refused to start work on a new project. We have been evicted and are out on the streets. Where will the police drop us back to?” he said. Hundreds of those who gathered at BIEC on Tuesday, have no home to go back to in the city. Mohammed Abdullah, 32, from Bihar who works in a garment factory, said that he and 20 others were evicted from the three rooms they lived in at Sudhamanagar by the landlord as they couldn’t pay rent. “We have run out of money and have no food to eat,” he said.  At least three zonal Deputy Commissioners were present on the grounds opposite BIEC where labourers gathered on Tuesday. Migrant labourers who had no roof over their heads were being ferried to temporary shelters organised by Deputy Commissioners of Police in marriage halls. “There is a system in place — register on Seva Sindhu and based on priority and availability of trains, tickets will be issued. BIEC has disrupted that system and those housed there are jumping queues. It is also not fair on others who are waiting their turn. ,” explained Bheemashankar Guled, DCP (North-East).
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RERA registration validity extended||The Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Karnataka, has extended the period of validity of registration of all KRERA registered projects by six months. In an order issued on Tuesday, the authority said that the extension was given by invoking the ‘force majeure’ clause. The project registration certificates, with the revised timelines, will be issued soon. The order also states that the time limits of all statutory compliances in accordance with Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, which were due by March 15, 2020, had been extended to September 15, 2020. However, cases of urgent nature would be heard either in person or through ‘Skype’ to avoid gathering of litigants, lawyers and visitors, the order read. The Forum for People’s Collective Efforts has stated that the extension of registration is against the interest of home buyers. The Forum, which is also a member of the Central Advisory Council for RERA, has submitted its dissent note and appealed that the Centre should acknowledge COVID-19 as a natural calamity under force majeure and extension of RERA registered projects, as per section 6 of the RERA Act applicable only for the actual lockdown period. To protect the interest of home buyers, it has sought a waiver on the interest part of the principal amount of loans during this COVID-19 force majeure.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Infection rate highest among those in 20-29 age bracket||Sixty-five percent of those who died in Karnataka due to COVID-19 were aged above 60. And all other patients who lost their lives were aged above 40. An analysis of the 40 COVID-19 deaths in Karnataka by the State war room reveals that 26 among them were aged above 60. Eleven (27.5%) were in the 50-59 age bracket and three in the 40-49 group. Age-wise distribution Among those infected, a majority in the State fall under the 20-29 age bracket. As many as 24.7% of the total 1,373 patients tested positive in the State belong to this category. The war room has analysed data of patients who tested positive till Tuesday morning. The next largest chunk of patients (23.96%) who tested positive belong to the 30-39 age group. The least number of patients who tested positive belong to the 0 to 5 years age group. A total of 37 children in this age bracket (2.69%) tested positive. Officials in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that 10.48% of the positive cases are above 60 years old. “We are keeping a close watch on these patients as this age bracket has the highest mortality rate. Most of the patients also had other co-morbidities making it difficult for them to beat the infection,” an official stated. C. Nagaraja, Director of Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), said that it was a common trend across the globe that the infection rate among children below five years was the lowest. “This is because children below five years have good immunity. The mortality rate also is very low among young children,” he said. Travellers He also said that 48.72% of the total positive cases belonged to the 20-40 years group. “Most people who initially tested positive and had a history of international travel belonged to this age group. Most of the people in this age bracket are the ones who are involved in travel, inter-State or inter-district, and may have caught the infection during travel,” he said. Dr. Nagaraja said that infection in this age category was not a matter of concern as most of them were asymptomatic and would quickly recover.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.K. Shivakumar’s swearing-in on June 7||Seven-time MLA and former Minister D.K. Shivakumar, who has been appointed as the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, will take charge on June 7 (Sunday) at a simple function at the party office here. Though he was appointed on March 11 by the party high command, he could not be sworn-in following the spread of COVID-19 and lockdown since March 25. Mr. Shivakumar had decided to take charge on May 31 (Sunday) since traffic is generally less on that day. But the State government has declared total lockdown on Sundays this month. Moreover, the Centre has continued lockdown norms till May 31. In a symbolic gesture, incumbent Dinesh Gundu Rao, MLA, would hand over the party flag to Mr. Shivakumar in the presence of top leaders of the party. Three working presidents – Eshwar Khandre, Satish Jarkiholi and Saleem Ahammad – too would take charge on that day, sources in the party said. Mr. Shivakumar told presspersons on Tuesday that the swearing-in ceremony would be telecast live which would enable all party workers to watch the programme in all gram panchayat limits in the State. Govt. flayed   The KPCC president-designate blamed the State government for its failure to contain the spread of coronavirus. Lack of coordination and planning among the authorities and Ministers led to the health crisis, he alleged.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stimulus package is full of false claims, says Kumaraswamy||Describing the stimulus package announced by the Centre as a “gimmick”, the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Tuesday said that of the Rs. 5.6 lakh crore announced on May 13, the actual burden of the Union government was a mere Rs. 2,500 crore. The rest of the expenditure is no more than normal expenditure that are in the form of capital expenditure, said Mr. Kumaraswamy at a press meet. “What the country now needs is relief expenditure to save lives. There are many false claims. Even lay person can understand the foolishness of the announcements made to provide stimulus to MSME sector,” he added. The economic recovery will take a long time with this such a paltry sum, said the former Chief Minister. “There is complete opaqueness in decisions taken by the Finance Minister. I’m not sure as to which experts are suggesting measures to manage the pandemic. The attention given to labourers, small vendors, MSME regarding payment of wages or even the opening of lockdown are not clear,” he told presspersons. Mr. Kumaraswamy said that instead of providing relief to MSME sector, the government was projecting normal budgetary schemes of the banks as its own, and that the burden on stimulus will fall on the banks. TDS ‘sin’ On the TDS refunds announced as stimulus, he said there was inordinate delay in releasing it. Further, he said that this was a “sin” as the cost of capital to business is about 13 % and the interest paid by Income Tax Department for the delay was only 4.5%. The former Chief Minister also said that he had sought time from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to raise certain COVID 19- related issues with him.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hotels to continue parcel services for three days||Hotel owners across Karnataka will continue offering takeaway and delivery services for the next three days. They will wait for the government to decide on whether they will be allowed to welcome patrons to dine in. The hotel owners’ association had earlier threatened to shut down delivery services from Tuesday onwards after they were excluded from the list of businesses and services that could operate. Office-bearers of Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants Association met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday morning to argue their case. Restaurant owners said that takeaways account for only 5-10% of their business. “We told the Chief Minister that we will not be able to run our hotels if the State government does not give us permission to allow customers to dine in,” said Madhukar Shetty, general secretary of the association. The Chief Minister is believed to have requested them to wait for three days so that the government can consult with the Centre.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Curfew will hit earnings, say auto and taxi drivers||With hardly any working capital in hand, taxi and auto drivers are struggling to get back to plying the road. Somashekar. K., of the Namma Chalakara Trade Union, said the response to taxi and auto services was poor on Tuesday, the first day of restrictions being lifted. “We are expecting poor business for the next couple of weeks at least. Only those operating on ride-sharing platforms got some business,” he said. However, many Ola and Uber drivers said the day was not as good as expected for them. Manjunath H., a driver with one of the platforms, said that the curfew being imposed from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. was regressive. “On a normal work day of 14-16 hours, it is not easy. With only 12 hours of operations, I will not make enough money to pay off my loans,” he said. Another taxi driver alleged that the aggregator had deducted a higher commission. “For a 7.2-km ride, the fare was Rs. 123, but I only got Rs. 89. The rest was deducted as commission, customer service and GST.” Most autos were ferrying people for short distances. “Many of us are dependent on people going to metro stations. I generally get business from either K.R. Puram Railway Station or Baiyappanahalli metro station, but both were closed,” said Mohammed I., an auto driver.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC runs over 1,500 buses||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation, which operated 1,606 buses in different parts of the State, saw a ridership of 53,506 passengers. As many as 213 buses were operated from Bengaluru and 6,000 people travelled to various destinations such as Shivamogga, Belagavi, Mysuru, and Hubballi. There were no buses to Bidar and only limited operations to Kalaburagi, Raichur and other districts. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savaid said that starting from Wednesday, more buses would be made available and operations extended up to 7 p.m. The KSRTC has advised passengers to book tickets online. A KSRTC official said people travelling from one district to another need not have passes issued by the district authorities on Seva Sindhu. Non-availability of bus timings led to confusion among passengers.
20 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Disruption in power supply||There will be no power supply between 10.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Wednesday in areas under 66/11 KV MUSS Bannerghatta in view of works related to overloaded bifurcation. According to a release from Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Ltd. (Bescom), the areas that will be affected are Gollahalli, Kalkere, Laxmipura, Sakalavara, Hullahally, Chinnappana Palya, C.K. Palya, Vaderahally, Tulip Gate, Hulikasanahalli and surrounding areas.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee formed for UVCE upgrade||University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE), which has been accorded autonomous status, will soon have a roadmap of how it will be developed on par with an IIT. The State government has set up a six-member committee comprising experts to deliberate on upgrading the institution. The committee will be headed by S. Sadagopan. The convenor of the committee will be Vice-Chancellor of Bangalore University K.R. Venugopal. Financial assistance of Rs. 10 crore has been allocated in the 2020-21 budget for upgrading UVCE.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||They gather in front of police stations||Thousands of migrant labourers began gathering in front of police stations especially in Whitefield zone, which has a large concentration of workers in the city. In front of Varthur police station alone, there were nearly 1,500 migrant labourers — a majority of them from West Bengal, who have been camping at the market nearby for two days now. Food supply Volunteers from Whitefield Rising and several other organisations, have been supplying them with food and helping them enrol on Seva Sindhu.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No trains to West Bengal and Odisha||The State government has decided not to run trains to West Bengal and Odisha till May 22 on account of cyclone Amphan. “The cyclone is expected to wreak damage to these States and the administration is focusing on mitigating that damage. We do not want to add to their burden,” said N. Manjunath Prasad, nodal-officer, inter-State travel from the State.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress to stage protest today||The Congress will stage a protest on the Sate Secretariat premises on Wednesday opposing changes to the APMC Act. A Congress legislature party meeting decided to oppose amendments to APMC Act brought by the BJP government through the Ordinance. The government claimed that changes to the Act will help farmers to sell their produce inside and outside APMC yards.
20 May 2020||HUBBALI,KARNATAKA||Efforts on to bring Haveri back into green zone, says Bommai||Home Minister and Haveri district-in-charge Basavaraj Bommai has said that all efforts were being made by the district administration to make the district a green zone again. Speaking to presspersons in Haveri after visiting the district hospital and inspecting the facilities and services available, Mr. Bommai said that it was regrettable that the district which was identified as green zone had lost the tag because of a few persons with inter-State travel history testing positive for COVID-19. Earlier, Mr. Bommai used the personal protection equipment (PPE) during inspection. The Minister said that 11 new ventilators had been procured for the district apart from creating centralised pressurised oxygen facility at the hospital. “The process of setting up a virology laboratory is under way. Meanwhile, COVID-19 positive patients are recovering fast. After the 12th day of their treatment, swabs will be sent for tests again,” he said. Mr. Bommai said that all the primary and secondary contacts of the patients from Savanur have been tested and they had been diagnosed as negative for the infection. Similarly, primary and secondary contacts of a patient from Andalagi had been quarantined and their swabs had been sent for tests, he said. He said that it had been decided to provide PPE kits to those personnel working in public places, including bus stations and check-posts. Clarifying that there were no hurdles for inter-district travel, he said that getting passes through sevasindhu portal was mandatory for inter-State travel. To another query, he said that all steps were being taken to provide basic amenities at institutional quarantine centres. The Minister was accompanied by MLA Nehru Olekar and Haveri Deputy Commissioner Krishna Bajpai and others.
20 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Migrant workers intercepted||As many as 74 migrant workers travelling to Rajasthan on two trucks truck were intercepted by the Dharwad District Police near Dharwad and shifted to a temporary shelter. According to Dharwad Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar, of these, 27 had come from Kasargod in Kerala and 47 were from Mangaluru. And, all were returning to their native places in Rajasthan. She said in an official communication that the 27 from Kasargod in Kerala had passes to travel to their native places. However, after the administration told them that it would take another week for them to arrange buses for their travel, they had hired a truck to reach Rajasthan. Ms. Vartika said that necessary transport arrangements would be made to send them to Rajasthan. They had been temporarily sheltered at the Pattanashetti Kalyana Mantap in Dharwad now. Meanwhile, cases have been filed in the Garag Police Station in Dharwad Taluk. She also made an appeal to truck owners and drivers not to resort to ferrying stranded people on trucks as it would do more harm than good for them.
20 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||All 71 linked to Maharashtra||A total of 71 new cases were reported in Mandya district alone on Tuesday, all with an inter-State travel history to Maharashtra. Among those infected, seven are children aged below 10. All the infected hail from various villages in K.R. Pet and Nagamangala taluks of the district and have settled in Mumbai and other places in Maharashtra since several years. These two taluks have a long history of migration to Mumbai.
20 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Government waives road tax for public transport vehicles||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Tuesday announced the government’s decision to waive road tax for public transport vehicles — goods as well as passenger — for two months from March 24 to May 23. Mr. Savadi said that the government has considered the lockdown period as a special case and has waived road tax exercising powers under Section 16(1) of the Karnataka Motor Vehicles Taxes Act, 1957. The waiver, however, does not apply to new vehicle registration. All kinds of goods vehicles as well as passenger vehicles, including buses, maxi cabs, tempos, taxis and autorickshaws, come under the definition of public transport vehicles. Meanwhile, the government has also exempted public transport vehicles registered in other States used to ferry stranded workers from Karnataka from obtaining permits and paying required taxes till June 30. The vehicles, however, should have authorisation from the respective State governments/district administrations or competent authorities, he said. The government also extended the last date for payment of bilateral taxes by goods vehicles registered outside the State but having inter-State permit with endorsement till June 1. However, private stage carriage (route bus) operators say that it is inadequate. Karnataka Private Bus Owners’ Federation president K. Rajavarma Ballal told The Hindu that the operators had asked the government to collect road tax (Rs. 990 per seat per quarter) on pro-rata basis till the time buses were operated ensuring social distancing. “If the buses can operate only with 30 passengers, tax should be collected only for those seats,” Mr. Ballal said. He said buses would not hit the roads till the government considers their demands.
20 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bandipur tiger captured, villagers relieved||A tiger that had killed more than 20 head of cattle outside the Kundakere range of Bandipur National Park was captured on Tuesday, bringing a sense of relief to the local community in the area. The four-year-old tiger was on the prowl in the villages on the fringes of the forests for one month and had strayed repeatedly into human landscape in search of prey and was prone to kill cattle. This had created insecurity among the local community who feared for their lives and hence the Forest Department launched an operation to capture the tiger on Monday. It is suspected that the tiger was trying to establish a territory but in the process had ventured outside the forest boundary and acclimatised itself in the buffer area adjoining villages. It repeatedly preyed on domestic cattle, escalating tension in the surrounding villages. Though the authorities had laid traps by way of bait and installed cages hoping that it could be captured without a combing operation, the tiger proved elusive for nearly two to three weeks. Hence a decision was taken to launch a combing operation in a 1,000-hectare area where the tiger’s pug marks were found. Camera trap images from the area also indicated that the same tiger was operating in a radius of a few km of Kundakere. Though the tiger was sighted on Monday evening it could not be darted as it was getting dark. Fresh pug marks were discovered on Tuesday. The field staff followed it and traced it to an agricultural field overrun by weeds. It was tranquilised at 11.15 a.m. and shifted to a cage by noon. A decision on its relocation deep into the forests or shifting it to the wild animal rescue centre will be taken by the authorities.
20 May 2020||Udupi,KARNATAKA||Migrant workers leave Udupi||As many as 50 migrant workers left here for Mahbubnagar in Telangana on two KSRTC buses on Tuesday, stated a release.
20 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Coir industry limping back to normalcy||The coir industry, hit hard by COVID-19, is slowly getting back on track. The export of coir products from the State has resumed and majority of units has started operations albeit with fewer employees. Sajan B. Nair, secretary general, Federation of Indian Coir Exporters Associations (FICEA), says the exporters hope the industry will achieve some normality in three months. “We have started shipments to the U.S. and countries in Europe, major buyers of Kerala coir products. But the operations are yet to become full-fledged. We are currently working at 50% efficiency, which will be gradually increased. The demand for coir products is expected to pick up in overseas markets in the coming months,” he says. The virus outbreak in North America and Europe, clubbed with the nationwide lockdown, has brought the entire coir sector, already in crisis, to its knees with zero exports between March end and the start of this month. According to Mr. Nair, the export sector has suffered loss to the tune of around Rs. 240 crore. “At present, we have stocks to meet orders. However, the spurt in cases in Tamil Nadu is a huge cause for concern, as we depend on that State for raw materials, including coir yarn. If the arrival of raw materials is disrupted, things will come to a standstill,” he warns.  Yet to receive aid Although coir exports have been restarted, lives of tens of thousands of coir workers in the State, especially those in the traditional and informal sectors, remain in distress. Many of the members of the Kerala Coir Workers Welfare Fund Board are yet to get the financial aid of Rs. 1,000. “A large number of coir workers are cash-strapped due to a lack of working days. Both the Union and State governments should intervene to ensure the welfare of workers in the coir sector,” says, P.V. Sathyanesan, general secretary, Kerala State Coir Thozhilali Federation (AITUC).
20 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One more active case reported in Alappuzha||One more person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. According to the district administration, the patient, a pregnant woman from Mavelikara taluk, reached the district from Kuwait on May 9. “After arriving at the Cochin airport, she travelled to her house in a private vehicle. The woman, who was serving the mandatory self-quarantine period, was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment,” said a Health Department official. The district has so far logged 10 COVID-19 cases. While five people have been cured of the disease, the rest are undergoing treatment, four at the MCH, Alappuzha, and one at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, in Malappuram. Meanwhile, a person was hospitalised with symptoms of the disease on Tuesday. A total of 2,939 people are in quarantine/observation in the district. Case against MP The Ramankary police registered a case against Kodikkunnil Suresh, MP, and 12 others under the Kerala Epidemic Disease Ordinance, 2020 for violating social distancing norms while participating in an agitation organised by the Congress in Kuttanad on Tuesday. Mr. Suresh along with party workers conducted a boat ride from Kidangara to the Changanassery boat jetty alleging that the State government had not initiated pre-monsoon preparedness to prevent flooding in Kuttanad during the upcoming rainy season.
20 May 2020||Idukki,KERALA||No need to worry about Idukki water level: Mani||Electricity Minister M.M. Mani has said there is no need to be concerned over the high level of water in the Idukki dam. Speaking at a dam safety meeting at the Collectorate in Painavu on Tuesday, the Minister said the present storage level was 20 ft higher than last year’s. The present water level is 2,343.7 ft. If it reaches above 2,373 ft, release of water would be considered. Those living on flood-prone areas would be shifted to safe locations and information regarding this would be conveyed to people before releasing water. The Ernakulam District Collector would also be informed of the steps in advance. Mullaperiyar dam The Minister directed the District Collector to furnish details regarding the water level in Mullaperiyar dam so as to bring the issue before the State government.
20 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad heaves sigh of relief||Wayanad heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday as no fresh cases COVID-19 were reported in the district for the past four days. So far four persons recovered from the disease. The COVID test results of 400 police officials in the district showed negative for the virus on Tuesday. As many as 1,930 people, including 726 tribespeople, were under observation in the district. Seventeen patients were undergoing treatment and 16 were under observation at the COVID hospital at Mananthavady. Meanwhile, the Mananthavady police station reopened on Tuesday after a week. The station had to be shifted to a nearby building after three of its officers tested positive on May 13.
20 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Five test positive in Kannur||Five more people who returned to the district from other States and abroad were found positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Tuesday. The district had seen a dip in COVID-19 cases after affected patients were discharged from hospitals. However, the Health Department and district administration are on high alert in the wake of more people arriving in the district and turning positive for the virus. District Collector T.V. Subhash said four persons who tested positive on Tuesday had returned from other parts of India, while one arrived at the Kannur airport from Dubai. He said the patients included a 23-year-old man from Panniyannur who arrived in an Air India flight on May 12, a 24-year-old man from Maykunnu, and a 48-year-old man and a 40-year-old woman from Chokkili who arrived from Mumbai, and a 45-year-old man from Mayyil who arrived from Ahmedabad on May 13. 118 discharged With this, the number of COVID-19 cases recorded in the district has reached 131. Of them, 118 patients have been discharged from hospitals. The district at present has 6,323 people under observation. No cases in Kasaragod No new positive cases were recorded from Kasaragod district on Tuesday. A total of 2,374 people are under observation in the district. Of them, 1,972 are under home observation and 402 are in hospitals. The test results of 196 samples are to be obtained. Thirty-three persons were admitted to the isolation ward on Tuesday.
20 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur varsity evaluation from May 27||The evaluation process for the sixth semester undergraduate examinations of Kannur University will commence on May 27. The centralised valuation camp would be conducted in nine centres in Kannur and Kasaragod, said P. J. Vincent, Examination Controller. The university may appoint teachers for evaluation from panels, he said.
20 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||For ambulance drivers, work without break||After having spent eight hours at the Cochin International Airport awaiting three flights and ferrying passengers till the early hours, Vishnu K. just about managed to squeeze in some rest before he was back with a 108 ambulance at the port, waiting for the first batch of repatriates who arrived by sea recently. Vishnu drives one of the sixteen 108 ambulances that are on COVID-19 duty in the district. With erratic salary payments, fear of contracting the disease, and the long inter-district trips he has made, he is fuelled mostly by the absolute necessity of the service he renders, he says. After 12 straight days of back-to-back shifts, he is at home for a break. “Initially, my family was worried. But we have been careful. I make sure I have changed my clothes and taken a bath before I enter the house,” says Vishnu, who has a little child at home. Besides, contact with passengers is limited, he adds. Inside the vehicle, drivers communicate with passengers only via phone, and on the recent airport runs, they are provided with PPE kits. Finding three meals a day in the midst of the lockdown was an ordeal, says Vishnu. With this month’s salary being delayed, several workers are still dependent on the goodwill of strangers in their neighbourhood who pack food for them, he adds. Yadu Krishnan, who pilots another 108 ambulance, recalls a trip from the Kochi airport to Kasaragod, transporting five returnees from West Asia, soon after the lockdown was imposed, leaving shops shut. “We arrived starving at their home in Kasaragod, where a relative of the passengers packed food for us,” he says. Now, each day involves long hours of waiting at the airport or hospitals, Vishnu says, often followed by a trip in a sweltering PPE kit. If they are not awaiting flights, they take symptomatic people to hospitals for tests, or transport discharged patients home. Drivers have been provided with rooms at the hospitals to which they are attached but have ended up sleeping in places like pavements at the airport parking area, Yadu Krishnan says. Another ambulance driver says that irregularity in payments had left him borrowing even for basic necessities. Ambulances are operated on a public-private partnership basis with a Telangana-based company. Nearly 130 workers, including drivers and emergency medical technicians, are employed in the district, he says.
20 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kerala HC sets aside MBBS fee structure||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday set aside the orders of the Fee Regulation Committee for professional courses fixing the fee structure of MBBS courses of self-financing colleges in the State. The court remitted the whole issue to the Fee Regulation Committee and directed it to consider afresh the pleas of the managements to refix the fee structure. The directives were issued on a clutch of writ petitions filed by various self-financing colleges challenging the fee structure fixed by the committee. The committee has fixed the fee ranging from Rs. 5.85 lakh to Rs. 7.19 lakh for MBBS courses in various self-financing colleges for the academic year 2019-20. The managements also had challenged the committee’s orders affirming the fee fixed earlier by it for the academic year 2016-17, 2017-18, and 2018-19. The committee had reconsidered the demands of the managements and affirmed its earlier fee structure at Rs. 4.15 lakh per student for the 2016-17 academic year, Rs. 4.80 lakh for 2017-18, and Rs. 5.54 lakh for 2018-19 for the MBBS courses. The High Court had earlier directed the committee to reconsider these free structures after the managements challenged the previous years’ fee structures. Statements sought When the petitions challenging the fee structures came up, the court had directed the managements to file statements containing the particulars regarding the cost of land and building, list and value of infrastructure, list of equipment, its value and life span, salary and allowances being paid to teaching and non-teaching staff, expenditure for the administration and maintenance of the institutions, surplus for future development, and other expenditure. The managements, in their petitions, had also said that the committee did not consider their request for fixing the fee afresh despite the High Court directive. In fact, the committee had only confirmed its earlier fee structure orders without considering their claims. The petitioners contended that the committee should have fixed the fee based on the available materials. The managements alleged that there was no application of mind by the committee while fixing the fee afresh.
20 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students raise funds online||The students of the Government Model Engineering College, Thrikkakara, hosted an online fund-raiser ‘Reach Out’, as a part of Excel 2020, the annual techno-managerial fest of the college, in a bid to help the pandemic-hit population. Held in collaboration with the non-profit organisation, SEEDS, the week-long event hosted over 10 celebrities and social media influencers. The event raised about Rs. 1.5 lakh.
20 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New case against MLA||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Inspector General of Vigilance to conduct an inquiry into the allegation that former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju and his son are threatening a petitioner who has filed a petition in the court for a Vigilance probe into the alleged corruption in the Palarivattom flyover construction. The directive came on a petition filed by G. Girish Babu. According to him, Mr. Ebrahim Kunju and his son V.E. Abdul Gafoor had threatened him and asked to withdraw the petition now pending before the High Court. The henchmen of the Kalamassery MLA had approached him and offered Rs. 5 lakh for withdrawing the petition. The police submitted before the court that directions had been given to strengthen patrolling covering the residence of the petitioner and to provide police assistance.
20 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||New guidelines for expectant mothers||The Health Department has issued new guidelines for expectant mothers returning to the district from other countries and States. Since pregnant woman were reaching the district from all places including hotspots, they would be briefed through pamphlets, said Dr R. Sreelatha, District Medical Officer (DMO), on Tuesday. The department has instructed pregnant women not to step out without informing respective medical officers at PHCs/FHCs and skip normal check-ups and vaccinations while under monitoring. Apart from the nuchal translucency (NT) scan done between 12 and 13 weeks of pregnancy and the anomaly scan at 18-20 weeks of pregnancy, no other scan is required during this period. The department has placed the pregnant women who recently returned to the district in strict home/room quarantine. Maintaining one metre distance from all, including primary caretaker, and wearing masks are also part of the directions. “Regularly wash your hands with soap, drink a lot of water, and eat nutritious meals. Intake of folic acid, iron and calcium tablets is also important. If there are any symptoms including fever, cough, sore throat and diarrhoea, get in touch with the health workers. Those with any risk factors like high blood pressure and diabetes should consult the medical officer at the nearest PHC/CHC,” said the DMO.
20 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||‘Bask in the mask’ launched||The Kollam City police launched ‘Bask in the Mask’, a campaign to ensure that everyone wears masks at public places. On Tuesday, cases were registered against 148 persons and the department also distributed free masks.
20 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Boats to resume services to water-locked villages||The roar of diesel-powered engines is back on the placid backwaters of Central Kerala after nearly two months. Passenger boats of the State Water Transport Department (SWTD), which underwent a major makeover during the lockdown, are scheduled to resume their operations from 10 stations on Wednesday. To begin with, the department will operate 20 of its 53 daily passenger schedules. “The operations in the first phase will be limited to water-locked villages in Kottayam, Alappuzha, and in north Malabar, besides a limited number of ferry services in Kochi city. All services will be conducted between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m.,” said Shaji V. Nair, Director, SWTD, on Tuesday. No inter-district sectors, including the Vaikom-Thavanakkadavu route, the busiest water route, will have services for the time being. However, a couple of interior destinations such as R-Block at Kumarakom and Perumbalam Island in Alappuzha may have extended connectivity to the nearest towns in neighbouring districts. The department has initiated an upward revision of its ticket fares, taking the minimum charge to Rs. 8. “The fares have been increased up to 33% in line with a government directive to cover the prospective fall in overall revenue,” the official added. Only 50% of the people are allowed on the boats. Passengers are required to wear masks. They will be provided hand-sanitisers on board. Major cleaning As many as 60 operational boats and 14 stations of the SWTD underwent a major cleaning and maintenance operation by its employees during the lockdown period. The initiative, carried out as part of the Cleaning Challenge, launched by the department, witnessed the participation of around 750 employees in the operation wing. The employees in different teams cleaned and repainted all operational boats, besides carrying out maintenance work. On completion of the work, the station-in-charge was required to send the photographs to the SWTD Director and the respective traffic superintendents. Selected teams will be awarded prizes.
20 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam returns to normality slowly||After a period of uncertainty, life has gradually begun returning to normalcy in Kottayam with people and vehicles turning up on the street in large numbers. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate 17 schedules from the Kottayam depot on Wednesday. Ordinary services connecting all major centres in the district will be operated for at least a week. The special services for ferrying government employees will be regularised. Four patients As on Tuesday, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district stood at four. The results of all 62 samples received during the day were negative. As many as 400 persons have reached the district from various countries since May 7. Among them, 106 are pregnant women and 27 are minors. As many as 214 of these returnees are in institutional quarantine centres and 183 persons in home quarantine. The number of passes issued for those returning from other States till Tuesday afternoon was 4,367. Authorities are slated to consider 1,144 more applications. Koruthodu hotspot Meanwhile, Koruthodu grama panchayat was on Tuesday declared a hotspot for COVID-19. The declaration came after a 23-year-old resident of the village, who had returned from Maharashtra, was tested positive the other day. Besides Koruthodu, Uzhavoor panchayat too remains a hotspot.
20 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID-19 service providers brought under one umbrella||The Kozhikode Corporation has brought services of all non-governmental organisations in the city involved in COVID-19-related activities under one umbrella. The public may access the services through the helpline number (6235400400) between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran told reporters here on Tuesday that the platform would give equal opportunity to all organisations and that the recognised ones would be provided identity cards by the Corporation. The help desk will coordinate among various organisations even beyond the lockdown and during natural disasters in the future. The Corporation is also opening a ‘Janakeeya Hotel’ under the Kudumbashree Mission to provide food at subsidised rates. The hotel, being set up at the vegetable market at Vengeri, will be opened on Thursday.
20 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||No new cases in Kozhikode||No new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Tuesday even as the number of expatriates under surveillance went up to 566. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that a total of 5,708 people were under observation at present. Thirty-one of them, including 14 expatriates, are at the Government Medical College Hospital. Fifteen people were discharged on Tuesday. As many as 330 expatriates, including 74 pregnant women, are home quarantined and 222 are at COVID-19 care centres. Seventy-eight of them had arrived on Tuesday. Meanwhile, one native of Kannur and a native of Malappuram, a pregnant woman, who arrived by the Doha-Kozhikode flight on Monday night were earlier admitted to the medical college hospital. The Kannur native had COVID-19 symptoms during the screening at the airport and the Malappuram native had other health issues.
20 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Migrants scuffle with police||A group of migrant labourers from Bihar had a scuffle with the Perambra police near Kuttiyadi on Tuesday afternoon after they took out a protest seeking a train to return to their home State. Three labourers were arrested after the melee. According to sources, the labourers, put up at Parakkadavu, near Kuttiyadi, ventured out and staged a demonstration around 12 p.m. Though personnel from the Perambra police station tried to pacify them, it did not yield results and some of them were found to engage in an argument with the local residents also. Soon, the labourers reportedly tried to rough up the police as well as the local residents. The police personnel tried to convince the labourers that train services to Bihar would be possible only on May 20. However, they were reportedly not in a mood to listen and said that people from Jharkhand and Odisha had already left for their home State and they too needed a similar help. The labourers were arrested on charges pertaining to obstructing government servants from discharging their duties.
20 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Madin Academy mega prayer meet goes online||Madin Academy, which holds one of the largest prayer gatherings during Ramzan, conducted a mega online prayer meet on Tuesday. Thousands of Sunni followers from different parts of the world took part in the online prayers led by Madin chairman Syed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari. Locked away at homes, thousands attended the prayers and took a pledge to fight the COVID-19 pandemic in consonance with the governments of their respective States. Syed Bukhari called upon the followers to act responsibly in the times of the pandemic. He said everyone had the responsibility to safeguard not only their lives but that of others too. “Each human life is sacred. It is a blessing from God,” he said.
20 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Malampuzha water to be released through canals||Water will be released from Malampuzha reservoir through the right and left bank canals on Wednesday morning to help paddy farmers. The Malampuzha dam executive engineer has warned people to be vigilant against venturing into the canals. Although many parts of the State received summer showers, Palakkad district and its paddy fields by and large did not get rain. The Irrigation Project Advisory Committee, in a meeting held a few days ago, had sought the release of water from the Malampuzha dam to help farmers prepare for the next paddy crop. Malampuzha dam officials said 400 cusecs of water would be released from the reservoir through the canal shutters. There are three shutters for the left bank canal and two for the right bank canal. However, all shutters will not be lifted. More water will be released through the left bank canal. Water level The water level in the reservoir on Tuesday was considerably better than that of the previous year. The water level on Tuesday stood at 103 metres, while it was 101 metres last year.
20 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Acute cases rise to five in Pathanamthitta||The number of COVID-19 patients rose to five in Pathanamthitta with a 30-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on May 13 testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The new patient, hailing from Kadapra, near Thiruvalla, has been admitted to the isolation ward at Pathanamthitta General Hospital. Total quarantined The number of quarantined people at various hospitals in the district went up to 21 on Tuesday. The General Hospital in Pathanamthitta houses nine persons and they include five COVID-19 patients. The General Hospital at Adoor houses one person. Three quarantined persons have been admitted to the District Hospital in Kozhencherry and eight others at various private hospitals in the district, sources said. As per an official bulletin by the district administration in the evening, 2,688 persons have been placed in quarantine at various corona care centres and houses in different parts of the district as on Tuesday. As many as 2,388 persons among them have come from other States, 289 from abroad, and 11 are primary contacts of infected persons. A total of 160 nasal and throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha were tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Clinical examination results of 290 throat swab samples are awaited. As per the bulletin, 136 special squads deployed by the Health Department in the district screened 16,860 people for COVID-19 symptoms on Tuesday. A total of 15 persons with symptomatic fever were referred to corona care centres.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||After 54 days, RTC to operate 1,850 services in districts from today||Intradistrict ordinary services of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will commence operations in all 14 districts after 54 days on Wednesday. They will operate only from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Although it has been decided to operate 1,850 services daily in the districts, Chairman and Managing Director M.P. Dinesh said here schedules would be need-based and depending on patronage. The capital district has been given the highest number of 499 services, Kollam 208, Ernakulam 206, and Alappuzha 102. The least number of 49 services is in Malappuram district. There will be no services through containment zones and the buses will not cross inter-district borders and will halt at the nearest important place. Increased fares Commuters will have to pay the revised fares. Fare has been hiked in view of the social-distancing norms to be followed on the buses. The minimum fare for 2.5 to 5 km has gone up from Rs. 8 to Rs. 12 and the fare for the subsequent kilometres has been increased from the existing 70 paise to Rs. 1.10. For the subsequent 15 farestages, the minimum fare of Rs. 12 and Rs. 1.10 per km travelled will be levied from the commuter. Those travelling on concessional fare will have to pay only 50% of new fare. Safety measures The fares approved by the government on Tuesday and valid only for the COVID-19 period have been notified in the gazette. Only one passenger can sit in a seat that can accommodate two and two in a seat meant for three. Passengers have to wear masks and should clean their hands using sanitiser before boarding. The KSRTC has installed sanitisers on the left side of the rear door. The passengers will be allowed entry only through the rear door and the exit will be through the front door. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran said the KSRTC would operate 5.5 lakh-km of service daily in the districts.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More vigil at RTC bus stations||With the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) set to resume services within the district on Wednesday, the police will step up vigil at bus stations that are likely to witness crowding after nearly two months. Focus will also shift towards the operation of autorickshaws and taxis to ensure that they function in accordance with the government guidelines. District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said commuters found without masks would not be permitted to travel. Such violators will be charged with petty cases. Meanwhile, the State capital on Tuesday received 297 people who came in the second Rajdhani express to arrive from New Delhi since the imposition of the lockdown. They were subjected to medical screening upon their arrival at Thiruvananthapuram Central. As many as 156 among them came from COVID-19 red zones and 37 people were sent to institutional quarantine. None of the passengers were diagnosed with any symptoms of the disease. A total of 354 passengers, including 239 men, 115 women, and 32 children, boarded a special Rajdhani express to New Delhi from Thiruvananthapuram Central on Tuesday night. 149 through Inchivila Besides, 149 people, including 99 Thiruvananthapuran natives, entered the State through the inter-State border at Inchivila. Forty five people came from various COVID-19 red zones. All of the returnees were directed to remain in home quarantine. In all, the district administration placed 497 people under observation, thereby increasing the number of people being monitored to 5,914. Among them, 5,400 people have been quarantined at their homes. As many as 471 have been accommodated in the corona care centres in the district. Thirteen symptomatic people were admitted to various hospitals on the day. The Thiruvananthapuram City police penalised 75 people for failing to wear masks outdoors. Three others were also booked for various lockdown norms. The Rural police registered 142 cases, arrested 150 people, and seized 72 vehicles.
20 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. focusses on dam management||With just two weeks left for the onset of the southwest monsoon, the government has initiated a series of measures for dam management to prevent floods. As many as 16 dams and four barrages under the Irrigation Department have been equipped with satellite phones and monitoring committees would be constituted for river basins. The committees, to be headed by executive engineers, will decide on raising the shutters of dams after assessing the water inflow into reservoirs based on weather forecasts. The information will be passed on to senior officials and posted on the Irrigation Design and Research Board (IDRB) website for public access. Satellite phones The satellite phones supplied by the BSNL will provide communication between officials in charge of the dams and the respective district administration. They will be used to convey information on the water level in reservoirs, the inflow and the volume of water let out. A meeting chaired by Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty here on Tuesday decided to allocate Rs. 30 lakh each to executive engineers in the Irrigation Department to clean up canals leading to dams and regulators. Officials informed the meeting that the shutters of the Malankara dam had been raised and those of the Kallada and Peechi dams would also have to be raised before the monsoon if the water level goes up. Dam engineers were asked to discuss the matter with district officials. The water level in reservoirs would be recorded at 8 a.m., 12 noon and 4 p.m. every day. The Minister said diesel generators would be pressed into service to operate dam gates during emergencies.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Over 1,000 private buses to ply||Private bus operators in the State who are demanding more concessions from the government to resume services have decided to allow bus operators who have not submitted Form G to start services from Wednesday. “We are not satisfied with the 50% fare hike and waiver of road tax for buses. We do not want to cause hardship to passengers and the government in the prevailing conditions. Hence, we have asked the private bus owners who have not submitted Form G to resume services,” Lawrence Babu, chairman of the Joint Action Committee of Bus Owners, told The Hindu . Of the 12,000 private buses, 10,600 had submitted Form G to avoid paying motor vehicle tax and action by the Road Transport Authority. “We have asked the remaining buses to enter the road from Wednesday and operate intradistrict services from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m.,” he said. Mr. Babu, who is also the general secretary of the Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation, said the bus operators would meet Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Wednesday here and convey their concerns. Government’s permission to carry passengers up to 50% of the seating capacity would actually translate only to 33% of the passenger capacity. The passenger capacity of a 38-seater bus was 57. The services were allowed only for 12 hours and all concessions were allowed on these special buses, general convener of the committee T. Gopinathan and vice chairman Gokuldas said. More time was needed to commence services as the buses were remaining idle for 58 days and needed repairs, they said.
20 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||2.6 lakh students have no access to TV or Internet||Nearly 6% of the total students in government and aided schools in the State do not have access to television with cable connection or computer/mobile phone with Internet. The findings came to light in a survey conducted by the General Education Department against the backdrop of the decision to begin online classes for students from June 1. The data collection by Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, from over 43.76 lakh pre-primary to Plus Two students in State schools found that more that 2.6 lakh students had no facilities for online classes. The maximum number of students without access to such facilities was in Wayanad district – 21,653. This was 15% of the total number of students in the district. The least was in Alappuzha district – 6,683, accounting for 2.94% of the total number of students. Thiruvananthapuram had 19,671 students without these facilities, that is 5.84% of the total student strength in the district. Preliminary study A.P. Kuttykrishnan, Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, Project Director, said students numbering between 2.6 lakh and 3 lakh in State schools did not have TV or Net connections. This was a preliminary study, in the wake of which the government would decide upon a mechanism through which online content could reach these students. “This is not an individual survey. Information on students’ social status is available with class teachers. It is on this basis that students’ access to these facilities is determined. The survey is more of an estimate that helps us understand the situation,” he said. In the wake of the data collected, Samagra would try to study the distribution of these students at the ward level so that providing them access to TV in a common place, nearby libraries or even in schools while observing social distancing could be explored. Besides online classes, there were also plans to provide these students worksheets directly, he said. The objective of the online classes, Mr. Kuttykrishnan said, was to engage all students academically, after a fashion.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Publishers, bookshops find new biz models||Viewing bookshops an essential service, Kerala allowed book stores to open for two days a week during lockdown 2.0. But with footfall still at a low, publishers and stores are making major changes to their business model: from making available more e-books to home delivery through food delivery applications. As soon as the lockdown began, DC Books, one of the largest publishers in Malayalam, made available all its e-books for free on its mobile app for two days and there were some 70,000 e-book downloads, including titles of Malayalam authors. Later, the prices of e-books were slashed and combo offers given, with two or three titles for Rs. 100 or Rs. 150. The publisher, which recently tied up with the Swedish audiobooks service Storytel, also provided a 30-day free trial of audiobooks. “E-books will become mainstream, with all of the new titles becoming first available in that format. Our brick-and-mortar stores have certainly taken a hit. We experimented with Zomato for home delivery in Thrissur and Kochi. Soon, we will be launching it in Thrissur and Kozhikode, while in Kannur, Swiggy will be the partner. Since there is no separate category for books in the app, they put it under groceries. Post COVID-19, we project the book sales from shops to come down to 50%,” says Ravi DeeCee, managing director, DC Books. “Usually after a global issue like this, there will be a boom for studies or books related to it. Books like Dean Koontz’s 1981 work The Eyes of Darkness , which had a virus named Wuhan-400, or Sylvia Browne’s 2008 work that predicted a pandemic like this were much talked about. But, these have not reached the book stores. Now, sales coming down by 30-40%, we are making up with home delivery. On the positive side, this lockdown is a period when reading has shot up,” says N.E. Chitrasenan, manager, Modern Book Centre here. Abdul Latheef, who runs the Blossoms book store in Ernakulam, popular for its second-hand books, says his store has tied up with a courier company as their attempts at home delivery did not go as expected. “A lot of readers are reaching out to us,” says Latheef. Survival at stake For the small, independent publishers and bookstores, the pandemic has made survival even more difficult, as they do not have the kind of profit margins of the big publishers to innovate and experiment.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Monitoring panels formed||The committees for ward-level monitoring of the large number of people who will be returning home from overseas and from other States were formed in most wards by Tuesday. In addition to this, five area-level committees have also been formed in each of the wards. The civic body formed these committees as per instructions issued by the State government to all local bodies. As the Corporation had earlier formed groups of volunteers in each ward even before the lockdown to keep track of those in home quarantine, forming the committees was an easier task. The volunteers had, during those initial days, ensured that those in home quarantine did not get outside their houses. In a few such cases, warnings were issued.  More formal The new committees are a more formal arrangement. The members include representatives of residents’ associations, Janamaithri police, village officers, Kudumbashree members, volunteers, anganwadi teachers/workers, health workers from the National Health Mission, SC/ST promoters, ASHA workers, government employees, and representatives of political parties. “The main ward-level committees and the area committees have been formed in most wards. Their first meetings will be held on Wednesday, in which each of them will take stock of the situation in the wards, take the number and locations of people in home quarantine, and also identify persons in the neighbouring areas, who can keep track of their movements. But, now with people being more aware than in the initial days, we do not expect a lot of them to try and move outside their houses,” said a Corporation official. Aiding them in the monitoring activities will be the mobile application ‘COME’, with one or two officials in each area committee being given login access to it, to feed the local-level data.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSERC objections may impede KFON project||A project that envisages to provide free high-speed Internet connectivity to 20 lakh indigent households and 30,000 government offices and educational institutions at an affordable rate is likely to be stymied, thanks to a recent order of the Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) on a joint venture company floated for building the Kerala Fibre Optic Network (KFON) network . The order of April 27 raises objections to a tripartite agreement signed by the Kerala State Electricity Board, Kerala State Information Technology Infrastructure Limited and the State government and records inhibitions about the board sharing its transmission and distribution infrastructure for building the network. Seeks fresh petition After examining the documents furnished by the board, the commission ordered to file a fresh petition citing the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003 and Licensing Regulations, 2006. It also directed the KSITIL and the IT Department to implead in the petition. The objections have been flagged at a time when educational institutions and the State administration are shifting to the virtual space in consonance with the COVID-19 containment strategy. Private players Power sector sources told The Hindu that private telecom majors have been seriously attempting to establish their monopoly in the State and throwing a spanner in the works of KFON would work to their advantage. The board and KISTIL have 49% stakes each and the State government 2% in the venture. The board’s prime contribution is the permission granted for using its right of way as well as transmission and distribution infrastructure. The State government sanction for incorporating the company was accorded on May 10, 2018 and the board intimated the commission the project details on July 10, 2018, well before the pact was signed in August 2019.  The board may soon file a fresh petition recording its objections to the delayed response from the commission. The board will again have to reiterate that it does not intend to either alienate or transfer its assets and such hurdles would only jeopardise the project, sources said.
20 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exam centre change||Students who are residents of model residential school hostels, sports hostels, pre and post-matric hostels, and shelter homes of the government, those in the Gulf and Lakshadweep, and those who are held up in other districts and unable to appear for the remaining SSLC, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary examinations from their original centres can apply online to change centres. Change of centres within districts will not be allowed. Applications can be submitted online from May 19 to 21 onhttps: //sslcexam.kerala.gov.in,www.hscap.kerala.gov.in, www.vhscap.kerala.gov.in. The list of new centres will be published on May 23 on the website, a statement issued by the Pareeksha Bhavan here on Tuesday said.
20 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Centre, State have failed people, says Congress||In a show of unity, three top leaders of the Congress held a joint press conference here on Tuesday in a concerted effort to hold the State government to account on the resumption of the sale of legal liquor, the Sprinklr deal and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's “unwillingness” to keep the Opposition in the loop about the State's COVID-19 containment strategy. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy also used the conference to slam the policies of the Central and State governments. ‘Students at risk’ Mr. Ramachandran slammed Mr. Vijayan for insisting that examinations be held as scheduled. The Chief Minister’s “inflexibility" would risk the health of 13 lakh students scheduled to appear for the tests. (Mr. Vijayan later said the fears of the Congress were out of place. The Education Department had ensured that students would be seated well apart in examination halls.)  Restore livelihood Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the Centre and State had failed in putting cash in the hands of the people. He suggested a 10-point programme to restart the economy and restore the livelihood of people without endangering their health. Mr. Chandy said the Centre and the State should do more for non-resident Keralites. Thousands had lost their jobs in the Gulf.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC launches travel cards||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has launched pre-paid travel cards for its commuters. The cards will be initially used in the Thiruvananthapuram-Attingal and Thiruvananthapuram-Neyattinkara sector. The cards, which will be helpful during the prevailing conditions due to the pandemic, were launched by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran on Tuesday at his office in the Secretariat. The cards can be procured on payment of Rs. 100 and later on it can be topped off with multiples of 10 for travelling in the buses. The company that had made available the card had also provided the card reader to the KSRTC. The conductor will have to carry the reader in addition to the Electronic Ticketing Machine.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train from Bengalaru from tomorrow||Daily special non-air conditioned chair car train from Bengaluru to the State will start running from May 21. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday that a special non-air-conditioned train from Delhi to Kerala will leave New Delhi at 6 p.m. on May 20 with 1,304 passengers. The passengers include 971 people from Delhi and 333 from Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “Those who have expressed their desire to come back to Kerala and registered on the NoRKA website have been prioritised by the government. Pregnant women, the sick and children should come back first. But we have observed that those who don’t have a need to come back urgently are taking advantage of the system, thus denying the opportunities for those who genuinely need to return.” The Chief Minister urged the people cooperate with the government’s efforts. “We are making arrangements for all to come back. There might be some delay but everyone will be brought back,” he added.
20 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||15 village offices to shift to new buildings||As many as 15 village offices in the State are set to start functioning from new buildings. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekhar will inaugurate the new buildings at a function to be held at the Land Revenue Commissionerate here on May 25. The village offices at Pattom and Karipur in Thiruvananthapuram district; Oachira and Kottarakara in Kollam; Eraviperoor and Ayiroor in Pathanamthitta; Chingoli in Alappuzha; Elappara, Anakara and Kanchiyar in Idukki; Puthuvype and Kakkanad in Ernakulam; Panancheri in Thrissur; and Muthedam and Thrikkandiyur in Malappuram district will be shifting to new premises, a release said.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to create skill talent pool||With the COVID-19 pandemic shaking up the global economy, the State government has embarked on an endeavour to create a talent pool of skilled personnel with technical competence to meet the future challenges of the job sector. Spearheading the initiative, the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP) is organising Kaikkorkkaam Nalla Naalekkayi (Let’s join hands for a better tomorrow) in association with the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs(NoRKA) to formulate development strategies that could be implemented by various departments and to organise skill development programmes across the State. Reverse migration The programme assumes importance with the State witnessing a phenomenon of reverse migration in large numbers, particularly from West Asia, which is feared to have resulted in a drastic fall in foreign remittances. According to NoRKA statistics, close to 39 lakh people returned to the State during the last few years. Besides, the pandemic also rendered several people unemployed. The preparatory discussions will commence with a panel discussion between Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel and State Planning Board member B. Ekbal on Wednesday. K.M. Subhash, technocrat-entrepreneur and consultant in skill development, will moderate the session. Subsequently, officials and experts in other sectors, including finance, local self-government institutions, labour, agriculture, and tourism, will join the series of discussions.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plan to revive film production||The government is planning to revive movie production by strictly abiding by the COVID-19 protocol, Culture Minister A.K. Balan has said. Mr. Balan said in a release here on Tuesday that film industry organisations had several rounds of discussions with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The government was aware of the crisis gripping the industry and was weighing various options. The government was considering the revival of production with a fixed number of artistes. Indoor shooting Permission had been granted for starting post-production works. Indoor shooting of television serials too had been permitted in line with the COVID-19 protocol. Chitranjali Studio would offer due support for such endeavours. In the next stage, the government would consider the proposal for opening cinemas, he said.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Free yoga training||The Sahaja Yoga Trust is conducting free online training in meditation from various centres in the State. Details could be accessed from 9615821582. The trust, based in Pune, had conducted similar sessions during the lockdown in connection with its golden jubilee. People from 82 countries participated in such sessions on May 5 alone, a release said.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vallakkadavu Muslim Jamaat distributes Ramzan kits||The Vallakkadavu Muslim Jamaat has distributed Ramzan kits to 4,000 families who face hardships owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Kerala State Wakf Board former chairman Hafiz Abdul Gaffar Moulavi formally launched the initiative at a programme here on Monday. Jamaat president A. Saifudeen Haji presided. Jawahirul Uloom Arabic College, Vallakkadavu, Principal M. Abdurahman Saqafi delivered the Ramzan message on the occasion. According to a press note, the kits containing 16 essential commodities were distributed to not just the faithful of the Jamaat, but several economically disadvantaged families belonging to other communities in the region.
20 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Cong. leaders go on hunger stir||T.N. Prathapan, MP, and Anil Akkara, MLA, held a day’s hunger strike on Tuesday against medical board decision not to send Local Self-Government Minister A.C. Moideen to quarantine. The Congress leaders said their agitation was against politicising the COVID-19 situation. They said the medical board decision was politically motivated. Medical board flayed They criticised the panel’s decision to sent them for home quarantine for visiting the Walayar check-post where a COVID-19 positive person was present while the Minister was exempted even after visiting a quarantine centre from where five positive cases had been reported. The MP observed strike at his house while Mr. Akkara was in his office. Both are in quarantine. Meanwhile, Congress workers conducted protest meetings at various centres in the district expressing solidarity with Mr. Prathapan and Mr. Akkara.
20 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Online meet in memory of Ayurvedic scholar||The Thirumulpad Foundation is hosting an online gathering in remembrance of Ayurvedic scholar K. Raghavan Thirumulpad on his 100th birth anniversary on Wednesday. Eminent personalities from different fields will share their memories about the eminent physician. The event will be live on Zoom and Youtube from 7.30 p.m. The Foundation had planned year-long Janmashatabdi celebration of Thirumulpad. However, it had to postpone or cancel several events due to the COVID-19 lockdown.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Patient wait||
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||As virus clips wings||
20 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sweet lime turns bitter for growers||The sweet lime growers in Mukundapuram are in a deep trouble despite the yield being very good due to continuous availability of irrigation water, as COVID-19 cast a shadow on sales of the most sought-after fruit for instant recharge with its juice during summer. Grown in over 2,000 acres in this village alone in Garladinne mandal, which has one of the largest chunks of land dedicated for this crop, farmers were buoyant after failure of the crop in 2018 and 2019 due to shortage of irrigation water. Sweet lime, which was sold up to Rs. 60,000 a tonne in May 2019, is now being sold at Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 8,000 a tonne. By a very conservative estimate, if the farmer gets Rs. 18,000 to Rs. 20,000 per tonne, he can recover his investment. Plucking of the fruits begins by February-end and gets completed by April-end, but a visit to the farms in the third week of May showed more than 50% of the yield still on the plants as farmers do not find buyers due to lack of demand from northern States. Some farmers, to retrieve some money from their investment, are selling it at the farm for Rs. 10,000 a tonne. Several representations to Member of Parliament Talari Rangaiah, MLA Jonnalagadda Padmavathy and District Collector Gandham Chandrudu did not result in any action so far to transport or open the marketing channels, laments Kambagiri Ramudu, who had grown sweet lime in 10 acres. The other day (last week) a farmer from the village, Nagaraju, spoke to the Chief Minister during a video conference on ‘Rythu Bharosa’ high about the government schemes and availability of water painting a rosy picture, but did not raise the problematic issue, opine other farmers in the village. Corona threat Traders from Sirivella in Kurnool district are the regulars at this village, but they are absent in the wake of high number of COVID-19 cases in that district and closure of Hyderabad and Bengaluru markets. Majority of the growers lost the plantation in hundreds of trees in 2019 due to lack of water.
20 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crops take a beating from gales in Anantapur||Horticulture crops took a beating from gales and thunderstorms that hit many parts of the district on Sunday night. The banana and papaya growers in the district, whose business was already on the decline because of a lack of demand owing to the lockdown, were dealt a severe blow by the hales. The farmers had been seeking special trains to transport fruits to northern states in view of the closure of Koyambedu market about 15 days ago. At Korrapadu village in the worst-hit mandal of Bukkarayasamudram, small growers had cultivated papaya as it had a good demand in the market and were expecting an yield of 300 tonnes in five acres of land. “I invested Rs. 20 lakh on the farm and was expecting a return of Rs. 80 lakh from it, but the untimely gales shattered our dreams,” said Sk. Basha, looking at the damaged crops. Preliminary survey As per the preliminary survey of the Horticulture Department on Monday afternoon, Mr. Basha is one among 566 farmers in the district who suffered severe damages in their crops of banana, mango, papaya, arecanut and chrysanthemum. The loss incurred by the damages in 62.2 hectares of crops spread over Brahmasamudram, Kalyandurg, Kambadur, Anantapur and Bukkarayasamudram mandals on Sunday alone was put at Rs. 48.6 lakh. Estimating the total loss in the district at Rs. 6.36 crore, Deputy Director Horticulture S. Subbarayudu said that this was the third such major incidence of gales damaging the horticulture crops in the season. Recommendations and damage estimates were being sent to the Commissionerate at Amaravati for providing relief to the affected farmers.
20 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Balayya donates ventilators to hospital||Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna donated two ventilators to Hindupur COVID-19 hospital through the Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital and Research Institute, Hyderabad. While the ventilators cost Rs. 25 lakh, another 100 PPE kits have also been given to the doctors working there. In a recorded video message, he said he would visit the constituency soon.
20 May 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 new cases emerge in Kurnool, Anantapur||People heaved a sigh of relief as the new positive cases drastically come down in Anantapur and Kurnool districts. There were only two new positive cases each in both the districts, with the tally reaching 617 in Kurnool and 250 in Anantapur. While 18 patients were discharged in Anantapur, three were discharged in Kurnool district and the number of cumulative discharged persons going up to 447 in Kurnool and 91 in Anantapur. There are 20 deaths in Kurnool and 8 in Anantapur. There are 1,821 persons lodged in government quarantine facilities in Anantapur district.
20 May 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB asks A.P. not to draw water from Sagar, Srisailam||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has asked A.P. not to draw water from Nagarjunasagar Right Canal, Handri-Neeva and Muchhumarri lift irrigation schemes further since it has already availed water in excess of indents approved till the May-end, the current water year, and agreed upon share. In a letter addressed to Engineer-in-Chief of Water Resources Department of AP on Tuesday, KRMB Member-Secretary A. Paramesham said AP had availed 220.329 tmcft, from Srisailam, including 169.668 tmcft from Pothireddypadu head regulator, 41.918 through Handri-Neeva, 5.410 tmcft through Muchhumarri. Telangana has availed 51.344 tmcft, including 49.677 tmc ft through Kalwakurthy lift irrigation scheme. The two States have spared 3.333 tmcft and 1.667 tmcft, respectively, for drinking water supply to Chennai till May 19. Facts and figures From Nagarjunasagar, AP has utilised 349.061 tmcft, which included 35.287 tmcft from the left canal, 158.264 tmcft from the right canal, 152.360 tmcft in the Krishna Delta System and 3.150 tmcft through Guntur Channel, while Telangana has drawn 148.806 tmcft, incluidng 57.799 tmcft for drinking needs of Hyderabad and 91.007 tmcft from NS Left Canal. The board said Telangana has another 49.241 tmcft in its share in Nagarajunasagar out of the indents approved so far. From the Tungabhadra project, AP has drawn 78.169 tmcft and Telangana has availed 5.93 tmcft from the Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS). Besides, Telangana has availed 57.283 tmcft from Jurala project and Nettempadu, Bhima and Koilsagar schemes and has another 1.103 tmcft left unavailed. Further, Telangana has availed 9.483 tmcft through seven medium irrigation projects and AP has utilised another 3.758 tmcft through five such projects. AP has availed 647.559 tmcft and Telangana 272.846 tmc ft, with another 60.333 tmcft available, mostly for Telangana (56.563 tmcft), for use by the two States as on May 19. Thus, 980.738 tmcft has either been utilised or available this water year in the Krishna Basin. Overall, AP has availed 4.042 tmcft in excess of indents approved, the board said.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rising cases pose challenge, 10 die in three States||With 149 new cases and three deaths, Karnataka had another record single-day spike on Tuesday. Over 75% of the new COVID-19 cases were those with travel history to Maharashtra. Telangana recorded four more deaths, while two people died in Andhra Pradesh. Kerala had 12 cases on Tuesday, all of them imported. With 71 new cases, Mandya in Karnataka had a big chunk of fresh positives, all under quarantine after returning from Mumbai. The three deaths took the toll to 41, including one non-COVID death. Karnataka’s fatality rate stood at 2.8%. The deaths were in Ballari, Vijayapura and Bengaluru and all had a history of ischaemic heart disease and other co-morbidities. Although Karnataka’s tally touched 1,395, the bed occupancy was 6.09% of the nearly 28,000 beds designated for COVID-19. A 61-year-old male patient in Ballari, diagnosed with SARI and with travel history to Bengaluru, had undergone cardiac surgery recently. He died on May 19 in Ballari. In Vijayapura, a 65-year-old man with ischaemic heart disease, hypertension and diabetes was brought dead on May 18 to a local designated hospital. He tested positive for COVID-19. A 54-year-old man in Bengaluru with ischaemic heart disease was admitted to a private hospital in the city and died on May 18. He too tested positive. While 22 cases were reported from Davangere, 13 from Kalaburgi and 10 from Shivamogga, Bengaluru Urban saw six cases and Chikkamagaluru and Bagalkot five cases each. Four cases each were from Udupi and Uttara Kannada and three from Hassan. The districts of Yadgir, Raichur, Vijayapura, Bidar, Chitradurga and Gadag reported one case each. 57 positives in A.P. The COVID-19 death toll in Andhra Pradesh rose to 52. Of 9,739 tests carried out in a 24-hour window, 57 were positive and the case tally was 2,489, a bulletin said. One death each was reported in Chittoor and Kurnool districts. Kurnool had the highest toll at 20 among the districts and with Krishna accounted for 70% of casualties. Six fresh cases — five in Chittoor and one West Godavari — were linked to Koyambedu in Tamil Nadu. But 69 patients in various districts had recovered in the past day, leaving 816 active patients under treatment. Total recoveries were 1621. So far, 2,58,450 samples were tested in the State, representing 5,169 tests per million population. The positivity rate was 0.96% and recovery rate 65.12%. The death rate was at 2.08%. Kerala Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, reiterated on Tuesday that there was no evidence of community transmission in the State. Addressing the media, he said the results of the sentinel surveillance sample testing done by the State was ample evidence that community transmission was yet to happen. With more people returning to the State, strict measures as well as reverse quarantining would be tightened, especially in containment zones, because community transmission was an imminent threat, Mr. Vijayan, said. Telangana’s toll rose to 38, as four more deaths were reported. Cases continued to surge as 42 more were detected. Of these, 34 were from Greater Hyderabad, and eight were migrants from Yadadri, Karimnagar and Sircilla. Tamil Nadu recorded 688 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, in another rapid increase, taking the State tally to 12,448. Chennai alone accounted for 552 of the fresh cases, raising the city tally to 7,672, of which 5,691 were active. The city also accounted for 58 of the 84 deaths so far in the State.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram,Chennai and Hyderabad Bureaus)
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC notice to Karnataka on relief for priests||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the State government on a PIL petition seeking directions to the government to give monetary relief to archaks and temple servants working in nearly 35,000 category “C” Muzrai temples controlled by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department across the State. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice K.N. Phaneendra passed the order on a petition filed by Shreehari Kutsa, an advocate, and K.S.N. Dikshit, an archak from Bengaluru. The Bench orally observed that the government will have to consider giving some monetary relief to archaks and temple servants in the category “C” temples as the temples are likely to remain closed for some more time due to lockdown. The government can consider paying a one-time relief on the lines of relief paid to construction workers as they were not paid any monthly salary like priests and other temple servants in category “A” and “B” temples notified under provisions of the Karnataka Hindu Religions Endowments Act, the Bench observed orally. Pointing out that the government pays only a paltry sum of Rs. 48,000 per annum to each of the category “C” temple to cover all expenses, including daily rituals, maintenance, salaries to archaks, servants, renovations, electricity bills, etc., the petitioners pointed out that archaks and temple servants in these temples are mainly depending on “dakshina” by devotees. With the closure of temples for public due to lockdown, archaks and temple servants are facing server hardship for their livelihood as well as to perform bare essential rituals in the temples. The petitioners have also pointed out that there was no response to their representation, on the plight of archaks and temple servants due to lockdown, submitted to the Chief Minister on April 2. Further hearing has been adjourned till May 27.
20 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Extended hospitality for wedding party||When Sheikh Tipu Sultan and nine close relatives arrived from Bengaluru in Odisha’s Kendrapara town on March 18, the wedding party had a simple plan: get the wedding solemnised on March 30 and return home by train with the bride on April 4. However, the back-to-back national lockdowns to contain the COVID-19 pandemic have now forced Mr. Sultan and his family to accept the extended hospitality of the bride’s father and her relatives. A worker in a granite polishing unit in Bengaluru, Mr. Sultan finds himself a guest of his father-in-law Sheikh Abdul Okil and Mr. Okil’s relatives on a rotation basis since the wedding. “It has been more than two months since we are stranded in my wife’s house,” said Mr. Sultan by telephone. “Though society does not approve staying such a long period in a father-in-law’s house, we do not have any option. Our financial condition also doesn’t allow hiring a vehicle to Bengaluru. We hope for resumption of normal train services so that we can return,” he added. “We are not an affluent family to afford hosting nine persons on daily basis,” Mr. Okil explained. “Some of my relatives came forward to share the burden and continue to provide food to our new relatives.” Awkward moments Still, there have been several awkward moments. “We have only three rooms, enough for our six- member family,” said S.K. Zafar, a relative of Mr. Okil. “As our guests have to be accommodated, we are crammed into a single room leaving nine persons to one room and the newly weds to the other,” he added. Cuisine is also an issue. “The food we prepare in Odisha is different. Neither can we ask them to prepare food for themselves nor can we learn preparing food in Karnataka style,” remarked Mr. Zafar. With normal train services between the two States still suspended, the bride’s family had now sought help from the State government. “We have requested some kind-hearted persons to put across the hardship of the wedding party to the government,” said Mr. Zafar.
20 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power personnel prove they are made of sterner stuff||Gales accompanied by thundershowers caused damage to public utilities in Guntur district on Monday night. Though they lasted one hour, several electric poles were uprooted and feeders were damaged plunging several colonies into darkness. Undaunted by the adverse weather, SPDCL personnel worked through the night battled and restored power in several colonies. Superintending Engineer M. Vijay Kumar said going by estimates, the damage to the utilities was in the region of Rs. 1.5 crore. The areas affected are Guntur city, Bapatla, Veldurthy, Dachepalli, Machavaram, Nakerikallu, Krosuru and Rompicharla mandals. Several utilities, including, 35 transmitters of various capacities, 165 LT poles, 350 Mkv poles, 120 33/11 stone poles have been damaged. Appreciating the services of the personnel, Mr. Vijaya Kumar said even on earlier occasions during the lockdown, they rose to the occasion. In the present instance, the personnel battled gales and short bursts of rain to restore supply risking their lives.
20 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown takes shine out of goldsmiths’ lives||The year 2020 started on an optimistic note for goldsmiths, with many weddings planned, but their world turned upside down after the outbreak of COVID-19. Goldsmiths are mostly engaged in unorganised activity in small shops and make ends meet by making ornaments on demand. In reality, the first blow came when corporate jewellery giants entered the scene. Demonetisation, which followed, saw many goldsmiths abandoning their profession and looking for alternatives. Many of them literally starved and it almost took one year for them to again take up the activity. Today, the lockdown has seriously impacted their livelihoods and there are serious doubts about their ability to bounce back even after restrictions are lifted. “Gold worker unions have rendered some help by supplying essentials such as rice and dal, but how can families survive on this meagre support when they lost their incomes?” asked Kocherla Srirama Murthy, a Bhimavaram union leader. ‘Helpless state’ Most of the goldsmiths are in a helpless state and the government should go to their rescue by constituting a corporation for the Viswabrahmin community, said Kocherla Srirama Murthy “There should be a special support scheme for goldsmiths like in the case of handloom workers, fishermen and shepherds. Working on gold just doesn’t make us any better or richer. We need an income support scheme at this hour of crisis,”said Sarampati Jagadeesh, a goldsmith from Gudivada of Krishna district.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana HC clears decks for SSC exams||Clearing the decks for conducting Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams of 2020, which had been postponed in March, Telangana High Court on Tuesday permitted the State government to hold the exams from June 8. Hearing a PIL plea on SSC exams, the HC made it clear that the government should first review coronavirus situation in the State on June 3 before resuming conduct of exams. The government ‘shall be free to postpone the exams, if necessary, going by COVID-19 situation’ then, the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said in its order. The government should inform students immediately through media if it decides not to hold the exams from June 8. SSC exams had begun in the State on March 19 even as reports of coronavirus cases started surfacing. A day later, the HC issued orders staying the exams following a PIL petition in which it was apprehended that students might fall prey to the pandemic. Accordingly, the remaining exams were deferred indefinitely. Subsequently, Special Chief Secretary (Education) Chitra Ramchandran filed an affidavit in the HC to vacate the stay orders, submitting that the government was ready to hold the exams with all precautions. Advocate General B.S. Prasad said nearly 5,34,000 students were to appear for the exams. There was a sense of anxiety and fear in them over uncertainty of exam schedule. Hearing contentions of the AG and the petitioner’s counsel Kowturu Pavan Kumar, the bench observed that “students are most precious persons of this State and government has to be vigilant to protect them from getting exposed to COVID-19. Students “should not continue to exist in animated suspension” about pendency of their exams. Vacating the stay order, the bench said students appearing for exams at smaller schools or centres, where making arrangements is difficult, should be shifted to schools having larger campuses. But students should be informed well in advance about the change in examination centres, the order said.
20 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more Vande Bharat flight lands at RGIA||An Air India Express IX 890 from Bahrain with 175 Indian citizens landed at the Hyderabad International Airport at 08.31 pm on Tuesday night. This is second flight of second phase of Vande Bharat programme landing at the RGIA. The airport has been totally sanitised to receive the passengers with social distancing enforced from the aerobridge to across the terminal. Passengers/crew were screened with thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit.
20 May 2020||KALPETTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grasshoppers attack crops in Wayanad||Swarms of grasshoppers, disconcertingly resembling locusts, have descended upon parts of Pulpally in Wayanad, leaving farmers anxious about a possible damage to their crops. However, scientists at the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS) at Ambalavayal, who have since been getting numerous phone calls from farmers, said the damage had been noticed at its initial stage. It was found that attacks by nymphs of spotted grasshoppers or coffee grasshoppers had triggered panic among farmers. Though the insect mainly feeds on teak plants at Pulpally, especially in the Veliyambam area, it also attacks coffee, banana and mango plants, Dr. K. Ajith Kumar, associate director, research, RARS, told The Hindu . The insect, found gregariously in the area, belongs to Pyrgomorphidae locust family, Dr. Ajith Kumar said, adding that it was not the desert locust, Schistocerca gregaria, which causes panic in the northeast. An adult insect lays up to 80 eggs in egg pods during September-November, and hatching occurs usually in February-March. Soil left unattended Owing to changes in climate, nymphal emergence has taken place, said Seena R. Subhagan, assistant professor, department of entomology, RARS. As the soil may have remained unattended during the lockdown, the conditions would have favoured the safe emergence and survival of nymphs, leading to a gregarious phase, she observed. “Some farmers have noticed small congregations of grasshoppers on plants for the past two years, but their number went up considerably this year,” she said. It is suspected that climatic variations have caused the sudden spurt in insect population, Dr. Ajith Kumar said, stressing the need for examining the phenomenon. M.V. Sreerekha, assistant professor, department of horticulture, and Julie I. Elizabeth, assistant professor, department of plant pathology, RARS, were the other members of the team who studied the phenomenon. They inspected the fields and suggested control measures to farmers.
20 May 2020||KANNUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension in Kannur station||Several hundred migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh who tried to set out on a long march on foot back to their States were stopped by the police in Kannur on Tuesday. They said lack of work, finances, and inadequate supply of food at camps made life miserable, forcing them to take the extreme step. Carrying water cans and belongings, the workers started walking along rail tracks from nearby Valapatanam, home to plywood-based industries, to the Kannur railway station, a distance of 12 km, early in the day on receiving fake messages that trains to Uttar Pradesh will be stopping at the station. “We have no work and food is insufficient, putting us in hardship,” said Tilak Sahani, a native of Baliya in Uttar Pradesh, who has been working at Pappinesseri for the past couple of years. He and several others from his village were staying at Pappinesseri and dredging river sand for a living. With the work coming to a stop after the lockdown, they were confined to rooms. Though they received material from the panchayat, it lasted only ten days, he added. The panchayat or the district administration were not helping them to go back home despite them registering for passes, complained Rajdev, another worker. The workers were later taken in Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses by the police to their camps. CM’s directive Later, officials said the complaints of the workers would be looked into. In the wake of the incident, the Chief Minister ordered police officers to visit labour camps and enquire about the well being of the workers.
20 May 2020||MACHILIIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Housing beneficiaries stage protest||The beneficiaries of the housing project on Tuesday staged a protest on the site here, accusing that the petitioners, who opposed the project on environmental grounds, had the backing of Telugu Desam Party. The beneficiaries sought to end the legal battle, which ensued after petitioners Kola Ramu and Avanigadda Lakshman opposed the grant of housing sites on the 40-acre land located between the Gilakaladindi village and a creek near Machilipatnam in Krishna district. ‘Status quo’ order In response to their petitions, the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Monday issued a ‘status quo’ order on the ongoing works.
20 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probe ordered into minor sweeping floor||The police have ordered an inquiry into the incident of a minor girl sweeping a room allotted for intermediate examination spot valuation in the presence of a police personnel in Atmakur town of Nellore district. Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan asked Atmakur Deputy Superintendent of Police S. Maqbool to conduct an inquiry after a video showing the minor girl sweeping the room went viral on various social media platforms. Taking strong exception to the incident, child right activists demanded action against those responsible. The video showed a seven-year-old girl, said to be the daughter of the school watchman Krishnaprasad, cleaning the floor under the watch of a police personnel who was on escort duty at the Government Junior College. Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) Usha Rani conducted a probe into the violation of child rights in the case.
20 May 2020||PIPPARWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Locked-up garment workers ‘escape’ from Tirupur||Migrants from Bihar, who were working in garment units at Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu and were on their way back home on Tuesday, alleged that they had been locked up by their employers during the COVID-19 lockdown and were not provided basic necessities. The garment workers, belonging to Bihar and bordering villages in Nepal, were travelling on four buses till Patna. “We were ignored even when we went without food for days at a stretch during the lockdown and curfew period,” recalled Sushil Kumar Mandal of Sitamarhi district, who worked in one of the hundreds of garment manufacturing units in Tiruppur. “In fact, we were locked up in our living quarters during those difficult days so that we did not escape,” added Mukesh Kumar Raut, also from the same district. Mr. Mandal and Mr. Raut were among the 120 workers who had paid around Rs. 7,200 towards the hire charges (total hire charge coming to over Rs. 2 lakh for one bus) from the money sent by their families back home. The buses started from Tiruppur around 10 p.m. on May 16 and stopped at the Pipparwada toll plaza, about 15 km from Adilabad district headquarters town and just 3 km away from the Telangana-Maharashtra border on Tuesday when the workers narrated their woeful tale to The Hindu . They said hundreds of other garment workers are waiting for an opportunity to leave Tiruppur in the coming days.
20 May 2020||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,982 residents get solatium||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday distributed cheques for Rs. 10,000 each to 1,982 residents of Venkatapuram and Kamparapalem, which were affected by the gas leak from LG Polymers. The Minister said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had not only extended the relief, but also ordered better treatment facilities to the victims. He had also released funds for improvement of the healthcare facilities in the affected villages. RDO Kishore, Zonal Commissioner Ramu and YSRCP leaders Malla Vijay Prasad and Behara Bhaskara Rao were present.
20 May 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students sent home from quarantine||The revenue and the police officials sent the students of Lovely Professional University (LPU), Jalandhar, Punjab, to their native place as they tested negative for COVID-19 on Tuesday. About 1,100 students of the university came in a special train 15 days ago to Vijayawada. Officials have sent all the students to different quarantines as per the protocol. “A total of 95 students of LPU were kept in RGUKT Nuzvid IIIT. Transportation has been arranged to their native districts,” said Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu. Some students were sent to State quarantines in their native districts and they were sent to home after medical examination on Tuesday, said Nuzvid Mandal Revenue Officer (MRO) M. Suresh Kumar. “The officers explained the students about the precautions to be taken after reaching home. We advised all the students to maintain home quarantine,” the DSP said.
20 May 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘ends life’ in East Godavari||A 21-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from a fan hook at her residence under Razole police station limits in East Godavari district on Monday night. According to the Razole police, V. Bhanu (21) reportedly ended her life as she was unable to cope with illness. She was married in 2017. Helpline The police shifted the body to the government hospital for post-mortem. A case was registered. Those suffering from suicidal tendencies can dial the police at 9502947778 (Disha police wing).
20 May 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Clear applications to regularise aqua ponds’||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday directed the revenue and fisheries officials to clear the 3,074 applications regularising ponds proposed for aquaculture in the district by mid-July. In a review meeting, Mr. Muralidhar admitted that there was a delay in scrutinising the applications due to the lockdown. The Collector assured to complete the process within two months if the ponds met the parameters relating to pollution and eco-friendly practices. He said, “The total production of aquaculture is 1.4 lakh tonnes in 2019-20. The total area under the aquaculture is 60,000 acres.”
20 May 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unexpected threat pops up for fishing cat in CWS||The Fishing Cat (Prionailurus viverrinus) thriving in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary (CWS) in the Godavari estuary faces a fresh threat in the form of brewing of ID liquor. The conservation status of the cat is ‘vulnerable.’ During the two-day raids which ended on Monday midnight, excise personnel unearthed two ID liquor sites in the CWS. “We have destroyed 24,000 litres of jaggery wash and 750 litres of ID liquor and 1,000 kg of black jaggery near Gadimoga village,” said Deputy Commissioner (Excise-Kakinada) B. Arun Rao. “Brewing of the ID liquor has been detected in the dense patches of the mangrove forest. The six accused, who escaped by jumping into water during the raid, reportedly belong to Tallarevu in East Godavari district and the enclave of Yanam,” Mr. Arun Rao said. The excise officials also found dozens of plastic drums on which several mangrove trees were cut to prepare the ground. The destruction of the mangrove patch to install the stove system to brew the liquor, movements of people inside the sanctuary, and the heat generated from the stoves are arguably disturbing the movements of the wildlife in the sanctuary, particularly at night. The fishing cat moves actively moves in the mangroves mostly at night in search of prey. The Forest Department’s survey (2019 April) claims: “The population of the fishing cat in the CWS and outside was 115 as against 70 in 2014.” Forest Ranger (Wildlife-Kakinada) B.V. Durga Prasad told The Hindu that the activity of brewing ID liquor had not come to their notice but they would conduct a field investigation for further action.
20 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown stalled new AWS deployment: IMD||Responding to the Kerala government’s decision to source weather inputs from private agencies during the southwest monsoon, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) says it is unable to deploy new automated weather stations (AWS) before June due to the COVID-19 lockdown and because some of the sites do not meet its standards. IMD Director General Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, in a letter to V. Venu, Principal Secretary, Revenue and Disaster Management, says the IMD has been providing Kerala State Disaster Management Authority with “very high-resolution numerical weather prediction model forecasts” since 2017. The letter comes in response to a May 15 order that terms IMD inputs inadequate and the decision to allow the State Emergency Operations Centre to also access weather inputs from Skymet Weather Services, Windy, the IBM Weather Company, and Earth Networks. Mr. Mohapatra says following the government’s request after the 2018 floods, the IMD had decided to establish 100 AWS across Kerala. The first 15 were to be ready before the 2020 southwest monsoon and the remaining 85 by the end of 2020. The IMD issued a supply order for the first 15 AWS to M/s Hach DHR India Pvt Ltd. They were ready for installation by the middle of March 2020. “However, the work could not be completed due to delay in the finalisation of sites [out of 15, only 13 sites could be finalised by March 17], as some of the sites initially proposed did not satisfy the standard exposure conditions.” This was conveyed to the KSDMA. The IMD asked the supplier to complete the installation of the 15 AWS within a month of the lockdown’s lifting. The remaining 85 would be installed by the end of the year as planned, Mr. Mohapatra says. More radars planned He refutes the charge that IMD failed to deploy more doppler weather radars (DWR) in Kerala. The existing DWRs, in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi, met the requirements of central and south Kerala. The IMD is giving top priority to installing an x-band radar at the Kannur airport. Two more radars would be installed, at Mangalore and Kavaratti, during the next two years.
20 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor district registers first COVID death||Chittoor district registered its first COVID-19 death late on Monday night. The 59-year-old male patient was admitted to the State COVID Hospital on SVIMS campus after he was diagnosed of multiple complications such as fever, high blood pressure, diabetes, open wound in the leg, urological issues and respiratory disorder. He succumbed while undergoing treatment, thus becoming the first COVID- induced fatality in the district. The hospital took up fumigation process on its premises on Tuesday. As a result, the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) on the premises did not taken up the process of accepting nasopharyngeal swab samples. SVIMS also conducted a training programme titled ‘Good clinical practices’ under the aegis of its Institutional Ethics Committee, where its Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma, medicine head Alladi Mohan, addressed the delegates. Meanwhile, Joint Collector (Development) Veera Brahmam hastened the process of setting up quarantine centres in Tirupati in the likelihood of a flight from Kuwait arriving at Renigunta airport by May 21 night, bringing the stranded Indians under the ‘Vande Bharat’ mission. “A 14-day home stay is a must for the arriving passengers, and as such the facilities should be made available immediately,” he directed the officials. The immigration aspect will be taken care of by the staff at the Hyderabad airport. Passengers will be provided a SIM card on arrival and ‘Arogya Setu’ app downloaded to provide instructions on COVID-19. Disinfection tunnel Instructions have been given on putting in place a disinfection tunnel, thermal guns and baggage sanitisation at the airport. Those seeking free stay will be accommodated at the Vikruthamala housing project and those willing to pay will be directed to hotels managed by the AP Tourism.
20 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC waiting to resume Tirumala services||With no direction forthcoming on opening of temples, officials of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation are undecided on resuming operations to Tirumala form Tirupati and are reportedly waiting for a final word from their higher-ups. “We have no information on resuming Tirumala services,” said APSRTC Regional Manager (Tirupati) T. Chengal Reddy. Tirupati region is arguably the major earner today, thanks to the Tirumala ghat operations. The region has a fleet strength of 1,500 buses, covring 5.6 lakh km and ferrying 7 to 8 lakh passengers everyday, of which 421 buses make 1,600 trips only on Tirumala ghat services to transport 90,000 passengers a day.  Buses remodelled Meanwhile, the fleet is undergoing a sea change to accommodate fewer number of people to maintain the minimum distance between passengers. With the government directing the corporation to get one-third of its fleet strength ready for operations, the Tirupati region swung into action to modify its buses. The regular buses would be continued to run as they are, with some seats in the middle marked with ‘X’ to indicate that no passenger would be allowed to sit on them. However, the seat matrix in Super Luxury and Ultra Deluxe categories are being altered with the twin objectives of ensuring the mandatory distance as well as accommodating more number of passengers. “Super Luxury will have 26 instead of the previous 35 seats and the Ultra Deluxe bus will have 29 and not 40,” says Tirupati I Depot Manager Praveen Kumar. New norms According to the new norms, every passenger should wear a mask. Every bus will be sanitised with sodium hypochlorite after a trip. Similarly, reservation facility will be made available for routes hitherto under non-reservation category, for example the Tirupati-Madanapalle route, so as to enable the passengers book their seats, that are likely to be in great demand due to reduced capacity.
20 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||People in Chandragiri to get Ramzan Tohfa at their doorstep||Members of the Muslim community in Chandragiri constituency will get 10 essential commodities under Ramzan Tohfa at their doorstep, with their legislator and Government Whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy on Tuesday initiating the process of delivering them through the volunteers. The gift pack includes rice, vermicelli, dalda, sugar and ghee used for making sweets during the Ramzan. “Muslims need not feel left out due to the crisis situation”, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy announced while symbolically distributing the goods to a select few at Thondavada near here. Volunteers started the process of transporting the Tohfa bags to the identified families across the constituency spread over Chandragiri, Tirupati rural, Ramachandrapuram, Pakala and Chinnagottigallu mandals. Chandragiri MPDO Radhamma and Tahsildar A. Chandramohan took part in the event.
20 May 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. making consumers’ pay through their nose’||Leaders from three political cadres, Telugu Desam Party(TDP), Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP) and Jana Sena Party(JSP), staged demonstrations at a number of places across Chittoor and Kadapa districts on Tuesday, opposing the ‘hefty’ power bills. BJP leaders, led by State spokesperson G. Bhanuprakash Reddy, staged a sit-in wearing black badges and condemned the government for its ‘shocking’ power bills that added to the woes of people reeling under COVID crisis. In a joint demonstration, BJP leader Saikam Jayachandra Reddy and Jana Sena district leader Kiran Rayal flayed the State for going back on its pre-election promise of giving 200 units of free power and for making consumers pay through their nose. Slogans State Secretary Samanchi Srinivas also staged a dharna with a catchy slogan ‘Anna Vachadu Shock Ichadu’, mocking at YSRCP’s election campaign. He demanded that the government revise the changed slabs that escalated the bills. In Kadapa district, BJP Rajya Sabha member C.M. Ramesh staged a dharna at his Potladurthi residence and demanded that the government come up with an explanation for its decision to hike power bills.
20 May 2020||UPPADA (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Two fishermen habitations face inundation threat||Seawater has entered the two fisherfolk habitations -- Sooradapeta and Jagaraipeta -- located along the Uppada beach near Kakinada city in East Godavari district. The water began entering the two habitations since Monday evening due to high tides under the influence of cyclone Amphanis which is likely to make a landfall on the East Coast by Wednesday. Surada Nageswara Rao of Uppada said: “Several hundreds of families are likely to be affected due to the high tides and entry of seawater into our houses. The water enters into our habitations as much of the geotube on the Uppada beachfront in recent years has broken as it did not withstand the erosion process.” Mr. Nageswara Rao further said that a majority of the houses in these two habitations were huts. Movement restricted Kakinada Revenue Divisional Officer G. Chinni Krishna said: “We have already stopped vehicular movement on the beach road, restricting the entry of any vehicle into Uppada village to avoid any untoward incident.” Mr. Chinni Krishna said the police and revenue staff have been deployed to monitor the situation. The locals have been asked to move out of the beachfront to the nearby schools .
20 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||High Court adjourns hearing pleas against liquor sales||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday adjourned to next week the hearing into petitions which sought directions to the State government to not permit liquor sales during the lockdown. The petitioners approached the court raising objection to allowing the liquor shops to do business when the lockdown was in force. Spread of virus They expressed the apprehension that there was a danger of the spread of coronavirus if social distance was not maintained. They also questioned the rationale behind the government’s decision to open the liquor outlets at this critical juncture in the battle against the pandemic. The advocate appearing for the government told the court that the relevant lockdown guidelines were followed. The court ordered the government to file a detailed affidavit.
20 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students may attend classes in shifts||Walking into the school campus will be a different experience for the students in the fresh academic year. A disinfected school premises, a fever check at the main entrance, automated hand wash stations and posters all around on precautions against the spread of coronavirus will meet them. Kerchiefs will be mandatory along with uniforms. SOP developed These are a few components of the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) developed as part of the COVID-19 preparedness for schools. “Gloves and masks are compulsory for teachers and mid-day meal staff. We are doing away with the morning assembly session to avoid crowding, and depending on the strength, classes will be conducted in shifts,” Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh told The Hindu on Tuesday. Schools with a strength less than 30 will run from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. with 15 students in each classroom, those with more than 30 will run in two shifts (8 a.m. to 12 p.m and 12.30 p.m to 4.30 p.m) and schools with a strength of 50-100 will run on alternative days, and students will attend classes in shifts. Health record Activities such as yoga will replace all kinds of sports in the physical education period, fortnightly health check-ups will be conducted, besides maintenance of health records of each student in the school. Under the mid-day meal programme, serving of cooked meal will be avoided. Instead, dry ration will be supplied till the situation becomes normal. Exam protocol Only 10 students will sit in each examination hall with mandatory temperature check, hand-washing and masks. Students living in far-away areas from the examination centre will have the option of selecting a centre located close by, and transport facility will be arranged for them. Every centre will have an isolation room where children showing symptoms of the virus will be shifted. Thermal scanners will be used during entry and exit of the evaluators who must wear masks and gloves as they touch a large number of papers. The entire area will in disinfected before and after the process, and only two persons will be allowed to use the lift at the same time. The Minister said since the virus necessitated a prolonged lockdown that led to loss of precious time, the officials had to work overtime to find new ways to keep the students hooked to their classroom lessons. Distance learning In the lockdown period, worksheets were being distributed at school points and detailed instructional videos would be telecast through TV channels. The assessment of the worksheets would be done at the school points once in a week. “Detailed distance learning modalities are being prepared by an expert committee, which will be put into practice with diligence,” said the Minister.
20 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Childline distributes groceries to the poor||An NGO, Childline, involved in rescuing and rehabilitating children in the district, distributed groceries to the poor families who were suffering during the lockdown period, on Tuesday. Childline director B. Koteswara Rao, city coordinator A. Ramesh and centre in-charge B. Nagaraju supplied essentials to the needy children.
20 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, son allegedly commit suicide||A 40-year-old woman, Shaik Kareema, allegedly committed suicide by taking cyanide at YSR Colony on the city outskirts on Monday. According to her family sources, she took the extreme step unable to overcome the financial problems. The body of Kareema, wife of Shamshuddin, was shifted to the Government General Hospital (GGH) for post-mortem examination. Meanwhile, Nuruddin, her son, who went into depression after the death of her mother, too ended his life by taking cyanide on Tuesday. Shamshuddin, a goldsmith, lodged a complaint with the police. Cases were registered and investigation is on. Those who are in distress can contact police helpline No. 100.
20 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Revised list of containment zones to be announced today||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz said that all activities as per the State government guidelines can be carried out outside the containment zones in the Krishna district hereafter. In a release, Mr. Imtiaz said that there are 42 containment zones in the district and 20 of them are in Vijayawada. On Wednesday, some of the containment zones which are dormant will be denotified by the local authorities, he said. Shops and other establishments except malls, jewellery stores and others as per the guidelines could be opened during the timings that will be announced .
20 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Is it curtains for cinemas?||It is curtains, albeit temporarily, for the theatres since the imposition of lockdown in the wake of the outbreak of coronavirus. Generally, summer brings a windfall for cinema halls as they witness heavy rush during the season. But, this year, it is coming to an end on a gloomy note bringing tears to the theatre fraternity. The managements are at their wits’ end as a bleak future stares at them even after lifting of the lockdown. Going to the theatre has been the favourite pastime of students not only for entertainment but also to escape the summer heat. The theatres witness the maximum rush in April and May. But, this year the managements have lost their summer revenue and many wonder whether they would be able to recoup the loss. This is because even after they are allowed to reopen, several restrictions like social distancing’ and sanitisation after every show. and other COVID-19 guidelines will cause a huge dent in their revenues. “We have to forego one seat for every three seats and sanitisation has to be done after each and every show. Film goers will buy tickets at higher cost, only if the film stars big heroes. We have never seen such a crisis in the industry in the past,” Prasad Reddy, Manager of Sangam Sarat theatres, told The Hindu . The two theatres provide employment to 45 persons and the salary bill crosses Rs. 3.5 lakh. Despite the lockdown, the big theatres are getting average power bill of Rs. 1.31 lakh and the small ones are getting Rs. 80,000 a month. “We are unable to fathom the impact of the lockdown on the industry. Those, who were not watching TV earlier, are now getting addicted to it to beat the lockdown blues. Our association is seeking waiver of municipal taxes and permission to hike ticket prices to tide over the losses to some extent but we are yet to hear from the government on our demands,” says J. Madan, president of Visakhapatnam Cinema Exhibitors Association. “We are incurring a monthly bill of Rs. 2.5 lakh on maintenance of the projectors, sound systems and AC plants. We also have to support 70 staff though there is no revenue during the last two months,” says Jagadish Kumar, proprietor of Jagadamba complex, which houses three theatres.
20 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||When call of duty weighed more than life||It was around 3.20 a.m. on May 7 when Gopalapatnam police inspector P. Ramanayya got a phone call from the control room about a gas leak from LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram. The information shared was too sketchy to understand what exactly happened, but he realised that the situation warranted intervention on a war-footing. Mr. Ramanayya sent an SOS to SI G.R.L Satyanarayana who lives near the LG Polymers and rushed to the spot, along with reserve inspector T. Bhagavan and a team of Gopalapatnam station. Two failed attempts “A thick sheet of fog engulfed the area. We saw people running helter-skelter amid the din. As we approached to LG Ploymers, we found people lying unconscious on roads,” says Mr. Ramanayya. “Two attempts to reach Venkatapuram from the main gate route of LG Polymers turned futile. We developed bouts of vomiting and irritation in our eyes as we moved closer to the premises ,” says Mr. Satyanarayana. The SI says the team understood that there was life risk if they entered the area. “We were scared. But, lives were at stake and it was call of duty. We decided to enter the area again,” he says. Golden hour Then, the police team sent vehicles via Naidu Thota to Nandamuri Nagar, behind the Venkatapuram, and rescue as many people as they could. The vehicles made announcements with loud speakers and used sirens. Alerts were sent to health officials to send ambulances and RTC authorities to send buses for evacuation. “Entering the core area of LG Polymers through its main gate was tough. We decided to enter the area in the vehicles with the windows rolled up,” says Mr. Ramanayya. Be it rescuing the people lying unconscious on roads and others who fell sick, breaking open the houses to pull out the inmates or facilitating the evacuation of thousands, they did it all. “Pungent smell hung heavy in the air and our team members also fell sick. But, we did not budge,” he says. According to Mr. Satyanarayana, the rescue mission would not have been a success without the cooperation of the local youth who rose to the occasion. As many as 150 people struck in the core area were evacuated in the golden hour. A number of policemen from Gopalapatnam station who took part in the rescue mission remained hospitalised for four days. Later, around 30 personnel received appreciation letters from Director General of police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang for their grit during the emergency situation.
20 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakhapatnam Port sees growth plunging to -11%||The Visakhapatnam Port has fared relatively better compared to other major ports in ensuring near-normal handling of cargo during the nationwide lockdown, officials said. The port witnessed a negative growth of -11% compared to other major ports which have witnessed a negative growth of -21%. The port, which ranked third in the 2019-20 fiscal due to its innovative marketing strategies by handling a throughput of 72.72 million tonnes, is hopeful of putting up a reasonably good show this fiscal. The announcement of a Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package by the Central Government may also cheer up major ports in overcoming the crisis amid reports that the steel industry will show signs of recovery soon. “We are working hard to do well during this crisis. We are aware of the difficult times ahead. Our cargo handling is nearly minus 11% as against minus 21% of the major ports in general till date compared to the corresponding period last year,” Visakhapatnam Port Trust Deputy Chairman P.L.Haranadh told The Hindu . Chennai port has seen a decline in cargo handling by 38%, while JNPT and Kochi have seen a decline of 33-34%, Kandla 23% and Paradip 10%. He said one positive development was the demand for export of iron and steel to China from Visakhapatnam, mainly semis like billets and blooms and pig iron following closure of several industries there. Mr. Haranadh said that despite the pandemic, they had kept all areas of operations open to exports/imports and hoped that by handling almost 90% of the traffic that was handled last year, they would overcome the crisis from the second quarter onwards. All the ports suffered heavy loss of petroleum cargo due to the fall in demand during lockdown. Overall container cargo handling also fell by four million tonnes. Sources said there was dip in POL by 2.5 million tonne, steam coal by another 2.5 million tonne. The total shortfall is 13 million tonnes in April. In April and May, there was a drastic fall in stream coal imports as power consumption by industries nosedived.
20 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, JSP decry power tariff hike||BJP and JSP leaders staged a joint protest at the BJP office here on Tuesday, demanding a withdrawal of the hike in power tariff and cancellation of the G.O. on sale of government lands. Former MP K. Haribabu alleged that the State government was giving ‘shock after shock’ to the people.  Former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju said that the YSR Congress government was giving ‘Navaratnalu’ to the people with one hand and then snatching it away with the other with the steep hike in liquor prices. MLC P.V.N. Madhav said that it was unfortunate that elected governments, which were the custodians of government lands in the State, were trying to dispose them of. He also sought withdrawal of the hike in tariff.
20 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man falls for online trap, conned of Rs. 4,400 in city||A man from the city was cheated of Rs. 4,400 after he called up a number that he looked up on the Internet, believing it to be that of the District Collector. Radhakrishnan Nair of Gajuwaka wanted to seek an appointment with the Collector to discuss some grievance at the Spandana meeting. He then went online to search for the Collector’s number and typed ‘Visakhapatnam district collector’s number’. A number then popped up on his screen purporting to be that of the Collector’s. Upon calling the number, he was asked to pay Rs. 1 via an online payment gateway in order to make the call. He completed the transaction, and within minutes found that Rs. 4,400 was debited from his bank account. CBI issues alert Mr. Nair then approached the cybercrime police and Gajuwaka ACP and lodged a complaint. Police said that the number was fake and does belong to the Collector. Meanwhile, the CBI has issued a general alert based on inputs received by Interpol. CBI has issued an alert relating to a banking Trojan known as Cerberus. This Trojan primarily focuses on stealing financial data such as credit card numbers. It can also use overlay attacks to trick victims into providing personal information and can capture two-factor authentication details.
20 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake emails sent in AU Vice-Chancellor’s name||AU Registrar V. Krishnamohan lodged a complaint with the cybercrime police here on Tuesday after several fake emails were found to have been sent in the name of the university’s V-C. AU Prof. Ramesh Babu on Monday received several emails in the name of the V-C, asking them to purchase gift cards on e-commerce sites. Suspecting foul play, the professor took the issue to the V-C on whose instructions the police were alerted.
20 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amphan likely to bring isolated rain to coastal A.P.||Even as the super cyclonic storm Amphan spared the State, coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam are likely to experience isolated heavy falls under its influence during the next 24 hours, the meteorology officials said on Tuesday. The weather system over the Bay of Bengal moved north-east wards and lay centred as an extremely severe cyclonic storm 360 km off Paradip in Odisha and 510 km off Digha in West Bengal on Tuesday. “The super cyclonic storm is very likely to cross the West Bengal-Bangladesh coasts between Digha and Hatiya Islands in Bangladesh close to Sundarbans in the afternoon or evening of May 20, with the maximum wind speed of 165 km per hour, gusting to 185 km per hour,” a communiqué released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The weather system is being monitored by the Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) in Visakhapatnam. Squally winds, with speed reaching 55 km per hourare likely to blow along and off coastal A.P. Fishermen cautioned “The sea condition off A.P. coast may remain rough and fishermen have been advised against venturing into the sea till Wednesday evening,” said V.V. Bhaskar, Director of CWC, Vizag.
20 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City reports four new COVID cases||Four new COVID-19 cases were reported in the city from Gnanapuram area on Monday night, taking the total number of cases in the district to 80. Though this was not disclosed in the official health bulletin, it was confirmed by officials of the Health Department. All four cases were reported from one single family. Meanwhile, the district administration has identified 29 red zones and denotified three areas which earlier fell under red zones such as Revidi in Padmanabham, part of Narsipatnam and Allipuram.
20 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Activist urges govt. to cancel SSC exams||Bala Vikas Foundation president and child rights activist Narava Prakasa Rao, in a letter to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, requested that the government cancel this year’s Senior Secondary Certificate (SSC) examinations for Class X students. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the examination can be cancelled and all Class X students considered to have cleared the exam, Mr. Prakasa Rao said. It is estimated that nearly 6.39 lakh students are appearing for the SSC examination, which is scheduled to be held from June 10 to 15.
20 May 2020||visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||EPF pensioners allege injustice by Centre||Pensioners owing allegiance to the All Pensioners and Retired Persons Association (APRPA) staged a protest at Jagadamba Junction here on Tuesday, alleging that injustice was done to them in the financial package announced by the Centre. APRPA city central committee convener A.V. Ramana Rao said that the 65 lakh EPS pensioners, who were getting the lowest pension in the country, were facing severe financial problems due to the lockdown. Those who were getting Rs. 1,000 or even less a month were more than 45 lakh in number. He said that the association has been pleading with the Centre since April 4 to grant them three months’ pension and ex gratia of not less than Rs. 5,000. The Finance Minister failed to consider their case in her two financial packages, he said.
20 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||AI flight brings back 148 Indians from UAE||As many as 148 stranded Indians from Abu Dhabi arrived by an Air India flight at the airport around 9 p.m. on Tuesday. Of them , 25 are being flown to Hyderabad by the same flight. The departure of the other flight to Vizag from Manila, which is bringing around 230 Indian nationals, was delayed and is expected to arrive around 10 p.m., said Airport Director M. Raja Kishore. Special RTC buses have been kept ready at the airport for transport of the returnees to their native districts. One flight from Doha and another from Kuala Lumpur are expected to arrive with 150 passengers each, on May 20 and 22 respectively.
20 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police go all out to help migrants||Hundreds of migrants belonging to Odisha, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and other places got a helping hand from the Vizianagaram police on Tuesday. The labourers, who were walking barefoot, were pleasantly surprised when police personnel gave them food packets, bananas, sugar, lemons, umbrellas, footwear and other essentials. Superintendent of Police B. Raja Kumari said the workers had been provided transport till the inter-State borders . She said the all Circle Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors were advised to treat migrant labourers with humanity and not to create any trouble.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nature’s fury||
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A long way to go||
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to the farm||
20 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Three of family drown in irrigation tank||Tragedy struck a farmer’s family when three members, including a father-son duo, drowned in an irrigation tank at Lakshmipuram village in Burgampadu mandal on Tuesday morning. Three persons of a same family identified as 42-year-old Nallamothu Appa Rao, a farmer, and his 20-year-old son Teja and 19-year-old nephew Vinay, met with a tragic end when they drowned in a local tank. Teja reportedly ventured into Repakacheruvu tank for a swim to beat the sweltering weather after working in the nearby farm along with his father on Tuesday morning. He suddenly got stuck in the slush at the bottom of the water body and raised an alarm. Appa Rao rushed to his rescue but got trapped in the mud at the bottom of the tank. Vinay reportedly tried to save the father-son duo, but he too got stuck in the slushy tank bed. All the three drowned, one after the other, sources added. Their bodies were retrieved from the water body by the local youths a little later. Sources said that the thick layer of slush at the bottom of the tank has proved a death trap for the trio. The incident site witnessed heart-wrenching scenes with the bereaved family members of the victims sobbing inconsolably in front of the dead bodies. A case of unnatural death has been registered at Burgampadu police station and further investigation is underway.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan objects to tone and tenor of KCR’s criticism of Central package||Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy took strong objection to the tone and tenor of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in criticising the Centre’s Rs. 20 lakh crore package announced recently and made it abundantly clear that the State governments cannot expect any direct money transfers. In a digital press conference on Tuesday, Mr. Reddy said the Centre’s package was directed towards people’s welfare schemes and wanted KCR to list areas where he thinks the TS government will not benefit from the package. “Will it not help farmers, small and medium scale businessmen, provide fillip to the healthcare sector and so on? Can he say Telangana will have no benefit at all?” he questioned. Mr. Reddy observed that instead of joining forces with the Central government in combating COVID-19 during these testing times, it was unfortunate that the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government was indulging in political slugfest. Direct benefit The Minister reeled out figures of Centre’s assistance to Telangana — Under PM Kisan Samman about 34 lakh farmers got Rs. 2,000 each, 54 lakh women were given Rs. 500 on Jan Dhan accounts, 6.65 lakh got general pensions, 66,000 pensions were disbursed under Employees Provident Fund (EPF), Rs. 216 crore for health equipment, Rs. 924 crore given under the Revolution Fund, 1.75 crore people were distributed free rice, 20 lakh people were given dal, 4.71 lakh got free cylinders, scores of masks, protection kits and so on. Saying that KCR was deliberately misleading the people, the Minister accused him of diverting the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) funds on village roads, Mission Kakatiya and greenhouses earlier. “KCR is the real dictator who threatened farmers of being ineligible for ‘Rythu Bandhu’ scheme unless they follow the government’s directions on raising crops. Village panchayats and urban local bodies were warned that they would not be given a single paisa if they do not become self-sufficient,” he said. Free power The State government is welcome to provide free power, but it is necessary to inform power distribution companies where the power is going as there are no meters in most places. Hence, electricity reforms are mandatory and there should not be any issue about it, Mr. Reddy said. Reforms announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and detailed by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman are meant to help the farmers, migrant labourers and other sections. About 1,656 special trains were run so far for the migrant labour and reforms are the only way to provide succour to different sections of society, he added.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shops to be numbered to maintain odd-even order||In view of the State government permitting opening of shops and commercial establishments on alternate days, GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar issued directions to zonal and deputy commissioners to number the shops in their respective purviews so that order can be maintained. Maintenance of shops should be inspected regularly, and in case of any dispute between adjacent shops, they should be closed down till the end of lockdown. Shops selling essential commodities, milk, fruits and vegetables, along with medical shops may be allowed to function regularly as earlier. Outlets selling construction material, too, fall in the same category. Malls, restaurants, bars, pubs and movie theatres should remain closed, while restaurants may open take-away counters. Notwithstanding permissions, all shops in containment zones will remain closed. Mr. Lokesh Kumar inspected the marking of shops to facilitate opening, in Malakpet on Tuesday. He related the mandatory norms to be followed. Wearing of masks both by customers and workers is mandatory. Government will impose Rs. 1,000 penalty on whoever comes out of home without mask. Foot marking should be made with four feet gap to maintain physical distance. Hand sanitisers should be kept available at entry and exit points. Indicators in red should be painted on elevator buttons and door handles, and wherever possible, sensor doors should be installed. The norms are applicable up to May 31. In a circular, the GHMC Commissioner has followed up on instructions from the Municipal Administration and Urban Development department, and instructed that the day of opening for each shop should be decided based on the odd/even number assigned to it. Odd numbered shops will open on odd numbered week days, and even numbered will open on even numbered week days. Where there is any confusion with regard to shop numbering, one can start with the corner most shop by assigning it No.1, the circular said.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traffic flow picks up in city||Repeated honking and minor traffic jam at junctions returned to Hyderabad on Tuesday. With the near complete lifting of restrictions on vehicular movement, the city roads that were almost deserted for the past 58 days started bustling with traffic from morning. However, by noon the volume of vehicles dipped. “Taxis and autorickshaws plied but not in their usual large numbers. Maybe their volume would go up in the next few days triggering traffic congestion,” say the traffic police. RTC buses, main public transportation in the city, still keeping off the road made traffic flow look thin on trunk routes. Pattern of traffic flow was not uniform in all parts of the city. “In Madhapur and surrounding localities, number of vehicles plying on roads went up. But no traffic jams were reported,” Madhapur Traffic ACP A Chandrashekhar said. With the government announcing relaxations on vehicular movement the previous nights, barricades on roads were taken off at several places to facilitate free flow of traffic. Since night curfew (from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m.) is still in force, barricading at important intersections was not completely removed.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Buses back on road after nearly two months||After nearly two months, and albeit a slow start, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation’s buses on Tuesday were pressed into service across the State, except in Hyderabad. In accordance with Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement on Monday, bus services began around 6 am. While the Jubilee Bus Station was open to passengers travelling to the districts, the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, which largely operates inter-state services, was not operating any buses. While passengers who wanted to travel to destinations along the Kamareddy route did start trickling into the JBS in the morning, apart from this brief buzz in activity, the station wore a sleepy look. Passenger activity was low throughout the day. As drivers and conductors readied buses and began to park them on platforms, they ensured that passengers who had arrived had face masks on. Many drivers and conductors were given sanitisers which they administered to passengers. “We have been told to check whether passengers are wearing mask. If they are not, we have been told not to allow them to get into the bus,” a conductor at the JBS said and added that limited tickets were being issued to enforce social distancing. While the staff expressed satisfaction with the resumption of bus services, they rued that the number of passers was much lower than they had expected. “See for yourself. We are making sure that there is distance between passengers when they are seated. On other days, the buses would be packed,” he said. A senior TSRTC official said that apart from activity attributed to passengers travelling on the Kamareddy route, the response on the first day of resumption of services was low. As compared to operations during pre-COVID-19 times, the TSRTC operated around 45% of services. Touching upon occupancy, he said, “We will get a clear picture of the occupancy tomorrow, but from what it appears the occupancy is around 30%. This could be due to various factors. First, the announcement of resumption came last night. So, there was little time for passengers to prepare. Secondly, the concern over coronavirus is still lingering. We are expecting that occupancy will improve in two or three days,” he said.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Psychological impact of pandemic high on ophthalmologists: study||A high proportion of ophthalmologists were affected psychologically across the country during the ongoing lockdown as they are at an increased risk of close contact with the patient’s eyes and face, according to an online study conducted by L.V. Prasad Eye Institute. The study was conducted in collaboration with the All India Ophthalmological Society (AIOS) and The George Institute for Global Health-India to evaluate the psychological impact of COVID-19 on trainees and practising opthalmologists in India during lockdown. The virus outbreak has affected millions globally, causing psychological impact such as stress, anxiety, depression, insomnia, denial, anger and fear. The study showed that even health workers who are not in the forefront of COVID-19 care and at less risk of being affected are suffering mental health consequences due to multiple factors. Psychological implications can be attributed to direct and indirect effects of illness on livelihood and living conditions. Asymptomatic transmission of the disease, social discrimination and concern whether hospitals are equipped to tackle COVID patients should there be an overwhelming number of patients are some other causes for fear and anxiety among healthcare professionals. Epidemiologist Rohit C. Khanna, also the director of Rural Eye Care Services, LVPEI, who conducted the survey along with a team, said the national and state ophthalmology societies, health administration and government should recognise the need to support mental health of all healthcare workers and not only those in the frontline of management of COVID-19 infection. The survey covered 2,355 ophthalmologists and trainees in the age group of 25 to 82 years. Depression was significantly higher in younger ophthalmologists. It was also higher in non-practising ophthalmologists, as also those who were considerably worried about their training or professional growth, and those with difficulty in meeting living expenses. Overall, the results indicated that 32.6% or 765 ophthalmologists had some degree of depression. Many exhibited mild symptoms (21.4%) while 6.9% showed moderate and 4.3% had severe symptoms. What’s more, 3.2% of them had suicidal and self harm ideations for more than half of the period over the past two weeks. This was much higher than the 10% prevalence for common mental disorders reported from the general population in India, Dr Khanna said.
20 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||A taste of the new normal||It is the first shop for Ramzan shoppers. Just outside the Afzalgunj Masjid on this side of the Musi river is Aslam Perfumes Center. Come Ramzan, the shop turns into a one-stop shop for all the ingredients required for Ed celebrations. “I have run out of stocks as there is big demand. If you come tomorrow, we will have fresh stuff,” says Aslam about vermicelli that’s used for creating sheer qorma , the favoured dish on Id. In a place where heaps of vermicelli could be spotted before Ramzan, there are half-empty boxes of the brown and white varieties. The big glass bottles of dry fruits are similarly empty, the mehendi cones are hard to spot in the other shops. Ramzan shopping which lights up Hyderabad is likely to be a sombre and sedate affair as all the shops have to be shut by 7 p.m. “We lost a lot of goods during the lockdown. It took us hours to clean the floor and some goods which we can put on display,” said Khalid who runs a bangles shop in Lad Bazaar. “The main business season is over. We missed both Ramzan and summer wedding season,” he said. Even with the easing of rules for business, customers and businessmen had a tough choice as the lockdown has been replaced with night curfew in Telangana. The masjids near Charminar, including the main Mecca Masjid, remained closed except for the prayer leaders. “We have been given permission to allow five members to pray. The rule continues to remain in place and it has not been changed under the new rules,” said Syed Ibrahim of the Jama Masjid near Charminar. The area remained quiet except for the azan and the evening peal of bells from temples as a few strollers walked around posing for photographs or clicking their selfies. But without the lights, the hawkers, the shoppers and tourists, the city got a glimpse of the ‘new normal’.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSIIC issues guidelines to put industry back on track||Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) has instructed officials concerned of the over 150 industrial parks under its fold to get industries back on track as soon as possible. In doing so, guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and Telangana government has to be complied with. All due precautions as well as measures ought to be taken such as sanitisation of the industrial parks, adherence to physical distancing norms and provision of amenities/facilities for workers like logistics, PPE and ensuring safety of workers. The Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation has 104 Industrial Area Local Authority (IALAs) and 154 industrial parks. Its zonal managers and officers are nominated as Commissioners/Executive Officers for the industrial parks to discharge statutory powers and functions of municipal corporations, municipalities and gram panchayats.  Logistic arrangements Stating this, a release said Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation has issued guidelines on COVID-19 to all the officials in charge on the standard operating procedure (SOP) for social distancing for offices, workplaces, factories and establishments in line with orders issued by Industries Department. A set of instructions had also given to the industrial units include those to make logistic arrangements for employees transportation; provide ambulance services and identification of designated COVID-19 hospitals; and adhere to safety standards in line with the guidelines of Factories Department and the State Pollution Control Board. State level teams had been constituted to monitor the sanitation drive and safety measures in all industrial parks/ estates. The release said as part of an awareness creation initiative posters on the SOP for industrial units in the IALAs have been pasted at all the units and prominent places in the industrial parks. Display boards listing important contacts of response team for COVID-19 have been put up at vantage positions in the IALA and parks.
20 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress plans protest on Telangana Formation Day||Telangana Congress plans to stage a protest at the Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) on June 2, the Formation Day of Telangana, to highlight the injustice to Telangana with the Andhra Pradesh government deciding to enhance water withdrawal from Pothireddypadu head regulator and the ‘silence’ of Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao on it. At a press conference here, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy along with Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy questioned the silence of the Chief Minister on the issue when AP Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy announced his decision in their Assembly in December last. “Was he silent because of their friendship or for some other reasons,” Mr. Uttam Reddy sought to know. Objecting to KCR’s reaction to their criticism, he said Congress had every right to question the Chief Minister if his actions were against the interests of Telangana. “This is not the internal problem of the Chief Minister but a serious issue of Telangana’s future,” he said reminding that they convinced Sonia Gandhi over Telangana because of such injustice. Rightful share Mr. Reddy alleged that KCR was silent on AP government using 4 TMC of water per day while he was spending Rs. 1.5 lakh crore for Kaleshwaram project to draw 2 TMC water per day. “What credibility he has to discuss on utilisation of Godavari waters giving up the rightful share of Telangana in Krishna,” he asked. Mr. Revanth Reddy said the GO increasing the withdrawal capacity from Pothireddypadu to 44,000 cusecs was released on September 13, 2005 but KCR did not utter a single word on it. Similarly, he came out of the UPA cabinet on August 20, 2006 and did not talk about the issue even then. It was the late P. Janardhan Reddy who fought on the issue continuously and not KCR and claimed that Mr. Jagan had the full backing of KCR while releasing the new GO. The Malakajgiri MP asked how can the AP government claim it would draw only flood waters when it was planning to withdraw from 790 ft level. Flood water can be withdrawn only from 885 ft, he pointed out. Mr. Komatireddy put the responsibility on KCR for the AP government’s decision and said this was a conspiracy to benefit Rayalaseema at the cost of South Telangana. He said the CM wilfully ignored the projects launched by the previous Congress governments though only 30% works were pending.  Interest-free loans At another press conference, AICC secretary and former MLA Ch. Vamshichand Reddy has suggested to the government to categorise the schools and colleges into two groups based on their financial sustainability and grant interest-free loans to them to ensure that they pay salaries to the lakhs of teaching and non-teaching staff depended on them. He said that seven lakh employees in the education sector were not paid salaries for the last two months though the government ordered these education establishments to pay the salaries.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Non-COVID patients to be attended separately’||Patients admitted to hospitals with symptoms of COVID-19 and those without it have to be attended separately, instructed Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Tuesday. In the wake of relaxations of lockdown norms, the Minister held a meeting with senior officials of the Health department where discussions were focussed on precautionary measures that have to be taken at government and private hospitals. He directed officials to ensure all medical services are offered in every hospital. ‘Stay alert’ As more number of people venture out of their homes, there is a need to be alert. Stating that living with the virus is inevitable until a vaccine is found, Mr. Rajender urged people to cooperate in containing transmission. More caution has to be exercised in the case of children and the elderly. Anyone with cough or fever must get checked, he added. Indian Council of Medical Research released version 5 of COVID-19 testing strategy in India on Monday. According to that, all symptomatic healthcare workers or frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVID have to be tested. Mr Rajender said they will follow the strategy in testing symptomatic staff of Health, Municipal and police departments who are in front line of containment of the infectious disease. Medicine stock in primary health centres was also reviewed. Managing Director of Telangana State Medical Service and Infrastructure Development Corporation K. Chandrasekhar was directed to ensure that oxygen supply is maintained at all hospitals as some COVID-19 patients could develop respiratory problems. Director of Public Health and Family Welfare G. Srinivasa Rao and Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy were among those present in the meeting.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Homework begins on mapping of crops for vaanakalam||The agricultural experts in association with scientists and officials have taken up the exercise to prepare crop-maps or the details of crops to be cultivated as part of the crop colonies concept in line with the new agricultural policy. The mapping of crops would have details of the crop-wise extent of various crops suggested by the government in districts, including the superfine variety paddy Telangana Sona in 10 lakh acres in the coming Vaanakalam crop season. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, who chaired the meeting, wished that farmer shall rise from the position of expecting something to dictating terms. Such a situation was not far away and it could be a reality by following the suggestions of the government from the selection of crop to its disposal. He suggested the farming community to raise only those crops that are suggested by the government and not take risk of incurring losses by cultivating maize in vaanakalam season as agriculture scientists have suggested raising it only in the yasangi crop season in Telangana. Taking-off from where it was left at the meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on May 15, Mr. Niranjan Reddy held another round of consultations with the agricultural experts, scientists and officials on the new comprehensive agricultural policy here on Tuesday and suggested the farmers to raise cotton and regdram crops in the prescribed extents. Final decision He, however, stated that a final decision on the extent of district-wise cropping patterns would be decided at a meeting to be chaired by the Chief Minister on May 21 to be attended by ministers, district collectors, district agriculture officers and Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) functionaries. A preparatory meeting on the May 21 conclave would be held at Marri Channa Reddy Human Resource Development Institute with RBS State and district presidents, DAOs, State officials, experts and scientists. It is being estimated, based on the predictions for monsoon, that crops would be raised in about 1.35 crore acres in Telangana during the coming vaanakalam season, this would ensure the farmers get at least minimum support price for their produce. RBS Chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Agriculture Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy attended.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KRMB asks AP to stop drawing water from Sagar, Srisailam||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has asked Andhra Pradesh not to draw water from the Nagarjunasagar Right Canal, Handri-Neeva and Muchhumarri lift irrigation schemes further since it has already availed water in excess of indents approved till the end of May, the current water year, and agreed upon share. In a letter addressed to Engineer-in-Chief of Water Resources Department of AP on Tuesday, Member-Secretary of the river board A. Paramesham explained that AP had already availed 220.329 tmc ft water from Srisailam, including 169.668 tmc ft from Pothireddypadu (PRP) head regulator, 41.918 through Handri-Neeva, 5.410 tmc ft through Muchhumarri. Similarly, Telangana has availed 51.344 tmc ft, including 49.677 tmc ft through Kalwakurthy lift irrigation scheme. The two States have also spared 3.333 tmc ft and 1.667 tmc ft water, respectively, for drinking water supply to Chennai till May 19. From Nagarjunasagar, AP has utilised 349.061 tmc ft, which included 35.287 tmc ft from NS Left Canal, 158.264 tmc ft from NS Right Canal, 152.360 tmc ft in the Krishna Delta System and 3.150 tmc ft through Guntur Channel, while Telangana has drawn 148.806 tmc ft including 57.799 tmc ft for drinking needs of Hyderabad and 91.007 tmc ft from NS Left Canal. The board stated that Telangana has another 49.241 tmc ft water available in its share in Nagarajunasagar out of the indents approved so far.  Tungabhadra project From Tungabhadra project, AP has drawn 78.169 tmc ft through TB High Level, Low Level and K-C Canal systems and Telangana has availed 5.93 tmc ft from Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme (RDS). Besides, Telangana has also availed 57.283 tmc ft water from Jurala project and Nettempadu, Bhima and Koilsagar lift irrigation schemes and has another 1.103 tmc ft water left un-availed. Further, Telangana has availed 9.483 tmc ft water through seven medium irrigation projects and AP has utilised another 3.758 tmc ft through five such projects. Telangana has another 3.343 tmc ft water available under these projects. In all, AP has availed 647.559 tmc ft water and Telangana 272.846 tmc ft, with another 60.333 tmc ft water available, mostly for Telangana (56.563 tmc ft), for use by the two States as on May 19. Thus, a total of 980.738 tmc ft water has either been utilised or available this water year in the Krishna Basin. Over all, AP has availed 4.042 tmc ft in excess of indents approved, the board stated.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Scholar ends life||A 33-year-old man committed suicide in Boduppal area. According to Medipally police, the incident took place on Monday evening when G Raveender, hanged himself in his room. Police said he had completed his PhD from Osmania University. However, after this he was unable to find a job. Around 3.30 pm, when his wife was in the kitchen, he went into the bedroom and locked himself in. His wife then knocked on the door but there was no response. With the help of neighbours, she broke open the door and found him hanging. He was moved to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case has been registered and investigation is in progress. (Roshni, suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Warangal, Adilabad RTC regions fare better||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) operated around 50% of its bus services on Tuesday, even as its regions of operation in the state recorded a poor occupancy. Several regions operated less than half the number of services they would on any other day. For instance, while Nizamabad region operated approximately 35% of its fleet from its various depots, Nalgonda operated around 37%. On the other hand, Adilabad and Warangal fared better with 46% and 57% respectively. Sources said that the number of services to and from the Jubilee Bus Station was approximately 550 on Tuesday as compared to around 1,000 on any given day. Staff from nearly all regions said that they operated services much less than on other days, adding that the occupancy remained poor. However, they were confident that this would see an increase with each passing day. Meanwhile, the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station, which largely has inter-state services, including those to Vijaywada, Bengaluru and Raichur, remained closed. Officials said that each day, there were around 1,300 bus services from here. However, these remained suspended. On the other hand, with the suspension of bus services, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation ’s Greater Hyderabad Zone has been witnessing a loss of revenue of approximately Rs. 3.5 crore per day. However, officials said that when factors such as zero operations, and negligible consumption of diesel, and deferred payment of salaries, the losses are not much.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||194 AEO posts to be filled up on war-footing||In tune with its plans to implement the concept of crop colonies and regulated farming from the coming crop season, the State government has decided to fill 194 vacancies of agriculture extension officer posts (Grade-II) on outsourcing basis. According to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, of the 2,638 Grade-I and II posts of AEOs 2,444 are working and it has been decided to fill the remaining 194 posts of Grade-II in the outsourcing basis so that there were no gaps in monitoring and supervision of the crop colonies and regulated farming implementation. The posts were being filled on outsourcing basis keeping in view the delays that would occur in filling them on regular basis. The outsourced AEOs would continue till the filling of posts on regular basis.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS views on AP’s complaints sought||Acting on a letter handed over personally to it by the top officials of the Water Resources Department of Andhra Pradesh on Monday complaining against some projects taken up by Telangana in the Krishna Basin, the KRMB has asked the latter to “furnish its views” on the former’s objections. Enclosing a copy the AP’s letter dated May 14 to the river board, Member of KRMB Harikesh Meena wrote to Principal Secretary (Irrigation) of Telangana on Tuesday that AP had complained that Telangana was going ahead with executing Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi, Bhakta Ramadasu, and Thummilla lift irrigation schemes and Water Grid project without appraisal of project reports by the river board and CWC and approval of the Apex Council. The AP government, in its letter, had contended that the five projects would adversely affect the projects already existing and ongoing with prior sanctions given during the combined AP dispensation to meeting drinking water needs in the drought-prone areas of Rayalaseema, Nellore and Prakasam districts there, the river board letter to Telangana said. Further, AP has also complained that Telangana had enhanced the scope of Kalwakurthy, Nettempadu and Srisailam Left Bank Canal systems, the board said and pointed out that it had already wrote a reminder to Telangana on a previous complaint by AP in January last year asking for detailed project reports. “However, Telangana has not furnished any details till date”, the letter said. Asking Telangana to furnish views on AP’s complaints on priority basis, the river board also cited the provisions of AP Reorganisation Act in the matter of utilising water resources by stressing on the provision that construction of no new project be taken up by the two States without appraisal of the river board and approval of the Apex Council.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Final decision at meeting tomorrow||A high-level and elaborate meeting will be held at Pragathi Bhavan here on May 21 to finalise the policy on regulated cropping pattern. Ministers, district collectors, district agriculture officials, district rythu sangham officers were invited to the meeting to be chaired by Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao. He will discuss them district-wise cultivation of specific crops. Government has already finalised the extent of cultivation of a particular crop in Telangana State.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Natco donates chloroquine phosphate tablets for trial||Natco Pharma has donated chloroquine phosphate tablets through its marketing partner in the U.S., Rising Pharmaceuticals, to support a global clinical trial conducted by the CROWN Collaborative, for protecting essential healthcare workers from COVID-19. Stating this, a release from the Hyderabad-headquartered drug maker said Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis is the clinical coordinating centre for this ambitious international trial. The group, called the COVID-19 Research Outcomes Worldwide Network (CROWN) Collaborative, is testing whether the anti-malaria drug chloroquine can prevent COVID infection or decrease its severity in frontline workers. For this study, chloroquine will be donated to the U.S. arm of Chloroquine RepurpOsing to healthWorkers for Novel CORONAvirus mitigaTION (CROWN CORONATION) clinical trial.
20 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||We cannot ‘live with coronavirus’, have to fight it: Vidyasagar Rao||Taking a dig at some of the leaders for stating “we have to live with coronavirus”, BJP senior leader and former Maharashtra Governor Ch. Vidyasagar Rao said “living with the virus is not correct”. “We have to prevent the spread of the virus instead of resigning ourselves to live with it,” he said and pointed out that several villages in the country have taken a stand to fight the spread of the virus and shown us the strength of the panchayat raj system in the country. Recalling the quote of eminent poet and Gnanpeeth awardee C. Narayana Reddy: “If death is eminent, I would offer it milk and make it sleep,” Mr. Vidyasagar said: “At present we are doing the same and we should continue it without any compromise”. He termed the leaders who say ‘we have to live with the virus’ as inefficient. He called upon the people to take all preventive measures to check the spread of the deadly virus and stay alive. The former governor made a brief halt here enroute to Thimmapur in Dharmapuri mandal of Jagtial to call on the family members of former minister Juvvadi Ratnakar Rao, who passed away recently due to an ailment. Mr. Rao was accorded a warm welcome by Karimnagar MP and BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar and other party leaders. In a brief chat with newsmen, Mr. Vidyasagar Rao found fault with the television channels for glorifying and showing the deadly virus in a colourful manner and stressed the need to create awareness about the dreaded virus and measures to prevent its spread. Hailing the party high command for appointing Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar as the party State president, he exuded confidence that the BJP would gain its strength in the State and regain its past glory under his leadership. Noting that the Karimnagar district secured the party chief post of the State after a long gap, he recalled that the party had won 12 MLA and 7 MP seats when he was the party president of the integrated AP State, which was highest figure so far the party in the State. He hoped that the BJP would win a majority in the elections under the leadership of Mr. Sanjay. BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, district president Basa Satyanarayana was also present.
20 May 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Rythu Bandhu for all farmers, says KTR||Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K. Taraka Rama Rao has reiterated that the State government’s agenda is to provide Rythu Bandhu financial assistance to each and every farmer in the State. There is no question of stopping Rythu Bandhu scheme, he said and added that the government had last year allocated Rs. 12,000 crore for the implementation of the scheme and this year it had allocated Rs. 14,000 crore. The Minister participated in various developmental programmes in the district on Tuesday and conducted a review meeting at his camp office in Sircilla. He said the government was providing financial assistance and free power and assured irrigation to the farmers besides fertilizer and seed on subsidy. The government had decided to encourage different varieties of crops to benefit the farming community, he said and urged the farmers to adopt the new farming policies of changing to different crops as per the demand in the market. He assured Rythu Bandhu assistance to farmers cultivating fruits, vegetables and seed and directed officials to ensure that there was no shortage of seed and fertilizer during ensuing crop season
20 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Keeping returnees at safe distance||Chinnarayala Buchaiah and his wife Suguna along with Ch. Kanakaiah and Ch. Tara arrived from Mumbai at Dommata village in Daultabad mandal on May 15 . They had been working as house maid and engaged in other jobs there to make a living for the past several years. Coronavirus turned their lives upside down. As many as 25 persons hired a bus from Mumbai to their native places. They were all quarantined at the border check post at Chiragpally. After reaching the village, sarpanch Pujita Reddy asked them to stay in the school located on the outskirts of the village. “We are the first ones to return to the village. The sarpanch provided groceries and other essentials to us. We are preparing food for ourselves,” Mr Buchaiah told The Hindu . “The sarpanch told us that it was advisable to stay away from family for 14 days and then we can go home. Even our family members are seeing and speaking to us from a distance,” Mr. Buchaiah said.
20 May 2020||Bhopal,||BJP legislator wants Khandwa Collector removed as cases spike||A BJP MLA from Khandwa district has exhorted Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to remove the Collector for her alleged negligence in dealing with COVID-19 as cases surge. The district, having a population of 13 lakh, on Monday reported its single-day steepest hike of 69 cases, prompting Pandhana MLA Ram Dangore to make the request to Mr. Chouhan. “Today, Khandwa district is going through a sensitive phase. The Khandwa Collector is hiding figures relating to deaths,” alleged Mr. Dangore, in a letter. Stating that for better arrangements a new Collector was required, he wrote, “It is my request to you to take the trouble of immediately removing the present Collector.” Khandwa Collector Tanvi Sundriyal refused to comment on the charges.  Indore link Several of the district’s initial cases are linked to Indore, the worst-hit city in Madhya Pradesh, which also falls in the Indore division. As on Monday, 165 persons have tested positive for the illness, while eight have died of it and 41 recovered. In the past 15 days, the district had stepped up sampling which was resulting in new cases being detected, said Ms. Sundriyal. The district’s test positivity rate is 8%, as against the State’s 4.6%. “A higher rate means our identification process is proper,” she added. Both the district and the State have recorded a case fatality rate of 4.8%, while the State recovery rate of 46.5% is higher than the district’s 24.8%. Ms. Sundriyal said the district’s focus was on treating patients before their condition worsened.
20 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Next 25-30 days are crucial for containing virus: Punjab CM||Amid relaxations rolled out as part of Lockdown 4.0, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has directed the police to ensure strict compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols, including social distancing and wearing of masks. Punjab recorded 22 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday and reported one more death of a patient in Pathankot, taking the tally to 38, said an official statement. Capt. Amarinder said the next 25-30 days would be extremely crucial for containing the spread of novel coronavirus in view of the sudden opening up of the economy as well as offices and commercial activities after a 55-day curfew. “We cannot let all the benefits of all the work done by you in the past 55 days, and sacrifices made by the people of Punjab, go waste due to any complacency on our part now,” he said. Night curfew The Chief Minister also ordered strict enforcement of the night curfew, which bars people from moving out between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. except for medical or essential needs, in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines. “The relaxations have been provided to the people for their ease and convenience as they suffered immense hardships during the curfew period,” he said, adding that no deviation from protocols and restrictions would be tolerated. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said that officers across the State have been asked to register FIRs and impound vehicles or issue challans in case of any violation of the lockdown restrictions. “We should send a strong message about enforcing the restrictions stringently,” the DGP told his officers citing the Chief Minister’s instructions. Mr. Gupta said the police have been directed to enforce strict social distancing not just at shops, offices, banks and liquor outlets but also in vehicles (car-scooters-motorbikes) as well as public and private transport buses. “These vehicles can ply within the State, except in the containment zones, but subject to strict protocols,” he said in a statement. The total number of positive cases in Punjab reached 2,002 on Tuesday. The health department said 19 of the 22 new cases were reported from Ludhiana district. Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said Punjab has achieved 78% recovery rate. He said out of 4,218 returnees from Nanded in Maharashtra, 1,252 turned out to be positive. “All of them have been declared as recovered and sent to their homes. Majority of cases in Punjab are from outside,” he said.
20 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. issues fresh guidelines||Haryana government on Tuesday issued directions for strict implementation of the guidelines issued by the Centre government for containment of COVID-19 during the extended lockdown, said an official statement. The statement said that across the State during fourth phase of lockdown, activities would be permitted with restrictions, except in the containment zones.  Containment zones In the containment zone, only essential activities would be allowed and there shall be strict perimeter control to ensure no movement of people in or out of these zones, except for medical emergency and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services, it added.
20 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Migrants continue to pour into Ghaziabad from Delhi||Ghaziabad’s Ramleela Maidan, which saw an outpouring of migrant workers on Monday, wore a deserted look on Tuesday but the stream of migrant workers continued to flow into the district unabated. Late on Monday night, the district administration decided that buses would take the workers from shelter homes directly to the railway station. Official sources said 7,200 workers were sent by six trains and around 3,600 workers were sent by 103 buses on Tuesday. A video of police giving chase to migrant workers on the Delhi-Ghaziabad border near Seemapuri went viral on Tuesday. Rakesh Mishra, Circle Officer, Sahibabad, said thousands of migrant workers from Delhi were trying to enter Ghaziabad through the border on Tuesday morning. ‘Rules of lockdown’ “The administration’s order is to maintain rules of lockdown at this border. Only those who have registered on Jansunwai portal are allowed to be taken to the railway station. The police tried to organise the migrant workers by using mild force,” said Mr. Mishra. “Despite limited resources, we are sending 75% workers from Delhi, Haryana and Punjab through trains and buses,” he said.  The Hindu caught up with some workers at Krishna Banquet Hall near Mohan Nagar, one of the centres where workers from the border are brought before being sent to their home States. Social distancing hardly mattered here but after hours of walking, they had a place to rest, drink water and get food. Sanjar Alam, who hails from Kishanganj, was desperate to go home. Describing himself as a handicraft artist, he said he lived in Sangam Vihar and was working in a factory manufacturing pens. “The contractor and the owner kept promising that they would pay us our dues and give Rs. 1,000 for food but it never came. We are 12 workers from the same village, six of us eventually decided to walk home. We were picked up by the Delhi police and dropped at a no man’s land. U.P. police then threatened to send us back. Somehow, we reached here by taking lanes and bylanes.” In Delhi since he turned 18, Mr. Alam was finding it hard to come to terms with the prospect of a long stay at home. “I am an artist. Farming is not for me,” he showed his soft hands. Id-ul-Fitr is round the corner, but Mr. Alam hoped by Id-ul-Zuha god would bring a smile to his face. For now, he was busy showing the OTP in his mobile phone to every person that he felt could be of help. “ Bhaiyya , next bus kab ayega ?” (Brother, when is the next bus coming?)
20 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Fix guests according to venue area’||The Haryana Party Lawns Association has sought guidelines specifying the number of guests according to the area of the hall, instead of the fixed number of guests as of now, and standard operating procedures for them to help them resume business. The association also demanded that the Haryana government immediately frame policy for the party lawns to facilitate de-sealing of the premises. The said the government fixing the number of guests for weddings irrespective of the size of the hall was not financially viable for lawn owners.
20 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam records highest single-day spike||Assam on Tuesday recorded the highest single-day spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, taking the count to 154 since a little before Monday midnight. Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said 39 people tested positive on Tuesday, all with travel history from Rajasthan, Haryana, Maharashtra and West Bengal. The youngest among them is a two-month-old boy from central Assam’s Hojai. Of the 154 cases, 107 are active with 41 persons having been discharged after recovery. Four died and a person each migrated to Bihar and West Bengal. The sudden jump in the number of cases has worried the government given the “limited facilities and resources”. Consequently, Mr .Sarma asked migrant workers, students and others keen on returning from other parts of India to come in a phased manner. “Don’t come in huge numbers. Come over a period of time, say a batch of 500 in three days. It will help the government to quarantine people in a better way. Otherwise, the quarantine centres will be crowded and maintaining social distancing will be difficult,” he said. The Minister also advised people to stay indoors as much as possible. “Most restrictions have been lifted, but people should use their discretion and adhere to COVID-19 protocols to save themselves and others,” he added. On Tuesday morning, the police in Guwahati located a man who had gone into hiding after escaping from quarantine after testing positive on Monday. Quarantine killing Meanwhile, the police in north-eastern Assam’s Dhemaji district have arrested one Lintu Gogoi on charges of murdering his wife after being sent to home quarantine.
20 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Ex-SSB man kills 3 of family, gunned down by police||The Assam police on Monday night gunned down a former Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) jawan hours after he had killed his wife, 21-year-old son and a maternal uncle with a .32 pistol. Sanjay Das had gone into hiding after killing the trio at his residence in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district on Monday. The police traced him to an abandoned building of the Fisheries Department close to midnight. He allegedly opened fire on the police personnel when they asked him to surrender, leading to a gunfight. Dibrugarh’s Superintendent of Police Sreejith T. said, “After the killings, a police team traced him, cordoned off the place and started negotiating. But he was not done with his killing spree and lobbed a few stun grenades.” Das opened fire at the police team. He was killed in retaliatory fire, the police said. While other members of the man’s extended family said he was alcoholic and mentally unstable, police said he had a history of criminal behaviour.
20 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Cong.-hired buses await nod to enter U.P. from Rajasthan||As a convoy of 200 buses hired by the Congress to ferry migrant workers to their hometowns waited at the inter-State border at Uncha Nagla in Bharatpur district for permission to enter Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday expressed concern over the hardships of migrants, whose condition was becoming “unbearable”. While the labourers, accompanied by their family members, were lodged at temporary shelter homes established by the district administration and Bharatpur-based Lupin Foundation, Minister of State for Technical Education Subhash Garg and several Congress leaders reached the Rajasthan-U.P. border to make an attempt for sending the buses amid the political tussle. Dr. Garg said the State government had planned to bring back Rajasthani migrants from U.P. on the return journey of buses. “Instead of exchanging letters with the office of AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, the U.P. government should have written to the Collectors of border districts with the orders to communicate with their counterparts in Rajasthan and take in the buses,” he said. U.P. Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu was detained when he staged a dharna with the partymen on the Bharatpur-Agra highway with the demand that the buses stranded at the border be allowed to move.  ‘Welcome initiative’ Mr. Gehlot said the buses offered by Ms. Priyanka Gandhi could have helped the U.P. government avoid the Ghazipur-like stampede situation and facilitated the movement of migrants. “In this hour of crisis, we all should welcome such an initiative, keeping politics aside.” he tweeted. Mr. Gehlot said the condition of migrant workers was becoming unbearable and with each passing day they were becoming more and more restless. He said the Rajasthan government had already started running ‘Shramik Special’ buses to ensure that no migrant was seen walking on the road.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Reform or face fund cuts, Trump tells WHO||As the World Health Assembly met virtually to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic, U.S. President Donald Trump told the World Health Organization (WHO) that the U.S. will make permanent its funding cuts to the organisation and consider leaving it, if it did not commit to “major substantial reform” within the next 30 days. “...If the World Health Organization does not commit to major substantive improvements within the next 30 days, I will make my temporary freeze of U.S. funding to the WHO permanent and reconsider our membership to the organization,” Mr. Trump wrote in a four-page letter to WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. Mr. Trump had temporarily stopped the funding last month and begun a review of the WHO’s handling of the pandemic, which the President and others in his administration have repeatedly criticised, particularly the global health body’s relationship to China. Critics have argued that while the WHO could have acted more decisively and quickly, Mr. Trump’s allegations against the organisation were often his way of deflecting the criticism of his own handling of the pandemic. Mr. Trump’s letter largely consisted of a list of criticism of the WHO’s handling of the pandemic. It also compared Mr. Ghebreyesus’s handling of the situation with former WHO chief Gro Harlem Brundtland’s handling of SARS in 2003. “Many lives could have been saved had you followed Dr. Brundltland’s example,” Mr. Trump wrote. “It is clear the repeated missteps by you and your organisation in responding to the pandemic have been extremely costly for the world.” Mr. Trump said the only way forward for the WHO would be to demonstrate independence from China.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump says he is taking hydroxychloroquine||U.S. President Donald Trump has said he has been taking hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for “a couple of weeks” to help ward off COVID-19 infection. The drug, traditionally used in the treatment of malaria, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, has not been proven to be effective in COVID-19 prevention or treatment. The drug can sometimes have severe side effects, including arrhythmia, which can be fatal. “You’d be surprised at how many people are taking it, especially the frontline workers before you catch it. The frontline workers — many, many are taking it. I happen to be taking it. I happen to be taking it,” Mr. Trump told journalists during a meeting with restaurant executives on Monday. “Hydroxychloroquine?” “When?” “Now?” reporters asked, to which Mr. Trump responded in the affirmative. “A couple of weeks ago, I started taking it. Because I think it’s good,” he said. “I’m not going to get hurt by it. It has been around for 40 years for malaria, for lupus, for other things. I take it,” he said, adding that he hoped to soon not to be taking it because other solutions would be available. Mr. Trump also said he did not own a company that produced HCQ and wanted Americans to feel good and that the drug has an impact, especially early on. He also confirmed that he was also taking a zinc supplement and had taken a single dose initially of azithromycin, an antibiotic. “All I can tell you is, so far I seem to be okay.” FDA warning The Federal Drug Administration (FDA), the U.S.’s drug regulator, issued a warning about HCQ last month saying it should not be taken outside a hospital setting or clinical trial due to heart rhythm problems (the advisory did not pertain to FDA-approved use of the drug for the treatment of malaria, lupus and rheumatoid arthritis). The White House released a memorandum from Sean P. Conley, the President’s osteopathic physician, that Mr. Trump had tested negative for several COVID-19 tests he had taken in recent days and that the President was “in very good health.” India, a major producer of HCQ, had sent shipments of the drug to the U.S., days after Mr. Trump had asked India to lift a ban on the drug’s export.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Behind new incidents, a changed dynamic along India-China border||A greater capability by India to patrol up to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) coupled with an increasingly assertive Chinese posture is fuelling new tensions along the border, according to former senior Indian officials. Indian and Chinese troops have been involved in as many as four incidents in recent weeks along the undefined LAC. On Monday, Chinese state media said the People’s Liberation Army was “tightening control” in one of the flashpoints in Galwan Valley in the western sector, after it accused India of “unilaterally” changing the status quo by “illegal construction”. A build-up has also been reported in Demchok in Ladakh. Separately, troops from both sides were involved in fisticuffs that led to injuries following stand-off incidents on May 5 near the Pangong Tso lake in Eastern Ladakh and on May 9 in Naku La in North Sikkim. Army Chief General Manoj Naravane said on May 14 the two incidents were not related and there had been “aggressive behaviour and minor injuries on both sides”. Both sides had since disengaged at these two spots. Face-off incidents occur routinely in the summer months when both sides are able to more frequently patrol up to their respective perceptions of the LAC. Detailed protocols are in place for troops to handle such incidents. According to the 2005 protocol on modalities for implementing confidence-building measures, neither “shall use force or threaten to use force” and “both sides shall treat each other with courtesy and refrain from any provocative actions”. The 2013 Border Defence Cooperation Agreement said patrols “shall not follow or tail patrols of the other side in areas where there is no common understanding” of the LAC. It called for both sides to “exercise maximum self-restraint, refrain from any provocative actions, not use force or threaten to use force against the other side” in face-offs. “With more intensified patrolling on both sides, the open space available has shrunk, so face-to-face situations will occur; what is different is the aggressive manner in which Chinese troops behaved and prevented Indian troops from patrolling,” said Ashok Kantha, Ambassador to China from 2014 to 2016. Jostling and fisticuffs were a cause for concern because they could lead to unintended consequences or escalation, he said. “There is a larger pattern that the Chinese are becoming more assertive in pursuing their territorial claims in contested areas, that is happening both in the South China Sea and along the India China border.” India has been upgrading its infrastructure along the border, thereby allowing troops to patrol with greater depth and frequency into areas where the Chinese had, by virtue of favourable terrain and better infrastructure, established a more frequent presence. That is now being challenged. By December 2022, all 61 strategic roads along the border, spread across Arunachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, will be completed, adding up to 3,417 km in length. On-the-ground dynamic These incidents were more likely fuelled by the on-the-ground dynamic than other geopolitical factors or tensions, such as India’s tightening of FDI from China or the COVID-19 pandemic, said Gautam Bambawale, who was India’s Ambassador to China from 2017 to 2018. “I don’t see a link between FDI tightening and these incidents, it does not work that way,” he said. “What is happening is both sides are patrolling more aggressively. As a result of that, it is more than likely that you will run into each other, because of better connectivity and roads on both sides.” Clarifying perceptions of the LAC could help, but China has stalled the process. “They are afraid the LAC will become the boundary,” Mr. Bambawale said. “Our point is we don’t have to negotiate one common line, but negotiate a line that they don’t cross, and another line that we don’t cross.” If tactical imperatives are driving recent incidents, they could have strategic consequences, said Zorawar Daulet Singh, adjunct fellow at the Institute of Chinese Studies. “India is seeking to restore a balance, to the extent that it is possible given enduring advantages of terrain and logistics on the Chinese side, by creating road and air connectivity to the LAC,” he said. “The PLA is rattled by this. With both sides now engaged in forward policies and convinced of their right to do so, it makes for an explosive mix.”
20 May 2020||Beijing,||China tests drug that aims to stop pandemic sans vaccine||A Chinese laboratory has been developing a drug it believes has the power to bring the coronavirus pandemic to a halt. The outbreak first emerged in China late last year before spreading across the world, prompting an international race to find treatments and vaccines. A drug being tested by scientists at China’s prestigious Peking University could not only shorten the recovery time for those infected, but even offer short-term immunity from the virus, researchers said. Sunney Xie, director of the university’s Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for Genomics, told AFP that the drug has been successful at the animal testing stage. “When we injected neutralising antibodies into infected mice, after five days the viral load was reduced by a factor of 2,500,” said Mr. Xie. “That means this potential drug has (a) therapeutic effect.” The drug uses neutralising antibodies — produced by the human immune system to prevent the virus infecting cells — which Mr. Xie’s team isolated from the blood of 60 recovered patients. A study on their research, published in the journal Cell , suggests that using the antibodies provides a potential “cure” for the disease and shortens recovery time. “Our expertise is single-cell genomics rather than immunology or virology. When we realised that the single-cell genomic approach can effectively find the neutralising antibody we were thrilled.”
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||We are not a proxy of any country, says Taliban||The Taliban is not a proxy of any country and it does not want to interfere in the internal affairs of other nations, the group’s political spokesperson said on Tuesday. “Calling the current Afghan Islamic national liberation movement terrorists or a proxy is an untrue and provocative statement,” Suhail Shaheen, the spokesman of the Taliban's Doha-based Political Office, told The Hindu . He spoke about India's policy on Afghanistan soon after the deputy leader of Taliban's Political Office in Qatar, Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai, was reported to have accused India of playing a “negative role” inside Afghanistan. Part of India's concern over the Taliban’s opinions, especially on Kashmir, stems from the fact that South Block still considers it a terror group and has refused to engage it in a dialogue. Mr. Shaheen also indirectly dismissed social media reports about the outfit’s opinion on the Kashmir issue, vowing to stay away from the domestic affairs of other countries. “The Islamic Emirate has a clear policy of non-interference in the internal affairs of other countries.” He also addressed the issues raised by National Security Advisory Board member Amar Sinha, who in an interview to The Hindu had questioned why the Taliban was unwilling to fight ISIS-KP jointly with the Afghan government. The U.S. had blamed the ISIS-KP for the recent attack on a hospital in Kabul and the Taliban had blamed “malicious elements” for the killings. In response to the Indian official’s doubts, Mr. Shaheen said the Taliban is an independent entity and will not join hands with others to fight ISIS. “Based on Doha Accord with the U.S., we will not allow any one to use the soil of Afghanistan against any one. It is our commitment. We don’t join hands with any one. We are independent people,” he said, adding that those Indian policymakers who oppose exchanges with the Taliban are not realistic. “Why should India give legitimacy to this kind of force in its own neighbourhood?" Mr. Sinha had asked in the interview where he had criticised the group for not declaring a ceasefire in the month of Ramzan. Mr. Sinha’s remarks had followed the Delhi visit of U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad, who had urged India to engage the Taliban. Sources familiar with the exchanges with the envoy had said India was yet to decide on whether to engage the Taliban. Mr. Shaheen maintained that the Indian officials who oppose engagement with the Taliban are “following a failed policy”. “As such they are not speaking for the interests of the people of India while they should, and are in fact, speaking for the interests of a few at the saddle of power in Kabul. Consequently, India could not find a proper place among the masses of Afghanistan despite spending a lot in the country,” said Mr. Shaheen.
20 May 2020||COLOMBO,||‘Sri Lanka will not tolerate targeting of war heroes’||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa  on  Tuesday said the country will not hesitate to exit international bodies that continuously “targeted” its soldiers. “If any international body or organisation continuously target our country and our war heroes, using baseless allegations, I will also not hesitate to withdraw Sri Lanka from such bodies or organisations,” he said, speaking at the  11th anniversary of the end of the civil war, marked as “Ranaviru [War Heroes] Day” in the island’s south. Human rights violations Several Sri Lankan soldiers, especially top officers, have been accused of human rights violations during and soon after the war. The UN and international human rights watchdogs have repeatedly flagged serious allegations of rights abuse, pushing the Sri Lankan government on war-time accountability. In Sri Lanka’s Sinhala-majority south, however, military personnel are hailed as “saviours against terrorism”, and enjoy state patronage. In March, President Rajapaksa pardoned a solider convicted for the murder of eight Tamil civilians, including children, in 2000. In August 2019, then President Maithripala Sirisena named a General accused of war crimes as the Army commander. Major General Shavendra Silva is currently leading a task force to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. ‘Remembrance Day’ The annual celebratory event to acknowledge the military’s role in ending the separatist war comes a day after northern Tamils observe ‘Remembrance Day’, to pay tributes to several thousands of their relatives, including civilians, killed as the state armed forces took on the rebel LTTE during the nearly three decade-war. In its final phase alone, in May 2009, an estimated 40,000 persons died. President Rajapaksa said that while leaders of powerful countries had emphatically stated they would not allow any action against their war heroes, he too would not allow anyone to exert undue pressure on “war heroes” of a small country. “Pain of the war is not strange to me,” said the leader, who served in the Army before being appointed Defence Secretary under his brother and current Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who was President for a decade until 2015. In a statement released on Monday, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa lashed out at political opponents for creating an “artificial social dichotomy” between ‘military’ and ‘civilian’. “If a retired member of the armed forces is appointed to some position in the government, that is being portrayed by the opposition as militarisation,” he said, referring to criticism of his government’s recent appointments of serving and retired military men to top bureaucratic posts. Militarisation has been a lingering concern in post-war Sri Lanka, with the Army’s visible involvement in many areas, including agriculture and education. Mahinda Rajapaksa said the ‘Ranaviru [war heroes]’ constituency was now an integral part of the clergy, doctors, teachers, farmers and workers. “So whenever we happen to be in power, there will always be former members of the armed forces and police holding various positions in the government,” he said, commending the military’s efforts in combating COVID-19 in Sri Lanka.
20 May 2020||Kunduz,||Taliban attack on Kunduz repelled||Afghan security forces on Tuesday repelled a fierce Taliban attack on Kunduz, a strategic city in northern Afghanistan that had briefly fallen to the militants twice in the past, officials said. Taliban fighters attacked several government posts on the outskirts of the city at around 1:00 a.m., a Defence Ministry statement said, triggering fierce fighting. “With the support of air force their attack was repelled,” it said, adding the fighting lasted for several hours. Both sides have clashed repeatedly in rural areas in recent months, but an attempt to enter a city as large as Kunduz is seen as a serious escalation. The latest violence follows a declaration by President Ashraf Ghani last week to resume offensive strikes against the insurgents, after a string of brutal attacks. The Taliban responded by vowing to increase assaults against Afghan security forces.
20 May 2020||Beijing,||China: Trump is shirking responsibility||Beijing on Tuesday accused Donald Trump of smearing China and shirking American responsibilities to the World Health Organization, after the U.S. President threatened to pull out of the UN body. “The U.S. tries to use China as an issue to shirk responsibility and bargain over its international obligations to the WHO. This is a miscalculation and the U.S. has picked the wrong target,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said at a press briefing on Tuesday.
20 May 2020||Sao Paulo,||Sao Paulo, May 19, 2020 (AFP) -||An indigenous group in Brazil that traditionally has no contact with the outside world is suffering a “genocide” because of illegal loggers' encroachment on their land, a rights group said Monday. The Awa Guaja is a hunter-gatherer tribe of around 400 people in the Amazon rainforest.AFP
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The changing nature of Chinese diplomacy||If U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt believed that if you “speak softly and carry a big stick: you will go far”, half a century later and many thousands of miles away, another man practised it. His name was Zhou Enlai ( picture ). Persuasion and compromise If Mao Zedong represented the crude face of Chinese communism, then Zhou was the epitome of its refinement. Where Mao preferred to exercise his power from “out of the barrel of a gun”, Zhou preferred to seduce his opponents through word and gesture in the pursuit of national self-interest, with the elegance of an opera star. The stick was used rarely, and only when all other means of persuasion failed. When General Douglas MacArthur’s armies crossed into North Korea, Zhou summoned the Indian Ambassador in Beijing to deliver a message to the Americans: “If the U.S. troops cross the 38th Parallel... we will intervene.” The manner of his delivery was as subtle as its message was blunt. Zhou could have thrown down the gauntlet in public but chose to give diplomacy a chance. When, however, the U.S., regardless of Chinese concerns, crossed the 38th Parallel, the Chinese attacked and brought the world’s greatest power to a standstill. A few years later, in 1954, the Chinese made their entry onto the world stage in Geneva. The Vietnamese were winning against the French in the First Indochina War, and the Americans were preparing to intervene fearing that another “domino” would fall to communism. China’s self-interest lay in ending this war while denying the U.S. a foothold in its backyard. Zhou’s strategy was to undermine western unity. His watchwords were persuasion and compromise. Describing his presence in Geneva as “a performance on the stage”, he deployed all his charm, vitality and intelligence. He even gave “face” to the French who had just lost to the Vietnamese in the battle of Dien Bien Phu, by travelling the “extra mile” to meet Prime Minister Pierre Mendès-France to secure the peace. At the start of the Conference, U.S. Secretary of State John Foster Dulles had pronounced that the “Chinese communist regime will not come to Geneva to be honoured by us, but rather to account before the bar of world opinion”. Playing the weaker hand, Zhou turned the tables on the U.S. A year later, at the Afro-Asian Conference in Bandung, Zhou used the same tactics to pursue another objective; the leaders of the Afro-Asian countries. He deliberately kept a low profile, allowing Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Indonesian President Sukarno to take the lead. His tactic, he reported to Mao, was “not to be involved in provocative or disruptive debate”. His guidance to his team was to “strive to expand the united front of the world peace force... and create conditions for establishing diplomatic work or diplomatic relations between China and a number of Afro-Asian countries”. All roads led to Beijing Zhou’s style of diplomacy came to define Chinese foreign policy over the next half-century. The strategy was consistent: avoid isolation, build solidarity with non-aligned countries, divide the West. The tactics were called ‘united front’ — isolate the main threat by building unity with all other forces. It was a game that Zhou would play with consummate skill. Under Zhou, diplomats of calibre kept the ship of state steady in a churning sea full of storms, some self-made like the Cultural Revolution. When the tide rose, these diplomatic fishermen gathered the fish — expanding China’s global presence and gaining international acceptability. When it ebbed, they saw to it that the ship remained firmly moored. They navigated the Cold War, playing the Soviets against the Americans. To relieve pressure, Zhou opened border talks with the Soviets and channels to the U.S. Public animosity did not deter him from turning on the full extent of his charm on either Alexei Kosygin or Henry Kissinger. In February 1972, he persuaded U.S. President Richard Nixon to abandon Taiwan when the communists had not exercised actual sovereignty over that island even for a single day since 1949. It was a staggering act of diplomacy. In the 1980s, when Deng Xiaoping took up the reins, Zhou’s ‘sailors’ continued to navigate the Chinese ship through the early days of opening up to the outside world. Deng supplemented Zhou’s strategy with a “24-Character Strategy” of his own: “Observe calmly; secure our position; cope with affairs calmly; hide our capacities and bide our time; be good at maintaining a low profile; and never claim leadership.” It became the ‘mantra’ of Chinese diplomacy. Chinese diplomats measured their words and kept their dignity. They projected power but rarely blustered. They were masters of their brief because Zhou had taught them that the real advantage in negotiations was to know more than the other side. They flattered acquaintances, calling them “old friends”. They built relationships by making it a point to engage the less friendly interlocutors with greater courtesies than friends. Behind closed doors, they were tireless in whittling down opposition through negotiation, and skilful in putting the onus of responsibility for failure on the other party. And occasionally, ever so subtly, they would hold out a veiled threat with a look of concern rather like an uncle anxious to save you from embarrassment. But they rarely offended. The 1980s and 1990s were the high noon for Chinese diplomacy. All roads led to Beijing. U.S. President George Bush and Russian leader Mikhail Gorbachev made their way to the Forbidden City. They normalised relations, settled borders and won hearts and minds through general financial help. So seductive was Chinese diplomacy that the Americans even broke their own sanctions imposed after the 1989 ‘Tian An Men Incident’, within a matter of four weeks. A decade later, the U.S. and the European Union bought into Chinese assurances that it would soon transition to a market economy, and helped steer it into the World Trade Organization. Breaking away from moorings Deng died in 1997. China prospered just as Deng had imagined. It began to occupy centre stage in world diplomacy, but the ship began to come apart from its moorings. A new generation of diplomats, with knowledge of the English language and a careerist mindset, has started to whittle away at the anchors laid down by Zhou and Deng. Arrogance has replaced humility. Persuasion is quickly abandoned in favour of the stick when countries take actions contrary to Chinese wishes. The Chinese pursue unilateralism instead of compromise in the South China Sea. In place of ‘united front’ tactics, they are bent on creating irritations simultaneously with multiple neighbouring countries. To avenge the ‘Century of Humiliation’ that China endured in the hands of western imperial powers from roughly 1839-1840 to 1949, they adopt a one-size-fits-all approach, uncaring that much of the world has done nothing to China and, indeed, shares a similar historical experience. Statements of fact or reasoned opinion are seen by them as insult or humiliation. Foreign governments are educated about their responsibilities in managing the media and the narrative, even as the Chinese manipulate the same media to serve their purposes. They expect to receive gratitude for everything they do, including handling COVID-19, as if it was only done with the foreigner in mind. The veneer of humility has thinned. The reserves of goodwill are fast depleting. The ship seems to be adrift at sea. China, post-COVID-19, will be operating in a very different external environment. It may wish to recall what Kissinger told the White House staff in July 1971 after his trip to the country: “The Chinese style is impressive. The Russians will fight you for every nickel and dime, and elbow you at every level, and lose a million dollars of goodwill in the process. The Chinese have a sense of the longer trends and focus on that, not on ploymanship.” The Chinese appear to have lost that style. If they cannot regain it, the ship of diplomacy could be dragged further afar from the shore on the receding tide. Vijay Gokhale is a former Foreign Secretary of India and a former Ambassador to China
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Flawed stimulus is justice denied||The COVID-19 pandemic and the prolonged national lockdown have brought the Indian economy to a standstill. In tackling the crisis, the Centre has not done much to enable States to benefit from the much-touted benefits of “cooperative federalism”. States are struggling to cope with the unprecedented existential challenges they face. The Centre has relentlessly undermined the immediate necessity for making appropriate financial provisions to enable States to meet the challenge. Most States have already shared their concerns on the inadequate fiscal support from the Centre. Where has India’s money gone? What will happen with the unspent money in the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund? Too modest a package At the end of March, the Centre had announced a stimulus package of Rs. 1.7-lakh crore, out of which about Rs. 1.2-lakh crore was the existing entitlement. It was too modest considering the severity of the COVID-19 crisis. After about a month and a half, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on May 12, announced a package of Rs. 20-lakh crore without mentioning anything specific for stranded migrant workers and for re-structuring micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). Industry has been demanding a package to the tune of 7% to 8% of India’s GDP of over $2.8 trillion, nothing unusual given that similar packages have been announced by other countries to mitigate the damage done to their economies. However, keeping the government’s silence in mind, India Inc. revised its demand for a package to as low as 3% of the GDP. So, a package of the size of almost 10% of the GDP was offered like a masterstroke but without coming clear on the source of funding and oversight provision. The buck was passed to the Finance Minister and, surprisingly, no call was taken on the lockdown. The presentation by the Finance Minister, which was more a five-episode package for television, has proved to be a damp squib. There was only word play with nothing for migrant workers, farmers, daily wage earners and the poor facing destitution. On MSMEs, the announcements offer no major concessions; soft loan, PF and tax provisions are shrewd. The redefinition of MSMEs has been long-pending and cannot be called a reform. There is nothing for the States to look forward to that can serve the immediate purpose. Since MSMEs have been the hardest hit, being the main employers of industrial workers, their plight is grim. It is small businesses that give traction to entrepreneurial activities in the unorganised sector where migrants from rural India mostly work. Sadly, the process of economic revival has not even commenced and industry is in dire straits. The package that has been announced is too late and too flawed. Ideally, after the first round of an insufficient package, the government should have begun consultations with parliamentarians, Opposition parties and industry representatives to prepare a well-thought-out relief package to re-start the economy. Alas, this did not happen. States which have been at the forefront of the war against COVID-19 have not been given the required funds to help them cope with the public health emergency and support the high influx of returning migrant labourers from industrial locations. India’s great middle class, which is also suffering, has found no solace either; nor is it likely that they will get anything substantial from this package. A large number of workers in the organised sector are facing heavy pay cuts, job losses, a sharp fall in income, and uncertainty. Farmers are finding it difficult to get the minimum support price for their produce; a majority of them are in debt and face many obstacles. Plight of the migrant workers The first national lockdown was announced in the most dramatic manner by the Prime Minister late in the evening and without adequate notice. This created panic among migrants who were suddenly left without any income security. A vast majority of them lost their livelihoods and were threatened more by the prospect of death by starvation than by the virus. And they have walked thousands of kilometres to go back home to States such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh — because, for them, a home-coming was the last resort to stay alive. Instead of action by the government, the helping hands seem to be from the Opposition, charitable individuals and social organisations. Such painful displacement could have been avoided by offering industry a timely financial package. Now India faces the loss of lives and livelihoods against the backdrop of the ruling dispensation’s apathy towards the poor and the disadvantaged. On May 1, some Shramik Express trains were flagged off from certain destinations to take back migrant workers to their home States, but there was another shock — the charges levied by the Indian Railways. How can this be justified in a situation such as this? What is the meaning of being a citizen of this country? On May 4, the president of the Indian National Congress made an assurance that the Congress would bear the cost of travel for poor migrants. Sensing the imminent political loss on this issue, the ruling BJP issued a statement that the Railways would cover 85% of the cost with the State concerned covering the remainder. It is the BJP that is answering queries, when it should be the Government of India that should take up a leadership role in a crisis situation. It was expected that the government would accord priority to cutting out wasteful expenditure on projects such as the Central Vista project and the bullet train project and, instead, manage the available resources of the Reserve Bank of India, the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation and the PM CARES Fund to help the poor. This was not to be. The central bank should have been busy with restoring the health of the financial sector and also concerned itself with considering the suggestions of former RBI Governors Raghuram Rajan and C. Rangarajan on adopting an altruistic approach in place of the one driven merely by fiscal and inflationary concerns. Stimulus that is delayed and flawed is tantamount to justice denied. Whatever the false compliments India may receive for tackling the pandemic, the fact remains that the country is at a crossroads as a result of late and wrong decisions. The government should follow a single policy, namely people first. The matters of lives and livelihoods should not be pitted against each other. Both issues have to be taken care of simultaneously. The nation is passing through a grave crisis in which a state of denial can be counterproductive. India’s economy is no longer capable of absorbing the shocks from monumental blunders already committed. The country must be rescued from this terrible mess. Mere rhetoric will not help. Yashwant Sinha is India’s former Minister of Finance (1998-2002) and Minister of External Affairs (2002-2004). Atul K. Thakur is a Delhi-based policy professional and columnist
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Pakistan as both terror perpetrator and victim||The recent encounter, at Handwara in northern Kashmir, where Indian security forces took on terrorists, left five security personnel, including a colonel, dead. This has once again brought to the fore the terrorist threat emanating from Pakistan. Analysts of terrorism are well aware of the paradox that Pakistan is both possibly the leading perpetrator of terrorism and a major victim of the same menace. Warfare with neighbours This contradiction can be traced to the deliberate policy of the Pakistani state to create and foster terrorist groups in order to engage in low intensity warfare with its neighbours. Pakistan first operationalised this strategy in regard to Afghanistan following the overthrow of Zahir Shah by his cousin Daud Khan in 1973 and intensified it with the cooperation of the U.S. and Saudi Arabia after the Marxist coup of 1978. The Soviet withdrawal in 1989 left the Pakistani military with a large surplus of Islamist fighters that it had trained and armed. Islamabad decided to use this “asset” to intensify the insurgency in the Kashmir Valley. However, the decade-long Afghan “jihad” had also radicalised a substantial segment of the Pakistani population, especially in the North-West Frontier Province and Punjab, as well as augmented sectarian divisions not only between Sunnis and Shias but also among various Sunni sects — especially between the puritanical Deobandis and the more syncretic and Sufi-oriented Barelvis. In the process, a number of homegrown terrorist groups emerged that the Pakistan Army co-opted for its use in Kashmir and the rest of India. But, it soon became clear that Pakistan had created a set of Frankenstein’s monsters some of whom turned against their creator especially after the Musharraf government, under American pressure, decided to collaborate with the latter in the overthrow of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan. ‘Loyalist’ LeT But not all terrorist groups acted in this way. Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), the group involved in the latest terrorist encounter in Handwara, is a classic example of a “loyalist” terrorist organisation that has played by the rules set by the Pakistani military. It only launches attacks on targets outside Pakistan, primarily in India. As the evidence in the case of the Mumbai carnage of 2008 clearly indicates LeT operations are coordinated with the Inter-Services Intelligence that provides it with intelligence and logistical support in addition to identifying specific targets. This is why the LeT and its front organisations have continued to receive the military’s patronage and unstinting support. Consequently, its leader, Hafiz Saeed, was until recently provided protection by the Pakistani state despite being designated an international terrorist by the UN and the U.S. putting a $10 million bounty on his head. A Pakistani court finally sentenced Saeed to 11 years in prison in February for terror financing activities in order to stave off the global anti-terror watchdog, Financial Action Task Force (FATF), blacklisting Pakistan as a terror financing state. Bad terrorists At the other end of this good-bad spectrum lies the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), which has ideological affinity with the Afghan Taliban. The TTP and its affiliates have fought pitched battles with the Pakistan Army in the Federally-Administered Tribal Areas and parts of the NWFP (now Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa). While both the LeT and the Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) have been engaged in attacks on Indian targets identified by Pakistan’s ISI, the latter has not hesitated to launch terrorist attacks on targets within Pakistan as well, especially against the Shias and Sufi shrines. Leading Pakistan watcher Christine Fair in her book, Fighting to the End: The Pakistan Army’s Way of War , explains that the difference between LeT and JeM lies in the fact that while the former is more pragmatic and less ideological, the latter is highly ideological and sectarian. JeM draws its ideological inspiration from a very extreme form of Deobandi puritanism that considers all those who do not believe in its philosophy beyond the pale of Islam and, therefore, legitimate targets of attack. For many JeM diehards, these include not only Shias and Barelvis but also the Pakistani state and the Pakistani military. LeT on the other hand does not consider Muslims of different theological orientations as non-believers and therefore legitimate targets of attack. According to Ms. Fair, this relatively “liberal” interpretation is related to the fact that LeT draws its ideological inspiration from the sect called the Ahl-e-Hadis,  which composes only a small proportion of Pakistan’s Muslim population and cannot afford to engage in sectarian conflict. Moreover, it draws its membership from different Muslim sects including the Sufi-oriented Barelvis and the puritanical Deobandis. Both these factors drive LeT toward greater tolerance in sectarian terms and to eschew intra-Islamic theological battles. Its primary goals are political; above all, driving India out of Kashmir. This jells well with the objectives of the Pakistani military and makes LeT and Hafiz Saeed, favourites of the Pakistani establishment. This narrative makes one thing very clear. Many of the terrorist groups were deliberately created by the Pakistani state to serve its purposes. However, its ability to control the various terrorist outfits is uneven and some of them have turned against their creator. It establishes the fact that using terrorist outfits for state objectives is a highly risky business whose blowback cannot be predicted and can have very negative consequences for the stability of the state itself. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||We need social physicians||While medicine remains central to public health, medical academia has never been a torch-bearer for the public health cause. Apart from the inherently individualistic character of medicine, part of the reason can also be located in Indian medical education originally “carrying the cultural accretions of the West”, as D. Banerjee puts it. Multiple policy deliberations have upheld the idea of training a socially oriented physician responsive to community and public health needs. However, a deficient social emphasis is still a stark feature of India’s medical curriculum. This orthodox edifice of medicine has come under attack thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic, which is both a medical and a social calamity. The pandemic has served to water down the elitist and individualistic barriers of medicine that have hitherto kept apart the private and the public, the rich and the poor, and the individual patient and the community. COVID-19 has delivered one strong message: when it comes to a nation’s health, private care is of public concern, and public health is of medicine’s concern. Creating ripples at the societal level Early this year, there were debates on why elite professional institutions such as top medical colleges rarely become the centre of political ruckus and remain free of strong ideological leanings, unlike many of their humanities counterparts. The perception about medical academia is that it is too preoccupied with cultivating scientific and professional excellence to cast an eye upon politics. One reason given to explain leftist dominance in humanities academia is the keen social orientation that humanities education inculcates. By the very virtue of their education, humanities students feel strongly about inequity, stratification, and deprivation. This element remains missing in technically oriented, competition-driven professional fields such as engineering and medicine. But while engineering is irredeemable in this respect, the same cannot be said for medicine. Both the number and profundity of emotional experiences that medical college-hospitals see on a regular basis can scarcely be fathomed in any other category of educational institution. The Competency-based Undergraduate Curriculum applicable since 2019 emphasises on inculcating communication skills and empathy in medical students to improve clinical practice. However, that such empathy can create stronger positive ripples at the societal level has been given little attention. This is not to suggest that medical colleges must be modelled after the highly politicised humanities institutions. The idea is to emulate purely the ‘social orientation’ element. The same empathy shown at the singular-patient level, and which improves clinical practice, can manifest at the societal level to confront the inequalities and deficiencies of public health. It is common knowledge that public health has perennially been one of our highly neglected items. It is also a concern that cuts across party lines and stands little chance of being viciously contended and politicised. Besides, a deficient social orientation among physicians has significantly contributed to their maldistribution. Remodelling the foundation For this, the foundation of India’s medical education would need to be remodelled along bio-social lines. There is need for radically enhancing community exposure during both undergraduate and postgraduate years. For this, medical training will need to shift a considerable part of its base away from medical colleges in cities to lower-level health facilities and the community, along with seamless integration of medical colleges with the health services system. Also, there is need to pep up the community medicine curriculum and teach health policy to medical students emphasising particularly the sociological and political-economic aspects. All of this should confer the ability to critically analyse how health and medicine function in the bigger picture — creating a socially oriented physician capable of relating with macro-level challenges in public health apart from practising social medicine. Some might say that that the biggest stumbling block to realising socially oriented physicians is the commercialisation of the medical profession. But commercialisation is something that has largely arisen from within the profession. Given this, corrective measures will also need to be effected from within. The aforementioned measures can actually help us combat commercialisation among multiple others, given an environment conducive for the same. In the wake of the pandemic, we have started entertaining ideas such as private hospital nationalisation and mainstreaming of alternative medicine. A push for any reform cannot do without acknowledging the imperative of social physicians for better public health. Dr. Soham D. Bhaduri is a Mumbai-based doctor, healthcare commentator, and editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A callous response||In India, the informal sector accounts for over 80% of non-agricultural employment. This is a staggering number that has had unprecedented significance in the past few weeks, given the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The most vulnerable people in this sector are the migrant workers: the construction workers, painters, delivery boys, cooks, cleaners and factory workers, among others, who have travelled far to eke out a meagre livelihood, almost always without social protection, healthcare benefits and a minimum, decent standard of living. As the pandemic tests the world in unknown ways, it has finally revealed the fault-lines in India’s ability — or lack of it — to cope with the exigent needs of this migrant population. It has exposed the callousness of policymakers in sidestepping the burning question of financial and logistical support to the hundreds of thousands of internally dislocated persons over the last few weeks. A slap in the face Many across the nation may approve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assured response to the pandemic. Indeed, policy steps have mitigated what could have been a far worse initial outbreak in a populous, overcrowded, developing nation. Yet, disclaimers fall to the wayside when we look at the prevailing social apathy. Even worse, there was nary a word of collective protest when the spiralling migrant crisis was exacerbated in States such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Gujarat which suspended a gamut of labour laws that protect the rights of poor workers. All this is a slap in the face of the migrant workers. That’s the only way to describe how we have collectively treated the migrant workers who have built the very homes we live in, deliver our food, cook our meals and clean our laundry, so we may sit in air-conditioned comfort. It was a slap when the Centre and States passed the buck to each other on train fares for migrant workers for their journey home, where they understandably longed to be, with no source of income for daily subsistence. It was terrible that these fares were being charged at all. It was a slap on their face when Karnataka decided to cancel Shramik trains, ostensibly for logistical reasons. Instead, the migrant workers were herded like cattle into locations of convenience, not treated like human beings with sentiments and sovereignty. It was a body blow when 16 of these migrant workers died on railway tracks. So desperate was their need to get back home that they lay there exhausted on their way home, only to be crushed to death in the dark hours of the night, in Aurangabad. In less than two months, several scores of migrant workers have died on their gruelling walk home, while they braved the scorching sun with blisters on their feet. It was insult to injury when some migrant workers sitting on the road were sprayed with disinfectant by medical and fire department officials in Bareilly in U.P. No protections There are laws that are supposed to protect the rights of these workers. But laws such as the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979 and the Unorganised Workers’ Social Security Act, 2008 have proved to be an eyewash, offering little protection to this dislocated workforce on the ground. How much are migrant workers supposed to endure, stoically? Yet, they have faced and are still facing unimaginable insults and adversities with a resilience and fortitude that is unimaginable to many of us. The world is watching India as millions of migrant workers are on their long march home. They say they will not return unless their governments learn to treat them better. That is likely only if there is a broader realisation that these workers comprise the backbone of our economy. By some estimates, migrant workers contribute about 10% of the India’s GDP. But at the present juncture that backbone runs the risk of herniating, and we have only ourselves to blame. Madhurika Sankar is based in Chennai
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Standstill||Athletes are obsessed with movement. Being static isn’t part of their DNA and while the novel coronavirus pandemic forced people indoors and lockdowns became the grim reality, sportspersons struggled with the new normal. Ironically, before the virus leapt into vulnerable lungs, sporting schedules cut across continents and the whispered plea in locker rooms was about the need to rest sore muscles. But once the pause button was pressed, activities such as sprinting on the turf with the accompaniments of adequate sunshine and spectators, became a longing. However, many of these kinetic individuals devised their coping mechanisms. New Zealand cricket captain Kane Williamson gave catching practice to his dog, England all-rounder Ben Stokes bowled in the driveway, Indian tennis star Rohan Bopanna slammed forehands into walls while speedster Jasprit Bumrah cleaned his home daily. Yet, this wasn’t enough. Even if sport is shedding its rust as evident in the Bundesliga football that commenced in Germany, sports icons in the world at large and specifically in India, needed their regular fix of training at grounds and gyms. Staying fit and healthy was non-negotiable in the build-up towards the eventual return of sport. Seen in that light, the Home Ministry’s diktat that stadiums can be opened across India without the crowds, a point echoed by Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, is welcome news for athletes of all shades, be it Olympians or cue-sports players. Sporting legacies are built upon what transpires on the field when two legends or teams clash but the pathway that leads to it is built upon long hours in the gym and skill-enhancement drills replicated ahead of competitions. And as grounds and Sports Authority of India facilities allow coaches and their wards to prepare for the delayed season ahead that includes next year’s Olympics and a World Twenty20, to name a few, hygiene practices have to be strictly adhered to. Wearing masks, using hand sanitisers especially in gyms that can harbour bacteria and viruses on various equipment, and avoiding a common sporting reflex — the ubiquitous high five, are absolutely essential as athletes wear their jerseys and kick-start their routines, even if not at the competitive level. At the top, sport may seem like all glitter and stardust but its foundation is built upon struggling journeymen. For instance, the rookie tennis player chasing points and the athlete trying to shrug aside rural poverty, will not have the money to construct a state-of-the-art gym inside their homes with price points stretching into lakhs. Nor do they stay in gated communities with jogging tracks. Opening up the sporting infrastructure across the country will help this needy base besides the established stars. A quiet start has been made even if competitive sport in India is some distance away.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Unity for power||Israel’s new unity government, which has ended a protracted political deadlock, after three inconclusive elections in a year, is likely to oversee worsening tensions with the Palestinians as annexation of Jewish settlements in the occupied West Bank is high on Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s agenda. Mr. Netanyahu, Israel’s longest serving leader who just began his fourth consecutive term, has already initiated discussions on this plan. The man behind the revival of the political fortunes of Mr. Netanyahu, who has been indicted for corruption, was his one-time nemesis, Benny Gantz, leader of the centrist Blue and White party. The former Army Chief of Staff entered politics with the sole mission to oust the Likud party head from office and proposed legislation to set term limits for the premier. In his election campaigns and during difficult coalition negotiations, Mr. Gantz was adamant that he would never work under a Prime Minister who faced criminal charges. He was even ready to join a unity government with Likud, provided that Mr. Netanyahu stepped aside. Ironically, the judicial trial into Mr. Netanyahu’s indictment for corruption, bribery and breach of trust begins on May 24. The courts are also hearing challenges to his choice as Prime Minister, as Mr. Netanyahu could influence the nomination of judges and the prosecutor. In a turn of events in late March, Mr. Gantz first petitioned the court against moves to stall the election of the new Speaker and, within 24 hours, nominated himself to the position; a step that led to the splintering of the Blue and White. But the decision that has been described as his capitulation and a betrayal of his centre-left supporters is his failure to secure a veto on the annexation of the settlements on the West Bank in the coalition agreement. All other pieces of legislation except those relating to the fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic and the occupied territory, require mutual consultation between the governing parties. An advocate of a united Jerusalem and not a vocal supporter of a two-state solution, it is doubtful if Mr. Gantz would block Mr. Netanyahu’s annexation bid. And any move to annex West Bank territories, which the Palestinians see as part of their future state, could worsen an already fragile situation. As per the deal brokered in April, Mr. Netanyahu will serve as Prime Minister for the first 18 months and hand over the role to his erstwhile opponent for the remainder of the three-year term. This is, however, a potential grey area, given the uncertainty that would arise for the coalition from a judicial verdict against Mr. Netanyahu. If that happens, he could again play the victim, as when he accused investigating agencies after charges were framed against him. The months ahead will test the real strength of the unity government.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||No mood to emulate the U.K. example||The well-calculated risk the British Prime Minister, Mr. Harold Wilson, has taken in gambling for the jackpot through a snap general election has uplifted the spirits of the starry-eyed optimists in Mrs. Gandhi's camp who believe that she, too, could cash on her good luck while the going is good, before her image gets worn out through prolonged over-exposure. Basing his calculations on the latest run of public opinion polls in Britain, which in the western context were not very different from the astrological forecasts in the east, Mr. Wilson felt encouraged to take the plunge while the tide of his popularity was running high against the background of the sagging Tory morale. Though there has been no comparable new surge of public enthusiasm in favour of Mrs. Gandhi in India, the political strategists around her see dangers ahead if she continued to rely too much on the advice of her older colleagues who were temperamentally inclined to play safe to the point of total inaction. And drawing heavily on the Wilson parallel, the stalwarts of a midterm election — at a politically opportune moment preferably before the turn of the year — were cautioning against her holding on till 1972.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Training sessions may not be same’||K. Srikanth, a former World No. 1 star shuttler, feels that training sessions may not be the same for the first few months once they resume, given the COVID-19 safety guidelines. The 27-year-old Srikanth, stuck in his hometown Guntur for the last two months, believes that training should start from June 1 with some restrictions in place and it will be a different kind of challenge for players and coaches. “Normally if two of us are training, we will be assisted by four to five players plus the coach. I wonder if that will be possible now,” said Srikanth in a chat with The Hindu . “Each training session, under normal circumstances, will feature about 30 players and coaches. “It will be interesting to see how the changed scenario is when we start training,” he said. “If social distancing and other safety measures are followed, we might not reach the desired intensity level that quickly,” said Srikanth, who happens to be the only Indian men’s shuttler to win four Super Series (2017). “In other SAI centres at Bengaluru and Patiala, athletes stay in the centres. In Hyderabad, many of us travel to the SAI-Gopi Chand Academy. This means there is a lot of risk involved and merits extra precautions,” he said. “I strongly feel there is no need to rush things since the BWF calendar is not going to start for at least three months from now. “We can afford to start the training sessions slowly, and peak as and when the BWF calendar is finalised,” said Srikanth. “Personally, I am happy with my fitness level and there are no injury scares. Obviously, I am more than keen to regain the kind of form that made me the No. 1 player in the world. “Ideally, I would love to have five to six weeks of full-fledged training before a major tournament. Now this three-month break in BWF calendar should help me a lot,” he added.
20 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Kerala on the lookout for Whatmore’s successor||A former Sri Lankan batsman with more than 6,000 international runs, a South African First Class cricketer and one of India’s better-known batting coaches are among those in the running for the post of the Kerala team’s coach. If Asanka Gurusinghe or Heinrich Malan gets the job, it would mean Kerala will have a foreign coach for the fourth season in a row. Disappointing campaign Australian Dav Whatmore, who helped the team reach — for the first time in its Ranji history — the quarterfinals and the semifinals in his first two years, has moved to Baroda, after overseeing a disappointing campaign the past season. Gurusinghe was a key member of the Sri Lankan side that Whatmore coached to a stunning World Cup triumph in 1996, while Malan has had a successful coaching stint on the New Zealand domestic circuit. But The Hindu has learnt that former Kerala seamer G. Jayakumar, who has played a crucial role as a batting coach in the career of Test opener M. Vijay, is the front-runner at the moment, especially if the Kerala Cricket Association decides not to spend too much on a foreigner in what could be a shortened First Class season due to COVID-19. In his latest assignment, Jayakumar had taken Andhra, a team without too many big stars, to the Ranji quarterfinals earlier this year. Another home-grown option for Kerala is Biju George, who was the fielding coach of the Indian women’s team till recently.
20 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Golf action all set to tee off tomorrow||Golf is set to be the first sport to resume in the city, with the State government having granted approval here on Tuesday. Prestige Golfshire is expected to lead the way, with tee-offs slated for Thursday. KGA and Eagleton will likely restart activities over the weekend. Golf action, albeit tempered with several precautionary measures in place, will end the long sports drought caused by the coronavirus pandemic. The measures mandated by the government includes maintaining six-feet distance, having only one person in the buggy at a time and so on. Persons below the age of 10 and above 65 are not allowed to use the course.  Prestige Golfshire will conduct a test run at their course on Wednesday, with select members invited to participate. Chetan Meda, Director, Eagleton Golf Resort, stated that golfers can expect a “touch free” experience. “Sanitising and cashless transactions are some of the measures we will take. Since caddies are not allowed as per the guidelines, we will use them as ball-spotters. “We also plan to use ultraviolet disinfectant to clean all surfaces at the course, which we believe is more effective than regular germicides,” Meda said. Keen for permission Meda is keen to obtain permission from the District Collector before opening the course. KGA, meanwhile, needs a few days to work out logistic matters. “We are currently operating at minimal staff, so we will take a few days to get things organised. The members have been informed of all the government rules,” Prithvi Raj Urs, KGA Hon. Secretary, said. Khalin Joshi, 2018 Panasonic Open champion, is excited about his imminent return to KGA. “The driver in your hand and the sun in your eyes — I’ve missed it a lot. Playing golf with your friends will be great; we took it for granted earlier,” Khalin said. Khalin, however, stated that the bigger picture still poses concern. “While practice is great, for all professional golfers, playing tournaments is what matters the most. “Tournaments are our livelihood. And it looks like theywill not resume until September at least,” he said.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Breaking the saliva rule is far more serious than bowling a no-ball||The elegiac air over cricket has been ever present. “Cricket will never be the same again” is a theme that has been articulated since overarm bowling was finally legalised in 1864. This might have had something to do with the evolution of the pre-modern game during the time of the romantic poets. The elegiac form, said Coleridge is “most natural to the reflective mind.” The tone came naturally to the poets of the period, and seems to have attached itself to cricket in a manner we take for granted now. Poets as players It also helped that the best-known poets then were fans of the game. Byron played in the inaugural Eton v Harrow match when he was 17; Keats was once hit in the eye while playing cricket, and Wordsworth has written at least one sonnet where cricket is evoked. But I digress. The sentence “the game will never be the same again” is an integral part of cricket’s culture. The 1915 edition of Wisden , published during the first World War pronounced, “It is impossible to take other than a gloomy view with regard to the immediate future of cricket. Never before has the game been in such a plight.” Writing in the 1940 edition, the cricket historian H.S. Altham said, “Today the horizon is dark, and it is idle to try to look far ahead, but I believe there is a general feeling that the game can and should be kept going wherever possible.”  Closer to our times, the melancholy prognosis has followed such events as the triumph of India at the 2007 T20 World Cup, the Lodha reforms, the IPL, the retirement of Sachin Tendulkar (Lata Mangeshkar was among those who used the exact phrase we have been discussing here), and the Lahore ambush that injured Sri Lankan cricketers in their bus. And now, thanks to the coronavirus, we say it once more. Hopefully, like on every occasion in the past, we will be proved wrong again. Cricket has survived wars, terror attacks, retirements of players from Victor Trumper to Yuvraj Singh, new rules, match-fixing scandals, political bans, serious injuries to players, financial hardships, and somehow emerged more or less in the same form it had taken before such disasters struck. As Mike Marqusee wrote in his final piece, “As the world’s first and oldest modern spectator sport, cricket is marked by an earlier era whose patterns of leisure and work have long vanished.” The anachronism of the five-day Test is its greatest attraction. Hence the keenness with which India’s tour of Australia slated for later this year is awaited. Administrators around the world have begun to believe, as they say in show business (and in the manuals of clichés), that the show must go on. There are good financial reasons for this, but the hunger for normalcy is equally strong. The International Cricket Council’s cricket committee headed by Anil Kumble has made recommendations — interim measures — as the game moves towards this new normal. Sweat, rather than saliva to polish the ball, home umpires rather than neutral ones to officiate, an additional review per innings are the common sense suggestions that will come up before the ICC board later this month. The objectives are, as the committee pointed out, to retain the essence of the game while keeping everybody safe. This is important. It means that ball tampering (which is what applying wax or anything else on the ball is) will not be, for the moment at least, legalised. Once the ICC accepts the committee’s recommendations, it will have to work out how to deal with the rule-breakers. This is far more serious than bowling a no-ball. Saliva has been the bowler’s friend for so long now that no one remembers when it was first used. Perhaps it was the American bowler Barton King, credited with developing the outswinger who began the trend. It creates an imbalance between two sides of the ball, and that influences the way it is propelled through the air. Shane Warne has suggested a ball weighted on one side to help the swing bowlers, but how effective will that be? Sachin Tendulkar favours wax or something similar. Sweat and spit issues But keeping bowlers from using saliva on the ball — a practice sanctified by generations of use — and monitoring their moves is only a part of the problem. On the field, sportsmen sweat, they spit, they blow their noses; if sweating is medically safe, there is still the question of the other two hanging in the air, so to speak. The habit is too deeply ingrained, and sportsmen will have to remind themselves regularly not to spit or blow noses. These are involuntary actions and difficult to keep track of. You can’t have ‘spit cameras’ on the ground either. Perhaps — in the best case scenario — in a couple of years we will wonder what all the fuss was about.
20 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA to insist on Yo-yo test for all||The Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) will insist on Yo-yo test for all players, to start with Ranji probables, when it plans to call about 30 cricketers for a 10-day training session at the Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here, secretary R. Vijayanand said. The HCA official told The Hindu that this, besides the mandatory precautionary measures issued by the Government with regard to Covid-19, will be done with all seriousness. “We have also decided to have umpires recruitment with ICC panel umpire C. Shamshuddin taking classes from June 1 for a week before the examination is conducted,” Vijayanand added. Other plans On other plans for the coming season, the HCA secretary said that with the four main venues — Uppal Stadium, Gymkhana, ECIL and NFC — being match-fit, they would be ready to start the leagues, first the A-Division (three-day) matches followed by two-day games, only if the Government gives the go ahead for the resumption of sporting activity at the stadia. “We are also planning to have leagues in four districts by appointing observers — Nizamabad (Riyaz Qureshi), Mahabubnagar (Narsing Rao), Karimnagar (Agam Rao) and Warangal ( Laxman Rao). “The whole idea is to field the best team, selected on the basis of performances in the proposed league for various tournaments and also replicate the HCA leagues in all the districts,” Vijayanand said. “We will also hold some of the State matches, like the under-16 games, in Nizamabad and Mahabubnagar first to encourage local talent.” Precautionary measures Meanwhile, as part of the precautionary measures to battle the pandemic, HCA has segregated the entry point at Uppal Stadium separately for ground staff, maintenance staff, office-bearers, club secretaries and visitors, and one for administrative staff and media. “We have also installed thermometers and sanitisers and no one will be allowed in without masks,” Vijayanand said.  We will hold some of the State matches, like u-16 games, in Nizamabad and Mahabubnagar to encourage local talent
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bopanna eager to get back on court||Rohan Bopanna is excited and eager to get back to the tennis court, not just for his own training, but for the kids in his academy. “The inter-district travel has already resumed. I will be in Bengaluru on Thursday. We plan to start tennis from Monday,” said Bopanna, who was in Coorg with his family during the lockdown. Protective gear “The coaches will be wearing mask and gloves. Only the coaches will feed the balls and there will be a maximum of four players per court. “After two hours of tennis, followed by cool down exercises, one batch will leave and the next batch will arrive. “The parents would drop the children and wait in the car,” said Bopanna. “If a player needs to practice serve, then he will have have a separate set of balls.” Fresh air needed Bopanna said that it would be harmful for kids to wear masks and play as they require uninterrupted fresh air. Bopanna dismissed the suggestion of having two different colour balls for matches, instead of different numbered ones as advised by the International Tennis Federation (ITF), saying that yellow was being used for better visibility. He also was sceptical about the idea of using a hot air blower to disinfect the balls during play, saying that it may change the pressure of the balls. Bopanna said that his academy had an “Asics tennis hour”, during which parents get to play and enjoy the game. “Parents are generally trying to tell the kids what to do. “So, it is good to give them a taste of the game. It is a good exercise,” reasoned Bopanna, about the campaign of making parents play.
20 May 2020||Mumbai:,||Amith wins||Chennai’s Amith Kutti was crowned champion in the Mumbai Falcons Indian Sim Racing League that concluded on Monday.
20 May 2020||Chennai,||FMSCI’s initiative to invigorate motorsports||To deal with COVID-19’s aftermath, the Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India has announced a slew of concessions to clubs and sportsperson to promote the sport. The FMSCI Council has announced a spate of initiatives as under: The major measures are as follows: a) Free renewal of National level Competition Licences applied for in 2020 for the year 2021, if these licence holders do not take part in any event in 2020 b) 100% waiver of the Permit Fees for organisers of all status of events, if no sponsor/s associated with the event. 50% of permit fees will be charged otherwise c) 100% waiver of the Naming Rights fees for events if no sponsor/s associated with the event. 50% naming rights fees will be charged otherwise d) One-year extension for the existing Promoters of various National Championship events irrespective of whether the National Championship is conducted in 2020 or not e) Local Stewards to be appointed to ease the burden of travel and hospitality costs for the organisers. The FMSCI added it hopes that with these initiatives, motorsport activity in India can resume as soon as the lockdown is lifted for sporting activities.
20 May 2020||BREMEN,||Leverkusen routs Bremen||Bayer Leverkusen stayed in the hunt for a top-four finish in the Budesliga after two goals by striker Kai Havertz as well as one each by Mitchell Weiser and Kerem Demirbay helped it to a 4-1 win at struggling Werder Bremen on Monday. The result left Leverkusen fifth on 50 points from 26 games, one behind fourth-placed Leipzig and eight adrift of leader Bayern Munich.  The result: Werder Bremen 1 (Gebre Selassie 30) lost to Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Havertz 28, 33, Weiser 61, Demirbay 78) .
20 May 2020||London,||Premier League: Six test positive for COVID-19||Six positive cases for coronavirus have been detected at three Premier League clubs after players and staff were tested ahead of a return to training, England's top flight said Tuesday. “The Premier League can today confirm that, on Sunday 17 May and Monday 18 May, 748 players and club staff were tested for COVID-19,” the league said in a statement. “Of these, six have tested positive from three clubs.”
20 May 2020||Chennai,||Iniyan’s marathon effort||Seventeen-year-old GM P. Iniyan played out a 72-hour-marathon online chess, raising funds for the COVID-19 cause towards Chief Minister’s & PM CARES fund. The fund-raiser, in view of various time zones across the globe, began at 2.30 p.m. IST on Friday May 15 and concluded by May 18 afternoon. This event not only gave an opportunity for chess enthusiasts to play against a Grandmaster by just staying at their home, but also helped them contribute to a cause. Iniyan raised Rs 1,21,199. Apart from this amount, Iniyan is separately contributing Rs. 20,000,” a press release said.
20 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||A good year for Olive Ridley turtles||Mass hatching of the Olive Ridley turtle eggs has ended at the Rushikulya rookery on the Odisha coast. Lakhs of Olive Ridley hatchlings entered the sea at the beach in Ganjam district. The eggs, buried in nests along the sandy beach, began on May 7. The number of hatchings had reached its peak within a week. At present, hatchings continue to take place at a few stray nests along the coast. On an average, 80 to 100 hatchlings come out from each nest. This year, 3,23,063 Olive Ridley turtles had nested at the Rushikulya rookery. Despite the destruction of some nests and eggs by the high tide, a large number of hatchlings entered the sea from here. According to wildlife experts, approximately one in every 1,000 hatchlings entering the sea survive to reach adulthood. Following the mass mating that takes place at sea near the coast, male Olive Ridleys begin their return journey to destinations several hundred kilometres away. After the mass nesting, the female turtles do the same. The eggs, laid in nests dug along the beach, incubate on their own with the help of the heat from the sand. Depending on the temperature of the sand, the eggs hatch in about 45 to 60 days. Amlan Nayak, Berhampur Divisional Forest Officer (DFO), said the lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic reduced human presence during the mass nesting period, the incubation and the mass hatching along the Rushikulya rookery coast. The mass nesting had begun on the beach in the wee hours of March 21, and continued till March 28. The lockdown also reduced the inflow of tourists and local movement. Except for Forest officials and a few volunteers, no one was allowed to enter the area. There was also a reduction of waste along the beach, allowing for easier movement of the hatchlings to the sea.
20 May 2020||May 20 2020 08:07 IST,||Sudoku - May 20, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Shop owners dust off shelves but future remains unclear||With markets finally getting the nod to reopen after nearly two months of lockdown, shopkeepers spent most of Tuesday cleaning, sanitising and trying to rid their shops of the stench from dead rodents, even as customers largely stayed away. While markets like Nehru Place buzzed with activity as workers returned, Connaught Place, South Extension, Sarojini Nagar and Janpath markets saw low footfall with businessmen worrying that they might not see crowds any time soon. Sanjiv Bhasin, a shop owner at Janpath Market, said: “With no business in the last two months, I have suffered losses to the extent that the business has been setback by almost five years. Even though we have reopened, there is hardly any hope of recovering any time soon as customers will also take time to feel comfortable to step out and shop.” The State government has specified that shops will have to follow odd-even rule. Most shop owners said they were willing to follow the scheme in the hopes of reviving some business. Paying rent Dinesh Gupta, an owner of a shop selling cloth materials in Nehru Place, said: “We will open every alternate day as per the rules. Our shop number is an odd number so we reopened on Tuesday. However, we spent the day cleaning the shop and we have not opened for customers yet. How long can we keep the shops shut? We need to pay salaries to our staff as well.” However, some shop owners said the odd-even rule was not feasible. Gaurav Gupta, owner of a laptop repair shop, said: “We pay a rent of Rs. 3 lakh per month and will be required to pay the same even if we open for 15 days a month. This is not feasible for us as we have other expenses like electricity and salaries. So, we have decided to just clean the shop and then shut it again till everything normalises and we are permitted to operate daily.” For Nikhil Kumar, a shop owner at Sarojini Nagar Market, the lockdown also meant that he was unable to clear the winter-wear stock. “The lockdown was announced towards the end of the season change and we still had a lot of the winter wear, which we were hoping to sell off. Now we have simply packed them and kept it aside. We are worried about the procurement of new stock as the wholesalers might inflate the prices as well,” said Mr. Kumar. Shopkeepers also spent the day marking the ground to ensure social distancing and putting up posters stating that customers must be wearing a mask. Some shop owners also distributed face shields among the staff that deal with customers. Some sellers faced a staff crunch. Rajiv Kumar, who owns a food stall at the South Extension Market, said half his employees had gone back home. “Earlier, I had 5-6 people, but half of them have gone back to Bihar and U.P. Even though I am cleaning the place and getting ready, I am yet to figure out how to go forward,” Mr. Kumar added.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||A busload of relief in the dead of the night||Barely 20 metres from the Delhi-Noida border in Mayur Vihar Extension, three groups of migrants sat in despair as the Uttar Pradesh Police denied them entry to Noida. Not all of them had started together: one group of 11 people, including two children and four women, had come from Bawana Industrial Area and were headed to Gwalior in Madhya Pradesh on foot. They hoped to catch a bus from Noida to the nearest point to Gwalior, perhaps Etawah in U.P., and then arrange for transport to their hometown. A second group had come from Pratap Nagar in a private vehicle and had paid Rs. 1,000 each to the driver to help them cross into Noida, their escape route to Betiah, Kishanganj and Gopalganj in Bihar. Their plan failed when the police stopped their vehicle and asked them to go back. “Returning to Pratap Nagar is not an option for me now. My landlord asked me to vacate the room as I hadn’t paid the rent for two months,” said Rahman, a resident of Betiah, who worked as a tailor. The third group wanted to go to Kanpur and Agra in U.P. and home seemed so close across the barricades on the border. They had all been waiting since Monday afternoon for some vehicle willing to take them to the other side of the inter-State demarcation, which suddenly seemed like the “line of control” in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. Their hopes dashed as darkness enveloped the service lane, adjacent to an apartment complex, that they had been occupying for hours. Family effort Sneha, a 20-year-old DU student, first spotted the migrants outside the apartment complex and alerted her family, which came forward to help them with water, bed sheets, mosquito nets and cell phone chargers. There were at least 31 men in the other two groups. Their situation seemed desperate and help unlikely in those hours of the night. But then a few phone calls and a Facebook post by a journalist worked like magic and help arrived for the stranded workers at 2 a.m. Mohit Raj, co-founder, TYCIA (Turn Your Concern Into Action) Foundation, an NGO working for vulnerable communities under the initiative ‘India Against Corona’, in Delhi, and another volunteer, Jatin Babbar, made at least three rounds of the road where the migrants were stranded to enable each group to find a bus to home. By 3 a.m., all three groups were seen packing their bags and moving to the main road in anticipation of their bus. Ms. Sneha, who had been running back and forth, filling the water bottles of the migrants, was the happiest to see them leaving. “I have the best Instagram story to tell my friends,” she said, happily capturing the smiling faces of the migrants on her camera phone.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||With curbs lifted, CM appeals for discipline||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday appealed to citizens to exhibit discipline as lockdown restrictions were eased across the city. Delhi government sources said an estimated 2,000 State-run buses were on the roads on Tuesday. Sources in the public transporter, however, said the footfall was lower than usual. “Some economic activities are starting from today. It is our responsibility to be fully disciplined and keep the Coronavirus under control. Masks, social distancing and hand sanitizers are important. I pray for you and your family ti be healthy. If we live with discipline, God will protect us [sic],” Mr. Kejriwal tweeted. Thermal screening As part of eased restrictions, Mr. Kejriwal had announced partial resumption of public transport services except for the Delhi Metro. Buses operated by the Delhi Transport Corporation were allowed to ply. According to the guidelines, the buses are allowed to carry only 20 passengers at one time. All the passengers have to undergo thermal screening before being allowed to board buses. “At some terminals and bus stands, we have started thermal screening of passengers before boarding the bus. We will try to implement this at all busy bus stands,” Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot tweeted.  “There were lesser passengers; there were also lesser buses than usual because a majority of our drivers and conductors stay in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and were not able to travel to the Capital and report to work,” a source claimed.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Builder arrested for beating up workers||A construction worker and her husband were allegedly beaten up by the builder of the site on Tuesday, the police said. Police The victim has been identified as Meera Devi (40) from Bihar. “I was sleeping when the builder, Lota Batra, came and kicked me on my back. He then started to abuse me and beat me, asking all of us to leave. He also threw a brick at us,” said Ms. Meera who lived at the site with her husband, three children and another family of four. The woman said they told the builder that they were unable to find a train to their district on Tuesday and had no other place to stay but he continued to abuse them. He then drove away. Next, the workers called the police for help. She said on Tuesday morning, they were all taken to Chhatarpur station to catch a train to Bihar. “When we reached, we couldn’t find a train to our district after which police dropped us back here,” she said, adding that her wage of Rs. 9,500 was also pending with the accused. Sonali Vaid from South Extension II, who lives close to the site, also intervened to help the workers and stayed with them through police proceedings. “No trains for them to go home. Violence and oppression by builders. Where will labourers go?”she said. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said the accused builder has been arrested.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Infected Rohini jail inmates isolated||DG (Prisons) has told a High Powered Committee (HPC) that all 15 inmates of Rohini jail, who contracted COVID-19 virus, have been “separately quarantined and are being provided with requisite medication”. A jail staff who was found positive has been home quarantined, the DG (Prisons) informed the HPC formed pursuant to an order of the Supreme Court to look into ways to decongest jails here in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. The DG (Prisons) said that all the 15 inmates had shared a barrack with an inmate, who had undergone a surgery in DDU Hospital last week and later tested positive for the virus. He said that all 15 inmates as well as the jail staff were asymptomatic. The officer further said that a Special Task Force (STF) has been formed for “contact tracing” of the suspected COVID-19 cases in all the jails.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Appoint officers for aid distribution: Rai||Labour Minister Gopal Rai on Tuesday directed to appoint nodal officers within two days to aid the distribution of Rs. 5,000 to construction workers. The decision was taken at a videoconference meeting attended by the Minister in which officials of different departments were present. “It was stated by the Minister to furnish the name and contact number of nodal officers within two days... The nodal officer will disseminate the information regarding the relief of Rs. 5,000 during COVID-19, registration of construction labourers and various types of welfare schemes and benefits so that lack of trust and fear among the construction workers can be removed,” an official statement said.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Depute replacement for CRPF men at Nizamuddin’||The Delhi High Court has asked the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) to depute replacement for CRPF personnel at the barricades at the entrance and exit to Nizamuddin West Colony, who were removed after some of the personnel tested COVID-19 positive. Justice C. Hari Shankar gave the direction after the Resident Welfare Association (RWA) Nizamuddin West filed a petition that due to the absence of security personnel the colony has become a thoroughfare. Current situation The RWA contended that this created a serious health hazard, especially in the current situation, in which the city is ravaged by the pandemic. Justice Shankar said if the CRPF personnel cannot be deputed for any reason, the police are to be deputed for the said purpose.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. looting migrants in collusion with transport mafia’||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday alleged that the Kejriwal government was looting the migrant workers in collusion with the transport mafia as they were being charged Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 from Noida border near Mayur Vihar to reach various destinations in Uttar Pradesh. The normal fares it said on such routes were between Rs. 350 and Rs. 500. ‘Offered to help’ Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Ch. Anil Kumar, after interacting with migrant workers, said that the party had sent a list of migrant workers, who wished to go back to their hometowns, to the Delhi government. The party had also offered to arrange transport and bear the travel cost if the Kejriwal government was not willing to shoulder the responsibility, he said. “With schools shut, the government could have easily requisitioned services of school buses to transport the migrants either for free or by charging nominal fares, but the Kejriwal government delayed the matter to such an extent that the desperate workers started journey on foot in depressing conditions,” Mr. Kumar said.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Students forced to pay rent’||Out of 1,069 students living in rented accommodations in the city, nearly 20% said they would have to drop out of college if they are forced to pay rent for the duration of lockdown, revealed a survey by the Student Tenants’ Union Delhi (STUD). Around 56.7% of students said they could not afford rent at the moment; 70% said they were being forced to pay rent; 28% said they were being threatened with eviction for not paying rent, and 34% said they were being threatened with forfeiture of security deposit. “The language in circulars [issued by authorities] forbidding eviction or demand of rent is vague, landlords are taking advantage of this to pressure students to pay rent,” STUD stated.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||AAP says BJP not concerned about migrant labourers||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday attacked the BJP and said that the latter has left migrant workers to die on the roads. They also alleged that the BJP-ruled States were “torturing” migrant workers. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said that the Centre brought back people from other countries via flights, but is not concerned about migrants who are walking back home. “We are witnessing that these people are walking barefoot for thousands of miles every day, they are losing their lives in accidents and women are giving birth on the streets. Does the BJP want these people to die on the streets?” he asked. He said that in Delhi, nearly four lakh migrant labourers have registered to return home and 350 trains are needed to send them back. “But the BJP government is running only 100 trains across the country, which shows their apathy towards solving this issue. The BJP sent luxury flights for people who are in other countries but they do not care for the poor who are walking barefoot. This shows that the BJP is an anti-poor political party,” he said. The MP said, “The Delhi government has decided to open public transport and markets. The lockdown cannot continue indefinitely. If economic activities do not begin, more people will die of hunger than COVID-19.”
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Minimal Net needed for DU at-home exam’||Delhi University’s Dean of Examinations on Tuesday issued guidelines to heads of departments for conducting at-home open-book examinations and said there would be minimal use of Internet in the process. Dean Vinay Gupta said the exams were “not an online mode” and minimal Internet was needed “only for downloading and uploading purposes... any latest phone will serve the purpose”. Departments have been asked to set papers with six question out of which students can answer any four. They have to upload the paper by June 3. Meanwhile, the DU V-C appealed to staff to set aside a percentage of their salaries every month for the PM Cares Fund. The staff have been asked to sign an authorisation if they choose to contribute.
20 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 1 lakh notices for traffic violations||The Traffic Police has issued 1,00,436 notices through SMS and another 80 notices through speedpost for traffic violations captured on camera, starting from the first day of the lockdown on March 25 till the last day of lockdown 3.0 on May 17. Police said that 7,998 notices were sent for improper parking. They said that the priority is to decongest roads and make space for safe driving space, besides striving to protect the health of its personnel and to ensure public safety for which they have opted for electronic enforcement over physical enforcement. They are now focusing on contactless traffic enforcement drive with maximum use of camera-based violation detections. done through “Violation on Camera App”.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- BJP||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal should tell the people of Delhi how many times he came out of his house during the 54-day national lockdown, the BJP Opposition asked on Tuesday. Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari questioned whether the Chief Minister went anywhere to assess the situation and why was he missing on the ground.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- NDMC brief||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) was certified on Tuesday as a three-star rated city under the garbage-free cities category by the Central government. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri announced the result of smart rating of garbage-free cities, in which NDMC was certified three-star rating for 2019-2020, according to the NDMC.
20 May 2020||Noida,||3 more test COVID-19 positive in Gautam Buddh Nagar, total active cases 77||A man in Noida and a husband-wife duo in Greater Noida tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar to 289, officials said.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- civic body||Municipal corporations here sent details on the number of COVID-19 burials or cremations that have taken place at its graveyards and crematoriums to the Delhi government on Tuesday following a request from the Health Secretary. A senior SDMC official confirmed the development. The move comes following controversy over reported mismatch between the number of such burials or cremations and the total number of COVID-19 deaths in Delhi.
20 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- LSR||In light of Delhi University’s decision to hold online examinations, a survey undertaken among 250 students of LSR college revealed that nearly 58% did not have access to proper Internet connection. Nearly 55% responded that they did not have access to laptops or computers and 68% said that they wouldn’t be able to attend online exams.
