20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||States, Union Territories differ on date for reopening schools||More than half the States and Union Territories, including COVID-19 hotspots Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, have not yet decided on a date for reopening schools, the Centre was told at a meeting this week. The remaining States are split between those willing to reopen in August, which includes Delhi and Bihar, and others who will not open until September, such as Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala. The Union Ministry of Human Resource Development has also asked the States to gauge parents’ opinions on the issue and submit it by Monday, offering options of reopening in August, September or October. All educational institutions have been shut since mid-March due to the pandemic, leaving 25 crore children across the country out of school. In many States, some form of distance education has restarted, using online resources as well as television and radio programmes. The HRD Ministry held a videoconference with State representatives on July 15 to discuss the School Safety Plan. The responses were compiled by the Ministry into a document, which The Hindu has reviewed. Assam was the only State willing to open at the end of July. Of the 36 States and UTs, at least 21 said they had not taken a decision yet, with five of those adding that they were awaiting guidance from the Centre. With the spread of the pandemic still uncertain, most States were not willing to commit to any reopening date, including the two States with the highest number of cases, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. On the other hand, Delhi, which has the third highest number of cases, said it would like to open schools “preferably in August”, according to the Ministry document. The capital has dropped to sixth place in active cases. Bihar, Chandigarh and Haryana are also willing to reopen around Independence Day, while Puducherry says it will take a decision after July 31. The rest of the States are pitching for a date in September or beyond. Andhra Pradesh has set a tentative date of September 5. Manipur says it will open on September 1. Nagaland is also opting for the first week of September, while Rajasthan says “probably in September”. Odisha did not commit to a reopening date, merely saying its schools were closed until August 31, while Kerala, Ladakh and Karnataka said they will reopen after the end of August.
20 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Resign on moral grounds, Congress tells Shekhawat||The Congress on Sunday sought the resignation of Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on “moral grounds” after his alleged role in a “conspiracy” to topple the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan was indicated in some audio tapes. If the Minister does not quit, he should be removed from office, said the Congress. Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken, camping in Jaipur as the party’s central observer, said since the Anti-Corruption Bureau of the State police had registered a case against Mr. Shekhawat and others, the Union Minister should be removed to ensure that he does not influence investigation. “Why is he afraid of giving his voice samples when he claims that the voice in audio clips is not his?” Mr. Maken said. Late on Sunday night, a team of the Rajasthan Police reportedly reached Best Western Resort near Pachgaon in connection with the case on the alleged attempt to topple the State government. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Gehlot’s meeting with Governor Kalraj Mishra on Saturday night, when he reportedly submitted a list of MLAs supporting him, has raised the possibility of a brief State Assembly session this week for the government to seek a trust vote. However, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the BJP had not called for a floor test in the House. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala repeated that former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and the MLAs supporting him should give up the hospitality offered to them by the BJP and discuss all issues within the party. “These issues cannot be discussed through the media,” he told mediapersons.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||1 dead as heavy rain lashes Delhi||Heavy rain lashed the Capital on Sunday morning, leaving a tempo driver dead on a waterlogged road under the iconic Minto Bridge. The driver was trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the flooded underpass when he got stuck and eyewitnesses reported that he was last seen sitting on the roof of his tempo. A DTC bus was also stranded under the bridge, which is prone to flooding during monsoon. The fire department was called in to rescue the conductor and the driver of the bus. A cluster of homes at Anna Nagar slums near ITO was swept away as a drain alongside overflowed. Several roads remained waterlogged till afternoon and children were seen swimming on the streets of the Capital. The Met Department said the weather station at Safdarjung, which is the official reading for the Capital, recorded 74.8 mm of overnight rainfall, while the weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ridge reported 81.2 mm and 86 mm respectively. This is the heaviest rainfall of the season, it added. More rain have been forecast in the next few days. Delayed desilting The Delhi government said that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, desilting of drains could not be carried out effectively in March and April and only started after the lockdown was lifted. It said that rather than indulging in blame game, the BJP-ruled municipal corporations sho-uld start desilting the drains under their jurisdiction and the government would carry out the work in drains it is responsible for. BJP MP Manoj Tiwari in a tweet alleged that the AAP government’s preparations had been exposed by the first spell of monsoon rain and Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta in a tweet asked the government to take concrete steps immediately to prevent waterlogging.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||With 5,041 new cases, tally inches closer to 50,000-mark||The State reported a whopping 5,041 new COVID-19 cases and 56 deaths during the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, taking the tally to 49,650 and the toll to 642. Both the figures are the biggest in a single day so far. The number of active cases too increased to 26,118 during the period. With the discharge of 1,127 patients from the hospitals, the number of recoveries stood at 22,890, which was 46% of the total cases, the bulletin issued by the Health Department said. Above T.N., Karnataka For the first time, the State’s single-day tally crossed that of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, and stood next only to Maharashtra, which reported more than 8,000 cases, as per the data provided by the Health Department. The total number of cases in East Godavari, the new hotspot, crossed the 6,000-mark, overtaking Kurnool, which had been the worst-hit since the beginning. East Godavari also reported 10 fatalities in the last 24 hours. It was followed by Srikakulam (eight), Kurnool, Krishna and Visakhapatnam (seven each), Prakasam (four), Anantapur, Vizianagaram and Kadapa (three each), and Chittoor and Guntur (two each). There were no new deaths in West Godavari and Nellore during the period. The mortality rate in the State stood at at 1.29%. East Godavari also topped in the number of new cases with 647 people contracting the virus in the last 24 hours. It was followed by Anantapur (637), Srikakulam (535), Chittoor (440), Krishna (397), West Godavari (393), Nellore (391), Kurnool (364), Guntur (354), Visakhapatnam (266), Vizianagaram (241), Kadapa (226) and Prakasam (150). All the new cases were local cases and there were no ‘imported cases’ for the second day in a row. Meanwhile, 57% of the total cases (26,877) are from five districts — East Godavari, Kurnool, Anantapur, Guntur and Chittoor. The number of tests conducted in a single day increased and stood at 31,148.
20 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Three from Bangladesh lynched in Assam for ‘cattle smuggling’||Three Bangladeshi nationals alleged to be cattle smugglers were lynched by locals in southern Assam’s Karimganj district around midnight on July 18. Four others from across the border escaped. Kumar Sanjit Krishna, the district’s Superintendent of Police, said the incident happened at the Bogrijan tea estate under the Patharkandi police station near the 134 Battalion of the Border Security Force’s E Company. The area is close to the border and about 1.5 km from the nearest police outpost. “On inquiry, it was revealed that the said Bangladeshi nationals crossed the border with a motive to steal cows from the Bogrijan area. They were lynched by people yet to be identified,” he told The Hindu from district headquarters Karimganj on Sunday. A few items recovered from the three included Bangladesh-made biscuits and bread, rope, bag, wires and fence-cutters, Mr. Krishna said. The police recovered the bodies of the three men and a process was on to hand them over to the Bangladeshi authorities via the Border Security Force. Similar incident in June This was the second such incident in the district in less than two months. On June 1, a 43-year-old Bangladeshi national was lynched at the Putni tea estate, situated about 3 km from the border. The man was identified as Ranjit Munda and the police quoted locals as saying that he had come with five others — three Bangladeshis and two Indians — to steal cows from the estate. Verification of the man’s identity revealed that he was from the Sonaroopa tea estate on the other side of the fence. The body was later handed over to the Border Guards Bangladesh.  A few items recovered from the three included Bangladesh-made biscuits and bread, rope, bag, wires and fence-cutters Kumar Sanjit Krishna Superintendent of Police, Karimganj
20 July 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19: West Bengal sees highest single-day surge in cases, deaths||West Bengal on Sunday recorded 2,278 fresh COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day surge so far, taking the total cases to 42,487. The number of active cases is 16,492. With a new single-day high of 36 deaths, the State’s fatality toll has reached 1,112. Of the 36 deaths, 15 were reported from Kolkata, nine from North 24 Parganas, four from Hooghly, and three each from South 24 Parganas and Howrah district.  State issues advisory The State Home Department issued an advisory to all district magistrates (DMs), the Commissioner of Kolkata Police, and the Director General of Police on the management of containment zones. “DMs may take a view on continuing the lockdown: town-wide or zone-wise, depending on the local situation. They can do it for five-seven days. State-wide containment zone-based lockdown continues till July 31,” the advisory said. The list of containment zones in the State has increased to 763. Meanwhile, a number of markets in the city will remain closed as part of a containment strategy.
20 July 2020||Pune,||Maharasthra peaks again: 9,518 cases take tally past 3.10 lakh||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 9,518 new COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day surge till date, as the State’s total cases breached the 3.1 lakh mark to reach 3,10,455. As many as 258 more deaths pushed the State’s fatality toll to 11,854. This is the fifth time in less than 10 days that the State has reported a single-day jump of more than 8,000 cases, with the first such spike of 8,139 cases being reported on July 11. Of the total number of cases, 1,28,730 are active ones, State Health Department officials said. With 3,906 patients discharged on Sunday, the recoveries till date have gone up to 1,69,569. With 1,038 new cases reported on Sunday, Mumbai’s total cases have reached 1,01,388. However, only 23,697 are active, with more than 71,000 recoveries (nearly 70%) till date. With 64 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 5,714. As per Health Department figures, Pune district reported more than 3,000 new cases and 45 fatalities as its total case tally surged to 54,624, while its death toll reached 1,359. High fatality surges were reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) as well, with Thane district reporting 19 deaths to take its fatality toll to 835, while Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 22 fatalities as its death count rose to 305. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stands at 54.62% while the case fatality is 3.82%. Along with Mumbai city and Pune district, cases continued to mount in the MMR as Thane reported 680 new cases, pushing the district’s total case tally over the 27,000 mark. Kalyan-Dombivli recorded 475 new cases, taking its total cases to 17,226. Navi Mumbai reported 298 new cases to take its total case tally to 12,929 while Ulhasnagar recorded 198 cases to push its total tally to 5,855. Raigad district crossed the 10,000 mark, with the highest single-day spike of 524 cases, taking the total case tally to 10,487. ( With inputs from Raina Assainar )
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 cases cross 60,000 in Karnataka||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State crossed 60,000 on Sunday. With 4,120 new cases in the State on Sunday, the total stands at 63,772. This is the highest number of cases reported in the State so far. In Bengaluru Urban, the number of cases crossed the 30,000 mark. With 2,156 new COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, the total now is 31,777. Meanwhile, 91 deaths were reported on Sunday. With this, the total number of deaths stands at 1331. Of the 91, 36 deaths were reported in the State capital. As many as 1,290 patients have been discharged. Meanwhile, out of the 39,370 active cases, 579 patients were admitted in the intensive care units. The number of tests conducted in the State has also been ramped up: the number of tests conducted as per Sunday’s bulletin stands at 35,834. This is the highest conducted in a single day. The total number of tests conducted in the State has crossed the 10 lakh mark. A total of 10,208,30 tests have been conducted so far in Karnataka. Meanwhile, with the surge in cases, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has issued a work order for Swasth — a non-profit consortium of healthcare partners — to work with the government to implement a 10-day care package through service providers for patients in home isolation for an initial period of one month. The package will include daily monitoring of patients by healthcare professionals, and periodic check by doctors. “This package will also feature the provision of home healthcare and safety guidelines to patients and caregivers, as well as linkages to emergency support in case of escalation of symptoms,” said the department in a press release. The department has taken this initiative to ensure that those with mild symptoms isolate in their homes if they have the facilities. Patient details will be uploaded on a platform and a medical professional assigned to orient the patients and their caregivers on measures to be taken during the home isolation period. Those in home isolation will receive three calls on the first day. While A nurse will call the patient daily. A doctor will call the patient on the first, fourth, and tenth day. He will check if the patient needs medical advice, if is ready to be discharged, and also gather information on whether family members had shown any symptoms. If the patient has no symptoms, he/she will be discharged.
20 July 2020||MADURAI,||Tribal girl excels in Class 12 exams||G. Dhevayani, 17, who had scored top marks at the Tirupparankundram Girls’ Higher Secondary School in the Class 12 exams, says she is different from her batch-mates. “I’ve travelled across Tamil Nadu with my family, telling fortunes using the traditional kudukuduppu . My house is a tent, and doesn’t have electricity supply. That is the difference,” she says. Ms. Dhevayani, who hails from a tribal family, scored 500/600 in the board exams. K. Sivagami, the headmistress of her school, says she has always been among her top students. “She proved me right with her scores,” she adds. A student of commerce, Ms. Dhevayani hopes to work in a bank some day. Her family lives in a settlement — which is also home to 60 other fortune-teller families — in Thenparankundram outside Madurai city. The men belonging to this nomadic tribe usually go door-to-door and recite fortunes. On days when luck is on their side, they get paid around Rs. 300. On other days, they satiate their hunger by just drinking tea. “During the term holidays, the whole family travels across the State in a small cart. I have seen them (her parents) struggle to eke out a living. This has, over the years, fuelled the need for me to perform well in academics,” she says. When she isn’t studying, Ms. Dhevayani makes wire baskets for sale. The more complicated the design, the higher the price, she says. The intricately designed ones are priced at Rs. 250 each. Ms. Dhevayani says she is among the few girls in her settlement who have passed Class 12. “We have, only now, seen a rise in the number of girls who have studied till Class 12 over the last five years. Not many girls go to college, though they study well,” she says, adding, “This is because it is a struggle to get community certificates from the government which state clearly that they are [from the] Scheduled Tribes. This is besides the financial problems they face.” R. Maheswari, secretary of TENT Society, a non-governmental organisation that works with nomadic tribes in Madurai, says the government had provided community certificates to around 20 people from the settlement in March. “A total of 15 families from this settlement are yet to be recognised. It has been a long struggle,” she says. Ms. Dhevayani adds that it has also taken a certain degree of effort to convince her family to let her study in college. Her father, B. Ganesh, says he has decided to send her to college after speaking to elders in the community, volunteers from TENT Society and teachers at her school. “I’m not educated and don’t have much money. So I was concerned about having to send her to the city to study. I’ve always known that she is a good student. However, I was concerned about finances,” he says. Ms. Maheswari says her organisation has been attempting to mobilise funds for Ms. Dhevayani’s education. “I’m sure that when I start working, my family will not have to starve. I want to head to college now,” Ms. Dhevayani says.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Rebels’ re-entry on merit’||Congress’s Rajasthan in-charge Avinash Pande on Sunday said the party would decide on “merit” whether to allow some dissident MLAs back in the Congress fold. “The MLAs who didn’t follow the instruction of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) should first give a satisfactory reply to the Honourable Speaker’s notice that was issued after our complaint. The party can then decide on merit if some of the Congress MLAs want to come back,” Mr. Pande said.Page 11
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,||New BBMP chief gets tough with pvt. hospitals||A day after taking charge, N. Manjunath Prasad, Commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), experienced first hand the difficulties of citizens trying to get admitted into hospitals. He called Sakra Hospital in Whitefield from the Mahadevapura control room to ask for a bed on Sunday. “Without identifying myself, I enquired about the bed availability only to be told that all were occupied,” he said. Mr. Prasad later paid a surprise visit to the hospital to find that of the 300 beds in the hospital, only 16 had been given under the government quota. As per government orders, all private hospitals are obliged to hand over 50% of the total beds to the government for COVID-19 patients. It was a similar scene at Vydehi Hospital, also in Whitefield. Of the 1,000-odd beds, only 200 had been given under government quota, he said. The hospital authorities claimed that they were short-staffed. Refusing to heed excuses, the commissioner reportedly threatened to seal the out-patient department (OPD) and ensure that they were booked under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. It was later on Sunday evening that Sakra Hospital agreed to hand over 100 beds for the government quota. Vydehi Hospital was asked to close wards that they could not use, given the shortage of staff. Of the beds that could be made available, the hospital was asked to provide 50% to the government. Mr. Prasad told reporters that show-cause notices will be issued to all private hospitals to provide a list of beds available, the number earmarked under government quota, and how many are occupied. “We will take action against non-compliant hospitals and file criminal cases against them,” he said and added that non-compliance by private hospitals was one of the main reasons for the mismatch between beds shown as available on the portal and those available in reality. Hospitals have also been directed to mandatorily display the number of beds under private and government quotas well as the number of non-COVID beds. Mr. Prasad also met with public health experts and epidemiologists. He said experts had recommended intensifying the testing. “There is a targeted population of 43,000, who have Influenza-like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). The number of positive COVID-19 cases may increase; however, 90% are asymptomatic,” he pointed out, and said committees with these experts would be constituted. These committees will meet frequently and advise the BBMP on the future course of action.  Box Triage-cum-CCCs N. Manjunath Prasad, BBMP Commissioner, has suggested setting up triage-cum-COVID Care Centres (CCCs) at the Assembly constituency level, each with a capacity of 50-100 beds. They can be unoccupied apartments or vacant hostels. The BBMP is also exploring the possibility of providing basic medicines and kits to patients who come to the facility. “However, this has to be decided at the government level. Those who are asymptomatic can be either sent for home isolation or to CCCs. Doctors will keep tabs on them every two-three days. If they develop any symptoms or require medical intervention, they may call a particular number for assistance,” he added.
20 July 2020||Kolkata,||Violence erupts in Bengal over girl’s death||Violence erupted at Chopra in West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur district on Sunday after the body of a 16-year-old girl was found. Locals, alleging that the girl was raped and killed, set on fire half a dozen vehicles, including State-run buses, and blocked National Highway 31. The protesters demanded that those responsible for the girl’s death be arrested. The police had to lob tear gas shells, but the mob attacked them with bricks, arrows, and even hurled bombs. Some of them were taken into custody. According to the girl’s family, she had gone missing on Saturday night Two mobile phones and a bottle with a poison label were found near the body. West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Dilip Ghosh raised the issue of deteriorating law and order situation and said there have been repeated incidents of violence on women in the State. BJP State vice president Rathindra Bose visited Chopra, and Islampur hospital where the body of the girl has been sent for post-mortem.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana records 1,296 COVID cases||The COVID-19 cases and deaths in Telangana on Sunday were almost similar to the numbers recorded on Saturday. 1,296 cases and six deaths were reported on Sunday. The new 1,296 cases include 557 from GHMC, 111 from Rangareddy district, and 87 from Medchal. A total of 45,077 cases were recorded till June 19. Of them, 12,224 are active cases, 32,438 have recovered from COVID-19, and 415 COVID-19 patients have died. The total recovery rate stands at 72%. Till date, a total of 2,65,219 tests to detect coronavirus were conducted including the Rapid Antigen Tests. However, the distribution of tests between RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests is not mentioned in the medical bulletin. The cumulative Test Positivity Rate is 16.99%. The tests per million population is 6,630. As per the statistics in the medical bulletin, out of the 3,537 beds with oxygen supply, 2,920 are vacant. Besides, 1,329 ICU beds out of 1,616 are not occupied. There are a total of 61 government COVID-19 hospitals in the State.
20 July 2020||MANGALURU,||Two deaths in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 419 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, while two people died of the infection in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. A bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration said that 285 persons tested positive in Dakshina Kannada. In Udupi district, 134 persons tested positive on Sunday taking the total number of active cases to 584. As many as1,682persons have been discharged, while 10 have died, said a release from the district administration.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Officers to monitor bed availability||Amid complaints of difficulty in getting beds for COVID-19 patients, seven IAS and IPS officers were vested with the responsibility of monitoring bed availability or any other grievances that patients may face in availing treatment at 31 private hospitals in the city. The government issued an order on Sunday. The order states that all the admissions and discharge of COVID-19 patients should be done through the hospital bed management portal provided by the BBMP and SAST.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital records lowest fresh cases in a month||Delhi recorded 1,211 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the lowest in over a month, taking the total to 1,22,793, said a heath bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. Also 31 more COVID-19 deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 3,628. The Capital now has 16,031 active cases.
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||Two minors, their mother found dead at home||The bodies of a 28-year-old woman and her two minor children were found at their house in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar on Sunday, the police said. They suspect the husband killed the three as he is missing. The police said that they received a call about the murders around 11.30 a.m. The woman’s parents claimed that her husband was an alcoholic .
20 July 2020||Pune,||Raju Shetti calls for milk blockade on July 21||With dairy farmers across Maharashtra in dire straits in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana has demanded that the State government provide a subsidy of Rs. 5 per litre of milk while announcing a special package to offset their losses.
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao shifted to Nanavati Hospital||Poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, was shifted to Nanavati Hospital for neurological and urological treatment on Sunday, an official said. Mr. Rao was undergoing treatment at St. George Hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19 last week.
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown in MMR extended till July 31||A day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray directed officials not to refrain from taking firm measures to tackle COVID-19, municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region have decided to extend the lockdown in hotspots till July 31. Meanwhile, Kolhapur on Sunday reported 281 new COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 2,141, ahead of a week-long lockdown starting Monday.
20 July 2020||NAGERCOIL,||T.N. seeks Rs. 3,000 cr. assistance from Centre||Noting that the Tamil Nadu government had spent around Rs. 6,000 crore on COVID-19 management so far, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had urged the Centre to release Rs. 3,000 crore at the earliest.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,||4,979 persons test positive for COVID-19||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases on a single day touched a high on Sunday, with 4,979 persons testing positive. Among them were 77 who returned to the State from abroad or other States.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,||CBI gets nod to proceed against two officials||The State government has accorded sanction for the prosecution of two officials allegedly involved in the Gutkha scam. The CBI, which is investigating the scam, had requested sanction for prosecuting two officials of the Health Department — Senthil Murugan and Sivakumar.
20 July 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu sees single-day surge of 5,000 cases||In a fresh increase, Kerala reported 821 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking total cases till date to 12,480. Local transmission continued to be rampant, along the State’s coastal belt and in many inland areas, accounting for 642 new cases. In 43 instances, the infection was not traced to any particular source. Thiruvananthapuram, where community transmission was reported in coastal areas, accounted for 222 out of the 821 cases. Local transmission was indicated in 209 cases in the district. In Ernakulam, 88 of the 98 cases, 70 of the 81 cases in Palakkad and 61 of the 75 cases in Kollam were linked local transmission A significant number of health care workers (HCW) had tested positive. In the past one week, 81 HCWs were affected and in many tertiary care institutions like the Government Medical Colleges, a chunk of the workforce, including doctors, nurses and cleaning staff went into quarantine. Two deaths were reported in Kannur and Ernakulam districts, taking the State’s COVID-19 death toll to 42. With 172 recoveries, active cases or patients in hospital treatment stood at 7,063. Of the 12,480 cumulative cases, there were 5,373 recoveries. Over 1.70 lakh people were in surveillance and quarantine, of whom, 7,309 with mild COVID-like symptoms were in hospitals. Also, 18,267 samples were tested. A 36-year-old man, who was quarantined at an institutional centre, made a fatal jump from the building on Saturday. The Gulf-returnee, who died the next day, was a native of Koppam, near Nedumangad. He was brought to the quarantine centre from hospital on July 9. Kerala’s suicide prevention helplines are, DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056. Andhra Pradesh reported a whopping 5,041 new cases and 56 deaths on Sunday. The State tally was close to 49,650 and the toll was 642. Both were new daily highs. Active cases rose to 26,118 and with 1,127 patients discharged from the hospitals, recoveries stood at 22,890, the Health Department said. For the first time, the State’s single-day tally crossed that of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, and stood next only to Maharashtra. Cases in East Godavari, the new hotspot, crossed 6,000, overtaking Kurnool, which was the worst-hit. East Godavari reported 10 new deaths, Srikakulam eight and Kurnool, Krishna and Visakhapatnam seven deaths each. Prakasam reported four new deaths and Anantapur, Vizianagaram and Kadapa three deaths each. Chittoor and Guntur reported two deaths each. East Godavari also topped with 647 new infections. The number of tests conducted in a day rose to 31,148. Karnataka’s case tally, with 4,120 new cases, stood at 63,772. With 2,156 new cases in Bengaluru, the total here stood at 31,777. Meanwhile, 91 deaths were reported, and the overall toll was 1,331. There were 36 deaths in Bengaluru. The government enlisted Swasth - a non-profit consortium to support a 10-day care package for home isolation patients. New COVID-19 cases and deaths in Telangana stood at 1,296 and six respectively on Sunday. The new cases included 557 from Greater Hyderabad, 111 from Rangareddy, and 87 from Medchal.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Hyderabad bureaus)
20 July 2020||Chennai,||China has crossed its 1960 claims along the LAC||Chinese troops are currently present on the north bank of Pangong Lake in Ladakh in an area that is beyond what even China described as its official boundary during talks with India in 1960, official records show. China’s tent that it set up on the bend of the Galwan river, which sparked the violent face-off culminating in the death of 20 Indian soldiers and an unknown number of Chinese personnel on June 15, was also beyond China’s territorial claims, according to the 1960 records. The records contradict China’s current claims of where the Line of Actual Control (LAC) runs. They also raise questions on recent statements from top Indian officials that China is not present anywhere on Indian territory. In 1960, India certainly viewed China’s presence in areas where the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) transgressed in May as being beyond Beijing’s own territorial claims. At the north bank of Pangong Tso, the PLA moved up to Finger 4 and prevented India from crossing Finger 4. The Fingers refer to mountain spurs on the bank, and run from 1 to 8, west to east. China now claims up to Finger 4, while India says the LAC is at Finger 8. China previously built a road to Finger 4 in 1999 and has dominated up to Finger 4, but since May has, for the first time, completely cut off India’s access to its LAC at Finger 8, effectively shifting the line 8 km west. Following the four rounds of Corps Commander-level talks, the PLA has moved back from Finger 4 to 5, while Indian troops also moved back further west to Finger 2, the base post in the area where the troops initiated their patrols, The Hindu reported earlier. MEA report During boundary negotiations in 1960, China spelled out its territorial claims in the area. The record is available in the “Report of the Officials of the Government of India and the People’s Republic of China on the Boundary Question”, published by the Ministry of External Affairs. Following border talks in April 1960 in Delhi between Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai that failed to break the impasse, it was decided that officials of the two governments would meet “to examine factual materials in the possession of the two governments to support their stands.” Three rounds of talks were held. The first session took place from June 15 to July 25, 1960, in Beijing, with 18 meetings. The second session was held in Delhi from August 19 to October 5, when 19 meetings were held. Following the final session in Rangoon, when 10 meetings were held, the official report was signed on December 12, 1960. In the report, the Indian side asked: “What was the exact point where the alignment cuts the western half of Pangong Lake? And what was the exact point where it left the Pangong Lake?” The Chinese side responded: “The coordinates of the point where it reached the Pangong Lake were Longitude 78 degrees 49 minutes East, Latitude 33 degrees 44 minutes North.” This roughly corresponds to an area near Finger 8, around 8 km east of where China now says the LAC is and where it transgressed in May. Regarding the Galwan Valley, when India asked in 1960 for “heights of peaks and locations of passes” in the area, the Chinese side replied that the alignment “crossed the Galwan river at Longitude 78 degrees 13 minutes East, Latitude 34 degrees 46 minutes North.” Even accounting for approximations because the coordinates were round numbers noted in “degrees” and “minutes” while the “seconds” were not specified, China has gone beyond its 1960 claims both in Pangong Tso and in the Galwan Valley. In the Galwan Valley, the 1960 line ran east of the bend of the Galwan river, called the Y-nallah, which was the site of the June 15 clash. The clash took place following a dispute during the de-escalation process, triggered when the PLA put up a tent near the bend, and marked the worst violence on the border since 1967.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Case fatality rate below 2.5%, says govt.||India’s case fatality rate (CFR) — the number of fatalities due to COVID-19 as a proportion of the number of people testing positive — has fallen below 2.5% for the first time on Sunday, said a statement issued by Union Health Ministry. The Ministry attributed this reduction to focused efforts of the Union and the State governments and the administrations of the Union Territories on efficient clinical management of hospitalised cases. “The effective containment strategy, aggressive testing and standardised clinical management protocols based on holistic standard care approach has now caused the case fatality rate to significantly dip and India now has one of the lowest case fatality rates in the world (2.49%) which is also progressively falling,” the statement said, Data issued by the Ministry show 29 States and Union Territories with a CFR lower than the India average. Five of them have a CFR of 0% and 14 less than 1%. The Central government said on Sunday that many States and Union Territories had ramped up testing and hospital infrastructure by combining public and private sector efforts. “Many States have conducted population surveys to map and identify the vulnerable population like the elderly, pregnant women and those with co-morbidities. This, with the help of technological solutions like mobile apps, has ensured keeping the high-risk population under continuous observation, thus aiding early identification, timely clinical treatment and reducing fatalities,” the Ministry said. It also acknowledged the work at the ground level by frontline health workers such as ASHAs and ANMs, who according to the Ministry have done a commendable job of managing the migrant population and to enhance awareness at the community level.
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||Rebels’ re-entry on merit: Cong.||With the Rajasthan political crisis continuing for the ninth day, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) leader handling Rajasthan, Avinash Pande, on Sunday said the party would decide on “merit” allowing some rebel MLAs back in the Congress fold. Speaking exclusively to The Hindu , the Congress general secretary said Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot was fully prepared to demonstrate his strength in the Assembly and his government would complete its term of five years. Mr. Pande, however, declined to comment on whether the Congress would make any further attempt to reach out to former Rajasthan Congress chief, Sachin Pilot. “Ashok Gehlot ji has the numbers but we are fully prepared. If the situation demands, then the Chief Minister can decide on convening a special session of the Rajasthan Assembly,” Mr. Pande said on the possibility of a floor test and added that the party was now awaiting the decision of the Rajasthan High Court. On Thursday, Mr. Pilot and 18 of his supporters had moved the High Court against the disqualification notice issued by Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi. “The MLAs who didn't follow the instruction of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) should first give a satisfactory reply to the Honourable Speaker’s notice that was issued after our complaint. The party can then decide on merit if some of the Congress MLAs want to come back,” Mr. Pande said on the possibility of dissidents coming back. The AICC Rajasthan in-charge, who posted a video clip of Congress MLAs singing “ Hum honge kamyab [We shall overcome]” on his Twitter handle, said the rebel MLAs were “now being fully controlled by the BJP”. Asked about reports that eight or nine MLAs of the Pilot camp were in touch with the Congress, Mr. Pande said: “I would not like to comment on speculation.” ‘A virus from Delhi’ In a separate tweet, former Law Minister Kapil Sibal tweeted about the need for a “vaccine” against a “virus” from Delhi that topples elected governments. “Need for Vaccine: Virus of “corrupt means” to topple elected governments has spread through a “Wuhan like facility” in Delhi. Its “antibodies” lie in amending the Tenth Schedule. Ban all defectors from: Holding public office for 5years, Fighting the next election,” the former Union Law Minister tweeted on Sunday.
20 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Foreign experts seek to leave Baghjan site||More than a month after they were roped in to help Oil India Limited (OIL) cap a natural gas well that has been blazing after a blowout on May 27, six foreign experts are reportedly keen on exiting the operation at Baghjan in eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district. OIL officials said they were being persuaded to stay on after virtually being held captive by locals along with 200 personnel from various agencies for more than 18 hours at the site on Saturday. Tinsukia district officials said the locals had blocked all exits from the Baghjan blowout site and forced the foreigners — three from Singapore, two from the U.S. and one from Canada — and the others spend hours in torrential rain. The agitated locals were demanding Rs. 2 crore as compensation for one of the relief camp inmates who had died at the medical college in Dibrugarh town. More than 1,000 families from villages around the Baghjan site were shifted to several relief camps. “We are spending more than Rs. 30 lakh on the foreign experts daily since they arrived in the second week of June. We cannot afford to let them go when we are closer to taming the blaze and the blowout,” an OIL official said, declining to be quoted. District officials said the locals relented after prolonged negotiations and let the foreigners and the others leave at around 2:30 a.m. on Sunday.
20 July 2020||bengaluru,||Farming activities pick up in Karnataka||Agricultural activities across the State have gained momentum despite the COVID-19 pandemic, and the sowing area and crop intensity are higher than last year. The south-west monsoon has covered the entire State and there has been 314 mm rainfall as against the normal of 327 mm for the period June 1 to July 15 and, hence, the monsoon is considered normal, according to the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The sowing target for the kharif season is 73 lakh hectares (ha) and the coverage, as of July 10, has been 34.22 lakh ha. During the same period last year, 28.13 lakh ha were brought under sowing. In Mysuru district, the agricultural activities take place under rain-fed conditions. As against a target of 3.95 lakh ha, 55% of the sowing target has been achieved till date. Joint Director of Agriculture for Mysuru Mahanteshappa said the target area was 146% of the actual cultivable area because of crop intensity, which is defined by the number of crops raised on the same plot during an agricultural cycle. The main crops include paddy, sugarcane, cotton, black gram, jowar, besides vegetables and fruits. In Hassan, the target for sowing is 2.31 lakh ha of which 39% of the cultivable area has been covered and officials are confident that they can attain 80% to 82% of the target by September. Farmers opt for potato which has a gestation period of three months after which they cultivate maize or ragi, while in certain parts such as Arkalgud taluk farmers grow ragi and paddy after harvesting tobacco. In north Karnataka, 90% of the sowing target has been achieved and a vigorous monsoon has aided it. Four-time increase In Dharwad district, over 80% of the sowing was completed last week and Joint Director of Agriculture Rajashekhar Bijapur said that the cultivation of black gram has increased by four times in the district. In addition, the sowing of cotton, soybean, maize, groundnut, paddy, sugarcane and red gram has also been taken up In Bidar, farmers have completed sowing in 3,44,990 ha as against the target of 3,68,000 ha, with black gram and green gram accounting for the bulk. While the sowing of foodgrains has been completed in 1,36,750 ha as against the target of 1,48,600 ha, pulses have been sown in 1,16,055 ha against the target ed of 1,16,350 ha. Similarly, in Kalaburagi, 86% [6,49,411 ha] sowing has been completed as against the target of 7,55,130 ha, with black gram accounting for 32,482 ha and green gram in 55,974 ha. In Belagavi, sowing has been completed in over 6.2 lakh ha out of the targeted 6.8 lakh ha. This includes over 1 lakh hectares affected by flooding last year, according to local authorities. Sugarcane will cover 2.4 lakh hectares while soya bean, maize, paddy, cotton, green gram, and black gram are other crops that have been sown. Coastal belt In the coastal belt, the sowing area under paddy is expected to increase marginally. In Udupi, the area under paddy has increased to 28,000 ha this year, as against 18,000 ha last year. H. Kempe Gowda, Joint Director, Agriculture, Udupi, said the target this kharif season is 36,000 ha. The department has sold 2,560 quintals of paddy seeds of MO-4, Jyoti and Uma varieties. In Dakshina Kannada, the target for sowing is 10,260 ha and 9,269 ha have been covered so far. But on the whole, the area under paddy in the coastal belt is shrinking over the years giving way for arecanut, rubber, and real estate activities.  (With inputs from Mysuru, Hassan, Mangaluru, and Hubballi)   There has been 314 mm rainfall as against the normal of 327 mm for the period June 1 to July 15 and, hence, the monsoon is considered normal, according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. demands response from PM on China face-off||The Congress on Sunday used Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s statement that there was no guarantee of resolving the border dispute with China through dialogue to mount a fresh offensive against the Narendra Modi government on the face-off along the LAC. At a virtual press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala demanded a response from the Prime Minister. “What is the meaning of the statement of Defence Minister when he said there is no guarantee of finding a solution in the ongoing talks with the Chinese? Has the Modi government accepted Chinese transgressions and also admitted that they have no solution to push the Chinese back into their own territory behind the Line of Actual Control [LAC] between India and China” he asked. “Is it correct that China is continuing constructions in the Daulat Beg Oldi and also the Depsang sectors? Is it correct that China continues to occupy 8 km of our territory in the Pangong Tso area between Finger 4 and Finger 8?” he added. Slams Jaishankar In a series of tweets, senior Congress leader Anand Sharma hit out at External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, who had earlier countered Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s comment on China and foreign policy. On Friday, Mr. Gandhi alleged that Mr. Modi’s ‘indiscretion and blunder’, fragile economy, troubled neighbourhood and a weak foreign policy prompted China to act against India. Mr. Jaishankar said India’s global standing had not only gone up, but it now engaged with China on equal terms. “Pakistan (that you skipped) surely notes the difference between Balakot and Uri on the one hand, and Sharm-el-Sheikh, Havana and 26/11 on the other. Ask yourself,” Mr. Jaishankar said in his reply to Mr. Gandhi. Responding to the Minister, Mr. Sharma said the government could not be in denial of foreign policy failures.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||UN draft declaration goes soft on demand for reform||Despite India’s repeated demands for reform of the UN Security Council, the process of the expansion of the membership is expected to slow down this year with the final draft of the Declaration on the Commemoration of the Seventy-Fifth Anniversary of the U.N. favouring a softer approach to the issue. “We reiterate our call for reforms of three of the principal organs of the United Nations. We commit to instil new life in the discussions on the reform of the Security Council and continue the work to revitalise the General Assembly and strengthen the Economic and Social Council. The review of the peace-building architecture has our full support,” the final draft says. The Declaration is a powerful reiteration of the UN’s founding principles that brought a new world order 75 years ago. Mention of ‘discussions’ in this key anniversary document is being interpreted as dilution of the progress made on the path of reform of the principal organs of the UN during the 122nd plenary meeting of the General Assembly. At the meeting on September 15, 2008, the General Assembly on the basis of previous resolutions had ‘decided’ to proceed with the “modalities in order to prepare and facilitate intergovernmental negotiations on the question of equitable representation on and increase in the membership of the Security Council and other matters related to the Council”. The final draft for the upcoming UNGA is also a step down from the Resolution adopted by the General Assembly on September 16, 2005 when the call for reform was demanded against the backdrop of widespread unilateral decisions as seen during the Iraq war of 2003 and the “war on terror”. The 2005 Resolution had expressed strong global will to stop misuse of military power and said, “We are determined to reinvigorate the intergovernmental organs of the United Nations to adopt them to the needs of the twenty-first century”.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru police arrest man for false video on hospital||The City Crime Branch (CCB) police on Sunday arrested a resident of Tilaknagar for allegedly posting a video of an overcrowded hospital outpatient department online and falsely claiming that it was Victoria Hospital. The video clip, which was doing the rounds on social media on July 18, showed hundreds of patients in the OPD not wearing masks or observing social distancing norms waiting for their turn while a man claiming to be a doctor was begging for help. “This is the amount of rush that we are getting at room number 5, OPD ground floor. Looking at the amount of patients here, it is a complete threat to all the doctors and staff of the hospital including the patients,” said the man who identified himself as a doctor. Not in Bengaluru The arrested has been identified as Sameer Ullah (46), a resident of Tilaknagar. In his post, he said the video was from Victoria Hospital, creating panic among citizens as Bengaluru, which is currently seeing a surge in people contracting the virus, said the police. As the video went viral, Victoria Hospital authorities dismissed it and said that the incident happened in a hospital in North India and not in Bengaluru. The city police filed a case under provisions of the IT Act, National Disaster Management Act, and sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), told The Hindu, “The said video is of some other State. Some people posted the video on social media and attributed it to Victoria Hospital and caused a lot of panic among the general public. We got our CCB technical team to investigate and found out that the accused himself posted it on Facebook and said it is from Victoria Hospital. He has been taken into custody and all his phones are being checked. Further investigation is on to trace others who have posted false posts.” Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao too shared the photo of the accused on social media. He said that the CCB swiftly identified and arrested the person circulating fake videos.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Panel devises plan to manage surveillance system on trains||A high-level committee constituted by the Railway Ministry has devised a strategy on the modalities and procedure for real-time surveillance, storage, retention and retrieval of feed generated by CCTV cameras installed in passenger coaches. The Railways has planned to install surveillance cameras in 7,000 coaches by March 2021 as part of a Video Surveillance System to cover stations and trains. While cameras were already installed in premium, mail, express and suburban trains and work is on to cover all the 7,000 coaches targeted this fiscal, the Railway Board formed a committee comprising the Executive Director (Telecom Directorate) as convener and the Executive Director (Mechanical Engineering – Coaching), the Deputy Inspector-General (DIG), Railway Board, and the Director (Network Planning and Marketing), RailTel, as members to standardise the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Video Surveillance System in coaches, sources in the Railways said on Sunday. The SOP would consist of details relating to data uploading, retention and retrieval besides defining monitoring and response by security personnel and front line Railway officials. Committee report “The Railway Board would finalise the SOP based on the report of the committee and conforming to the recommendations of the Research Designs & Standards Organisation (RDSO), a R&D arm of the railways. Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) compartments used for Tejas Express, Vande Bharat Express train set coaches and suburban trains (Electrical Multiple Units) were being rolled out with in-built camera facility,” a senior Railway official said. Besides a security measure to prevent/detect crimes at railway stations/trains, the installation of surveillance cameras was also necessitated as a step to ensure adequate safety of women and children on railway premises. In August 2019, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court had directed the Southern Railway to conduct a survey with the assistance of experts and install CCTV in train coaches for the safety of the women, children and elderly passengers. The Railways is also in the process of installing a Video Surveillance System at 6,049 stations of which the Northern Railway will get the maximum coverage at 725 stations, followed by the Southern Railway with 573 stations, the sources added.
20 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||A booster diet stirs Kaziranga’s ‘road rhino’||All rhinos have poor eyesight. Some, like the one that has made a highway beside the Kaziranga National Park and Tiger Reserve (KNPTR) its temporary home, have even poorer vision. The male rhino, about 30 years old, was thought to be ill or injured when he swam laboriously out of the flooded KNPTR, hauled himself onto the highway and lay on the asphalt on the evening of July 17. Barring the twitching of the ears, he was motionless as vehicles whizzed past. He has refused to budge three days later, earning the ‘road rhino’ moniker. But he has been venturing out a few feet on either side of the highway after some doses of sweetened multivitamin were given in bundles of grass and antibiotic eye drop sprayed from a high-pressure water gun. The rhino had emerged from the Bagori Range of the 1,055 sq km KNPTR that has a core area of 430 sq km and more than 55% of the world’s population of the one-horned herbivore. Security cordon “Our men threw a security cordon around the rhino. From experience, we knew the rhino was really tired after swimming for hours in search of dry land, but we sought the help of veterinarians nonetheless,” said P. Sivakumar, KNPTR director. A team of veterinarians led by Shamsul Ali of the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) nearby began observing the animal. The “crisis situation” prompted Kushal Konwar Sarma, head of College of Veterinary Science, to rush from Guwahati, 200 km away. “We were prepared to take the rhino to the zoo in Guwahati, but he was in good health other than suffering from partial vision. We could sense he was not confident enough to swim back probably because of uncertainty in figuring out what lies ahead although he has been venturing further from the road with the water level receding,” Dr. Sarma said. Dr. Ali said his team embedded multivitamin pills in jaggery wrapped in bundles of grass and threw them from a distance. As the animal lay on the road on Saturday, they sprayed the eye drop mixed in saline water from five metres. “Rhinos have blurred vision and tend to attack based on smell and hearing. We had an animal too weak to react and with corneal opacity in the left eye and conjunctivitis in the right,” he told The Hindu on Sunday. Rathin Barman, who heads the CWRC, said the rhino was expected to melt into the forest soon.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Domestic firms worried over small arms imports||With Army taking a decision to order another 72,400 assault rifles from Sig Sauer of the U.S., domestic small arms manufacturers have expressed concern over continuing imports, with one of them writing to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh as recently as last week, asking for a level playing field to showcase their products. “There are Indian companies which can now make small arms with over 50% indigenous content and we can match the price and timelines. What we are asking is to give domestic companies the same level playing field as foreign companies and support ‘Make in India’,” an official from a private manufacturer said on condition of anonymity. Letters voicing these concerns have been written at least twice in the past, it has been learnt. Left out of FTP The official said Indian companies are not considered for deals through Fast Track Procurement (FTP), which is limited to foreign vendors currently. Their case can also be taken up as a suo motu case under the procurement process, he stated. Under a Rs. 700-crore deal in February 2019 with Sig Sauer, the Defence Ministry procured 72,400 SIG-716 assault rifles through FTP, most of which which were for the Army and have been provided to frontline troops involved in counter insurgency operations. The remaining demand of over 7 lakh rifles was to be met through the licensed manufacture of Russian AK-203 rifles in India through a joint venture with the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). However, the final deal has been stuck over the issue of pricing. Last week, Army sources said they took an in-principle decision to place a repeat order for SIG-716 rifles and the case is being processed. Similarly, a case for over 90,000 close-quarter carbines, again through the FTP route, has also been struck. For some time, the Army has been attempting to replace the INSAS (Indian National Small Arms System) rifles with a modern rifle. In the past few years, several Indian firms have invested in the small arms segment, given the large requirement and efforts by government to open up ammunition to the private sector. One such is PLR systems, formerly with Punj Lyod, which in collaboration with Israel Weapon Industries in 2017 set up India’s first private sector small arms manufacturing plant at Malanpur, Madhya Pradesh. However, without any major orders from the armed forces, many companies are looking for smaller orders from the police and Central Armed Police Forces.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 cases cross 60,000 in Karnataka||The package will include daily monitoring of patients by healthcare professionals, and periodic check by doctors. “This package will also feature the provision of home healthcare and safety guidelines to patients and caregivers, as well as linkages to emergency support in case of escalation of symptoms,” said the department in a press release. The department has taken this initiative to ensure that those with mild symptoms isolate in their homes if they have the facilities. Patient details will be uploaded on a platform and a medical professional assigned to orient the patients and their caregivers on measures to be taken during the home isolation period. Those in home isolation will receive three calls on the first day. While A nurse will call the patient daily. A doctor will call the patient on the first, fourth, and tenth day. He will check if the patient needs medical advice, if is ready to be discharged, and also gather information on whether family members had shown any symptoms. If the patient has no symptoms, he/she will be discharged.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Local bodies shelve poll plans to fight COVID-19||Hazarding their health and putting off preparations for the local body election that is just three months away, elected members of urban and rural local bodies are complementing the efforts of health-care personnel in augmenting containment activities, following a surge in COVID-19 cases in the past few weeks. The spike in cases has spurred the local bodies to action and they are now taking the lead in setting up first-line treatment centres, providing food and basic amenities to those in quarantine and monitoring their movements. Most of the elected representatives have deferred preparations for election, including verification of poll rolls, to focus on containment activities.  By rotation Since reservation of wards for various sections, including women, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes, are fixed by rotation, the incumbents may not get a chance to contest from the same wards in the next election. However, they have dedicated themselves to virus containment efforts, without considering political gains. Fund source Sourcing funds for setting up first-line centres with adequate facilities according to a protocol set by the government is no easy task. But all local bodies have met with some success in this. Local Self Government Department sources told The Hindu that the State government would accord permission to local bodies to expend Plan funds to meet the current exigency, including setting up of first-line treatment centres. This would be reimbursed to the local bodies from the State government’s disaster management fund. Procedures for clearing funds, such as securing the clearance of the District Planning Committees, have been eased for unhindered fund flow.  The government will accord permission to local bodies to expend Plan funds to meet the current exigency
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Network held dry run before smuggling bid||The international network that smuggled contraband gold into the country via air cargo shipments addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate here had gone through a dry run of the exercise in June last year, according to senior customs investigators. The accused had rehearsed the smuggling operation to gain an understanding of how Customs inspectors at the air cargo complex at the international airport here dealt with cargo sent to the mission from the UAE. Gauging immunity The accused accurately gauged the measure of immunity from examination accorded to consulate cargo by Customs officials and found it suited their illegal purpose. Investigators said the Dubai end of the network “headed” by Faisil Fareed, a business person from Thrissur, first sent relatively lesser amounts of gold concealed in canisters containing car wash. (The UAE authorities have arrested Fareed in Dubai and promised to extradite him to India at the earliest). In later consignments, the accused hid the contraband in microwave ovens and other electronic equipment. By January 2020, the gang had perfected the technique of secreting gold in a cylindrical form in bathroom fittings and imported piping. The Customs said “a consulate insider,” a UAE citizen, facilitated the smuggling operation by providing the receipted invoice for the consignments from Dubai. He also allegedly offered the papers to generate the shipments from the Dubai-end. The network purportedly paid its “consulate collaborator” Rs. 1.25 lakh in US dollars for every unbeaten smuggling run. Investigators have moved the Ministry of External Affairs to request the UAE government to record his statement. The official had left Kerala for UAE recently. Customs officials said Sandeep extricated the gold from concealment at his house at Nedumangad. They seized discarded ovens and bathroom fittings from his home in ‘incriminating’ numbers. At least 15 times Investigators said the accused had smuggled gold into the country via the diplomatic route at least 15 times. Swapna Suresh and Sarith, both former consulate employees, allegedly handled the clearance and provided the consulate paperwork for Customs exemption from cargo examination. Sandeep allegedly transferred the contraband to Rameez who sold the gold to jewellers and ornament makers and handled bookkeeping. Investigators said Rameez raised the finance for buying the gold and used hawala routes to transfer the cash to operators at the Dubai end. The Customs were examining air cargo records relating to imports to the consulate since 2017 to identify other operators, if any, at the UAE end.  A consulate insider, a UAE citizen, facilitated the smuggling operation by providing receipted invoice for consignments from Dubai, according to Customs.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,||Haja Moideen to be produced in NIA court||Subahani Haja Moideen, who was booked by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for joining the ISIS, will be produced before the NIA Special Court, Kochi, on Wednesday for examination. Last week, the prosecution had completed its arguments in the case. It had examined around 50 witnesses in the process. Moideen, is now detained at the high-security prison at Viyyoor. The NIA has slapped him with the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Though the accused are being examined by courts through videoconferencing in view of the COVID-19 situation, P. Krishnakumar, the NIA Special Judge, directed that the accused be physically produced before him considering the gravity of the case. Moideen is considered to be one of the few Indians who have returned to the country after joining the terror outfit in Syria. Kanakamala case He ended up in the custody of the NIA during the investigation into the Kanakamala ISIS training centre case. It was during this investigation that his joining the terrorist organisation was revealed, according to the NIA. Moideen, who hails from Thodupuzha, left for Jeddah and from there reached Istanbul in Turkey. From there, he and a few others crossed over to Syria. Later, he was taken to Mosul, where he underwent military training with the ISIS operatives, according to the investigators. After being injured, Moideen was removed from the military operations wing and assigned guard duty. However, after seeing the death of the some ISIS men in an explosion from close quarters, Moideen called it a day. Though he tried to desert the ISIS camp, he was caught. The NIA has slapped Sections 16 and 20 of the UAPA, which deals with punishment for terrorist act and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code, on the accused.  He is one of the few Indians who have returned after joining the terror outfit in Syria
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||States differ on school reopening dates||The capital has dropped to sixth place in active cases as more patients recover in comparison to new infections.. Bihar, Chandigarh and Haryana are also willing to reopen around Independence Day, while Puducherry says it will take a decision after July 31. The rest of the States are pitching for a date in September or beyond. Andhra Pradesh has set a tentative date of September 5. Manipur says it will open on September 1. Nagaland is also opting for the first week of September, while Rajasthan says “probably in September”. Odisha did not commit to a reopening date, merely saying its schools were closed until August 31, while Kerala, Ladakh and Karnataka said they will reopen after the end of August. In a letter sent to State education secretaries after the meeting on July 17, the HRD Ministry has asked for feedback from parents of school going children to be collected over the weekend, and submitted July 20. “What is the likely period when they will be comfortable with reopening of schools — August/September/October 2020,” asked the letter, which also has been seen by The Hindu . The HRD Ministry is in the process of developing guidelines for schools, whenever they reopen, with final approval still required from the Health and Home Ministries. The guidelines are likely to recommend staggered attendance, allowing for blended learning in classrooms and at home via technology, along with rigorous health screening, sanitation and quarantine protocols.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Resign on moral grounds, Cong. tells Shekhawat||Mr. Surjewala said the BJP government in Haryana was supporting the dissident MLAs by deploying police in large numbers at the places where they were staying. “Mr. Pilot has to decide whether he wants to remain trapped in the BJP’s conspiracy or discuss things within the family,” he said, adding that the Congress’ top leadership had spoken to Mr. Pilot several times. Asked about the possibility of holding a floor test, Mr. Maken said it was the Chief Minister’s discretion to decide. Mr. Maken raised five questions about the BJP’s “direct and unambiguous” role in the political turmoil created after Mr. Pilot’s rebellion and accused the Centre of threatening the State government in the name of CBI, as it wanted to stop the probe into the conspiracy that could expose some powerful people. Meanwhile, the People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) has questioned the slapping of sedition charges on the rebel MLAs in the case registered by Special Operations Group (SOG), saying it went against the Congress party’s own manifesto in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, in which it had pledged to omit Section 124-A of Indian Penal Code. “We have seen for the first time the wilful misuse of sedition law against legislators in Rajasthan. Even if we go by the Supreme Court’s interpretation in the Kedar Nath Singh case of 1962, it is applicable only if the disaffection results in inciting violence in the society, which is not the case here,” PUCL-Rajasthan general secretary Anant Bhatnagar said.
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP has ‘institutionalised’ lies, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday mounted a fresh attack on the BJP, accusing it of “institutionalising” lies by manipulating data on COVID-19 deaths, the GDP, and the stand-off with China. “The BJP has institutionalised lies — [on] COVID-19 by restricting testing and misreporting deaths; [on] GDP by using a new calculation method; and [on] Chinese aggression by frightening the media. The illusion will break soon and India will pay the price,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted and tagged a report of The Washington Post that said India’s COVID-19 death figures were either “misreported or missed”. Mr. Gandhi’s latest offensive came a few hours after he had compared the government’s handling of the Chinese face-off to former U.K. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain’s appeasement of Nazi Germany.  The illusion will break soon and India will pay the price Rahul Gandhi Congress leader
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCGI notice to Glenmark over claim on drug||The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), earlier this week, issued notice to Glenmark Pharmaceuticals asking it to respond to allegations of overpricing and claim that its antiviral drug Fabiflu was effective in COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities. The DCGI has sought a response from the company. “It has been mentioned in representation that Glenmark has claimed that this drug is effective in co-morbid conditions like hypertension, diabetes, whereas in reality, as per protocol summary, this trial was not designed to assess the Fabiflu in co-morbid conditions. No clinically sufficient data specific to these conditions are available,” said V.G. Somani, DCGI, in the notice to the company. The DCGI said Glenmark’s drug had been priced too high. Glenmark said in a regulatory filing recently that it had slashed the price of its Favipiravir tablet by 27% to Rs. 75 MRP.
20 July 2020||Srinagar,||No decision on strategic areas: J&K administration||The J&K administration on Sunday clarified that there was no decision “to either transfer any new land or declare areas outside cantonments or Army land as strategic”. The clarification comes a day after the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party described the proposal of amending the Control of Building Operations Act, 1988 and the J&K Development Act, 1970 as “an attempt to change demography and turn the region into a military establishment”. “A few political parties are misleading people as if land is being transferred to armed forces and the entire J&K is being turned into a military establishment. All these are baseless comments,” said a J&K government spokesman.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Lancet study should be an eye-opener for KCR: Cong.||Telangana, along with Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, is the most vulnerable to coronavirus in India as per the study published in the latest edition of The Lancet, the leading medical journal in the world, said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee COVID-19 Task Force Committee chairman, Marri Shashidhar Reddy. At least this study should awaken Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and he should realise that he is solely responsible for the way things have been handled, the ex-Minister said in a statement. “People of Telangana feel let down as systems have not been put in place to deal with the situation and there has been a lack of transparency. Cases and deaths have been under-reported and Telangana ranks the lowest in terms of tests per million because KCR has failed to follow advice of experts and organisations like WHO and ICMR,” he alleged. Stating that Congress cadre responded with agony over the situation in Telangana during its ‘SpeakUpTelangana’ online campaign, Mr. Reddy demanded COVID-19 treatment be brought under Aarogyashri and treatment charges by private hospitals regulated apart from bringing 50% of their beds under government control.
20 July 2020||Patna,||Central team visits Bihar as cases spike||A three-member Central team visited Bihar on Sunday to assess the COVID-19 situation. The State, of late, has been witnessing an alarming rise in the number of coronavirus patients. The team is being led by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare Department Joint Secretary Luv Agrawal and comprises S.K. Singh of National Centre for Disease Control and Niraj Nischal from AIIMS, New Delhi. The team is likely to to visit Gaya and one containment zone in Patna to assess the government’s preparedness. More than 89 containment zones have been created in Patna alone to prevent the spread of the disease.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man dead as heavy rain lashes Delhi||As heavy rain lashed the national capital, a tempo driver was drowned in the waterlogged road under the iconic Minto Bridge on Sunday morning. The driver was trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass when he got stuck and eyewitnesses reported that he was last seen sitting on the roof of his vehicle. A DTV bus was also stranded under the bridge, which is prone to flooding during heavy rains. The fire department was called in to rescue the conductor and driver. A cluster of homes at the Anna Nagar slum near ITO were swept away as a drain alongside overflowed. Several roads remained waterlogged till afternoon and children were seen swimming on the streets. The MeT Department that had forecast rain for Sunday, said the weather station at Safdarjung, which is the official reading on the Capital, recorded 74.8 mm of overnight rainfall while weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ridge reported 81.2 mm and 86 mm respectively. This is the heaviest rainfall of the season, it added. More rain has been forecast in the city for the next few days. The Delhi Government said that due to the the COVID-19 pandemic, desilting of drains could not be carried out effectively in March and April. The AAP government said the BJP-ruled MCDs should start desilting work on drains under their jurisdiction.
20 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||IIT, AIIMS see winter rise in virus cases||Fall in temperature with seasonal progression towards winter will environmentally favour COVID-19 transmission in India, says a collaborative study conducted by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), both based in Bhubaneswar. The study says surface air temperature is closely related to COVID-19 and its spread. “Low temperature and high humidity appear to favour the spread of the disease. An increase in temperature by one degree leads to a 0.99% decrease in the number of COVID-19 cases,” the collaborative study says. “In terms of doubling time, a one-degree rise in temperature leads to slowing by 1.13 days. Similarly, an increase in 10% relative humidity leads to an increase in doubling time by 1.18 days,” finds the study. Environmental factors According to the five researchers — V. Vinoj, N. Gopinath, K. Landu, B. Behera and B. Mishra — the respiratory viral pandemics of the 21st century (SARS-CoV-2 in 2003, Influenza AH1N1 in 2009) have revealed that seasonality in environmental factors play a role in the dynamics of their spread. These researchers tried to observe State-level relationship between environmental factors such as temperature, relative humidity, specific humidity, and solar radiation on the COVID-19 spread over the Indian region.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 delays PMs’ museum work||Construction of the Centre’s proposed Museum on Prime Ministers, which was supposed to open in October, is likely to be completed by November due to the lack of workers during the COVID-19 crisis, said sources involved in the project. The museum is being developed at the Teen Murti Estate that houses the Nehru Memorial Museum and Library (NMML) by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD). According to a CPWD official, the construction of the building, electrical work and exterior driveways would be completed by November. Last year, the CPWD had set March 2020 as the deadline for the project. The official said the CPWD was hoping to hand over the completed building to the NMML by November, after which it would take a few months’ time for putting up the exhibits on all Prime Ministers. The NMML, an autonomous institution operating under the Union Ministry of Culture, is in the process of selecting agencies to develop audio-visual content, running a cafe and souvenir shop, and carrying out branding, marketing and online services related to the Prime Ministers’ museum. Bidding process On June 6, the NMML had issued a tender seeking bids for developing the audio-visual content. Seven companies had applied for the project, for which financial bids are scheduled to be opened on Monday, according to the NMML’s online tender portal. Among the bidders is Moving Pixels Pvt. Ltd, a film and design studio that says it has worked on election-related campaigns including “Phir Ek Baar, Modi Sarkar” in 2019 and the Namaste Trump event earlier this year. Other bidders include Visual Quest India Pvt Ltd. in consortium with ND’s Art World Pvt. Ltd., EDC Creative Technology Solutions Pvt. Ltd., E Factor Entertainment Pvt. Ltd., Famous Digital Studios Pvt. Ltd., Hakuhodo.Sync Pvt. Ltd. and Watchdog Security. While seeking bids, the NMML said, “The prime objective of the museum is to provide the visitors a better understanding of, and create curiosity amongst them about the different individuals who have occupied the office of Prime Minister, their individual personalities and contributions as Prime Ministers, as well about the institution of the Prime Minister.” Spread over about 10,000 square meters, the museum would have 3D and touch-enabled displays, audio-visual projection, hologram and other state-of-the-art as well as conventional exhibits, NMML said. NMML added that the total project cost was Rs. 226.20 crore.
20 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records 310 new cases, 8 virus deaths||Punjab recorded 310 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday and reported eight more deaths, taking the tally to 246, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 10,100. The major chunk of new cases, 76 and 60, were reported from Ludhiana and Jalandhar districts respectively. The Health department said active cases are 3,311 and 6,535 patients have so far recovered. Union Territory Chandigarh reported 26 new cases, taking the total number of to 717. The active cases are 217, an official statement said.
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||FIR against two Instagram users in actor threat case||The Mumbai Police have registered an FIR against two Instagram users for allegedly threatening actor Rhea Chakraborty (28), an official said on Sunday. The location of the accused is yet to be traced and investigation is at the preliminary stage. Ms. Chakraborty on Thursday requested the cyber crime cell to look into the rape and murder threats she has been receiving since the death of Sushant Singh Rajput.PTI
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Labour dept. brings in reforms to facilitate ‘ease of doing business’||The State government has decided to bring in reforms in the norms pertaining to inspections being conducted on industrial establishments under various labour laws to facilitate ‘Ease of Doing Business’ in the State.The Labour department has decided to make sure that there will be single joint inspection under all the labour laws to avoid any duplication in accordance with the Business Reform Action Plan. Industrial units would be categorised as low/medium/high risk depending on the number of workers employed, and inspecting officers will be allocated randomly for computerised risk assessment based inspections. Accordingly, units which employ less than 30 members are categorised as low risk, those with 31 to 100 employees as medium risk and the units with more than 101 workers in different levels will form part of the high risk category. The frequency of inspections for establishments under low risk will be once in five years, once in three years for establishments under medium risk and it will be two years for those under the high risk category. An officer of the rank of Assistant Labour Officer would be delegated powers to inspect low risk units, assistant labour commissioner for medium risk and deputy labour commissioner rank officer would inspect the high risk units. The entire system would be online as part of the centralised inspection agency encompassing compliance inspection system of the Labour, Factories Boilers and Telangana State Pollution Control Board. Inspections will forthwith be conducted as per a well-defined procedure and the checklist for inspections would be published on the web portal of the department. The inspection would be applicable to establishments covered under 13 labour laws, including Central laws like Payment of Wages Act, 1936, Factories Act, 1948 and Minimum Wages Act, 1948. Exemptions The department had also decided to exempt certain establishments from the compliance inspections including those categorised as low risk unless any complaint is received against these units. Units covered under the Telangana Shops and Establishment, Medical Transport Workers Act, Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act and others would be presumed to be satisfactorily complying with the labour laws unless any complaint is received against them.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Milk unions again cut procurement price by Rs. 2.5 a litre||Cash-depleted district milk unions have started another round of cuts in procurement price — for the third time in three months — affecting dairy farmers as the market, affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, is yet to show any increase in demand for dairy products even as Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) has reported a record procurement of 90 lakh litres a day. From July 16, Bengaluru Milk Union Ltd. (BAMUL) reduced the procurement price byRs. 2.5 a litre. Over two earlier rounds, it had reduced the price by another Rs. 2.5 a litre. Now, the farmer gets Rs. 24 a litre, down from the pre-COVID-19 lockdown high of Rs. 29. Similarly, it is learnt that district unions in Hassan, Shivamogga, Dharwad, and Mandya have also cut the procurement price, all to around Rs. 24 a litre. “We have a huge stock of skimmed milk powder (SMP) and butter lying around with us as the market has to improve. We also have to make fortnightly payments to farmers. BAMUL has already exhausted Rs. 80 crore of the Rs. 100-crore loan taken for the working capital on the stock. There is no other alternative,” BAMUL president Narasimhamurthy told The Hindu . “While we are unable to market the products made out of excess milk, the union has seen a spike in milk collection. The cost of SMP production has also gone up while the sale price has dropped.” The trouble for BAMUL, which is among the largest milk unions in the State, is that its daily procurement of milk has gone up from 14 lakh litres to 19 lakh litres now, while the sale has reduced from about 11 lakh litres to 8 lakh litres. With the demand for products such as SMP, butter, ghee, and cheese nosediving, the union is facing a cash crunch. Stories across other milk unions are similar. Sources said that across the State, of the about 90 lakh litres of milk procured, just about 40 lakh litres is being sold as milk; the rest is being converted into SMP. Scientific price Mr. Narasimhamurthy acknowledged that the cut in procurement price would hurt farmers, as Rs. 24 is far lower than the scientific price worked out to be in the range of Rs. 35 to Rs. 37 per litre. “Because the family turns up as labour, fodder is available in plenty, and there is no rent on cattle sheds, farmers can sustain themselves. Once the market improves, unions will definitely go back to the original price,” he said.     Because the family turns up as labour, fodder is available in plenty, and there is no rent on cattle sheds, farmers can sustain themselves. Once the market improves, unions will definitely go back to the original price Narasimhamurthy, president, Bengaluru Milk Union Ltd.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,||2 Nigerians held with cocaine||Two Nigerians, who were allegedly involved in selling cocaine, were caught by Telangana Prohibition and Excise department officials in the city on Sunday. The enforcement team seized 104 grams of cocaine from Zadi Pascal (35), who stays at Nagarjuna Nagar Colony, Tarnaka, and Chukwudi Ebere Monica (30), a resident of Anderi, Mumbai. Assistant excise superintendent N. Anji Reddy said that Aric and Ebuka, both residents of Mumbai, and Ben from Bengaluru, hired Mr. Pascal to supply cocaine to their customers. “Around four days ago, Aric sent cocaine from Mumbai with Monica. We arrested her and Pascal at Tarnaka crossroads along with the contraband,” Mr. Reddy said. Mr. Pascal allegedly sold cocaine at Rs. 8,000 per gram at Tarnaka crossroads, near a corporate hospital in Gachibowli, and some other areas in the city. The original case papers along with the accused and seized contraband were handed over to the Station House Officer (SHO) of the Prohibition and Excise department, Musheerabad, for further action.
20 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Yet another monthly puja sans pilgrims at Sabarimala to conclude today||Yet another monthly puja sans pilgrims is coming to a close at Sabarimala, with the restrictions in place to contain COVID-19 . The sacred grove (‘poonkavanom’) of Ayyappa, situated in the Periyar Tiger Reserve that otherwise used to witness not less than 15,000 devotees coming from different parts of the country every day even during five-day monthly pujas, remained almost desolate on the fourth day of the monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Karkidakom on Sunday. But for the chiming of the bells and the traditional percussion, the temple precincts presented a picture of tranquillity on Sunday. No resonance of ‘Swamiyei Saranam Ayyappa’ chants, no lighting of camphor lamps, no ‘Sayana-pradakshinoms’ and no long line of pilgrims waiting in queue for offering ‘Neyyabhishekom’ to the deity. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) that administers the temple has prohibited entry of devotees to all the 1,250 temples attached to it as a key pandemic-prevention measure. The board is very particular in the case of Sabarimala, where the head priests (Melsanthi) at the Ayyappa temple and the adjoining Malikappuram Devi temple are ‘Purappedasanthi’ which means they are not permitted to move out of Sabarimala during their one-year tenure that ends on November 15. “We are not permitting any person to enter Sabarimala other than the staff on duty now as it involves high health risk to the priests and the employees stationed at the hillock,” says Rajendra Prasad, Devaswom executive officer. Rituals Only the routine rituals are being performed at Sabarimala during the monthly puja period. On all five days, the daily rituals begin with the Tantri (chief priest), Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu, performing the Ashtadravya Maha Ganapathi homom at 5.15 a.m. Abhishekom, Ushapuja, Kalabhabhishekom, Utchapuha, Deeparadhana, and Athazhapuja are the daily rituals. The temple will be closed after the Athazhapuja on Monday. The temple will open at 5 p.m. on August 8 for the annual Niraputhari celebrations to be held on August 9. The Tantri told The Hindu that the Niraputharipuja would be performed at the muhurthom between 5.50 a.m. and 6.20 a.m. on August 9. The Ayyappa temple will be closed after the Athazhapuja in the evening.
20 July 2020||KHAMMAM,||Dharna for release of Varavara Rao||Activists of the CPI (ML-New Democracy), CPI, CPI(M), besides various mass organisations, staged a dharna in Khammam, Telangana on Sunday demanding the immediate release of the octogenarian poet Varavara Rao and other political prisoners lodged in various jails in Maharashtra in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case.
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||PM Modi now has 6 crore followers on Twitter||The followers of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on microblogging site Twitter have risen to six crore. Mr. Modi uses Twitter extensively to share important information with people. Most of his speeches are beamed live on his personal handle. In September 2019, Mr. Modi had five crore followers. The Twitter handle of the Prime Minister’s Office has 3.7 crore followers. He joined Twitter in January 2009.PTI
20 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Om Prakash Dhankar appointed Haryana BJP chief||The BJP on Sunday appointed Om Prakash Dhankar president of its Haryana State unit. The appointment made by BJP president J.P. Nadda will come into immediate effect, said a party statement. Mr. Dhankar held the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare portfolio in the previous Manohar Lal-led BJP government in Haryana.
20 July 2020||Kolkata,||Violence erupts in Chopra in West Bengalover death of a girl||Violence erupted at Chopra in Uttar Dinajpur district of West Bengal over the alleged rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl. The situation remained volatile for hours as hundreds of protesters burnt tyres and blocked National Highway 31, which connects north and south Bengal. Family members of the deceased said that she had gone missing on Saturday night and the body was found on Sunday morning.
20 July 2020||Patna,||As cases surge, cand preparedness||A three-member Central team on Sunday visited Bihar to assess the COVID-19 situation. The State, of late, has been witnessing an alarming rise in the number of patients. The team, led by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare department Joint Secretary Luv Agrawal, comprises Dr. S.K. Singh of the National Center for Disease Control and Dr. Niraj Nischal from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. The group is likely to visit Gaya and one containment zone in Patna to assess the State government’s preparedness.
20 July 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC directions on opening history sheet||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has issued a set of directions to police to follow while exercising their powers to open a history sheet against someone. The court observed that there were certain vagueness and inconsistencies in the choice of expressions the Police Standing Order (PSO) employed. Disposing of a series of petitions that sought a direction to remove petitioners’ names from the history sheet, Justice N. Seshasayee observed that these vagueness and inconsistencies posed a constant threat to fundamental rights. The court observed that there was a need to clear the ambiguities till legislative alternatives were found. In the cases where a person had to be treated as a habitual offender, one addicted to crime or a known depredator without a case pending against him, when the police proposed to history-sheet the person, he should have been either notified as a habitual offender under the Tamil Nadu Habitual Offenders Act,1948, or should have been one against whom an order had been made under Cr.P.C. Section 110. In all cases a person could be history-sheeted only for two years as provided in the PSO 748(1). The history sheet could not be retained merely on the ground that the investigation agency had not filed a final report or where the case was pending trial beyond two years’ time. Further the court said there could not be any retention under the PSO 748 (2), unless a fresh case was registered. This should be only for one year and every subsequent decision to extend or retain a name in the history sheet should be made only on the same basis as indicated, the court said. Where cases were registered in connection with a citizen participating in any peaceful protests, agitations or demonstrations, history sheet should not be opened unless an order was passed by the Executive Magistrate under Cr.P.C. Section 107 or 110. The court directed the Director General of Police to constitute district-level committees to examine all cases of history-sheeting on the basis of parameters provided within a period of one year. The DGP should submit a half-yearly progress/compliance report in this regard, the court said.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers, education moulded me, says Veerappan’s daughter||When the BJP in Tamil Nadu released a supplementary list of postings to its various wings last week, one name surprised everyone: Vidhya Veerappan, who was appointed as vice-president of the Youth Wing for Krishnagiri district. She had joined the party only in February. Ms. Vidhya is the daughter of the slain forest brigand Veerappan. With the weight of her father’s notorious days hanging like a cloud over her life since childhood, Ms. Vidhya says society has viewed her kindly and not as an enemy. In a telephone interview with The Hindu , Ms. Vidhya, who holds a B.A. L.L.B degree and who runs a school, says her teachers and the education system have moulded her. “If my teachers and sisters were not there for me, I will not be the person I am today. There would have been a different perception. Coming from this background [as Veerappan’s daughter], it was education that has moulded me,” she says. “The school, which I started a year ago, is a very sacred thing. This is where we can train children’s minds and teach them to do righteous things, like what my teachers and sisters did to me,” she says. Ms. Vidhya was in Std. VIII when her father was killed. Lodged in a boarding school since Pre KG, she was the last one in the family to be informed of Veerappan’s death. “I have heard so many positive things about him from the common people. I have not seen him and I cannot get into his life and see what is right and what is wrong, what his thought process was. I couldn’t even see his body properly. I was not able to spend even a day in my life with him, but at least his body could have been kept at home for one day,” recalls an emotional Ms. Vidhya. According to her, she will be guided by the words of advice given to her all through her growing-up years “to do something good for society”. She says she was introduced to former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan by BJP State executive member Sai Suresh and decided to join the party, seeing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s work. “Modiji is doing a lot of good things, the nation is progressing fast. So I felt it was the right time to join.” On her appointment to the party post, she says the BJP’s Youth Wing was one of the youngest in the State. “Led by its president Vinoj Selvam, who is constantly encouraging and guiding us, I am looking forward to working actively for the youngsters,” she adds.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Around 3% of foreign returnees test positive for COVID-19 in city||Around 3% of those who returned from abroad have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said on Sunday that the civic body has detected SARS-CoV-2 infection in 381 persons from among those who returned to the city from abroad. Of the 12,709 returnees from abroad, 11,406 have completed institutional quarantine. “We have not permitted all flights into Chennai. But we have permitted a limited number of flights. We received all passengers and tested them before compulsory quarantine in hotels. The paid quarantine is Rs. 2,500 a day. At present, 1,303 passengers who arrived in the city by flights are under paid quarantine,” said Mr. Prakash. Stressing the need for proper monitoring of passengers for at least 14 days after their arrival in Chennai, Mr. Prakash said the rule was to test the swabs lifted from passengers by RT-PCR after arrival, monitor them for seven days under institutional quarantine, repeat the swab test after seven days before deciding to send them for seven days of home quarantine. The Corporation had made similar arrangements for rail passengers. Claiming that the current positivity rate of air passengers was a cause for concern because of varied strains of the virus from other countries, Mr. Prakash said the positivity rate in the city’s northern areas such as Royapuram and Tondiarpet, which were hotspots, had reduced to 5%. But the central parts of the city such as Anna Nagar, Teynampet and Kodambakkam and the southern parts such as Adyar had registered a higher positivity rate of 20% to 22%. The average positivity rate for the entire city was 12%, said Mr. Prakash. Distribution of aid The Corporation has started distribution of a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each to 59,679 persons with disabilities in the city. “We will conduct a field survey of persons with disabilities in all streets. The original database does not have correct information. Many have shifted to rental accommodation in other areas,” said Mr. Prakash. The Corporation has distributed a cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each to 14,663 street-vendors. The city had 38,000 street-vendors, Mr. Prakash added.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports new single-day high of 4,979 COVID-19 cases||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases being reported on a single day touched a new high on Sunday, with 4,979 persons testing positive. Among them were 77 who had returned to the State from abroad or from other States. The total number of active cases as on date is 50,294 (including those under isolation), and the total number of positive cases is 1,70,693*. With 4,059 patients being discharged on a single day, the number of those discharged following treatment so far stands at 1,17,915. Health Department officials said 78 persons had died in government and private health facilities as on Sunday, taking the toll to 2,481. Chennai’s count Chennai accounted for a fourth of the fresh cases, at 1,254. The total number of cases in the city now stands at 85,859. While 1,189 persons were discharged on Sunday, 15,042 were still under treatment. The city also accounted for 27 of the 78 deaths. Maximum cases The bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health said the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur - 405 and Chengalpattu - 306 recorded the most number of cases. They were followed by Virudhunagar - 262, Kancheepuram - 220 and Madurai - 206. Tiruvallur registered five deaths, whereas Chengalpattu and Madurai recorded eight deaths each. Three persons who had no co-morbidities died of the infection. While 23 deaths occurred at private hospitals, the government facilities accounted for 55. The youngest patient to lose his life to the infection was a 22-year-old youth from Madurai with a chronic kidney disease. He was admitted to a private hospital on July 11 with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for four days. A 32-year-old woman from Thiruvallur, who had breast cancer with brain metastasis, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here on July 7. The COVID-19 test sample taken on July 16 returned positive the next day. She died on Saturday. The oldest person who died of the infection was a 92-year-old man from the city who had a history of hypertension, diabetes, coronary artery disease and hypothyroidism. The nonagenarian was admitted on July 5 to a private hospital with complaints of fever, cough for two days and difficulty in breathing for a day. He died on Saturday morning owing to a sudden cardiac arrest/bilateral pneumonitis and COVID-19. Lab approved The laboratory at the Government Headquarters Hospital at Cheyyar, Tiruvannamalai, has been approved for testing. With this, the total number of facilities working in the State has gone up to 112. Of them, 57 are government facilities and 55 are private laboratories.  ( * Two d eaths have been cross-notified to other States, while one patient died after turning negative for the infection. )   The total number of active cases as on date is 50,294, and the total number of positive cases is 1,70,693
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cloudy skies, mild showers likely in city for 2 more days||Residents of the city can look forward to a breezy and pleasant weather as mild showers may continue for the next two days. On Sunday morning, areas such as Anna Nagar, Mylapore, Arumbakkam, Nanganallur, T. Nagar, Ashok Nagar, Mogappair and the airport saw good rains. The airport recorded about 2 cm of rain. Cyclonic circulation The meteorological department said the cyclonic circulation brought the rains to the city and these rains may continue for another 48 hours. “The sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Light rain is likely to occur in some areas. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 32 and 27 degrees Celsius respectively,” the department said. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, for the next 48 hours, districts in northern parts and those near the Western Ghats, Theni, Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari may get some rains. Parts of the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Vellore, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Salem and Namakkal may get heavy rainfall in the next 24 hours. In some isolated places, there may be thunderstorms as well. For a 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. Sunday, Kangeyam in Tiruppur district got the maximum rainfall of 10 cm, followed by Aravakurichi in Karur district with 8 cm and Valparai and the Nilgiris 7 cm each.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Public cooperating during lockdown: city police chief||The city police have registered 1.15 lakh cases for the violation of Section 144 and have seized 1.60 lakh vehicles till date since the lockdown was enforced, said Chennai Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. He was addressing mediapersons after inspecting the enforcement of the full lockdown measures on Anna Salai. Stating that people were co-operating in the implementation of a full lockdown, he said the police had registered 65,000 cases for not wearing masks. “A total of 10,000 police personnel were deployed to enforce lockdown norms and 200 vehicle check-points were set up across the city. “People came out only for emergencies,” he said. He said that various measures had been put in place to regulate crowds. On Ritchie Street, traders were taking turns and opening shops on alternate days, he said. Crowd regulation “One-way traffic has been allowed in Kothawalchavadi. Loading and unloading is allowed at night and this has reduced traffic. In Kasimedu, we have placed barricades for crowd regulation,” he said. Mr. Aggarwal asked people not to step out of their houses unnecessarily. “Those coming out for work or for business needs should wear masks and follow physical distancing norms,” he said.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK IT Wing takes mimicry route to spread COVID-19 message||The AIADMK’s IT Wing is taking to various social media platforms to drive home the need for people to observe physical distancing, wear a mask and sanitise hands to curb the spread of COVID-19. Recently, the IT Wing reached out to comedian Abhishek Kumar, who has been posting videos during the lockdown under the character ‘Mrs. Janaki’ that has become a big hit. In the video released a few days ago, ‘Mrs. Janaki’, in her now familiar modulation, asks people to follow ‘SMS’ — social distancing, proper wearing of masks, and sanitising one’s hands. One crore views “The video has already crossed over one crore views across all social media platforms since we released it on Thursday. Abhishek Kumar’s characterisation of ‘Mrs. Janaki’ has won the hearts of people. His messages have been going viral over the past 45 days. As he has a strong personality and the ability to capture hearts, we spoke to him, and he was very happy to do it in public interest,” Aspire K. Swaminathan, secretary, IT Wing, Chennai, told The Hindu.  Mr. Abhishek said the IT Wing approached him, and since the character was resonating well with the public, he was happy to help the government bring out the message. Another video which Mr. Swaminathan says was a hit among the front-line workers was the one of various visuals of the government’s efforts to curb the contagion. The video, ‘Corona Anthem’, has A.R. Rahman’s Marvel Anthem in Tamil from Avengers: Endgame . “This went a very long way in motivating the front-line workers,” Mr. Swaminathan said. The team has also released other videos with COVID-19 messages. These include the famous Rajini dialogue ‘Kabali Da’ from Kabali , Dhanush’s dialogue from Maari , Vijay Sethupathi’s ‘Kumudha happy annachi’ dialogue from Idharkuthaney Aasapattai Balakumara and a mimicry of actors Goudamani and Senthil, who are trying to decode a message from the Kalakeya tribe that speaks ‘Kili Kili’ in the blockbuster Baahubali . All the dialogues ask people to wear a mask. Mr. Swaminathan said the IT Wing would come up with more videos on the need for staying safe through precautions, a message often reiterated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Neyveli girl writes Class 10 exams on laptop, scores 89.4%||A 17-year-old visually challenged girl from Neyveli has aced the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 exams scoring 89.4% without the help of a scribe. G.V. Oviya wrote her exams with the help of technology on a laptop, a first of its kind in CBSE Tamil Nadu. When Oviya was 4, doctors told the family that she would slowly start losing her vision. She had retinitis pigmentosa. Her parents started looking at options for giving her the best education. “When she was in Class 3 her vision started deteriorating and that’s when we installed a screen reader software and started training her. We simultaneously taught her how to use her fingers on the keyboard. She learnt it quickly and that’s when we realised that she could do well without a scribe,” said Oviya's father A. Vijayaraj. Oviya, who is a student of Jawahar Higher Secondary School, Neyveli, used nonvisual desktop access (NVDA) and job access with speech (JAWS). Mathematics and Tamil were challenging for her but Mr. Vijayaraj taught her maths during weekends, while her mother M. Gokila helped her with Tamil. “I used to record all her Tamil notes and give it to her for listening,” her mother said. Along with her laptop, Oviya used to carry tactile books to school. “To learn geometry, she used objects like matchstick, bangles, thread and had access to tactile protectors and triangles. While teaching maps, we used thread,” her father said. Oviya has now opted for Commerce group and she intends to prepare for civil services. She said, “Writing this exam was quite easy for me and I’m happy about my marks. I want to become a Collector some day and ensure that disabled children are given quality education.” “Visually challenged students should adopt technology for studying,” she added. Apart from studies, she is a passionate orator and enjoys giving speeches and participating in elocution.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Even small temples will not allow congregations during Aadi season||Even small temples will not allow devotees to hold prayers, or make and offer koozhu or bear kaavadi during the Tamil month of Aadi , that is specially celebrated in Amman and Murugan temples. The Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department has instructed temples to ensure that congregations, both big and small, are not permitted inside temples. ‘Follow safety norms’ “Such functions are not allowed even in small temples, with an annual income below Rs. 10,000, that have reopened. Temples can conduct utsavams with a minimal number of archakas and employees, duly following safety instructions,” said an official of the Department. During Aadi, Amman temples usually witness large crowds, with families coming together. Crowd control “They participate in theemedhi ( fire walking), abhishekam and alankarams . They will take part in 5-7 days of utsavams and make koozhu during the time. Such crowds will be detrimental during a pandemic,” said a former official of the Department. The Periyapalayam temple usually witnesses 25,000-40,000 persons during weekends in the month of Aadi . Besides, Vaishnavite temples celebrate Aadi Pooram — the birth star of Sri Andal. Shaivite temples celebrate the same as valaikaapu or  the  bangle wearing of Ambal.  Aadi krithikai is famous in Murugan temples. Some temples like the Subramaniya Swamy temple in Tiruttani witness lakhs of devotees bearing kaavadis .
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Empty flights land in Chennai, even as many remain stranded abroad||Even as several Indians remain stranded abroad, three flights operated by two leading Middle East-based airlines, from Dubai and Abu Dhabi, have landed in Chennai, empty, in the last two days, according to airport sources. Passengers have, on multiple occasions, expressed their desperation to return to Chennai, on social media networks like Twitter. Abdoul Rahim, a passenger, had posted: “I am in Dubai, stranded with an expired visit visa. I have registered with CGI and tried to book a flight through the Vande Bharath Mission. But couldn’t get any tickets. I want to go to Chennai and I need a ticket urgently. Please let me know how to book one.” Another passenger, Ashok Kumar, had posted: “Dear sir, I am a patient with a liver ailment, stuck in Dubai, and need to get to Chennai for a liver transplant immediately. Please help.” “A leading Middle East airlines had requested the State government to permit them to bring people to the city. But this did not happen as there was a condition imposed on them regarding the quarantine of passengers. The airline was asked if it could coordinate with hotels and arrange accommodation for passengers,” an airport source said. The airport has been getting Vande Bharat flights on a daily basis and providing both government and hotel accommodation is now a priority. “Since there are already several Vande Bharat flights coming in, it will be difficult to arrange quarantine facilities for more passengers,” he added. When contacted, a senior official in the Public Department said, “We have not received any request from them”. Another government official said that many hotels were coming forward and an adequate number of rooms was available. “It is not true that there is a dearth of hotel rooms. Several hotels are still ready and are waiting to make arrangements for passengers to remain under quarantine,” he said.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity teachers’ body seeks single-window counselling for colleges||The central executive committee of the Association of University Teachers (AUT)has called for a single-window counselling process for arts and science colleges and B.Ed programmes. The committee also said that the Directorate of College Education should issue admission guidelines to prevent self-financing institutions from violating rules. The AUT committee, which met on Sunday, passed a slew of resolutions, including the demand that the State government provide technical support to students before launching online classes. It also called for the cancellation of the April/May semester exams. Search committee The AUT called for the constitution of a vice-chancellor search committee for Bharathidasan University, since the State government’s rules call for the setting up of a committee six months prior to the end of the current V-C’s tenure. The incumbent V-C’s tenure ends on January 8. The government should also recall its letter to the BDU V-C, permitting recruitment of teachers, which is in contravention of rules in the State, the AUT committee said. The AUT also reiterated its long-pending demands, including the payment of dues for guest lecturers, appointment of a registrar and a controller of examinations at the Periyar University, a special audit of research funds provided to the Urumu Dhanalakshmi College and the conduct of elections for the Pachaiyappa’s trust board through a democratic process.  The AUT also reiterated its long-pending demands, including the payment of dues for guest lecturers
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha scam: CBI gets nod for prosecution||The State government has accorded sanction for prosecution of two officials allegedly involved in the gutkha scam. The Central Bureau of Investigation, that is investigating the scam, had requested sanction for prosecuting two officials of the Health Department, Senthil Murugan and Sivakumar, for alleged involvement in the case. The Central Vigilance Commission recently removed the CBI’s proposal from the ‘pending’ category in its nationwide list. The scam, first reported by The Hindu in June 2017, pertains to the alleged involvement of top politicians and police officials, among others, in taking bribes to the tune of Rs. 39.91 crore for facilitating the storage, transport and sale of the banned commodity in Chennai. Before filing the first chargesheet in November 2018, the Anti-Corruption Unit-III of the CBI arrested six persons, including three officials. Second chargesheet Sources in the agency said the investigation was almost complete and a decision on filing the second chargesheet would be taken soon.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA increases reservation for students from Thanjavur, Tiruchi||SASTRA, a deemed-to-be university, has increased its reservation in B. Tech seats for students from Thanjavur and Tiruchi districts. The institution is located in Thanjavur district. A statement by SASTRA said seats reserved for students from Tiruchi and Thanjavur have been increased from 20% to 30% for the academic year 2020-21 alone. Students who had completed their Class 10 and Plus Two in Tiruchi and Thanjavur educational districts were eligible under this allocation. Selection would be based on merit, the statement said. Students can apply online until July 31, 2020, and rankings will be released on the same day, the statement said. Counselling and admissions will be conducted online. While regular classes will start once the COVID-19 restrictions are lifted, online bridge courses will be conducted till then.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two found dead in canal||Two decomposed bodies were found in a canal in Tiruttani on Sunday. The police are investigating if the victims were electrocuted as an electric fence was installed in the nearby farm. According to the police, Raja, 48, and Arumugam, 20, went out for some work on July 16 and did not return home. The families informed the police and on Sunday morning some passers-by found the carcass of a pig in a canal near Arungkulam and a few feet away, the bodies of Raja and Arumugam were found. The police recovered the bodies and sent them for post-mortem. “We are waiting for the post-mortem results to confirm if they were electrocuted after coming in contact with an electric fence installed in the farm to keep pigs away, ” said a police officer.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 booked under Pocso Act||The police have booked three persons under the Pocso Act in Chennai and Kancheepuram districts. Murali, 36, of Tirunindravur was arrested for sexually assaulting his 16-year-old daughter and the 13-year-old daughter of a woman with whom he was in a relationship. Murali is a history-sheeter, and along with his daughter he stays in the house of his partner. Over the past few months, he had been sexually assaulting the two minors. Recently, the two girls informed the woman about the crime. She lodged a complaint with the Avadi all-women police station. Murali was arrested under the Pocso Act, and has been remanded in judicial custody. In another case, the Ayanavaram police arrested Venkatesh, 21, for kidnapping and sexually assaulting a minor girl. The police said Venkatesh, from Tirutanni, kidnapped the girl and sexually assaulted her. She managed to reach the Tiruttani railway station and was rescued by the railway police. She was handed over to Ayanavaram police station personnel as her grandmother had lodged a complaint. Venkatesh was arrested from Andhra Pradesh. Gunasekaran, 60, was arrested under the Pocso Act for sexually assaulting his 12-year-old neighbour. Her parents came to know about the crime after she became pregnant. A complaint was lodged with the Uthiramerur police station and he was arrested.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. plans fisheries sector revamp||The Centre has come up with a comprehensive plan to revamp and accelerate the growth of the fisheries sector in India through various schemes, including the recently launched Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), Union Fisheries Secretary Rajeev Ranjan said. Speaking after inaugurating a digital conference on ‘Emerging Technologies in Brackish Water Aquaculture’, hosted by the ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA), he said the government was eyeing a total fish production of 220 lakh tonnes in the next five years. The government would focus on developing entrepreneurial initiatives and promoting start-ups in aquaculture, he said.  The government will focus on promotion of start-ups in aquaculture
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders stage protest||Hundreds of traders staged a protest at the temporary wholesale market in Thirumazhisai, alleging inordinate delays in entering the market due to enforcement of personal distancing norms by the police. M. Thiagarajan, president, Koyambedu Vegetables and Fruits Traders’ Welfare Association, said that vehicles with fruits and vegetables had to wait for hours to enter the market.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Admissions counselling to happen online||Counselling for admissions to engineering lateral entry, engineering part-time, and Master of Business Administration (MBA) and Master of Computer Applications (MCA) courses in Tamil Nadu will happen online this academic year. A statement issued by Tamil Nadu Minister for Higher Education, K.P. Anbalagan said that the decision has been made considering the safety of students due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Further details on the application process will be announced later, he said.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dry rations given away to workers||Dry ration kits were sponsored by BNY Mellon for distribution among 70 guest workers struggling due to the lockdown. The kit included rice, dal, cereals, spices and oil. The beneficiaries were from Iyyappanthangal, Poonamallee and Thirumullaivoyal, among other areas. NGO Sevalaya, the implementation partner, organised events to distribute the kits at the doorstep of the beneficiaries, a press release said.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||105 kg of ganja seized, five arrested||Sleuths of the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau (NIB) on Sunday arrested three persons, who smuggled 105 kg of ganja into Chennai from Visakhapatnam, and two others for purchasing the contraband from them. Prince Anthony and Joshua own lorries that are used to transport goods. Since Prince has ganja peddling cases against him, he was under NIB watch. Recently, he got an order to deliver some goods to Andhra Pradesh. After delivering the consignment, Prince, Joshua and their associate Karthik went to Visakhapatnam and allegedly purchased over 100 kg of ganja. They packed it in five bags and brought it to Chenani in the lorry in the early hours of Sunday. “We got a tip off and nabbed them near Madhavaram. Two others — Tamilarasan and Vasanthakuumar — purchased the contraband from them. They have been arrested,” said R. Riazudeen, Deputy Superintendent of Police, NIB, Chennai.
20 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM updates PM on steps taken against virus||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the steps being taken by the State government to curb the spread of COVID-19. The Prime Minister spoke to the Chief Minister over the phone and enquired about the COVID-19 situation in the State, an official press release said. Mr. Palaniswami informed Mr. Modi that on an average, 48,000 samples were being tested for the infection every day — the highest pace of testing in the country. He also told the Prime Minister that efforts were being made to restore normalcy in the State at the earliest, the press release added.
20 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||They give a dignified farewell to COVID-19 victims||Ever since the COVID-19 induced lockdown started, the medical wing of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) has been doing a noble task – giving a dignified farewell to the departed. TMMK volunteers have, so far, taken care of the last rites of 16 deceased since March 24 in Coimbatore and eight of them were persons, who died of COVID-19. Across the State, TMMK volunteers performed over 300 burials. M. Mohammed Rafiq, State joint secretary of TMMK’s medical wing, said that they were doing the service with the consent of the Health Department and the Coimbatore Corporation. “Volunteers who do the service wear personal protective equipment (PPE) and other safety gears as per norms. Bodies are buried in 12-foot-deep grave. PPEs and other safety gears used for the service are properly disposed of,” he said.  “Though all the eight COVID-19 victims who were buried by our volunteers were Muslims, we are ready to offer service to people of any faith. Out of the 16 burials performed since lockdown started, four persons were from other faiths – one Christian and three Hindus – as their relatives faced difficulties due to lockdown restrictions,” said TMMK district president E. Ahammed Kabir. As COVID-19 victims are taken directly from the hospital to the graveyard, family members and relatives do not get the chance to be part of the last rites. TMMK district secretary Mujeebur Rahman said that the volunteers were taking adequate safety measures after burials, including self-isolation. While the volunteers of the organisation do the service free of cost, they charge for the expenses on PPE kits, safety gears, disinfectants and cost of digging the grave from the family of the deceased, said TMMK district treasurer A. Abbas. The organisation’s district joint secretary Ashik Ahammed said that those requiring the service of the volunteers can contact 99441-95051 or 90436-74768.
20 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for burning of tyres in front of three temples in Coimbatore||Coimbatore city police on Sunday arrested a Salem native who burnt tyre and waste materials in front of three temples here in the early hours of Saturday. The police said that he was not affiliated to any political party or organisation. G. Gajendran, 48, from Arisipalayam near Salem was arrested by a special team of the police from R.G. Pudur on Sunday afternoon. The police said the accused was identified and traced using visuals from surveillance cameras. The police had got the visual of a man collecting old tyres and setting them ablaze in front of the Mahaliamman temple on NH Road at Five Corner junction in the early hours of Saturday. Similar incidents were also reported in front of the Vinayagar shrine in front of Coimbatore railway station and at another Vinayagar shrine at Kottaimedu. Thudiyalur police also registered a case after a similar incident was reported in front of a Vinayagar temple at Nallampalayam within the limits of Coimbatore rural police. The rural police were yet to confirm Gajendran’s role in the incident. Coimbatore city police said in a statement that the accused was arrested in connection with the three incidents reported in city limits. It said that he was mentally disturbed over issues with his family. According to City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, the accused was not affiliated to any political party or organisation. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order), Coimbatore city police, said that detailed questioning and investigation was done before recording his arrest. It is learnt that the accused escaped from de-addiction treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital nearly a week ago and later he allegedly stole a moped. The two-wheeler was seen in surveillance camera visuals. Coimbatore rural police were informed about the arrest of the accused. Following the incident on Saturday, BJP national secretary H. Raja had tweeted on Saturday that members of Periyar DK (Dravidar Kazhagam) were involved, whom he wanted to be detained under provisions of the Goondas Act. Mr. Raja had unnecessarily blamed the Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam for burning waste materials in front of temples in Coimbatore, said the organisation’s general secretary K. Ramakrishnan, in a press release. MDMK general secretary Vaiko, in a statement, said the burning of tyres in front of the temples was aimed at spoiling communal harmony and creating unrest. He strongly condemned the action.
20 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Spotted deer falls into farm pond, rescued||Forest Department staff attached to Pollachi forest range rescued a spotted deer, aged around three, that fell into a farm pond at Thavalam on Pollachi – Palakkad Road on Sunday. The rescued deer was later released in a natural habitat at Sarkarpathy of Anamalai Tiger Reserve. Forest Department staff ventured into the pond and rescued the deer using nets and ropes. Pollachi forest range officer A. Kasilingam said that the farm is situated around 30 km away from the nearest forest boundary. Gaur found dead A male gaur, aged around nine, was found dead at Nellithurai reserve forest area of Mettupalayam forest range on Sunday. The carcass of the gaur was autopsied and buried. Samples lifted from the carcass would be examined in a Government laboratory to ascertain the cause of death, said officials with the Forest Department.
20 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man ventures into waterbody to retrieve ball, drowns||Fire and Rescue Services and fishermen conducted searches at Muthannankulam tank in here on Sunday after a 39-year-old man drowned in the waterbody when he allegedly ventured into it to pick a ball for children on Sunday. The police identified the victim as K. Diwanraj from Telungupalayam. District Fire Officer P. Krishnamoorthy said that one unit each from Coimbatore north and south fire stations rushed to the spot with a boat and conducted searches. Fishermen also joined the search in coracles. However, the body could not be traced till Sunday evening when searches were stopped. Sources with the police said that the man ventured into the tank to pick a ball for children, allegedly for Rs. 100. Searches will be continued on Monday morning, they added. Tourist driver arrested K.G. Chavadi police arrested driver of a tourist bus after its Kerala-based management allegedly offered to arrange trips between Ernakulam - Chennai and Ernakulam - Hyderabad by arranging e-pass from Tamil Nadu Government. The arrested has been identified as Muhammed Sabath, 30, of Ernakulam. The police said that they found messages in social media that the transport agency Brothers Holidays was offering trips between Ernakulam - Chennai and Ernakulam - Hyderabad by claiming to arrange e-pass from Tamil Nadu Government. The police contacted the transport agency over phone with the help of a person who posed as a man who wanted to travel to Chennai. The man informed that he would board the bus from K.G. Chavadi on Saturday. The police stopped the bus as it reached the place on Saturday and found that the service was conducted in violation of rules. The police arrested the driver and also seized the bus.
20 July 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Vriddhachalam Tahsildar dies in Chidambaram||Vriddhachalam Tahsildar I. Kaviarasu, 48, died of COVID-19 in Chidambaram on Saturday night. A Health Department official said Mr. Kaviarasu was admitted to the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital on July 7 after he complained of breathlessness. “His saturation was very low when he came to the hospital. His throat swabs were lifted and two test results were negative. The third one was positive,” the official said. A CT scan revealed he had COVID-19 pneumonia suggestive of acute respiratory distress syndrome. He also had diabetes, Hepatitis-B and obesity. As his condition deteriorated on Saturday, he was put on ventilator. He died around 9 p.m. owing to respiratory failure, leading to cardiac arrest, the official said. Kaviarasu is survived by wife and an eight-year-old daughter.
20 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Man commits suicide at Erode GH||A 33-year-old man committed suicide at the District Headquarters Hospital here on Sunday. According to police, R. Boopathy of Koothandipalayam in Bhavani was married to Karthiga (21) for three-and-half years and has no children. Boopathy is an alcoholic and dispute prevailed between the couple over the issue. On late Saturday, Karthiga doused herself with kerosene. Her husband admitted her to the Government Hospital at Kavindapadi and she was later shifted to the District Headquarters Hospital. The police said that on Sunday, Boopathy went to the bathroom in the ward. However, he did not return. The door was broken open. Relatives and hospital staff found Boopathy hanging from the water pipeline using a sari. Based on a complaint, Government Hospital Police Station registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC. Those with a suicidal tendency can contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.
20 July 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||DMK legislator in Krishnagiri tests positive||DMK legislator T. Senguttavan tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. According to health officials, the legislator, who initially had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Krishnagiri, was later shifted to a private hospital in Coimbatore based on his request. V. Govindan, Deputy Director of Health Services, Krishnagiri, said the MLA had had mild symptoms for a week. DMK MLAs R. Gandhi (Ranipet) and R.K. Karthikeyan (Vellore) were hospitalised after testing positive.
20 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to collect 4,000 samples till cases dip||The number of tests conducted in Madurai would continue to be in the range of 4,000 until there is a dip in cases and stabilisation in the positivity rate, said Collector T. G. Vinay. The district administration has been collecting more than 4,000 samples every day since July 13. It touched 5,133 samples on July 15, he said on Sunday. Earlier, it was testing around 3,000 samples. “There is no hard and fast rule regarding the number of tests to be conducted. We ramped up infrastructure to test 1,000 more samples particularly from fever clinics to pro-actively identify cases,” he said. The district’s positivity rate has come from 18% in the first week of July to 7.4% between July 10 and July 18. “We can see a difference in the positivity rate because we are identifying probable positives in advance. Based on severity, we are ensuring quick containment and treatment. Contact tracing is effective too,” he said. A senior official of the Health department said they are classifying cases based on whether they are within or outside the containment zone. “Identification of cases has become easier now as fever clinics are conducting more tests. That is how most of our positive cases are recognised and contained,” he said. Collector said that cases would be identified in future based on field realities. Now, 2,200 samples are being tested at the Government Rajaji Hospital and the rest are sent to labs in Chennai. The GRH has four RT-PCR machines and one RNA extractor machine. With better testing infrastructure, 2,800 to 3,000 tests could be conducted this week. ‘Another RNA extractor machine is expected next week. It will help to conduct 3,800 tests within the district, he added.
20 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A few drawbacks in televised classes||Teachers in Madurai district welcome classes telecast through Kalvi TV since July 15 terming it as an alternative form of learning for government school students during the pandemic. Those who do not have DTH connections have been left out though the classes have reached a majority of students. A headmaster of a government school in Usilampatti block says that some students in remote villages have opted for DTH connections as cable TV connections are not viable. “We have asked some students to visit homes of their friends who have cable TV connections,” he says. As per the schedule released by the government for July 15 to 31, lessons are telecast for Classes 1 to 10 from 6 a.m. and to 11 p.m. on weekdays. For those preparing for NEET/JEE examinations, six-hour sessions are held on weekdays and whole day classes are held on weekends. B. Balumani, Assistant Headmaster of Avvai Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, says there is a lack of option to clarify doubts. “Students find it difficult to understand mathematics. Video classes keep going on in television with no time to understand the concept. While offline classes are available on YouTube, many government school students cannot afford it,’ he says R. Shiva, teacher of Madura College Higher Secondary School, says that primary school students find it difficult to concentrate on their classes, which last for 30 minutes. “It would be better if the duration is reduced to less than 20 minutes. The classes focus on activity-based learning rather than following textbook syllabus,” he says. The quality of video classes can be improved, says K. Saravanan, a government-aided school headmaster, who has been participating in shooting video classes. “Teachers speak in front of the camera in video classes while a powerpoint presentation plays down the screen. This becomes monotonous and students tend to lose concentration,” he says. K. Ramachandran, a senior lecturer at District Institute of Educational Training, which creates content for the classes, says they are improving the quality of upcoming videos with interactive animation. “There will be a training programme to sensitise teachers on how to clarify doubts of students in the current scenario. School heads have been instructed to identify issues in accessing televised classes and rectify issues by August 15,” he adds.
20 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Roads remain deserted in city||All commercial establishments, shops and restaurants remain closed in view of complete lockdown in Madurai district on Sunday. Roads wore a deserted look as vehicular movement was restricted. Normalcy was observed in the last week after the 21-day intensified lockdown was lifted. Public adhered to the Sunday lockdown and only a few were seen trickling to medical stores as these shops were allowed to keep their shops open. Police personnel patrolled main roads in the city. Vehicles except those meant for milk distribution, healthcare, emergency services and funerals were barred from plying. Private vehicles meant for medical emergencies were exempted. K. L. Kumar, president, Tamil Nadu Hotel Owners Association, said that although they were willing to comply with the government order, closure of shops every Sunday had hit businesses very hard. “We barely see any profit margin. By shutting down shop on all Sundays, we are losing a lot of business,” he said.
20 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Aadi festival to be a quiet event||The flag hoisting ceremony for the annual Aadi festival at the Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, which will take place on July 21, would not have the usual fanfare this year. The temple authorities said the festivities would happen between July 21 and July 30. On July 24 (Aadi Velli), only a limited number of people would be allowed to enter the temple due to the lockdown. “It will be difficult for those who take goddess Meenakshi on a procession to come to the temple and then take part in festivities. The crowd will be restricted and only bhattars and helpers will be allowed,” said a source from the temple administration. It will not be telecast or webcast but photographs would be shared on the Internet.
20 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 6.95 cr. for horticulture development||A total of Rs. 6.95 crore has been allocated to Madurai district under the Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture for 2020-21. In a press release, Deputy Director of Horticulture (in-charge) S. Kalaiselvan said Rs. 2.41 crore has been allocated to promote cultivation area expansion of hybrid vegetables, drumstick, high-density mango and guava, papaya, loose flowers and tuberose. The target area for expansion stands at 1,120 hectares. A sum of Rs. 1 crore has been allocated to improve the cultivation area of non-seasonal vegetables. Under this component, a farmer will be given Rs. 2,500 as an incentive for cultivating vegetables in a hectare. A 50% subsidy will be given for polyhouse cultivation, shade net cultivation and installing water harvesting structures. A total of Rs. 25.75 lakh has been allotted to provide power tillers and mini tractors to farmers with a subsidy of 25% to 50%. A 50% subsidy will be given to organic farmers for setting up vermicompost units.
20 July 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has sought Rs. 3,000 cr. from Centre: Minister||Noting that the Tamil Nadu government has spent around Rs. 6,000 crore on COVID-19 management so far, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has urged the Centre to release Rs. 3,000 crore at the earliest. The Minister, who arrived here on Saturday night from Tirunelveli, held a review meeting with District Collector Prashant M. Wadnere, other officials and doctors from the government hospital. Fellow Minister Kadambur Raju, Tamil Nadu’s Special Representative in New Delhi Thalavai M. Sundaram and others visited the Government Ayurveda Medical College Hospital at Kottar on Sunday. Addressing the media, Dr. Vijayabaskar said that in government hospitals, be it those in Chennai or in other cities like Madurai, Tirunelveli or Kanniyakumari, COVID-19 management was being done as per the World Health Organisation’s guidelines. Paying tribute to the medical fraternity, he said that in many cities of the State, doctors and para-medical staff had gone beyond the call of duty and rendered yeoman service. This had provided psychological strength to the people, who had varied opinions about the virus, he added. Despite large numbers of people getting infected, the State had managed the situation well, and the mortality rate in most places was low, he said. The total lockdown had helped in containing the spread of the virus to a great extent, he added. The Minister said there were adequate stocks of face masks and sanitisers and other disinfectant material, and there was no dearth of such products in any of the government hospitals. He said the Chief Minister was very clear in his resolve to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, and the government was ready to face any challenge to save people’s lives and livelihoods. There was no room for politics or negligence in the handling of the pandemic, contrary to the allegations made by the Opposition against the government, he added. He commended the doctors and nurses at the Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital. The Collector, who laid out the measures taken by the district administration, said multi-departmental coordination by officials at several levels had facilitated speedy management. With Kanniyakumari district being situated close to Kerala, the functioning of check-posts and the manpower deployed at these points were discussed at the meeting. The doctors explained the screening procedures for migrants who come into the district from Kerala and overseas. The Minister was also apprised of the containment measures in the district. He sought to know the reason for the high case loads in some pockets of the district. He gave an assurance that he will look into the issue of staff shortage, which had arisen after many frontline workers tested positive last month. ‘Donate plasma’ To a query, Dr. Vijayabaskar said that around one lakh patients who had tested positive for the infection had successfully been treated. Hence, they should come forward to donate plasma, using which treatment could be offered to more patients with complications. The State recently recruited 2,000 lab assistants. Hence, there was no question of delay in getting test reports, he said, adding that there was no shortage of beds in government hospitals as the overall bed strength had been increased to 70,000.
20 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||No rituals allowed along banks of Cauvery today||The district administration has advised the public to not visit temples along the banks of River Cauvery here on Monday to perform Aadi Amavasai rites. In a release, District Collector K. Megraj has prohibited the public from visiting along the banks of Cauvery river at Kumarapalayam, Pallipalayam, Molasi, Jedarpalayam, Chozhasiramani and Mohanur. Mr. Megraj stated that public gatherings could lead to spread of COVID-19 disease and added that stern action would be taken against those who visit the above mentioned places despite prohibitory orders.
20 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tensions high between Raj Nivas, govt. again||The Lt. Governor’s refusal of permission to commence Assembly proceedings on Monday is the latest salvo fired by Kiran Bedi at the Puducherry government, in what seems to be a long-standing dispute between the two arms of the government. Soon after Raj Nivas was shut down recently when a staff tested positive for COVID-19, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao declared that Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who was also administered the RT-PCR, had tested negative. “I’m very happy for Kiran Bedi. People would have been in panic had the results been positive. Now, people can rejoice,” he said. Only the other day, Mr. Malladi hardly masked his displeasure while alleging that the Lt. Governor, who “after lying low for 70 days of lockdown was now holding parallel meetings and passing separate instructions to officials that disturbed pandemic work”. The Lt Governor’s office responded that the Raj Nivas briefings on coronavirus-related challenges aimed to additionally strengthen internal collaboration and prevent the spread of the virus. The Raj Nivas is not an “onlooker but a stable contributor to people’s welfare”, Ms. Bedi said. The back-and-forth was the latest in a flurry of signals that tensions between the Raj Nivas and the Government are running high once again. And, with the two seats of power not in lockstep, the impact has been felt across spheres of governance. The extended wait for MHA approval of the Budget for2020-21is the new bone of contention between the Raj Nivas and the Government — the previous vote on account was only till June 30. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy blamed the Lt.Governor for the delay stating that the administration had submitted proposals in February, aiming to present the budget in April. Ms. Bedi fired back with a timeline of file movement to make her case that there was no delay at the Raj Nivas end. Eventually, the MHA nod came on Thursday, clearing the path for its presentation in the House. Fishermen protest On June 26, hundreds of fishermen lined up their boats on the sea in protest against the delay in getting ban relief and the move to filter out the benefit to fisher families already receiving old age pension. The means test approach was dropped and the Lt. Governor eventually sanctioned Rs. 7 crore from the budgeted sum of Rs. 12 crore as ban compensation apart from another Rs. 1.7 crore under the saving-cum-relief scheme. Earlier, in April, there was a furore over distribution of free rice under a COVID-19 relief package. On April 16, the Chief Minister, alleged that the Lt. Governor was preventing distribution of 5 kg rice per member to an estimated 1.87 lakh red card holding BPL families by insisting that only cash should be paid via DBT. The same day, legislators of AIADMK, BJP and AINRC locked the entry and exit gates of the Assembly in protest demanding distribution of rice and charged the CM of shifting the blame on Ms.Bedi. With the rice relief being extended till November, the CPI (M) has written to Amit Shah, Union Home Minister, seeking an intervention to avoid delay and to channelise the relief through the PDS shops. However, a top Government official said the cash-for-rice scheme — which remains in force — and the free rice sanctioned as relief by the Centre were getting conflated in the political commotion.
20 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Rise in U.T.’s infection rate worrying’||New COVID-19 cases on a single day breached the 100 mark for the second time in four days, with Puducherry recording 109 admissions on Sunday. Addressing presspersons, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao expressed concern over the high COVID-19 infection trend. What was equally worrying was the new high of 14.2 per cent positivity with the new cases detected during testing of 768 swabs. On July 16, the Union Territory had recorded its highest single-day number of cases yet with 147 new admissions with a 13.6 per cent infection rate. Among the 109 new cases, 104 are in Puducherry region, three in Karaikal and two in Yanam region, while 92 patients were discharged.
20 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Uncertainty over U.T. Assembly session||In an unexpected turn of events, Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi on Sunday night directed the government to announce a fresh date for her customary address and presenting the Budget. In a letter to Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Ms. Bedi said she had received a communication about her customary address and presentation of the Annual Financial Statement (AFS) for 2020-21. “However, I notice that you have not sent me the AFS and Demand for Grants as required under Section 27 and 28 of the Union Territories Act, 1963. You have merely sent me the inaugural address late in the evening today,” she said in the letter, which was released to the media around 11 p.m. Stating that not sending Annual Financial Statement and Demand for Grants for approval to her as a “serious omission,” Ms. Bedi said she would give a fresh date for delivering Lt. Governor’s address and for presenting the Budget. Sources in the ruling Congress said the government would conduct the proceedings as decided and the Chief Minister would make a statement.
20 July 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3 lakh given to policeman’s family||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji on Sunday handed over asssitance of Rs. 3 lakh to the family of a head constable, Ayyanar, who recently died due to COVID-19. Accompanied by Virudhunagar Superintendent of Police P. Perumal, the Minister visited Ayyanar’s house and consoled the family members. He also handed over relief of Rs. 3 lakh from his personal funds to them. Ayyanar was attached to Seithur Rural police station.
20 July 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Jaffna man detained in Rameswaram||A 24-year-old man from Sri Lanka was detained by Thangachimadam police in Rameswaram on Sunday. The man was alone at Valasai bus stop and claimed that he had lost his way. A patrol team brought him to the police station and conducted an inquiry. A police officer said the man identified as R. Thushanthan, 24, claimed to be a resident of Jaffna in Sri Lanka and gave his address. He said he landed in Chennai on February 26 and went to his aunt’s house in Maduravoyal. After staying there for a month, he visited his sister, S. Salomi, living in a refugee camp in Kangeyam in Erode district. However, he was denied entry due to lockdown. Hence, he went to another relative’s house in Tiruvannamalai district. After staying there for a fortnight, he boarded a lorry bound for Thoothukudi last week. From there, he travelled to Madurai, where he destroyed his passport and other belongings. After reaching Pamban on Saturday night, he trekked to Thangachimadam and planned to return home, he said. Police handed Thushanthan to Q Branch for further interrogation. A senior police officer said they were in the process of verifying the details and refused to elaborate when asked why he destroyed his passport.
20 July 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Pedalling 75 km to buy birthday gift for daughter||A 58-year-old retired cab driver, T. Chelladurai, began pedalling his way on his bicycle from Srivilliputhur to Madurai — a distance of 75 km — to avail government dole of Rs. 1,000 to buy a birthday gift for his little daughter. Thanks to an advocate and revenue officials, his arduous journey ended well. Mr. Chelladurai was employed as driver in the office of a car dealer in Madurai for the past eight years. “In April-end, I was told that I cannot be employed anymore since I had completed 58 years of age. I received no retirement benefits,” he said. So, he returned to Srivilliputtur where his wife and daughter lived. He tried hard to find a job. But whereever he went, he was told to come after the pandemic scare was over. The only source of income was his 47-year-old wife Vellammal’s wages as a brick kiln worker. But he wanted to buy a gift for his daughter, Sri Kriba, who turned eight on August 10. “With no job, I thought the Rs. 1,000 assistance will help me buy her a new dress,” he said. But his ration card still carried the residential address in Madurai. With no other means of transport, he began pedalling to Madurai. On reaching Tirumangalam on July 15, he developed uneasiness. An advocate offered to take him in his car to the ration shop, where he collected the free goods. Overcome by fatigue, he could not insist on the purpose of his journey — Rs. 1,000 dole. The advocate took him back to Tirumangalam and helped him reach Srivilliputtur in a car the next day. After news of his ordeal spread, revenue authorities came to his rescue and helped transfer his ration card from Madurai to a local ration shop. On Saturday, he was given Rs. 1,500 and essential goods through Virudhunagar District Legal Services Authority. All that the grateful former cab driver now wants is a job to lead life on his own.
20 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police brace for ‘Aadi Amavasai’||Amid spurt in COVID-19 cases in the district, the police have geared up to prevent mass gatherings at bathing ghats along the Cauvery river and at other places in view of ‘Aadi Amavasai’ on Monday. The Tiruchi Rural Police has drafted a security plan for deployment of personnel at bathing ghats and at other chosen locations in this connection. The bathing ghats where the public gather for a dip in the Cauvery river and perform rituals for their ancestors have been identified sub-division-wise in the district. The identified bathing ghats in the districts include Tiruparaithurai padithurai; Kambarasampettai check dam, Ayyampalayam near Musiri and Azhagu Nachiar padithurai. Police teams have been involving panchayat presidents to ensure that mass gatherings do not take place at the bathing ghats in the wake of spread of the viral disease. Alerts were being sounded to the public through public address system. The Amma Mandapam bathing ghat in Srirangam falling under the Tiruchi City Police limits has been barricaded to prevent public from entering. The other bathing ghats falling under the Srirangam police station limits would also be kept out of bounds for public on the Amavasai day, said a senior police officer. A huge banner has been installed in front of the Amma Mandapam bathing ghat informing the public that conduct of rituals would also not be allowed on 'Aadi Perukku' falling on August 2 and on the 28th day of Tamil month 'Aadi'.
20 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees 333 new cases||The central region on Sunday saw 333 new COVID-19 cases and one death that was reported in Tiruchi district. With 138 cases, Tiruchi district saw a new single-day high. A 60-year-old man who was diagnosed with diabetes at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) where he had been undergoing treatment since July 8 died of respiratory failure on July 17, official sources said. There were 72 new cases in Pudukottai district, 35 in Tiruvarur, 34 in Thanjavur, 10 in Perambalur, 14 each in Nagapattinam and Ariyalur districts and 16 cases in Karur district. The 138 new cases in Tiruchi were identified from Khajamalai, Palakkarai, Lalgudi, Sangiliyandapuram, Varaganeri, and other areas. Five police personnel attached to the Railway Protection Force also tested positive. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the region crossed 2,265 on Sunday. Meanwhile, 23 patients, including 21 from Tiruchi, were discharged from the MGMGH while 51 patients, including 49 from Tiruchi were discharged from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai. All 74 patients were sent home after detailed instructions on dietary restrictions. They were asked not to venture outdoors for at least 14 days. Pudukottai, too, saw a spike in COVID positive cases. Of the 72 cases, 42 were immediate contacts of patients who had previously tested positive. Two had returned from Chennai, and eight were local individuals with no contact history while 18 patients were known cases of influenza- like illnesses. The total number of cases for the viral infection recorded in the district is 1,016. Thanjavur recorded 34 cases on Sunday, reflecting a significant drop in number. Tiruvarur recorded 35 new cases. Karur recorded 16 new cases including a three-day-old baby whose parents hail from Pallapatti. All patients have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. A total of 14 patients tested positive in Ariyalur on Sunday. Ten of the 14 were immediate contacts of those who had tested positive, while one each returned from Thanjavur, Chennai, Tiruchi and Perambalur districts. All 14 have been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital for treatment. Of the 14 patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam, one was a 27-year-old woman, a radiologist at the Periyar Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai. Among the other patients, one returned from Abu Dhabi, three returned from other States- including Assam and Karnataka, and four travelled from Chennai, Chengalpattu and Cuddalore. Ten patients including a worker at the District Collector’s Office tested positive for the viral infection in Perambalur. The other patients include a sanitary worker at a hospital in Chennai, two patients with influenza-like illnesses and two patients who tested positive before undergoing medical procedures.
20 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Workers reside on campus as transport facility suspended||Some of the city-based factories and manufacturing units have made arrangements for workers to stay on campus as public transport remains suspended. Arranging for the workers’ stay is cheaper than arranging for transport facilities each day, many owners said. R. Manikandan, who owns Shakthi Electricals, a transformer manufacturing company at the Ariyamangalam SIDCO Industrial Estate, said that of 26 employees, seven of them, including a supervisor stays at the factory. The remaining workers are stranded because of the lockdown, he said. A shed was constructed and all facilities for the workers’ were provided. “Majority of our electrical transformers are supplied to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board, and when they required supplies, we had to come to work with a bare minimum number of employees,” Mr. Manikandan said. Abbas Mahathir, a supervisor at Mr. Manikandan’s factory has been staying at the facility since June. “For about two weeks in June, we travelled to and fro from home, but soon, the transport services were suspended,” Mr. Mahathir, who resides in Keeranur, Pudukottai district said. Food is being served for the workers by a woman, hired by the company, to cook for them. “Since our job does not have any high-risk factors, our families are not too worried,” Mr. Mahathir said. “When the first bus leaves, I will go home to visit my parents, but until then, I must make do with phone calls,” he added. An employee working at a steel manufacturing unit in Tiruverumbur has eight others working and staying with him. “My family resides less than an hour away, on the Tiruchi- Thanjavur border, but I am unable to travel to meet them. Work needs to be done, even though I miss them,” he said, adding that he was grateful to be able to provide for my family at this unprecedented time.
20 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Helper sustains injury as elephant swipes at him at rehabilitation centre||A helper at the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at M.R. Palayam near here sustained injuries after a captive elephant suddenly swiped at him with its trunk while being given a bath on Friday. The 13-year-old elephant ‘Deivanai’, which was translocated to the centre from Sri Subramania Swamy Temple at Thiruparankundram in Madurai district after it had trampled its mahout to death, became normal thereafter. “It was an unexpected incident” said District Forest Officer, Tiruchi, D. Sujatha. The 22-year-old helper, Saran, who was admitted to the Government Hospital with pain in shoulder and legs was recovering, official sources said. Forest Department authorities said the elephant was being given a bath in the morning by its mahout Kumar when the elephant swiped at the helper standing nearby. The mahout immediately rescued the helper.  Deivanai is the seventh captive elephant to be accommodated at the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre.
20 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||SASTRA increases Tiruchi-Thanjavur quota in B.Tech seats for 2020-21||SASTRA Deemed-to-be-University has allotted 30 % of its B.Tech seats for students of Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts for 2020-21, effecting a 10 percentage point rise from last year, so as to accommodate local students in more numbers, in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Hitherto, the institution used to admit 20% (10% each from Trichy and Thanjavur). For 2020-21 session alone, additional 10% students who complete Class X and Class XII in schools in the two districts will be admitted based on merit. The move envisages providing more opportunities for the local students to pursue education in SASTRA, which is ranked among top 25 universities in India as per NIRF 2020, S. Vaidhyasubramaniam, Vice-Chancellor, said in a press release. The rank list for the B.Tech. and Law admissions will be released online on July 31, 2020 at 9:00 p.m. , within four hours form the time specified as deadline for admission, Prof. Vaidhyasubramaniam said. Students have been applying online atwww.sastra.edu. Counseling and admissions will also be conducted online without the need for the students to visit the campus. The results for the current students for the end-semester exams conducted online will be released on July 20, 2020 and the online classes for the academic year 2020-21 shall resume on August 10, 2020. Classes for freshers, planned in a face to face mode after lockdown is lifted, will be preceded by an online bridge course, the release said.
20 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 69.76 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 3,371 cusecs and discharge 10,000 cusecs.
20 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Death of elephant purely accidental’||A male elephant that was found dead at Manalvayal in the Gudalur Forest Range on Friday could have been stuck in the swamp while trying to raid banana and arecanut plantations which were being illegally grown in the area, forest department officials said. The elephant, aged between 21 and 23, is the latest that could have died as a consequence of human activities in the region, with a postmortem confirming that the animal died due to sternal recumbency, resulting in asphyxiation and eventual death after getting stuck in the swamp. When contacted, District Forest Officer, Gudalur division, Sumesh Soman, said that the elephant was among a herd of three elephants known to forest staff in the area. “The other two elephant returned to the area on Friday night to search for the elephant,” said Mr. Soman. Forest department staff said that while the death of the elephant was purely accidental, human activities in the region could have played a part in contributing to the incident occurring. “The land is Section 17 land, which is awaiting settlement by a designated settlement officer,” said a forest department staf in Gudalur. The plantations could have attracted the elephant to raid crops which led to it getting trapped in the swamp. They said that in order to prevent such incidents from recurring, other swamplands in the Gudalur region would be identified and farmers prevented from growing crops that could attract elephants.
20 July 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Stalin’s silence suspicious’||Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam on Sunday criticised DMK president M.K. Stalin for not coming out with strong comments against YouTube channel Karuppar Kootam for making derogatory remarks against Lord Muruga and Kanda Shasti Kavacham . Talking to reporters, he said Mr. Stalin was maintaining a stoic silence, giving rise to suspicions that the DMK might also be behind the uncivilised comments made by the anchor of Karuppar Kootam . The government will get to the root of the issue and inquire those involved in abetting the incident. The DMK leader should also be brought under the scanner, he said. He said Mr. Stalin’s silence in this respect cannot be brooked.
20 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone leads to thief||A 62-year-old shopkeeper was inflicted cut injuries and relieved of Rs. 5,000 under Virudhunagar West police station limits on Saturday. Police said R. Ramesh was closing his shop on East Kadai Street, when a man approached him around 3.15 p.m. and asked for a notebook. As he turned back, the stranger attacked him on the head with a knife, snatched his handbag and ran away. Later, police searched CCTV footage to nab the thief. Deputy Superintendent of Police (District Crime Branch) M. Vijayakumar, who holds additional charge of Virudhunagar sub-division, said the accused was unaware that the bag he was carrying had Mr. Ramesh’s mobile phone. “We traced him with the help of cellphone signal even as he was walking on the road and nabbed him.” The man took to robbery after he lost his job in a spinning mill. The CCTV footage showed that he kept a watch on the movement of customers at the shop for more than an hour. All valuables were recovered from him and he was sent to judicial custody, he added.
20 July 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Number of active cases crosses 2,000 mark in Virudhunagar||The number of active COVID-19 cases went past the 2,000 mark to reach 2,071 in Virudhunagar with the addition of 265 fresh cases on Sunday. The total number of positive cases in the district rose to 3,393. The death toll in the district rose to 27 with the death of a 62-year-old man with diabetes mellitus admitted to a private hospital on Saturday afternoon. Madurai’s Sunday tally was 206 and overall tally rose to 8,251. All the fresh cases were indigenous. A total of 65 patients were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities. The district’s death toll is 155 as eight people succumbed to the virus on Sunday. The district has 3,273 active cases. Thoothukudi There were 151 new cases in Thoothukudi, which pushed district’s case count to 3,441. The new cases were from Thoothukudi city, Tiruchendur, Kovilpatti and Sattankulam. The district has so far registered 24 deaths. Kanniyakumari A total of 131 new cases were recorded in Kanniyakumari, which has a tally of 2,318 and a toll of 19. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli recorded 103 new cases, which took the the district’s tally to 2,607. The fresh cases were reported mainly from Palayamkottai, Tirunelveli Town, Valliyoor, Cheranmahadevi, Radhapuram and Ambasamudram. The district’s toll is 11. Tenkasi Tenkasi reported 77 fresh cases with which its tally went up to 1,096. The district has so far registered three deaths. Theni Theni accounted for 120 fresh cases on Sunday, which took its tally to 2,494. There were two deaths, including one from Chinnamanur. Theni town reported 28 of the fresh cases, Periyakulam 27 cases, Bodinayakkanur 20 cases and Cumbum 17. Dindigul Dindigul recorded 139 new cases, which pushed the total number of cases in the district to 1,602. The district has so far registered 22 deaths. The new cases were reported from Dindigul city, Natham, Vedasandur, Batlagundu, Athur, Palani and parts of Kodaikanal hills. Ramanathapuram The tally of Ramanathapuram went up to 2,442 with 126 fresh cases reported from Ramanathapuram town, Paramakudi, Rameswaram, Tiruvadanai and Keelakarai. The district has registered a toll of 48. Sivaganga Sivaganga registered 93 new cases to mark a tally of 1,531. The district’s toll stands at 25. The new cases were from Sivaganga town, Singampunari, Karaikudi, Tirupuvanam and Manamadurai.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||135 more contract disease in Coimbatore||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Coimbatore district increased to 1,193 with 135 more persons tested positive on Sunday. The 135 positive cases reported on Sunday were from places including Vadavalli, Rathinapuri, Ganapathy, PN Palayam, Kulathupalayam, Thoppampatti, Chinna Thadagam, R.G. Street, Nallathambi Asari Street and MS Garden at Kuniyamuthur, Masakalipalayam, Telungupalayam, Udayampalayam, Indira Nagar, KC Thottam, Selvapuram, AKS Nagar, Puliyakulam, Prabhu Nagar, Thirumalayampalayam and Lakshmi Garden at Saravanampatty. In Dharmapuri, as many as 85 cases were reported. Health officials said the patients include a hospital worker, a sanitary worker and a staff nurse at the Government Medical College Hospital in Dharmapuri and a majority of cases were contacts of previous cases. In another single-day high, the Nilgiris district recorded 78 infections. With the latest infections, the total number of cases stands at 486. Till date, 172 people have recovered, and two persons from the Nilgiris who contracted the infection have died, the district administration confirmed. A majority of the cases are contacts of a person who visited Coimbatore for medical treatment, as well as those of persons, who returned from Mumbai. Sixty cases were reported in Salem. Among them, 56 were indigenous, including 42 from Salem Corporation limits. One person has travelled from Kerala and three have travelled to other districts like Tiruchi and Chennai. Tiruppur district witnessed 41 fresh cases, making it the highest single-day increase the district has seen, so far. Besides Tiruppur Corporation limits, cases were also reported from Palladam, Dharapuram and Avinashi Blocks, according to the list tweeted by the Collector. In Krishnagiri, 22 cases were reported. Twelve of them are contacts of previous cases, five were detected during ILI surveillance, three persons have travelled from other districts like Chennai and Kanchipuram and two have travelled from Bengaluru and Tirupati. Namakkal witnessed 11 cases. Three among them are contacts of previous cases, three have travelled to other districts like Tiruchi, Salem and Madurai and two have returned from Hydrebad and Muscat respectively. Four persons tested positive in Erode. While two cases were reported in corporation limits, one was reported from Chithode while one person was a trauma care staff at a private hospital in the city. A total of 477 cases were reported in the district, so far. While 297 persons were discharged after treatment, 172 continue to undergo treatment.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five die in districts||Two women from Coimbatore died of COVID-19 on Sunday. A 65-year-old woman from Vincent Road and a 75-year-old woman from Olympus near Ramanathapuram died of the disease at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The two deaths were not reflected in the COVID-19 media bulletin issued by the Health Department while it said two men aged 59 and 57 died of the disease at ESI Hospital on Saturday and Friday respectively. As of Sunday, the official death toll in the district stood at 20. Two elderly patients affected with COVID-19 died in Salem. According to officials, a 62-year-old woman from Kumarasamipatti was undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here and died during the early hours of Sunday without responding to treatment. Similarly, a 65-year-old woman from Sevapet who was admitted to the hospital on July 11 had tested positive for the disease. The patient died without responding to treatment on Sunday. According to doctors, the patient was suffering from diabetes and hypertension. Tiruppur district reported one COVID-19 death. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced in a tweet that a 50-year-old woman from Thotti Mannarai in Tiruppur Corporation limits, who tested positive and was undergoing treatment at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, died on Sunday morning. She was admitted with fever and difficulty in breathing on July 17, he said.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salesman of Tasmac bar booked for illegal liquor sale||Tiruppur City Police registered a case against a salesperson of a bar attached to a Tasmac outlet at Velampalayam for illegal sale of liquor on Sunday despite the complete lockdown. Based on a media report, the police raided the bar attached to Tasmac outlet no. 1983 at Amarjothi Garden, where it was found that liquor was sold to customers in violation of State government’s directions. Velampalayam police secured K. Veerapandi, 28, who was the salesperson at the bar and seized 38 liquor bottles from the premises. The accused was booked under provisions of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act, the police said. A police officer said that the Prohibition Enforcement Wing (Tiruppur) has been instructed to “strictly enforce all the norms” of the complete lockdown. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan told The Hindu that the 22 flying squads were instructed to monitor bars attached to Tasmac outlets. “Strict action will be initiated on bars if found open,” he said.  Special drive in Salem The Salem district police as part of special drive to check illegal sale of liquor conducted special drives between July 14 and 19 here and have registered 34 cases. Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger formed three special teams to monitor illegal sale of liquor in rural areas in the district. As part of the drive, the special team conducted raids at various places in rural limits and have seized 3,595 bottles stocked for illegal sale from various places in Salem between July 14 and 19. The teams have also registered 34 cases against 38 persons. Cash seized Police have also seized Rs. 70,815 from the accused. Police warned of stern action against persons indulging in illegal liquor sale in the district.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribal girl excels in exams||The intricately designed ones are priced at Rs. 250 each. Ms. Dhevayani says she is among the few girls in her settlement who have passed Class 12. “We have, only now, seen a rise in the number of girls who have studied till Class 12 over the last five years. Not many girls go to college, though they study well,” she says, adding, “This is because it is a struggle to get community certificates from the government which state clearly that they are [from the] Scheduled Tribes. This is besides the financial problems they face.” R. Maheswari, secretary of TENT Society, a non-governmental organisation that works with nomadic tribes in Madurai, says the government had provided community certificates to around 20 people from the settlement in March. “A total of 15 families from this settlement are yet to be recognised. It has been a long struggle,” she says. Ms. Dhevayani adds that it has also taken a certain degree of effort to convince her family to let her study in college. Her father, B. Ganesh, says he has decided to send her to college after speaking to elders in the community, volunteers from TENT Society and teachers at her school. “I’m not educated and don’t have much money. So I was concerned about having to send her to the city to study. I’ve always known that she is a good student. However, I was concerned about finances,” he says. Ms. Maheswari says her organisation has been attempting to mobilise funds for Ms. Dhevayani’s education. “I’m sure that when I start working, my family will not have to starve. I want to head to college now,” Ms. Dhevayani says.
20 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Multi-pronged strategy for COVID-19 management||The Belagavi district administration is employing a multi-pronged strategy for the better management of COVID-19. One of the steps is to increase the number of beds in the district designated COVID-19 hospital. The number of beds has been increased to 350 from 200. As this reduced the number of beds for non-COVID-19 patients by 150, officials decided to move such patients to private hospitals and offered to pay for their expenses. These expenses will be paid either under Arogya Karnataka or Rashtriya Swastha Bima Yojana health schemes. The State government is also requisitioning beds from private hospitals. “Some hospitals have volunteered to set up COVID-19 wards on their premises. If that is not enough, we will issue orders requisitioning some beds,” a senior officer said. Private hospitals “The Epidemic Diseases Act empowers Deputy Commissioners to take over private hospitals that do not follow rules issued by the government from time to time. More over, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has asked hospitals to set aside 50 % of their beds for COVID-19 patients. Either they can admit them by themselves or they can take in patients sent by the government,” he said. 40 beds Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has decided to reserve 40 beds in the Cantonment hospital for doctors and other staff on COVID-19 duty. A COVID-19 care centre would be set up for COVID Warriors, he told The Hindu . Mr. Hiremath has also spoken to the authorities at the Employee State Insurance hospital and the military hospital in Ganeshpur to accommodate COVID-19 patients. Mr. Hiremath and others inspected the facilities at the ESI hospital and the military hospital on Sunday.  Rapid antigen test Mr. Hiremath said that Belagavi district would use rapid antigen testing kits for random COVID-19 testing. “We are getting a 1,000 kits in the first phase. We will seek more in the second phase depending on the success and ease of use of these kits,” he said. Random testing is being carried out in suspected areas and high risk areas. This will run parallel with the process of contact tracing and testing, he said.  The State government is also requisitioning beds from private hospitals
20 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Patient dies, her relatives blame it on doctors||Relatives of a COVID-19 positive person who died in the district hospital, Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences, have complained to the Deputy Commissioner stating that “negligence” by doctors and other staff led to the death of the patient. The patient, a 31-year-old woman, who died in the district hospital on Sunday, was admitted to the hospital for diabetes-related complications. Her swab sample was collected on Friday and the results were out on Sunday. She died soon after. Her relatives have complained that she was a victim of negligence. A video clip of her wringing in pain in the COVID-19 ward of the hospital was widely shared on social media. Allegations denied However, director of Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences Vinay Dastikop denied the allegations. He said that the condition of the woman was critical when she was brought to the hospital. “She was given oxygen. But we could not save her. That should not be seen as negligence,” he said. He criticised the trend of people making videos of patients inside hospitals and sharing them on social media stating that it amounted to insulting the work of doctors and their staff who are striving to manage the pandemic.
20 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 care centres in Dharwad get books, sports material||The Dharwad district administration is equipping COVID-19 care centres with books and sports material to help those housed there spend quality time and remain active during their 10-day quarantine period. Officials have supplied carrom boards, chess kits, cricket sets and volleyballs to such care centres to help the inmates remain engaged. Some of the care centres that have been set up in the government-run Devraj Urs Backward Class hostels have basketball courts and small cricket pitches. They will be utilised by non-symptomatic people housed there. Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil has asked the Department of Libraries to procure books from donors and other sources and supply them to the care centres. Newspapers and magazines too would be supplied. He has directed the Department of Youth Affairs and Sports to provide sports equipment to the care centres. The department would allow resource persons to conduct yoga sessions in these centres. The district administration has tied up with Indian Medical Association to provide tele- counselling for those housed in the care centres. The association has sent a list of 11 doctors and their phone numbers to all such centres.
20 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rashtriya Military School registers 100 % pass in Class X and XII board exam||Students of Rashtriya Military School have achieved 100 % pass in both Class X and XII board examination. A total of 54 cadets wrote their Class X board examination, and 46 of them got distinction and three cadets Vivek, Abhinandan and Nilash stood first in their school by securing 93 %. Among 28 cadets of Class XII, 10 got distinction and two cadets, Sushant and Sahil kundu stood first in their class by securing 81.4 %. Kendriya Vidyalaya Students of Kendriya Vidyalaya No 2 in the military Cantonment area have excelled in the Class 10 and 12 examinations conducted by the CBSE. Sharankumar Sangali of Class 12 (Science) has secured 97.60 % marks and stood first among the students of all Kendriya Vidyalayas in the State. The school repeated its last year’s performance of 100 % pass. All the 283 students passed, with 14 of them scoring above 90 %. In Class 12, all the 77 students passed and 12 secured above 90 %. Samrudhi Sangali and Amogh Kallimath topped the school in Class 10 with 93.80 %. Sanjeevini Bhende stood second in the Science stream with 96.40 % in Class 12. In the Commerce stream, Shambhavi Vaze secured the first position in the school with 96.20 %.
20 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Garbage truck drivers protest after one of them dies||Garbage truck drivers attached to the Belagavi City Corporation staged a protest in front of the district hospital after one of their colleagues was killed in a road accident on Sunday. Driver Jitendra Davale (34) was injured when he hit a road divider near the wholesale fruit market near the national highway. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. His colleagues and family members gathered in front of the hospital and demanded that the garbage contractor and the city corporation pay compensation to the family of the driver. They dispersed after corporation commissioner K.H. Jagadish promised the workers that he would forward their demands to the State government.  Driver Jitendra Davale was injured when he hit a road divider near the wholesale fruit market near the national highway, and died
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s COVID-19 recovery rate plummets to 36.5%||With consistent increase in number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State, the recovery rate in Karnataka has now dipped to 36.5%. Data analysed by the State COVID-19 war room as on Saturday, shows that 21,775 of the total 59,652 patients who tested positive have been discharged. As of June 18, the recovery rate was 62.72 %. Udupi district has the highest discharge rate of 75.4% and Bengaluru Rural has the lowest discharge rate of 8.1 %. G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, Udupi district, said that they had a high recovery rate as a majority of the patients were asymptomatic. “We had over 1,000 people from Maharashtra who tested positive and they all did not have symptoms. Our recovery rate was very high. Of late, the number of patients who have symptoms is increasing and they are taking a longer to recover,” he said. Mr. Jagadeesha pointed out that of 15 patients in the district who were on ventilators, 14 had recovered and were discharged and only one patient had passed away. In addition to these 15, six other patients are currently on ventilator. Sources in the Department of Health and Family Welfare said the State government is striving to ensure that the recovery rate improved. “There is a huge spike in the number of cases and patients need at least 12 to 13 days to recover and be discharged. The increase in number of cases reported over the last couple of days has reduced our recovery rate,” an official said. The official also pointed out that the State government was committed to ensure that those with moderate and severe symptoms received timely medical care at hospitals. “We are also segregating patients and ensuring that those with mild symptoms are placed in COVID-19 care centres or are under home isolation. Only those with moderate and severe symptoms have to be hospitalised. This will ensure that those in need of medical attention get the best treatment,” the official added.  Deaths per million Data by the war room indicates that the highest deaths per million population were in Bengaluru Urban district. As many as 65.6 deaths per million were reported in the district. The lowest death rate is in Chitradurga at 0.6 deaths per million population. The State average deaths per million population now stands at 20.1.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP to conduct rapid antigen tests on suspected COVID-19 victims||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to perform rapid antigen tests on persons suspected to have died of COVID-19. This, according to senior health officials in the civic body, will help them quickly confirm and ascertain if the cause of death was COVID-19. The results of the rapid antigen test can be derived in about 30 minutes. “Earlier, throat swabs of the deceased person were taken and sent for testing. Until the results were received, the body was held up and not released to the family,” said a senior health official. “The PCR and rapid antigen test both are used to check the RNA of the virus in the samples collected. While PCR results take around 8 hours, we can get results of rapid antigen test in less than 30 minutes. The other difference is that while PCR has 80% sensitivity, antigen test has 65% sensitivity,” said BBMP’s District Health Officer (DHO) G. Suresh. Confirming the development, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Public Health) D. Randeep told The Hindu that the decision was taken in the light of many complaints received on the delay in handing over the bodies of the deceased to their families. “Once the test confirms the cause of death, the body is either interred or cremated as per the protocol,” he said. The other reason is that once the cause of death is confirmed to be COVID-19, the civic body can immediately test the family members of the deceased. “This way, we will be able to check the spread more quickly. If the primary contacts also test positive for COVID-19, they may either opt for home isolation or go to a COVID Care Centre if they are asymptomatic. If they develop symptoms, they may get admitted to either government or private hospital for medical intervention,” an official said. The civic body is also contemplating setting a time limit for the body of the deceased persons to be handed over to the families for last rites. We will be issuing an order soon. Meanwhile, BBMP’s District Health Officer (DHO) G. Suresh, who is in-charge of rapid antigen testing, said that test kits have been given to all primary health centres and major government hospitals in BBMP limits and in Bengaluru Urban district limits. On July 17, it launched the rapid antigen test kits, following which, then BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, who has since been transferred, said they were looking for volunteers with science background to join the effort. Dr. Suresh said that priority was given to testing those with comorbidities, Influenza like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), especially in containment zones. Around 10 teams that were formed recently are deputed to different wards where more number of COVID-19 positive cases are being reported, he added.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Desperation forces sex workers to court danger||Rashmi (name changed) is a 27-year-old sex worker, who is struggling to make ends meet. She was out of work for over three months during lockdown, but returned to the streets recently. “I know that I am risking contracting COVID-19, but I can also not go hungry. I have no other means of livelihood,” she said. Marginalised communities are always the worst hit during a crisis. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected sex workers, who have largely been ignored. In desperation, many like Rashmi have resumed work after lockdown restrictions were eased, and live in fear of contracting COVID-19. Sleuths from the Women and Narcotics Wing of the Bengaluru police recently conducted two raids and rescued 27 women who were working in a brothel in a two-storey independent house in Puttenahalli. The women hailed from different parts of the country. In the second raid, five women working in a lodge at Yeshwantpur were rescued. “We are surprised that it seems like business as usual. Both the women and their clients run a high risk of contracting COVID-19. The police teams that raided these two places had to wear masks, face shields and gloves to protect themselves,” a senior police official said. Geeta, coordinator, Sadhana Mahila Sangha, working for the rights and welfare of street sex workers, said while the State government had announced assistance to various professionals like drivers and barbers, it had failed to even acknowledge sex workers. “The pandemic has completely snatched their livelihood. Yet, the government has not come to their aid. Probably, this is also a time for providing alternative job opportunities for the community,” she said, demanding the government announce an aid package to the community. For the most part, sex workers have been ignored by people and groups offering aid. “Even during lockdown, very few philanthropists thought of sex workers. We were able to distribute very few ration kits,” said Geetha. Lakshmi (name changed), another sex worker who has resumed work, said it had been three months since she had paid rent for her house. With her landlord breathing down her neck every day and threatening to evict her, she paid him an advance. “I took loans and somehow survived. But paying rent has turned into a big problem for most sex workers. If we are evicted, we will become more vulnerable,” she said. However, some of them are trying to adapt to the pandemic and have taken sex work online through WhatsApp and online payment gateways. “We have come across sex workers who moved online during the lockdown, and continue providing online audio and video services on phone. But many of them are not tech-savvy and do not know how to find clients online,” Ms. Geeta said.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Experts underline need to motivate health workforce||The surge in the number of COVID-19 cases has led to the breakdown of healthcare systems and an increase in case fatality rates across the country. As both private and government hospitals are reporting a shortage of staff that has crippled their services, COVID-19 experts have underlined the need to motivate the healthcare workforce so that they stay dedicated to their profession during this pandemic. The Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA) recently revealed that private hospitals are facing a 30% shortage of doctors and overall 50% shortage of nurses and ward boys. The situation is no different in government hospitals, where staff shortage is a perennial problem. While a sizeable chunk in both the private and government hospitals have been infected and hence are off duty, several have just quit their work fearing they will get infected. “Taking care of human resources is more important than mobilising additional beds and other infrastructure, which the government can acquire easily,” said Giridhara R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee. In a tweet, Dr. Babu said: “Ensuring the motivation of the healthcare workforce is non-negotiable. Mere words do not mean anything. Contrary to this, healthcare workers have become the victims of discrimination. It is time to overhaul human resources with oxygen of reforms; otherwise, ventilators don’t help.” C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is also the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force said there is a need for a dedicated COVID-19 hospital for healthcare workers. “With several workers from hospitals themselves testing positive, we should either have a dedicated facility in the hospital itself to isolate and treat them or there should be a dedicated single hospital in every city/town. In Jayadeva nearly 80 of our staff have tested positive and we admitted them into cardiac rehabilitation centre located in a separate block on our premises,” he said. Adequate safety Stating that motivation begins from giving them adequate protective gear and other safety measures, the doctor said, “They should be tested if they have come in contact with a positive person or show symptoms. This will give them confidence that the institution is taking care of them.” He said that there should be in-house COVID-19 advisory committees to build confidence among the staff. “The employees should be convinced that the institute that they are working for will support them and their families in case they get infected,” Dr. Manjunath added.  Dr. Babu said he had submitted a proposal to the government with suggestions to ensure a motivated workforce. The State government should announce a term insurance of Rs. 2 crore for every health worker who might die due to COVID-19, he said. Other measures Setting up dedicated hospitals and beds for healthcare workers including provision of entire medical expenditure, additional incentives on a daily basis, generous payment for part-time workers and resting period at regular intervals are among the suggestions, he added.  Ensuring the motivation of the healthcare workforce is non- negotiable. Mere words do not mean anything. Contrary to this, healthcare workers have become the victims of discrimination. It is time to overhaul human resources with oxygen of reforms; otherwise, ventilators don’t help.  Giridhara R. Babu member, Karnataka COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CBSE results: Schools part of THiS record 100% pass||Schools part of The Hindu in School (THiS) programme recorded 100% pass in the CBSE board examinations announced recently. In St. Sophia Convent School, Nagarabhavi, eight of the 36 students who gave the examination secured distinction. Darshan N.R., by securing 95%, was the topper. Prarthana Central School, Padmanabhanagar, achieved cent percent results with 60 students securing 90% and above. Yuktha C. (97.4%) was the topper. In Shishya BEML Public School, 57 of 67 students secured distinction. Sreelaxmi Nandakumar (96%) was the topper. KLE Society’s School, Nagarabhavi, boasted 100% pass results with 94 of 98 students passing in first class. Rasavi Tirumani Suresh (97%) emerged the topper. Samsidh Mount Litera Zee School, HSR branch, achieved 100% pass with 27 of 34 students securing distinction. Nandana P. Pillai and Pranjal Pragya by both securing 97.6% were the joint toppers. At Samsidh MLZS, Vidyaranyapura branch, 14 of 21 students passed in first class. Kavinya Mahesh (90.2%) was the topper. Sri Vani Education Centre, Hanumavana, achieved 100% pass with 118 of 123 students passing in first class. Gagana Y. (97.4%) was the topper. All four students of the first batch of Mahan Anjanadri Vidya Kendra, Tavarekere passed. Rohit Patel (75%) stood first. In ITI Central School, Dooravaninagar, 71 of 134 students secured distinction. Keerthy Vasan K. (94.4%) was the topper. In JSS Public School, HSR Layout, 46 of 91 students in Class 10 and 16 of 32 students Class 12 secured distinctions. Pragathi R. (96.6%) was the topper in Class 10. Aryan S. Kumar and Umang Goyal both with 95.4% were the joint toppers in Class 12. In Maithry Vidyanikethan, Ramamurthy Nagar, 14 of 81 students secured distinction. Aparna K. (97%) was the topper. For the 19th consecutive year, Venkat International Public School, Rajajinagar, achieved 100% pass results. Sahana Bhat (97.6%) was the topper. NPS group Students of four branches of National Public School (NPS) excelled in the board examination. In NPS, Rajajinagar, 117 of 130 students secured distinction. Ruchitha M. by securing 99.4% emerged school topper. Whereas in NPS, HSR, 85 of 88 students secured distinction. Hima Shashidhar by securing 98.6% emerged school topper. In NPS, Indiranagar, 80 of 115 students secured 90% and above marks. Ishita Mittal (98.2%) was the school topper. In NPS, Koramangala, 95 students appeared and the school average was 92.2%. Nikita Kiran (99.2%) was the school topper.  At DPS Bangalore North, Yelahanka, 452 of 532 students secured distinction. Samhita Rayana (98%) was the topper. In DPS Bangalore East, 400 of 494 students in Class 10 and 288 of 300 students secured distinctions. Sneha Gupta (97.8%) was the topper in Class 10. Shreyas Sesham (97.6%) in Science, Gaurav Khatri (98.8%) in Commerce, and Prakriti Agarwal (97.4%) were the toppers in Class 12. Students of DPS Bangalore South too brought laurels to the institution. Hithysh L. Kanth (98.4%) was the topper.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Clamour for beds, but no takers for converted coaches||The demand for beds has never been higher, but at a time when people are struggling to get hospitalised, the South Western Railways’ (SWR) efforts to treat patients in coaches converted into care centres have no takers. The converted coaches have remained unused for over three months despite a sharp surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in cities like Bengaluru. In April, the SWR had converted 320 coaches into COVID-19 centres at a cost of Rs. 30,000 per coach. They were converted as per the prototype guidelines of Railway Board with the installation of oxygen cylinders and other medical equipment. The SWR had maintained that the coaches are clean, sanitised regularly and were hygienic. No enquiries yet When asked about non-utilisation of these facilities, E. Vijaya, Chief PRO, SWR, said, “Coaches have been converted as per the specifications of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. We have not received enquiries from the State for using these converted coaches. Whenever there is demand, as per the guidelines, the SWR will provide electricity, water and other essentials. The department concerned has to deploy medical staff to use the facility.” In the first phase, the SWR had converted over 60 coaches into care centres in the Bengaluru division. As there was no demand, in the last week of May, the SWR started using 160 of converted coaches to ferry migrant workers in Shramik Trains.
20 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Former UAS-B V-C comes out against threshing crops on public roads||The emphasis on health precautions, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, has put the focus again on the lack of adequate threshing yards in villages that have resulted in farmers threshing crops on public roads. Farmers spread their harvested crops, like ragi and paddy, on the road to be threshed under the wheels of vehicles that pass. This results in not only a loss of grains, but also poor quality and unhygienic grains. Now, in the wake of the rapid spread of COVID-19, scientists have urged both the State and the Union governments to take measures to build multi-purpose threshing yards at every panchayat so that threshing on roads could be avoided. “The pressure on land owing to fragmentation, besides the nuclear family system, has resulted in farmers doing away with the system of having family threshing yards due to the costs involved. Threshing crops on public roads not only results in huge loss of grains, but also leads to desperate sale due to fear of quality being hit during rainy season. This practice also affects quality of grains as well as fodder due to mix of petrol, diesel, engine oil, urine, dung,” observes K. Narayana Gowda, former Vice-Chancellor of the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru. He suggests building multi-purpose threshing yards in every village panchayat for the use of farmers on the payment of rent. Dr. Gowda, who recently chaired a meeting to review the implementation of the Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) scheme of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), says the threshing yard system was one of the issues that was discussed. Recommended “We have recommended to both the State and the Union governments to establish multi-purpose threshing yards,” he notes. According to him, it would not be a burden on the government and the local authorities to create such spaces as they can build them under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act Scheme, and the Pradhan Mantri Yantra Dhara Yojana. He suggests that low-cost sheds, compound and storage structures should also be part of the yards as farmers could store their produce. The facility could also be used for sports and cultural programmes. The review meeting has suggested that either landless or less landed farm youth and self-help groups should be involved in threshing activities. This will increase the income of farmers, provide quality grains to consumers, quality fodder to animals, and employment to around 60 youth and around 30 SHGs almost round the year, he observed.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Putting up boards causing discrimination, says HDK||Urging the government to stop putting up boards outside the homes of COVID-19 patients, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said this amounted to social discrimination, besides leading to “untouchability”. “Identifying COVID-19 patients by way of putting up warning boards is resulting in ostracization of the families. They have to live with respectability after coming out of the infection. The government should immediately stop this practice,” he tweeted. “Instead of creating social discrimination by putting up warning boards, the government should send health workers to their homes to instil confidence among the patients and create awareness. Patients and their family members should be informedabout their responsibility to not venture out. I urge Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to focus his attention on this issue and stop shaming people,” he said. Reminding the State government that the power to cancel the licence of private medical colleges rested with the Medical Council of India, Mr. Kumaraswamy, in another tweet, said, “It is wrong of any hospital to deny treatment. However, it is also not right on the part of the government to threaten [them] with cancellation of licence. No benefit is to be derived out of this threat in this time of crisis.” The JD(S) leader said that instead of being issued threats, colleges should be taken into confidence and their services sought. “The government should also meet the needs of the colleges. It should start a cooperative movement to meet the threat of the infection.”
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ward committee meetings to be held today||Ward committees have been instructed to conduct meetings on Monday to ensure effective micromanagement of COVID-19 containment plans as well as to activate ward disaster management cells. Senior IAS officer L.K. Atheeq, who is the task team head for community involvement through ward committees in urban local bodies, said he had instructed BBMP to send notices to ward committees. Last week, the BBMP had conducted a training session on roles and responsibilities of ward committees and booth-level committees to contain the spread of COVID-19. “Ward committees have been asked to meet every week, and the output of meetings will be monitored,” said Mr. Atheeq. Formation and monitoring of booth-level committees will also be one of the main agendas. Welcoming the move, Abdul Wajid, Opposition leader, BBMP, said Rs. 20 lakh that was allocated to each ward to fight the pandemic had still not been released. “If that amount was released, we could have used it through the ward committees also. There must be action and for that they should release money,” he said. Many Residents’ Welfare Associations have started inducting volunteers to assist with COVID-19-related issues at ward and booth-level.
20 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Milk unions want govt. to hike incentive||While cash-starved milk unions are resorting to cuts in procurement price for milk, they have also sought the government’s intervention to bail out farmers by increasing the incentive from its side from Rs. 5 to Rs. 8 a litre. “Most unions have written to Karnataka Milk Federation about the hike in incentive, and Bengaluru Milk Union Ltd. has also written to the government. The issue was raised during a videoconference last week,” BAMUL president Narasimhamurthy said. The unions have also suggested that the government supply skimmed milk powder through the Public Distribution System to the homes of schoolchildren, who would otherwise get milk daily, he added. However, it may be noted that the government is yet to release the incentive for the last several months.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru:,KARNATAKA||Classes on DD Chandana from today||High school students from government and aided schools can finally attend classes by switching on to DD Chandana from Monday. The Department of Public Instruction has issued a detailed timetable for students of classes 8, 9, and 10. In the first phase, the department has issued a schedule for 10 days from July 20 to 31. Each class will be telecast for half an hour, and there will be classes for four hours a day. They will commence from 9.30 a.m. and go on till 5.30 p.m. in three different slots.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Triage-cum-CCCs||N. Manjunath Prasad, BBMP Commissioner, has suggested setting up triage-cum-COVID Care Centres (CCCs) at the Assembly constituency level, each with a capacity of 50-100 beds. They can be unoccupied apartments or vacant hostels. The BBMP is also exploring the possibility of providing basic medicines and kits to patients who come to the facility. “Those who are asymptomatic can be either sent for home isolation or to CCCs. Doctors will keep tabs on them every two-three days. If they develop any symptoms or require medical intervention, they may call a particular number for assistance,” he added.
20 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||13 deaths reported in Kalyana Karnataka||As many as 13 COVID-19 deaths and 248 new cases were reported from Kalyana Karnataka region on Sunday. Of the 13 deaths, four were reported from Koppal district and three each from Kalaburagi, Bidar and Ballari districts. The district-wise positive cases are as follows: Ballari 73, Kalaburagi 69, Bidar 45, Raichur 32, Koppal 19 and Yadgir 10.
20 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Gangavati MLA tests positive for COVID-19||Gangavati MLA Paranna E. Munavalli tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. The BJP legislator had attended a meeting at the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Friday. Meanwhile, the Health Department has asked two Congress MLAs — Amaregouda L. Bayyapur representing Kushtagi constituency and Raghvendra Hitnal representing Koppal, who also attended the meeting, to quarantine themselves for 10 days.
20 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Alternative plans put in place as NMPT continues work amid COVID-19 scare||Amid reports of COVID-19 spreading within the premises of New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT), its container re-stacker unit remained non-functional for a couple of days this weekend. However, NMPT authorities denied any operational disruption stating that alternative arrangements were in place already. It all started when one of the workers at the re-stacker unit was found to be positive for COVID-19 on Friday. After this, other workers were hesitant to come to work. The situation would have had an adverse impact on the port’s functioning, including import and export of container cargo. As many as four coastal container vessels and one foreign vessel call on NMPT every week, while the port is witnessing a steady growth in container traffic. NMPT Chairman A.V. Ramana told The Hindu that despite strict adherence to standard operating practices, the first COVID-19 positive case was reported in the fire department of the port on July 17 due to reverse ingress of workers and community spread of the disease in Dakshina Kannada. The patient was a primary contact of an infected person from outside NMPT. All subsequent contacts were isolated and tested for COVID-19 that in turn showed 13 positive cases. NMPT has quarantined them and their primary contacts as well, Mr. Ramana said. System in place Mr. Ramana said that expecting an outbreak of the contagion, NMPT had prepared a business continuity plan in March itself. The plan covers splitting workers into teams and working from different buildings in different locations. Exclusive arrangement with private laboratories for mass testing of field staff was also made. The period between July 15 and August-end appears to be challenging for NMPT as many of the staff staying outside the port premises aere getting infected. Similar problems were being faced by other mega industries in the region. The port had allowed the use of private cargo handling equipment by stevedores from open market without depending on port-owned equipment anticipating these issues. NMPT Hospital is also ready to handle the emerging situation and it is roping in additional doctors on short-term contract. Mr. Ramana said that NMPT operations were not affected till date, while it has arranged buses for exclusive ferrying of staff on emergency duty. As in the past, NMPT continues to accommodate fishing vessels on its premises during the monsoon. A make-shift gate was provided with Customs approval, without mixing fishermen and regular port users.
20 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Megalithic menhir, among others, discovered||A team of archaeologists led by T. Murugeshi recently discovered a menhir, a cupule, a well cut in round shape in hard laterite, and pottery of the megalithic period on the foothills of Mookasura Betta, near Kollur, in Udupi district. Prof. Murugeshi, an associate professor of Ancient History and Archaeology with Mulki Sundar Ram Shetty Memorial College, Shirva, in Udupi district, said the exploration site where the menhir (a tall upright stone of the kind erected in the prehistoric era) was discovered was very close to Kollur Mookambika Temple. In a statement, he said the menhir was similar to the ones discovered in the adjacent Malnad region. He said Mookasura Betta has a fort-like structure constructed using undressed stones. Locals call it “Mookasurana Kote”. According to Indian mythology, Mookasura was a demon king who was killed by Devi in Kollur to restore dharma , and hence came the name Mookambika. The menhir found at Mookasura Betta was about 2.1 metres tall, 55 cm thick, 65 cm wide at the bottom, and 55 cm at the top. It was lying on the ground and originally seemed to be oriented towards the east. About 40 such menhirs were reported by researchers at several places, namely Baise, Nilskar, and Heragal in the adjacent Hosanagar taluk of Shivamogga district, Prof. Murugeshi recalled. Quoting former director of State Archaeology A. Sundara, Prof. Murugeshi said the name Baise was a vernacular version of the Sanskrit word Mahisha. Dr. Sundara had dated the megalithic menhir culture of Nilskar, Baise and Hergal to c. 1200-1000 B.C., he said, adding that the discoveries at Kollur too could be dated back to 1000 B.C. or much earlier. Prof. Murugeshi has already reported menhirs at Kurkal, Adkadakatte, and Buddhanajeddu of Udupi district. The menhir found at Kollur could be from the beginning of the megalithic culture, he added. Menhirs were locally known as Anekallu, Dibbanadakallu, Nilskallu, Barbiniyarakallu, etc. Prof. Murugeshi thanked Muralidhara Hegde, Ramesh Anagalli, U.B. Chandr Guddemane, Raghavendra Aithal, Janardhana Achari, and Bhaskari Nuksal of Kollur for their help in the exploration.
20 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Giving fillip to ‘Vocal for local’, help comes in the form of Soch Swadeshi add-on||Giving a fillip to the “Vocal for local” campaign, three young innovators have launched Soch Swadeshi, an add-on/plug-in feature for Google Chrome browser, that helps buyers using Amazon e-commerce website to make an informed purchase of Indian products. A buyer has to first typehttps://get.sochswadeshi.in- /installto activate this add-on feature on his Google Chrome browser. When the user logs on to the Amazon website on his laptop or desktop and selects a product, Soch Swadeshi gets activated and comes up with flags such as “Product of Bharat, Manufactured in Bharat”, “Product of Bharat, Sourced in Bharat”, “Product of Japan, Assembled in Bharat” or “Product of USA, Manufactured in Bharat”. These flags were the outcome of data gathered by the group about the parent companies of products, as to where they were sourced from and where they were manufactured. A buyer could also tweet about the products with the hashtag #vocalforlocal, after a purchase. According to Swastik Padma from Puttur, who is a member of the group, told The Hindu , not all products have information about where they were sourced from and manufactured. The group was doing a detailed study of brands through crowd sourcing and machine learning not only to inform about the place of manufacture and source but also to tell where the parent companies were based. At present, information on 300 brands was available and more brands would be added, he said. Mr. Padma, a first year BE student from Vivekananda Engineering College, Puttur, has developed this feature along with C.S. Mohammed Suhail, a researcher from Srirangapatna, and Pranav Shikarpur, who is doing his engineering course in the U.S. The three were members of the Indian Team that excelled in the International Science and Engineering Fair held at Pittsburgh in the U.S. in May 2018. They were part of the two Indian teams that won the second place grand awards of $ 1,500 each. MIT Lincoln Laboratory has named three minor planets after them. Their discussion on an App to promote Indian products culminated in the add-on. Mr. Padma said, “We started this work on July 3 and launched it on Sunday (July 12) following clearance by Google.” Besides working on expanding the feature to other e-commerce platforms, the group has plans to design an App for use in smartphones too.
20 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Five booked for violations||Three technicians from Tamil Nadu who had come to a private medical college in Sullia to service an MRI scanner and two Sullia residents were booked for alleged violation of home quarantine . The Sullia Police identified them as Wanons, Devaraman, Prem Kumar G. from Tamil Nadu, and Praveen George from Gandhi Nagar of Sullia town and Shruti C.S. from Bellare of Sullia taluk. The police said the technicians had come to the college on July 15. Along with two local residents who became primary contacts of a patient, they were advised home quarantine. Personnel monitoring the quarantine watch app noticed themmoving out of the houses they were in. They alerted Sullia Tahsildar who filed a complaint on July 17. The Sullia Police registered a case against the five for offences under Sections 269, 270 and 271 of IPC and Section 5 (1) Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, 2020.
20 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Gym owners, trainers in a spot||Gym owners and trainers across the State are distraught as their source of livelihood has been snatched away ever since the COVID-19 lockdown was declared in March this year. With no earnings for more than four months now, gym owners have not been able to pay either the rent of the buildings or the instalments against loans taken for purchase of gym equipment. Many trainers have been laid off and are finding it difficult to make ends meet. A number of fitness centres in Bengaluru and other parts of the State were up for sale, said president of Karnataka Gym and Fitness Centre Owners’ Association A.V. Ravi. A majority of the gyms were operating on rented premises. “Unable to pay the accumulated rental dues, already run into several lakhs, many are scouting for buyers for their equipment. About 50 to 60 gyms are up for sale in Bengaluru alone. Some others had put up treadmills, exercise cycles and even dumbbells for sale on different online portals and on different social media groups,” he said. No hope yet The spike in the number of cases in the recent past has put paid to their hopes of early reopening of gyms. The association, which had been seeking permission to reopen their facilities, had decided against renewing their request in view of the rise in the number of cases. “We can’t be asking the government permission to reopen now when the virus is fast spreading,” said Mr. Ravi. The condition of trainers appears to be worse. Sreejith Jayaprakash, an owner-cum-trainer at a fitness centre in Nalapad Hotel in Mysuru, said most gym trainers are unable to take up jobs other than fitness training to meet their expenses. The response for online fitness training offered by the gym owners has been far from encouraging. Similarly, there are not many takers for personal training offered by these out-of-job trainers at the houses of fitness enthusiasts. “People are wary of allowing others into their houses nowadays,” said Mr. Ravi. President of Mysuru Gym and Fitness Centre Owners’ Association Harsha and Mr. Ravi have made a strong case for the government to consider gyms and trainers as an industry and extend assistance. “There are at least 20,000 to 30,000 people, including gym owners, trainers, dieticians, cleaners, who have been badly hit by the closure,” Mr. Ravi said. ‘High risk’ Chidambara, an official in the Health Department in Mysuru, who is in charge of epidemic control, said gyms are considered high-risk in view of the gathering of people in a closed environment. The sweating, heavy breathing and coughing and sneezing could contribute to spreading the virus, if any, he said. Working out in a gym may give strength and burn excess fat, but is not directly related to building immunity necessary to fight diseases. Gyms are not considered to be a priority area and government permission for their reopening is unlikely to come soon, he said.
20 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Farmers too go in for online training||Students and teachers are not the only ones engaged in online activities during COVID-19 to keep themselves academically busy. Even farmers in rural Mysuru have switched over to online classes. Over 600 farmers have participated in an online training and interaction on agricultural activities, launched by the District Agricultural Training Centre (DATC) at Naganahalli n Mysuru district, and their numbers are on the rise. The DATC has been established to provide technical support to field functionaries and farmers across Karnataka and it has been conducting regular training events. “But the COVID-19 lockdown made it difficult to conduct regular classes and hence we went online,” explained G.H. Yogesh, Deputy Director, DATC. So far, 27 online programmes have been completed and 616 farmers and 553 field officers of the Department of Agriculture have benefited from these online exercises. DATC Mysuru was the first to launch the online training and now the government has directed that the same module may be replicated across the State. All the training was done in collaboration with the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru, and the Institution of Agricultural Technologists. The lockdown came into effect on March 25 but the DATC was up and running within a few days as the summer was off-season for agricultural activities and farmers would be on hand for the classes and the programmes, explained Mr. Yogesh. It was a crucial time to take up issues related to soil and water conservation and online training came in handy as a new tool for DATC to reach out to the farmers. It cost the DATC only Rs. 5,000 towards the purchase of the necessary computer accessories. Mr. Yogesh said that largely there were no issues and the learning experience suited the farmers. In the case of those unable to use mobile phones, the new generation helped them view proceedings, according to Mr. Yogesh. Various subjects The subjects included safe rainwater disposal methods like creating diversion channels, rainwater harvesting structures like farm pond or check dams, soil fertility improvement techniques like green manuring, etc. One-hour classes were conduced on Mondays and Thursdays, and classes of two-and-a-half hours, for officers, were on Tuesdays and Fridays. The outreach in each of the exercise ranged from 25 to 230 participants. Ramashetty, a farmer from Jayapura who participated in the classes, said the initiative is praiseworthy and he benefited a lot. “However, this benefits only a category of farmers who hire workers, while those with small landholdings and do all the farm work do not have the luxury of watching it online,” he added. Also, there are network issues in remote areas but the initiative was a step in the right direction,” he said. To make it more broad-based, Mr. Ramashetty suggested a repeat telecast or webcast of the programmes for small farmers who can watch after returning from work. He even a community radio, which would have more reach. Mr. Yogesh said the training schedules were widely published on social media and WhatsApp groups, apart from the AIR and Doordarshan, and efforts will be made to reach more farmers.
20 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to get another museum by year-end||If everything goes to plan, Mysuru will get another museum by the end of this year. This gallery is to come up on the sprawling campus of the University of Mysore (UoM) at Manasagangotri, which has produced many legendary and celebrated personalities. Called the ‘Centenary Heritage Museum’, the facility has been proposed to showcase various facets of the culture, heritage and history of the century-old university. UoM celebrated its centenary in 2016 and the museum was proposed as a centenary project. Although the museum should have become a reality by now, the project was delayed for various reasons. But the university is now hopeful of making it happen before the year ends as the museum building is ready and an Expression of Interest (EoI) has been invited for implementing the project. “Some design agencies and architects having experience of conceptualising and implementing similar projects have approached us showing interest in developing the museum. We thought of consulting a few more experts in the field as UoM wants to make the museum project a one-stop centre to understand the A to Z of the university,” said Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar. He told The Hindu that the project had been expedited and the detailed project report was expected to be ready by the end of July, with presentations lined up for the month from the interested museum designers. Famed varsity Founded by Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in 1916, UoM is the sixth oldest university in the country and the oldest in the State. The university took off from Maharaja’s College and the courses were moved to the Manasagangotri campus in 1960. The “ready to occupy” interactive museum building has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.75 crore, with a total built-up area of 14,738 sq.ft, near the MBA Institute on Hunsur Road. “We also wanted to expand the building to make it even more spacious before the concept was finalised,” the V-C said. The museum’s concept note said it would be India’s first thematic and interactive museum of a centenary-old university, enabling effective content delivery and user interaction by employing modern techniques such as touchscreen terminals to illustrate the exhibits and multi-media systems to render documentary videos. The museum model should be a blend of traditional and modern methods of exhibiting items chronicling the origin, growth and development of the university, besides the exemplary contributions and academic achievements in the last 100 years. UoM hopes to make it a one-stop centre for accessing key information for researchers, professionals and students with sections such as ‘origin, history and the royal patronage’, ‘glorious growth of 100 years’, ‘eyes on the stars’, and ‘mending milestones’.
20 July 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||UoM examination schedule gives students the jitters||The examination schedule for final semester students, announced by the University of Mysore (UoM), has sparked anxiety among them, who have sought relief from the State government in view of the increase in COVID-19 cases. In an open letter to Governor Vajubhai Vala, Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa, among others, the students have pointed to the cancellation of regular trains till August 12. A few students pointed out that there is a mandatory quarantine for people from other States. “If we come and get infected, who will take care of us? If someone in the family back home falls sick, we won’t be able to help them,” a student pointed out. “We are neither running away from the examination nor do we want the authorities to cancel them. We are concerned about our future and the importance of the examinations,” another student said. Meanwhile, Registrar of University of Mysore R. Shivappa told The Hindu that the university came out with a circular on the examinations on the directions of the State government. “We are also concerned about the students, but we had to announce the examination scheduled in view of the directions,” he said. Dr. Shivappa felt that the government’s directions came after the University Grants Commission took a decision on holding the examinations. The university will not be able to do much in the regard unless the UGC and the State government changed their decision, he added.
20 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Doctors remove hairball from girl’s stomach||A team of doctors at VBR Mudnal Hospital, led by Veerabasant Reddy Mudnal, removed a clump of hair in a 45-minute surgery on a 16-year-old girl in Yadgir recently. Addressing a press conference, Dr. Mudnal explained that the girl, who was admitted in the hospital on a complaint of abdominal pain some days ago, underwent scanning and the report revealed that there was a ball of hair in her abdomen causing her pain. The parents of the girl were worried about their daughter’s condition and the doctors, during a discussion with the girl, found out that she had a habit of ingesting her own hair. She has been doing this for the last 13 years, without the knowledge of anyone at home, Dr. Reddy recalled. Soon after the cause of the girl’s abdominal pain was established, a team of seven doctors, including Dr. Mudnal, conducted the surgery and removed the clump of hair from her stomach. Stating that the habit of ingesting one’s own hair was called Rapunzel syndrome, Dr. Mudnal said that this is a rare medical condition where hair ingested by a person gets trapped in his stomach and forms into a hairball. Such a situation causes nausea, bloating, abdominal pain and vomiting. The other symptoms include reduced appetite, weight loss and constipation or diarrhoea. The human stomach cannot digest hair, so it [hair] accumulates and turns into a clump, he said. The hairball that was removed from the girl weighed 300 grams. It was 50 cm in length, he said, exhibiting the hairball. Probably, this was the first such case in Yadgir district, Dr. Mudnal said and added that the habit of ingesting hair was something like young children eating mud. To a question, he said that the girl will be discharged soon as she is recovering. Doctors Sangamma V.B. Reddy, Basavaraj, Abhishek Reddy Palla, Amogh, Kshitija and Siddaveerappa and their staff were on the team.  It was found that she had a habit of ingesting her own hair and she had been doing it for the last 13 years
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||J.P. Park to be developed into urban biodiversity hotspot||J.P. Park in Mathikere is set to become an urban biodiversity hotspot. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), with the assistance of Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC), which was formed in January this year towards conservation and promotion of biodiversity in the city, will take up work on the project. “Under the project, emphasis will be given to attract more birds, butterflies, and insects and build a conducive atmosphere for them and preserve their natural habitat. Diverse varieties of native plants will also be grown,” said H.S. Ranganathaswamy, Deputy Conservator of Forest (DCF), BBMP. The park is just one of similar projects that are on the cards. “Other places to be converted into biodiversity hotspots will be identified soon and work will be taken up in a phased manner,” he added. Akshay Heblikar, a member of BMC, said that giving a tag of an urban biodiversity hotspot will expand the scope of conservation in Bengaluru. “Apart from such hotspots, we are planning to create tree parks with mainly native species in the existing BBMP parks. There are over a thousand BBMP parks and we will try to identify and develop 300 more such parks in the city,” said Mr. Heblikar said. The BMC also plans to take up work on a few lakes and wetlands. “We want to improve the flora and fauna and document and study them,” he added. Mr. Ranganathaswamy added that the concept of creating a ‘green belt’ in all the smart cities projects in the city was also discussed in a recent meeting of BMC. Work on PBR The BMC is hoping to begin documenting information on the People’s Biodiversity Register (PBR), a comprehensive register of information on local flora, fauna and other information associated with species in the city. However, work on this will depend on whether the pandemic is brought under control in the city. Mr. Heblikar said that a basic PBR was prepared over a decade ago by the Forest Department. “We will either build upon it or prepare a new PBR, work on which should start in a month,” he said. The committee wants to involve students and the public in this PBR. “This will create awareness about urban biodiversity and also kindle interest among citizens,” said Mr. Heblikar, adding that even the committee would also benefit from the traditional knowledge of biodiversity which is there among many people. The BMC is also contemplating starting a Student Biodiversity Register where a biodiversity register in and around schools will be documented. This will eventually be a part of PBR. “We will train students and teachers so that the process is continuous, ” Mr. Heblikar said. Vijay Nishanth, who is also a member of the committee, said that students of zoology, agricultural sciences and environmental sciences from colleges and universities will particularly be roped in for the projects along with NGOs and other interested volunteers. “The main aim of the BMC is to conserve, document and promote biodiversity and preserve natural habitats,” he said adding that the primary responsibility of the committee included documentation of biodiversity, preservation of natural habitats among other things.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||The target||
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A lull||
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Corridors of Power||In home quarantine after multiple staff members at his office tested positive for COVID-19, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa (in picture) has taken to reading fiction. He recently posted a photo of himself reading a Kannada translation of the critically acclaimed novel Yayati by V.S. Khandekar. The 78-year-old Chief Minister — the only one to stay in power beyond the 75-year age limit imposed for retirement by the Bharatiya Janata Party and who is facing multiple rebellions within the party seeking a leadership change — reading Yayati led to a few sniggers, considering the novel is  the story of a king who exchanges his old age with the youth of his son. While the central BJP leadership is said to be keen to plan for the post-Yediyurappa scenario in Karnataka, the Chief Minister seems to be in no mood to hang up his boots anytime soon.   Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar(in picture)has a penchant for citing mythological stories while speaking about the pandemic. Recently, he cited the popular story of Shravana Kumara to drive home the message that the elderly need to be reverse isolated at his time. The Minister said that during this pandemic, people have got an opportunity to serve their parents, grandparents and the elderly at home. “Shravana Kumara carried his blind and elderly parents on his shoulders to fulfil their wish of going on a pilgrimage. Let us become modern Shravana Kumaras and protect our parents. We need to just ensure that our parents stay at home and are protected,” he said. On another occasion, the Minister said COVID-19 warriors were no less than gods. “During the churning of the ocean for nectar, when poison came out, the Lord Shiva swallowed it to save mankind and became Vishakantha or Nanjundeshwara. Our COVID-19 warriors, be it doctors, nurses, healthcare workers, pourakarmikas, or ambulance drivers, are like Nanjundeshwara doing selfless service risking their own lives,” he said.   COVID-19 has hit employees of all four road transport corporations in the State. Prior to the pandemic, officials and administrative staff were getting salaries on the first of every month, mechanics on the fourth, and drivers and conductors on the seventh. However, the corporations have not been able to operate buses to full capacity for months(in picture). The partial services introduced also failed to see much ridership, resulting in a severe financial burden on the corporations. All the road transport corporations have been relying on government funds to pay salaries. Per month, the corporations require close to Rs. 325 crore to pay staff salary. For the months of April and May, the government had released funds. The corporations have sought Rs. 812 crore to pay the salaries of June and July. As the government is yet to release funds for the month of June, employees are still waiting for their pay. “Last month, we received salary on the 20th. We are hoping this month too we will get it around the same time,” an employee said. Meanwhile, to minimise the financial burden, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation has come out with a proposal to send “willing” employees on a year’s leave without pay. Not surprisingly, the move has received severe criticism from the workers’ union.   While Kannada schools are struggling to stay afloat, film actor Sudeep(in picture)has stepped in and adopted four government schools in Chitradurga district. The Kiccha Sudeep Charitable Society, Bengaluru, has adopted three government schools in Challakere taluk and one in Hiriyur taluk. The society has promised to renovate school buildings, provide furniture, toilets, and other facilities. The Challakere Block Education Officer has expressed happiness over the adoption. Will other actors follow suit and adopt schools in the State?  K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj   Afshan Yasmeen   Suchith Kidiyoor   Nagesh Prabhu
20 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||52 more cases reported in Alappuzha||The district reported 52 more COVID-19 cases on Sunday with majority contracting the disease through local transmission. While 30 contracted the disease through contact, the source of infections of two patients is untraced. Two Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel at Nooranad unit, 11 people who came from abroad, and seven from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 30 contact cases, 12, including four from Pattanakkad, three from Kuthiathode, two from Panavally and one each from Kodamthuruth, Ezhupunna and Cherthala, were on the contact lists of employees of a seafood factory who were diagnosed with COVID-19 earlier. Seven Pallithode natives were on the contact lists of COVID-19 patients associated with the Chellanam harbour. Two persons each from Nooranad and Vallikunnam, on the contact list of ITBP personnel who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier, were found to have contracted the disease on Sunday. Another three patients from Kayamkulam are associated with the Kayamkulam market. Two women hailing from Kayamkulam and Nooranad, on the contact list of traders associated with the Kayamkulam market who tested positive recently, are among the patients. Two men from Pathirappally and Thuravoor, working in Ernakulam, also contracted the disease through contact. The source of infections of a 55-year-old man from Andhakaranazhi and a 40-year-old man from Mavelikara is unknown. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old man from Kuttanad, who was given plasma therapy at Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, tested negative for COVID-19. “A cancer patient, he contracted the disease while undergoing palliative treatment a month ago. His condition worsened and we have provided him plasma therapy. The patient’s latest test result came back negative for SARS-CoV-2. His wife also tested positive. Both have now been removed from the COVID-19 patient’s list after being completely cured of the disease,” said an official. Thirty two people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative for the virus in the district. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 627.
20 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||More CFLTCs in Alappuzha||The district administration has set up more COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centres (CFLTCs) in the district’s northern parts. District Collector A. Alexander on Sunday visited a CFLTC at Jayalakshmi auditorium at Pattanakkad. About 120 beds were arranged at the auditorium and St. Joseph’s Parish Hall, Kunnumpuram. CFLTCs are also getting ready in Thuravoor (SNGM College auditorium-300 beds), Mararikulam North (Kanichukulangara Cooperative Bank auditorium-95 beds), Mararikulam South (St. Antony’s Parish Hall, Omanapuzha-60 beds), Ezhupunna (MK Convention Centre-50 beds) and Arthunkal (Fisheries Higher Secondary School-100 beds). Mr. Alexander directed officials to arrange 250 beds at Sabari Convention Centre and NSS auditorium, Haripad. Steps were being taken to convert Century Hospital in Chengannur into a COVID-19 hospital. Government Hospital, Mavelikara, will be made a COVID-19 facility by Wednesday.
20 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||49 cases in a day takes Idukki to a new high||The district recorded a single day spike of 49 cases on Sunday. There were 21 persons who got the infection though contact and the sources of eight could not be traced. Ten persons who tested positive for the virus came from foreign countries and 10 from other States. Those who contacted the disease through contact include people from Mullaringadu Mariyapuram, Rajakkad, Munnar, Vazhathoppe and Thopramkudy. The cases whose sources could not be traced were from Adimaly, Bisonvalley, Maniyarankudy, Rajakkad, Udumbanchola, and Thodupuzha. With this, the total number of persons who tested positive and presently undergoing treatment was 210. Five persons recovered from the virus on Sunday with the total number reaching 121. The District Collector has announced the following grama panchayat wards as containment zone. They are Karunapuram ward 14, Rajakkad all wards, Vathikudy wards 11 and 14, Chinnakanal wards 3 and 10; Kanchiyar wards 11 and 12; Ayyappancovil wards 1, 2, 3; Upputhara wards 1, 6, 7; Udumbanchola wards 2, 3; Kodikulam wards 1,13; Bisonvalley ward 8; Peerumade ward 13; Senapathy ward 9; Vazhathoppe ward 4; Mariyapuram wards 5, 10, 11; Vannapuram wards 1,7 and Munnar ward 19. Hospital closed Tata General Hospital in Munnar was closed after a doctor and four other staff were diagnosed with COVID-19. This was the only hospital in Munnar.
20 July 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Trial run of ‘Tomodachi’ to begin at Kannur MCH||The trial run of Tomodachi, a robot that instantly transfers patients’ information to doctors and nurses from COVID ward, will start at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital in Pariyaram on Monday. Developed by a team of students of Malabar Institute of Technology, Kannur, with the technical support of ThinkFoTech, the robot was recently handed over to the medical college. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja inaugurated it through videoconference. Tomodachi, a Japanese term meaning friend, is a state-of-the-art system that includes a high-resolution camera that works automatically on Android. The team of developers, including Assistant Professors A.N. Abhijith Kumar (CE), Rijoy GN(EE), Jitha B (ECE), Reshna T (CS), a team of students along with Shanthikumar (CTO, ThinkFoTech, Thalassery), claim that it is the first robotic system in the state to automatically identify a patient’s bed and then transfer the information to doctors. The robot will also enable doctors to communicate with patients. Mr. Abhijith said the robot would be put on trial run initially in non-COVID ICU wards.
20 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records 97 cases, one death||Another COVID-19 death was recorded in the district on Sunday and a total of 97 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. A 67-year-old patient who was being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, from July 8 onwards, died on Sunday. He had high blood pressure and was diabetic. He had been placed on ventilator and was also administered plasma therapy as part of his treatment. He was a resident of Veliyathunad, near Aluva, and was suspected to have contracted the disease either from the Aluva or Maradu markets, which he had visited, a health official on the surveillance team said. The deceased was a vegetable vendor and about eight of his family members were also suspected to have developed the infection, said the official. Of the 97 positive cases, 88 people contracted the infection through local transmission while nine people had arrived from outside the State. As many as 19 people have tested positive from Chellanam, 37 from the Aluva cluster, and 15 from the Keezhmad cluster. Four health workers have tested positive for the disease – a 33-year-old from Keezhmad working at a private hospital in Aluva; a 40-year-old health worker at the primary health centre in Keezhmad; a 53-year-old from Thrikkakara working at a private hospital in Angamaly; and a 31-year-old working at a private hospital in the district. A 64-year-old from Parakkadavu, two relatives of a patient from Pachalam, a nine-year-old from Chowara who tested positive while being treated at a private hospital, a 41-year-old driver transporting vegetables to the Maradu market, an employee of a food processing unit in Alappuzha, a 62-year-old native of Idukki being treated at a private hospital, a 34-year-old bank employee in Cherthala, a 36-year-old on the contact list of a sanitation worker from the Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery and a 56-year-old from Mattancherry have tested positive. A 34-year-old from Edappally and her two-year-old daughter, who were on the contact list of a patient from the area, have also tested positive. Eight people have tested negative for the disease. Divisions 23, 24 and 25 of the Maradu municipality were declared containment zones late on Saturday. Divya Anilkumar, a councillor, said the containment zone was declared after employees at VPS Lakeshore Hospital at Maradu tested positive. A couple of doctors and some staff members at the hospital tested positive, following which all outpatient departments have been closed till Tuesday. Meanwhile, the hospital management refuted rumours being circulated in social media regarding the total shutdown of the hospital’s services and multiple staff being infected with SARS-CoV-2.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Testing times for Kochi as backlog of samples mounts||An increase in the collection of swabs for Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing in the past two weeks in the district has not been matched by an increase in sample processing facilities, resulting in a mounting backlog of samples waiting to be processed. While only a little over 200 swabs were being collected daily at the beginning of the month, the spiralling number of cases has recently taken the collection to over 700 per day. The number had gone up to 839 swabs being sent for testing on July 14, going by figures available in daily press releases. However, the number of pending test results hovered at a figure over 2,000 on a few days last week, touching 2,312 on Friday. In addition to the two RT-PCR processing machines already at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, a third one was recently set up, taking the total processing capacity for the district to about 450 samples daily at government facilities, said Mathews Numpelil, district programme manager, National Health Mission. A fourth facility, which was to be installed at the Regional Public Health Laboratory, was still awaiting a few components before it could be set up and begin functioning next week, he said. “ Even once the new facility is installed, we are likely to have pending results, with an increase in symptomatic cases,” said District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan. A medical official at the first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at Adlux Convention Centre, Angamaly, said the results for swabs collected on July 14 and 15 had been given to them only on July 18. Results usually took a maximum of two days to process. Those were swabs of mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic patients whose samples were collected on the tenth day after they tested positive or showed symptoms, said the official. It was mostly the samples awaiting a negative result before discharge that were placed on hold, said Dr. Numpelil. That could explain the low number of recoveries recorded in the district in the past few days, he pointed out. ICMR guidelines Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines had suggested discharging asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients after the tenth day without testing, but that was currently not being followed in the State, he said. “At present, the number of cases would not bother us. We will go ahead with the policy of discharge after a negative test result. But with a pandemic, things are dynamic and decisions will be taken going further. The time lag, which is mostly for repeat samples of patients who are already ill, will get under control in about a week,” said Rajan Khobragade, Principal Secretary, Health and Family Welfare. “The government of India has been consistently revising its discharge policy. The rationale given behind discharge without testing is that about 10 days after the start of symptoms, the chance of infection spreading from the person comes down to nearly nil, though viral RNA might still be present,” said Amar Fettle, State nodal officer for COVID-19.  It was mostly the samples awaiting a negative result before discharge that were placed on hold Mathews Numpelil District programme manager, National Health Mission
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Shops, supermarkets under scrutiny||Shops and supermarkets in Kochi are under close scrutiny by local bodies following the restrictions imposed on such establishments in the State capital as part of efforts to contain COVID-19 spread. Shops and business establishments in Kalamassery have voluntarily decided to down shutters at 7 p.m. as part of the containment measures. Only medical shops, hotels and catering units will remain open after 7 p.m. The Thrikkakara municipal authorities had issued notices to shops and supermarkets at the busy NGO Quarters and the municipal complex located on the eastern side of the District Collectorate to open only on alternate days, said a health official on Sunday. The measure was being introduced to reduce the rush of shoppers, added the official. Health officials from Kalamassery and Thrikkakara are being kept on their toes by constant phone calls, informing them about big crowds in some areas of the municipalities. The NGO Quarters in Thrikkakara and South Kalamassery are now witnessing smaller number of shoppers at a time due to the efforts being made by the health officials and the police. R.C. Anusha, who is employed in a private firm, said that on her recent visit to a supermarket, she saw fewer shoppers than usual. Though there were four or five people standing in queue outside the supermarket, there were only two customers inside the shop. Kalamassery municipality health standing committee member M.A. Kunjumon said the authorities needed to maintain a stricter vigil. He said shop owners had been following the instructions of health officials. M.M. Nazar, councillor in Thrikkakara, said that all councillors in the municipality were checking on supermarkets in their respective wards to ensure that physical distancing, and use of masks and sanitisers were followed.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rising maintenance cost troubles KMRL||Faced with the prospect of having to raise approximately Rs. 12 crore per month as repayment for loans availed from banks and lending agencies from September onwards, and with mounting operational and maintenance expenses, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has sought the Centre’s permission to resume operations while adhering to COVID-19 protocols. KMRL also highlighted the need to pay salary to its approximately 1,000 personnel, including those from Kudumbashree deployed for housekeeping and other duties at metro stations and the coach depot in Muttom. Another incremental expense that the metro agency stares at is the one for operation and maintenance of 25 trains, the viaduct and other amenities, the defect-liability period of which has expired, it is learnt. “We apprised the Centre of the need to resume metro operations as soon as possible in the 25-km Aluva-Pettah corridor,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, KMRL Managing Director. “Kochi Metro’s daily average pre-lockdown ridership was 60,000 passengers in the Aluva-Thykoodam corridor. This is in contrast to the volume of passengers in Delhi Metro – around 60 lakh – and in smaller metros like Bengaluru where daily ridership is 4.50 lakh. The precautions that we adopted to ensure safety of passengers were also highlighted,” he said. KMRL has also sought a six-month loan moratorium, in accordance with guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in the wake of the pandemic. The metro agency had availed loan from French lending agency AFD, Canara Bank and Ernakulam District Cooperative Bank. “Alternative sources to generate revenue in the long run holds the key for the metro becoming self-sustaining. For this, we are banking on approximately Rs. 1,000 crore from the wellness-cum-entertainment hub that has been envisaged in Kakkanad. The consultant is expected to submit its detailed project report this month,” said Mr. Sharma.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam, reeling under COVID spread, hit by flooding||The coastal village of Chellanam, already under a lockdown till Monday to contain COVID-19 spread, saw heavy flooding on Sunday that brought down a house and severely damaged 10 others. There are dozens of bedridden people in some areas where flooding is severe, said Joseph Arakkal of Velankanni, an area where sea walls have virtually collapsed, allowing high waves to wash into homes. No injuries to people were reported in the house collapse. The house belonged to Kurisuparambil Varghese Chinnan, a fisherman, in the Bazaar area. The 10 houses that were damaged too are located close to the sea in the Bazaar area. The other flooded areas are Velankanni, Ganapathikkad, Companippady, and North Chellanam. Further south, Kannamali, Puthenthode, Chalakkadavu, and Kandakkadavu too were affected. It is a situation where “we are unable to go to our relatives’ houses even temporarily,” said Mr. Arakkal about the lockdown in force in the coastal village. Meanwhile, the Chellanama Janakiya Vedhi said the area between Fort Kochi and South Chellanam faced severe sea erosion and alleged that the authorities had failed to open their eyes to the misery of the people. Meanwhile, sea erosion and consequent flooding have hit other coastal areas in the district. Wards 1 and 13 of Njarakkal panchayat were flooded. However, no loss of property was reported.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Policing in doldrums in Ernakulam rural as cases surge||Police personnel within the Ernakulam rural limits are increasingly turning vulnerable to the pandemic, with 62 officers forced into quarantine till now and two of them testing positive for SARS-COV-2. While 29 personnel have rejoined duty, 18 continue to be in quarantine as on Friday. The latest in the list were one Sub Inspector, two Assistant Sub Inspectors, and five civil police officers at the Angamaly station after an accused they had arrested in connection with a gold robbery case tested positive for the disease on Friday night. Add to that the addition of 15 personnel from the Edathala station who now have to go into quarantine in connection with the suicide of a history sheeter, and the number of uniformed men in active quarantine may go up to 33. Being already stretched, the police hardly have the manpower to replace those going into quarantine. “We have asked the authorities for a separate Standard Operating Procedure to fast-track testing in the case of those associated with essential services like Health and the police,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The police have not making arrests in bailable cases and have restricted them to non-bailable offences like armed robbery, dacoity, murder, and attempt to murder, and even then the accused are not taken to stations but specially designed detention centres. Now, even that seems untenable. It has been decided that no arrests shall be made without the approval of sub divisional officers or the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The Rural police seem to have been caught between the devil and the deep blue sea in terms of policing. “We cannot turn a blind eye to heinous crimes notwithstanding the pandemic, while anti-socials involved have scant regard for the health hazards. Policing, therefore, is increasingly turning a complex affair,” said Mr. Karthik. Add to that the misplaced scare like what happened last month at the Perumbavoor police station when one of the two persons arrested on preventive grounds claimed to have come into contact with a COVID patient in Wayanad more than a month ago. The station had to be closed down for more than a day, while five police personnel had to go into quarantine. The two eventually tested negative.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Good Samaritan saves life, averts accidents on NH||Timely intervention by a Good Samaritan saved the lives of a sole car passenger who fell unconscious while behind the wheel and other motorists who risked ramming the immobile car, on the NH stretch near the Companypady metro station on Saturday night. On seeing the car, without hazard lights turned on, parked in the middle of the highway, Mohammed Shiyas, a motorist who passed by, returned and knocked on the glass. The person behind the wheel was resting on the steering in an unconscious state. Mr. Shiyas began diverting vehicles to prevent them hitting the car. Soon, E.N. Suresh, ASP, Ernakulam Rural, who was passing by, stopped his vehicle and enquired about the incident. After taking steps to prevent crowding at the spot, he informed the Aluva police station. A team led by Inspector N. Suresh Kumar arrived at the scene soon. The officer suffered a deep injury on his hand as he broke open the rear glass of the car. Unmindful of this, he and other personnel rushed the unconscious occupant to the hospital. It turned out that his blood pressure had fallen alarmingly.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sexual abuse: case against film producer||The Ernakulam South Police registered a case against a film producer on Sunday on the charge of sexually abusing a model after assuring her a role in movies. Not arrested yet The police action came after the 20-year-old woman alleged that the producer, Alwin Antony, had sexually assaulted her multiple times in 2019. The producer is yet to be arrested, according to the police.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two feared drowned after boat capsizes||Two persons, including a lawyer, are reported missing after their boat overturned near Cicily Jetty, Mulavukad, on Sunday evening. While the lawyer is from Kaloor, the other missing person is from Aluva. Another person, a Kumbalam native, managed to swim to safety.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four held for murder bid||Four youths who were wanted in a case of attempt to kill a youth from a rival gang were arrested from a resort at Kothamangalam, where they were hiding, following a tip-off. They had allegedly lured the youth in the guise of holding a conciliatory talk and attacked him using a country bomb at Perumbavoor. The arrested are Lalu, 25, of Kombanad, Shyam, 33, of Kalady, and Vishnu, 24, and Leo, 26, of Vengoor.
20 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Desilting of Konothupuzha to commence||Work on desilting Konothupuzha is expected to begin this week. A major proposal costing around Rs. 17 crore is likely to be approved by the Irrigation Department soon. Since the approval for the project is likely to take time, initial work to desilt the entire 17-km stretch of the river will begin soon, said M. Swaraj, MLA. He added that a barge was being rented from a private company, and equipment for desilting was being procured from the Irrigation Department. Mr. Swaraj said Minister for Irrigation K. Krishnankutty had convened a meeting of stakeholders in the capital on June 30 and had seen the proposal submitted by the department engineers. The project is expected to get approval soon, he added. Efforts have been on for almost a decade to desilt the river and evict encroachers.
20 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Steady rise in COVID cases||The district has been recording a consistent rise in COVID-19 patients with the number of fresh cases jumping to 75 on Sunday. Among the patients, 61 are contact cases while the rest had travelled from abroad and other States. It is for the first time that the district is reporting 81% contact cases on a single day. Most of the cases were reported from Chitara, Vettikavala, Alappad and Anchal. While Kollam reported 42% contact cases on July 17, the percentage rose to 50.9 and 81 in the next two days. Currently, the district has 410 active cases and 8,320 persons under observation. The district administration on Saturday declared all wards in Elamadu, Poruvazhi, Sasthamcotta, Veliyam, Anchal, Ayalamon, Yerror, Vettikavala and Sooranad South as severe containment zones [Red Colour Coded Local Self Governments]. Taking into account the spike in the case load, the district has opened COVID First-Line Treatment Centres (CFLTCs) and ensured service of doctors and paramedical staff at the centres. According to officials, 10,000 beds will arranged to accommodate patients in coordination with LSGs and the district is prepared to face any emergency situation. Under surveillance The entire coastline of Kollam is under surveillance and strict restrictions were imposed at many parts after several contacts of two fish vendors tested positive this week. Ban on fishing The district administration also banned marine fishing, and around 100 markets in Kollam were closed to control the contact cases. The Health Department is also closely monitoring all the migrant labourers after 14 persons from Tamil Nadu tested positive on Saturday. Two recoveries were also reported in the district on Sunday.
20 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Share it with this desi application||For all those missing Xender and SHAREit, the file-sharing apps which are among the Chinese apps banned in the country, a student of the Amrita School of Engineering, Amritapuri, here has come up with a new option. Simple, secure Ashwin Shenoy, a second-year Computer Science student, has developed an application named BayJDO which he calls “a lightweight, simple yet fast, and secure web application that allows us to transfer files directly between devices, without requiring users to instal dedicated apps or create a special Wi-Fi hotspot.” The only condition Transferring files using BayJDO has only one prerequisite — the devices need to be in the same network. Once the devices are on the same network (or hotspot), they can go to bayjdo.com (or use the PWA installed) and both of them may get an ID and QR Code. Then, anyone of the two can scan the QR Code on the other and send files to each other. BayJDO uses WebRTC to reliably facilitate an end-to-end encrypted peer-to-peer file transfer, the technology which was originally introduced by Google and now being popularised in videoconferencing apps, including Google Meet. Immediate task “BayJDO will soon be supporting one of the first of its kind, Group-Watch-Together feature, banking on the WebTorrent/WebRTC streaming technology we already have,” the aspiring techie claims. No login required He adds that the app would be advertisement-free and open sourced. “It will not be asking permission for tracking any user info and will not even require a login. In fact, it will not require a back-end database to offer these core functionalities. All that will be needed is a light-weight WebRTC signalling server. This, therefore, also brings down the cost of hosting the app and allows it to achieve my goal of being totally advertisement-free,” the Computer Science student says.  Ashwin Shenoy claims the app will be advertisement-free and open sourced.
20 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Offering Vavubali at customary spots being discouraged||Several devotees who turned up to perform Vavubali at various locations in Kollam on Sunday were stopped and sent back by the police following strict instructions. Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had banned all mass gatherings and taking into account the steady increase in COVID-19 cases, the government had also instructed all devotees to conduct the ritual at their homes. Prominent spots Every year, tens of thousands of devotees flocked to Thirumullavaram, Mundakkal Papanasini, Adissamangalam Maha Vishnu Temple, Kattil Mekathil Temple, and Ashtamudi Sree Veerabhadraswamy Temple in the district, during Karkidaka Vavu to pay obeisance to their ancestors. Usually, huge pandals that can accommodate over 500 persons are erected near the temples and elaborate arrangements are made at the ghats for observing the ritual. Barricades erected If KSRTC used to operate special services for the devotees from different depots during the previous years, this time barricades were erected near all major centres. The entire coastal area was put under close monitoring from early Sunday. “Though the public was asked to stay home and observe the rite as per COVID-19 guidelines, some people tried to enter the restricted area. Since many cases have been reported from the coastal belt and the area is under strict surveillance, nobody will be allowed on the beaches,” said an official. Many temple authorities had announced that they would not be conducting the ritual due to the COVID-19 situation. Curbs till evening The restrictions in connection with the ritual would be in place till Monday evening.
20 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||80 illegal Chinese nets in Vembanad Lake dismantled||The array of lights that illuminated the southern coast of the Vembanad lake at night have finally gone off. The prolonged battle against unauthorised fishing in the waterbody reached a major milestone with the Fisheries Department dismantling as many as 80 illegal Chinese fishing nets installed on the southern side of the Thannermukkam Barrage. Most of the nets, according to the officials, cropped up over the last two decades and were operated by the local residents. “In view of the complaints from conventional fishermen, we have dismantled 80 out of the 83 Chinese nets that were installed without registration and licence under the Kerala Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, 2010. The remaining three nets will be cleared as and when the stay order by a court against dismantling them expires,” said K.B. Ramesh, Deputy Director of Fisheries, Kottayam. Officials said the fishing nets without licence used small-mesh nets as against the stipulated mesh size of 20 mm. “This often triggered protests by the conventional fishermen, who often accused the Chinese net operators of posing a threat to the inland fishing sector as a whole. At times, it also snowballed into direct confrontation between the two sections,” said an official. Earlier attempts by the department to forcibly dismantle these unauthorised nets had to be called off following protests staged by the net operators. This time, however, they had to fall in line in view of heavy police security. K.G. Padmakumar, director, International Research and Training Centre for Below Sea Level Farming, said the presence of Chinese nets having high-voltage LED bulbs had a disastrous impact on the fish stock especially when the shutters of the barrage were open. “ The small-meshed nets ensured that not even juvenile fish are spared,” he said.
20 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||20 persons test positive in Kottayam||As many as 20 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 12 persons contracted the virus through local contact while three others came from abroad. The remaining five persons returned from other States. Meanwhile, nine persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease were discharged from the various hospitals during the day. Local contact The persons who contracted the virus through local contact were identified as a 55-year-old Mannam native who was employed at a fish stall in Ettumanur fish market, a two-year-old son of a couple from TV Puram who had earlier been diagnosed with the disease, a 49-year-old woman from Perumassery in Vaikom, a 29-year-old Chingavanam native, a 58-year-old Kanjirappally native who was in the contact list of a COVID-19 patient in Pathanamthitta, a 60-year-old Koruthodu native, a 28-year-old Vizhikkathodu native who was in the contact list of a patient in Pathanamthitta and his 25-year-old brother, and four persons who were employed in the Changanassery market. From abroad The patients who landed from abroad were a 25-year-old Mundakayam native who landed from Baharain on July 7, a 31-year-old Kurichi native who arrived from Dubai on July 3, and a 28-year-old Meenadom native who arrived from Abu Dhabi on July 5. Meanwhile, five nurses on duty at the ward 11 of the Government Medical College have been send to quarantine after two patients at the ward tested positive for the virus.
20 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||17-year-old killed in attack by drunk father||A 17-year-old Plus-Two student who sustained serious head injuries during an alleged scuffle with his intoxicated father died at his house at Kinaloor, near Balussery, in the district on Saturday night. The victim has been identified as Alan, son of Venu. The police said the youth sustained serious injuries to his head after his father pushed him to the wall. He came under attack while he was trying to save his mother from physical assault by his father, the police said. Alan was a student of Balussery Government Higher Secondary School. The accused was taken into custody and was booked under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code.
20 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Merchants demand steps to end wayside trade||Merchants owing allegiance to the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Samiti and Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samiti have sought better regulations on the part of Revenue Department officials and the local self-government authorities to stop wayside trade in view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases.   In a communication issued recently, functionaries of Vyapari Vyavasayi Samiti also accused street vendors of violating Food Safety Act and other legal measures to be followed while dealing with the trade of packaged commodities. Association leaders Abdul Gafoor and C.K. Vijayan said such practices of street vendors should be banned with immediate effect. KVVES State secretary K. Sethumadhavan said street traders and mobile delivery operators were even found selling all types of groceries without following any legal requirement. “We have even noticed the trade of footwear by such people who cause huge loss to licensed traders,” he said.
20 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||40 corpn. office staff to undergo test||Forty front office staff members at the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation office will undergo COVID-19 testing on Tuesday after one of the crowd management volunteers at the office was tested positive for the virus on Saturday. The public will not be entertained in the office till noon. While the staff have been advised to go into home quarantine immediately, the members of the public, who had visited the office recently, have been advised to be on alert as they had a remote possibility of contracting the virus. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said that routine testing was being held in the corporation office among the staff, especially those in the health wing. The health team had undergone a test less than a week ago while the volunteers, office staff, contingent workers and those at the corporation health centres were also being tested regularly. “The office itself is sanitised twice a week,” he added. ‘No need for panic’ However, he said that there was no panic situation in the office as it was the first time someone in the office getting tested positive when more than 450 people were tested and that the situation was manageable.
20 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||32 fresh cases in Kozhikode||Restrictions have been brought in at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, after a healthcare worker and two patients in non-COVID wards tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Meanwhile, 32 fresh cases were reported in Kozhikode district, 25 of them through local transmission, on Sunday. According to sources, 24 healthcare staff at the hospital, including seven doctors and 16 nurses, have been told to go into quarantine after a nurse at the nephrology ward tested positive for the virus. An emergency meeting involving senior officials held on Sunday decided to notify the ward as a containment area. Entry of visitors to the hospital and the medical college campus will be restricted. All healthcare workers will be told to wear personal protective equipment. Outpatient and inpatient admissions as well as elective surgeries will be limited too. At the same time, the number of persons infected through local transmission continues to be high, with 17 people testing positive for the virus during the antigen tests held at Thiruvangoor, Koyilandy, and Kozhikode Corporation. The newly infected people are from Vanimel, Koyilandy, Thiruvangoor, and Kozhikode city. Others on the list are from Villiappally and Chorod. There are five other patients from Mukkom and a health worker from Karaparamba in the city who had been working in Ernakulam district. Meanwhile, District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao came down on certain people for not revealing their contact list even after getting diagnosed with the infection during antigen tests. During a meeting of elected representatives from Vadakara taluk, where the rate of transmission is found to be high, he pointed out that this reluctance would lead to the infection spreading to more people. He also came down heavily on those spreading canards against antigen tests. C.K. Nanu, Vadakara MLA, sought disinfection of vehicles coming from other States at Copra Bazaar and vegetable market at Vadakara. Mr. Rao said COVID care centres would be set up for such drivers at Vadakara and at Valiyangadi in Kozhikode.
20 July 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||A rare Ramayana finds a revered place in Salim’s hands||Abdul Salim P. from Mullampara has spent his whole life collecting antiques. Unlike others who share the same hobby, Mr. Salim attaches immeasurable value to a palm-leaf manuscript of Thunchath Ramanujan Ezhuthachan’s Adhyatma Ramayana that he possesses. A devout Muslim, Mr. Salim maintains immense respect for the Ramayana manuscript he owns. He took it out, brushed it, flipped through the 200-odd pages and put it on red velvet in a reverential position as the Ramayana month began on Thursday. Mr. Salim got the rare Ramayana manuscript from P.N. Gopala Menon of Thrissur. He could learn about the rarity of the manuscript and decipher its content with the help of Santhosh Elayedath, a doctoral scholar at Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit, Kalady. “I got this invaluable Ramayana when I went for a rare manuscript of Kathakali Padangal,” said Mr. Salim, a medical shop owner at Manjeri. For posterity He believes it is his responsibility to preserve the manuscript for posterity. “I respect it as a book of reverence. People should learn all books. The problem we face today is because of our lack of interest in learning anything that is not considered ours,” said Mr. Salim. Mr. Salim has been collecting antiques for 39 years. He has many rare items in his collection. But he considers the Ramayana manuscript as the most important among them. It is believed to be more than 250 years old. “From the style of letters and the style of writing, it can be from the period of Ezhuthachan. Scholars have suggested its origin to such a period.” Mr. Salim said the 15-inch-long palm leaf was of superior quality.
20 July 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Massive local transmission feared in some parts of Palakkad||Palakkad witnessed the biggest spike in COVID-19 cases on Sunday with the north-western part of the district reeling under the fear of a massive local transmission. Sixty-seven of the 81 cases detected on Sunday were from a fish market at Pattambi. Health officials said that the fish market at Pattambi was declared a mega camp and intensive testing continued on Sunday. The source of infection for the 67 cases reported at Pattambi market could not be identified. The remaining 14 cases had returned from abroad and other States. The newly infected cases included a six-year-old child from Mathur. While seven of the infected cases had returned from the UAE, one each had come back from Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Karnataka. The source of infection for a 27-year-old man at Cherpulassery and the six-year-old child from Mathur could not be identified. A 36-year-old man at Thirumittakkode got the infection through local contact. Rapid antigen tests were conducted among 525 persons at Pattambi fish market after a worker at the market was tested positive with an unidentifiable source of infection. Sixty-seven of them tested positive, giving shudders to the health authorities. Tight measures were adopted at Koppam town and neighbouring panchayats in Malappuram district. Moorkanad and Pulamanthol panchayats sounded warnings on Sunday. Shops in Koppam and neighbouring places will close by 6 p.m. District Medical Officer K.P. Reeta said that antigen tests in Pattambi and neighbouring regions would continue in the coming days. Those tested positive in the antigen tests were 34 persons from Pattambi, five from Muthuthala, 11 from Ongallur, three each from Paruthur and Thirumittakkad, two each from Vallapuzha, Pattithara and Thrithala, and one each from Kulukkallur, Nagalassery, Vilayur, Tiruvegappura, and Shoranur. Intensive tests will be conducted at Valiyangadi and Puthunagaram markets. The total number of infected persons under treatment in the district rose to 388. In Thrissur Raising concern over the spread of COVID-19, 61 new cases were reported in Thrissur district on Saturday. As many as 28 persons, including five-year-old and six-year-old children, were infected through contact. Irinjalakuda town continues to be at risk with 18 cases getting reported on Sunday alone. These include 12 migrant workers and three office workers at KSE (Kerala Solvent Extracts) and a worker at the canteen of the Taluk Hospital. Three of a family at Irinjalakuda were also included in the list. The Taluk Hospital canteen was closed last week after a worker in the canteen from Nepal tested positive. Two workers at Jaihind market, Thrissur, and a woman police officer at Anthikkad police station too tested positive. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported from the district so far touched 824. As many as 500 persons recovered from the disease. Currently, 306 persons are under treatment at various hospitals. In all, 13,956 persons are under observation. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district continues to witness spike in COVID-19 cases with 55 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Among them, 45 contracted the disease through local transmission. Those who were infected through contact were residents of Madhur, Padane, Kasaragod, Kumbala, Mogral Puthur, Pallikkare, Badiadka, Chemmanad, Ajanur, Madhur, Chengala, Meenja, Karadka, Mangalapady and Manjeswaram A total of 5,413 persons are under observation in the district. In Kannur Kannur reported 13 more COVID-19 cases on Sunday. While two persons contracted the disease through local transmission, others came from abroad and other States. A resident of Kunnothuparambu and a DSC staff from Chalakudy were infected through contact. Other patients are residents of Eramamkuttur, Chembilode, Kuthuparamba, Panoor, Muzhappilangad and Mokeri. Police surveillance In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the district, police surveillance would be ensured during functions, said District Collector T.V. Subhash. He said marriages should be reported in advance to the nearest police station. Only 50 persons are allowed to attend wedding. Similarly, in the case of death, details should be reported to the nearest police station through the respective local-self government institutions or members. A maximum of 20 persons will be allowed for posthumous ceremonies and 10 persons for other functions. Of the 879 COVID-19 cases reported in the district, 533 have been cured. There are now 19,064 persons under observation. Of these, 206 patients are admitted at the Anjarakandy COVID Treatment Centre and 96 patients are at Kannur Government Medical College Hospital, 42 at Thalassery General Hospital, 16 at Kannur District Hospital, nine at Kannur Army Hospital, 56 are at the COVID first-line treatment centres, two at the Kannur MIMS Hospital and 18,637 are in home quarantine. In Malappuram As many as 25 persons tested positive for the virus in Malappuram district on Sunday, taking the total number of infected cases currently under treatment to 582. Ten of the new cases were found to have been infected through local contacts. They included a health worker. When 14 of the new cases had returned from abroad, one case had come back from another State. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 1,240 persons had been infected in the district so far, and 651 of them had recovered.  Officials said that 40,930 persons were currently in quarantine in Malappuram. In Wayanad One more person was tested positive for the virus in Wayanad on Sunday. A 40-year-old man at Chennalode who returned from Bengaluru on July 14 is the new COVID-19 case. He was shifted to the District Hospital at Mananthavady. Of the 269 cases reported in the district so far, 109 have been cured.  (With inputs from Kasaragod, Kannur, Thrissur, Malappuram, and Wayanad bureaus)
20 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||35 new cases in Pathanamthitta||A total of 35 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday, taking the total number of active COVID-19 patients in the district to 446. According to an official bulletin released here in the evening, 24 of the 35 newly infected persons are contacts of the patients, eight persons were those who came from abroad, and three others are those who came from other States. Policemen get infected The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district, since March 7, is 838 as on Sunday. Of this, 244 persons contracted the disease through contacts and 391 persons were cured of the disease, the bulletin said. A 50-year-old civil police officer attached to the police station in Konni and a 29-year-old civil police officer attached to the police station at Chittar were among the contacts of the infected people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. 33 cured As per the bulletin, 33 persons were cured of the disease on Sunday alone. Of the 446 patients hailing from Pathanamthitta, 436 were admitted to the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district while 10 others were admitted to hospitals outside the district. Meanwhile, a total of 453 quarantined persons, comprising patients and those having fever and other symptoms of the viral disease, were placed under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Sunday evening. As per the bulletin, 167 persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, 120 people at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, five persons at the General Hospital at Adoor, 75 persons at the COVID First-Line Treatment Centre (CFLTC) at Menanthottom Hospital in Ranni, 38 persons at the CFLTC at Archana Hospital in Pandalam, 34 persons at the CFLTC at Eraviperoor, and 14 others at various private hospitals in the district. Under quarantine As per an official bulletin, 5,712 persons were placed under quarantine at various Corona Care Centres as well as houses in different parts of the district as on Sunday.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||222 test positive in capital||The district’s COVID-19 graph slid up as 222 people were diagnosed with the disease on Sunday. Six health workers and a police officer were among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 203 people contracted the infection through local transmission. A bulk of those infected hail from the coastal areas of the district that were part of the critical containment zone where triple lockdown is in effect. The affected places include Puthiyathura (28 patients), Poonthura (23), Puthukurichy (20), Poovar (11), Pulluvila, Aruvippuram (9 each), Pozhiyoor (7), Anchuthengu, and Valiyathura (5 each). Several people hailing from other parts of the city including Sasthamangalam, Peroorkada, Palayam, Thycaud, Pappanamcode, Nemom, Vattiyurkavu, and Vanchiyoor have also been diagnosed with the illness. The source of infection is unknown in the case of a Chenkal native. A civil police officer attached to the Vattiyurkavu police station also tested positive for the infection. Five officials including the Circle Inspector have been quarantined. The imported cases were reported among people who came from the United Arab Emirates, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu recently. Twenty-five, including one each from Alappuzha, Kollam and Pathanamthitta, recovered from the illness. Currently, 1,884 people are undergoing treatment for the disease in various hospitals and COVID-19 first line treatment centres in the district. Concern at MCH Meanwhile, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran allayed concerns regarding the functioning of the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. Twenty employees, including nearly 10 doctors, contracted the infection within a week.As many as 150 employees, including around 40 doctors, have gone into quarantine. Those infected include those who were working in the non-COVID-19 wing. According to Mr. Surendran, the development was along expected lines, considering the hospital has been at the forefront of COVID-19 treatment. “As part of our strategy planned well in advance, the entire staff was divided into three batches. With 150 going into quarantine, an alternative arrangement will be implemented to ensure the functioning of the hospital remained unaffected,” he said.Steps will also be made to reduce crowding in the outpatient wing. Procedures other than emergency surgeries will also be limited. Besides, visitors’ entry will also be restricted. DYFI office closed The State committee office of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) here was closed after an employee tested positive for the infection. Many of its office-bearers including DYFI State secretary A.A. Rahim have gone into quarantine.
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Local transmission rampant as State reports 821 cases||Kerala reported 821 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total case burden of the State till date to 12,480. Local transmission continues to be rampant across all districts, along the State’s coastal belt as well as many inland areas, accounting for 642 of the new cases reported on Sunday. In 43 of these cases, the infection has not been traced to any particular source. The capital district of Thiruvananthapuram, where community transmission has already been reported in the coastal areas, accounted for 222 out of the 821 cases reported in the State on Sunday. Local transmission had resulted in 209 out of the 222 cases in the district. A total of 88 out of the 98 cases in Ernakulam, 70 out of the 81 cases reported in Palakkad and 61 out of the 75 cases reported in Kollam were also due to local transmission Among health workers A significant number of health-care workers have been testing COVID-19 positive in the State. In the past one week alone, 81 workers have been affected and in many tertiary-care institutions like the Government Medical Colleges, a chunk of the workforce, including doctors, nurses and cleaning staff, have been forced to go in quarantine, throwing the functioning of these institutions out of gear. Two deaths were reported, in Kannur and Ernakulam districts, taking the State’s COVID death toll to 42. With 172 recoveries, the number of active cases or patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals is 7,063. Of the 12,480 cases reported in the State so far, the total recoveries are 5,373. Over 1.70 lakh people are currently in surveillance and quarantine in the State, of whom, 7,309 persons with mild COVID-19-like symptoms have been isolated in hospitals. In the past 24 hours, the number of samples tested was 18,267. The State currently has 26 hotspots.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tough times for contingent workers of civic bodies||For the legion of contingent workers of the State’s civic bodies, who keeps running the resistance to the COVID-19 pandemic on the ground, even the regular commute to work is a struggle. Forced to stay in the outskirts or neighbouring panchayats due to high rents in the cities they work in, they depend on their relatives or acquaintances to drop and pick them. With some of the civic bodies insisting on them working on all days, considering the pandemic situation, their problems have only been compounded. Added to this is the lack of compensatory leaves for working on holidays, in some municipalities and corporations. “I stay near Nedumangad, from where a relative drops me to the city early in the morning. But, when lockdown is in place, it is hard for him to return, without being caught or fined by the police for violating restrictions,” says a contingent worker with the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. The working hours of contingent workers, involved in sanitation and other activities, is usually from 7 a.m to 1 p.m daily, with sometimes the work stretching a little over the stipulated time. But, for many, the lack of access to refreshments, as tea shops and restaurants are closed in many containment zones, is another problem when working long hours. 1,000 workers The Kerala Municipal Corporation Workers' Federation (KMCWF), affiliated to the CITU, has been holding talks with the various civic body authorities across the State to negotiate better working conditions for the contingent workers, who number close to 1,000 in each of the three big corporations. “In some municipalities and corporations, even the government decision that only 50% workers need to attend at a time was not applicable. After talks, some of these civic bodies have now decided to divide the contingent workers into two teams, with each team working for 15 days and then taking turns. Though there is a possibility of an increase in workload, this would reduce the risk of the entire workforce going into quarantine if one or two of them tests positive. Adequate number of leaves and stipulated compensatory leaves needs to be ensured for all workers for the hard work that they put in. Safety equipment and proper safety training should also be ensured considering the peculiar situation that they are working in now,” said V.R.Vijayakumar, general secretary of the KMCWF. Increasing strength The contingent workers’ organisations have also for long been demanding an increase in staff strength, as well as provision of quarters within the limits of the corporation or the municipality that they are working in.
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Neurological complications could be triggering suicides||Suicides amongst people who are in quarantine in connection with COVID-19 and those isolated in hospitals following mild symptoms have been on the rise in the State. The psychological issues such as stress, depression and anxiety experienced by those in quarantine have been well documented. But a sudden increase in suicides wherein the individual later turns out to have been COVID-19 positive has raised the possibility that the neurological complications caused by the SARS-CoV 2-virus, resulting in an altered mental status and encephalopathy, could be triggering these suicides. Detailed clinical studies would be required to establish a link between COVID-19 and the acute altered mental status in patients. But neurological manifestations of COVID-19 in patients, which is increasingly being recognised globally, certainly warrants more attention. A study in The Lancet Neurology has reported the neurological manifestations in 901 COVID-19 patients, some of which may be considered as direct effects of the virus on the nervous system.  The Lancet Psychiatry has also recently reported the data from the U.K. national registry of 125 patients,wherein 31% patients had altered mental status, which included 16 with encephalopathy and 23 with a neuropsychiatric diagnosis. Exact data unavailable The Health Department does not have the exact number of persons who have committed suicide in the State while in COVID-19-related quarantine or isolation. It does not have the number of cases wherein those who committed suicide tested positive for COVID-19 either. Even though the Health Department has a well- established system in place for lending psycho-social support to those in quarantine and isolation, there have been issues of delayed reporting in recent times wherein the counsellors could not reach across to the quarantined person on time. The suicide rate in Kerala is estimated to be 21.5 per lakh population. Having put some 12 lakh people through quarantine so far, it is only natural that the State’s statistics would reflect amongst this group, goes one argument. “Depression that persists for a few weeks has been noted in many viral infections and it is possible that it is not different in the case of COVID-19 also. Loneliness, frustration, the stigma attached to COVID-19 and anxieties over the loss of livelihood haunt many. They would need daily monitoring of their mental status, continued psycho-social interactions and support from the family to save them from going over the brink,” says P.S. Kiran, State Nodal Officer for Mental Health. Doctors treating COVID-19 patients say that while they have not yet observed any obvious neurological issues in these patients, irritability and adjustment disorder are seen commonly in most of them. “Neurological manifestations of COVID-19 or its sequelae in patients require detailed study,” says Thomas Iype, Head of Neurology, Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram.
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Wiping away blues of poor exam results||He had good marks in class 10 and 11, but the class 12 results this week threw him a curveball. He failed to clear three papers. It was a surprise, for him and his teachers. He barely ate anything the first day. His mother, a labourer, too was upset. It did not help that his friends had passed the examinations. Reassurances and reminders of options such as SAY exams usually mollify students, but not him. Before long, he slipped into severe depression. He was soon referred by a school counsellor to the district mental health programme. Another student who failed started displaying physical symptoms of anxiety – vomiting and so on. The student was already known to the school counsellor owing to familial issues. The child was shifted to a relative’s house. Though her food intake improved, she too has been referred to the district mental health programme for intervention. Support programme Such recent interventions were made as part of ‘Ottakkalla Oppamundu,’ a psychosocial support programme launched in June end to address mental health needs of the public during COVID-19 pandemic. The scheme, later extended to students in view of the declaration of annual examination results, aims at addressing children’s other issues too, including suicidal tendency. It is implemented by the Health Department and the Women and Child Development Department. In the three weeks since its launch, ‘reassurance’ calls have been made to 96,632 children, largely class 10 and Plus Two students, based on inputs from school counsellors, says Kiran P.S., State Nodal Officer, State Mental Health Programme. Counsellors speak to both parents and students and if issues come to their notice, more interventions such as counselling are given. Behavioural issues Of the 96,632 students, 14,000 have been given detailed counselling. Of them, nearly 4,000 reported stress about the results, while an equal number suffered from anxiety about it. As many as 431 cases related to behavioural issues. Seventy students reported substance abuse, and ten, suicidal behaviour when counsellors spoke to them. Interventions such as pharmacotherapy are needed in such cases, says Dr. Kiran. At the field level, ASHA, anganwadi, and health workers help identify children with mental stress and behavioural issues. The National Health Mission’s Disha helpline too provides psychosocial support as part of ‘Ottakkalla Oppamundu.’ Dr. Kiran says the need for a psychosocial support programme for students was felt in the wake of suicides reported in the State during the lockdown. The Chief Minister said recently that 66 children below 18 years of age committed suicide in the State since March 25, after the nationwide lockdown was announced.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Situation not conducive for bypoll: CEO||Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena has informed the Election Commission of India (ECI) that it will be unwise to hold byelections to the Chavara and Kuttanad Assembly seats given the COVID-19 situation in the State. The commission is expected to arrive at a decision on the issue soon, Mr. Meena said on Sunday. Mr. Meena had conveyed his stand at a videoconference held on Saturday. Given the worsened COVID-19 scenario and the fact that the Assembly elections are due next year, it could be impractical to go for byelection now, according to Mr. Meena. “We have reiterated our position that the COVID-19 scenario is still serious in Kerala and that the situation is not yet normal,” he said. Second, the government machinery, already stretched to the limits battling the pandemic, will encounter practical difficulties in holding the elections in accordance with the stringent COVID-19 guidelines. A third factor that could hamper smooth elections is the possibility of a strengthened southwest monsoon. The bypoll to Kuttanad was necessitated by the death of Thomas Chandy in December 2019. Chavara MLA N. Vijayan Pillai died in March this year.
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Probe continues into Sivasankar’s role||The Customs Department and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) have attempted to determine, separately, whether former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan M. Sivasankar had any intention or prior knowledge of wrongdoing in the high-profile case relating to the smuggling of contraband gold via air cargo shipments addressed to the UAE consulate here. A Customs official said Mr. Sivasankar had reportedly stated that he had no knowledge of the offence. However, he had associated with the accused often, sometimes at a personal level. Mr. Sivasankar purportedly told investigators that Sarith and Swapna Suresh, the first and second accused in the case, had ‘reached out to him’ to get the Customs to clear the cargo consignment that had arrived here early July. However, the bureaucrat reportedly told investigators that he pointedly refused to intervene. The accused had made a desperate attempt to send back the consignment to its port of origin after the inspectors at the air cargo complex at the international airport here insisted that they would clear the air freight only after examination in the presence of the UAE official in charge of the consulate. The Customs reportedly wanted to find out whether suspicion or knowledge of the presence of contraband in the consignment had caused the senior bureaucrat to balk at the request to intervene ostensibly on behalf of the consulate. Officials privy to some elements of the NIA inquiry into the national security implications of the case said the agency appeared keen on attempting to find out why Mr. Sivasankar had allegedly recommended Swapna Suresh for a job in Space Project when she was still in the rolls of the UAE consulate as a permanent employee. Even after joining Space Park project, Swapna had continued to work for the consulate on a ‘request basis.’ She had allegedly lobbied with Customs officials for the expeditious clearance of the consignment that was found to contain 30 kg of gold concealed in imported piping when opened in the presence of the UAE official on July 5.
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Question Chief Minister, says Opposition||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan could not absolve himself of the ‘treasonous’ crime of smuggling gold into the country in air cargo consignments addressed to the consulate of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) here. The statement of the first accused in the case was a damning indictment of the role of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) in the scam. The accused had reportedly told the National Investigation Agency (NIA) that former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister M. Sivasankar had used the heft of the CMO to abet the smuggling, a part of the proceeds of which went to financing terrorism. The Chief Minister’s IT fellow, who had affixed a Government of Kerala emblem on the number plate of his private car, had a role in the crime. Central agencies should question Mr. Vijayan. ‘CMO helped smugglers’ The CMO had helped the smugglers. Mr. Vijayan was responsible for the crime vicariously. Mr. Vijayan projected the image of an authoritarian Chief Minister. In reality, he had no clue of what transpired under his nose or was complicit in the wrongdoings of Mr. Sivasankar. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had obliquely criticised Mr. Vijayan for having failed to understand the “craftiness” of the person (Sivasankar). For four years, Mr. Sivasankar had opened the door of the CMO for smugglers and anti-nationals. The Secretary, Transport, played second fiddle to the CMO by suggesting that the foreign consultancy be allowed an office in the Secretariat on the ground that the employees there were not up to their tasks. Mr. Sivasankar had appointed the permanent employee of a foreign consulate, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, in the Space Park, on the merit of a fake certificate. Her posting at Rs. 1.5 lakh salary a month was an affront to the lakhs of unemployed youth.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lockdown extended till July 28||The lockdown in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation region has been extended up to the midnight of July 28, given the COVID-19 scenario in the State capital. The order issued by District Collector Navjot Khosa on Sunday is applicable to the Corporation wards which are outside the Critical Containment Zones declared in the coastal areas. Following a spike in COVID-19 cases, the district administration had issued orders on July 12 declaring a lockdown in the Corporation area from July 13 for seven days, a period which ended on Sunday. All restrictions and relaxations mentioned in the July 12 order will continue to be in force. The following activities have been additionally allowed: The Accountant General's Office, Thiruvananthapuram, can function with 30% staff. Food processing, medical and allied manufacturing units within KINFRA Park can function. The district administration has also allowed the construction of buildings where the workers are staying in camps within the premises. However, no movement outside the sites will be allowed. The coastal wards of the Corporation are already listed among the Critical Containment Zones as part of the heightened vigil in the coast.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Indecision over KTU exams worries students||Engineering students in the State are a concerned lot as the A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) remains undecided on the conduct of examinations. The university’s failure in finding a way out so far while several other technical universities have managed to wade through the pandemic-induced crisis has put the final-year students in a quandary as they fear this will affect their job prospects. The KTU had earlier postponed the eighth-semester B.Tech. examinations scheduled from July 1 in view of the COVID-19 scenario. Ever since, several rounds of discussions by various statutory panels of the university have failed to yield result. UGC revises guidelines Worsening the quagmire, the University Grants Commission (UGC) on July 6 revised its earlier guidelines that had enabled the universities to grade students on the basis of internal evaluation and performance in previous semesters. The revised guidelines, however, directed the universities to complete the examinations by September end in “offline (pen and paper format), online or blended (combining elements of offline and online modes)” modes. Academicians have been critical of the UGC move, pointing out that the guidelines were not in tune with the prevalent scenario. Besides, they do not reflect upon the intrinsic aspects of technical courses. Only 12 credits “Out of the 182 mandatory credits required to clear the BTech course, the eighth-semester accounted for only 12 credits. Insisting on conducting the examinations lacked rationale considering the pandemic situation and the urgency among students recruited by companies through campus placements to report for work. The students have been kept on tenterhooks,” a senior teacher said. While close to 7,000 final-year students are estimated to have been placed, the colleges fear that inordinate delay will lead to many students losing offers, including those by ‘dream companies.’ Students also lament that many of their contemporaries who studied in the National Institute of Technology - Calicut (NIT-C), Indian Institutes of Technology and universities in other States have already started working. The NIT-C had completed the examinations online and held viva voce telephonically. Considering there are over 40,000 students in the final-year batches, holding the examinations in the conventional format would require at least 45 days for evaluation, sources say. Numerous requests Pointing out that the KTU has been receiving numerous requests from students and parents, Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S. said that the Syndicate would meet on July 22 to discuss the issue. The Academic Council that met recently is learnt to have proposed cancellation of examinations for intermediate semesters. The university has also been mulling amendments to the existing examination regulations, but this would require the approval of the Board of Governors which is scheduled to meet on August 1. Several universities across the country cancelled their final-year examinations before the revised guidelines were issued.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man jumps to death||A 36-year-old man, who was quarantined at an institutional quarantine centre, jumped from the building late on Saturday and succumbed to his injuries on Sunday. The deceased, a native of Koppam, near Nedumangad, jumped from the fourth floor of the quarantine centre at Barton Hill here. He died at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here on Sunday. The Gulf-returnee was shifted to the quarantine centre from the General Hospital on July 9. (Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056)
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Containment zones declared||District Collector Navjot Khosa has declared all wards in Perunkadavila grama panchayat as containment zones. An official pressnote issued here today said the Mekkola (Ward no. 9) in Kollayil grama panchayat and Venjaramoodu (Ward no. 7) in Nellanad panchayat have also been declared as containment zones. Caution urged Residents of the wards adjoining these zones should exercise extreme caution, the pressnote added.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Retain banks in public sector’||Privatisation of banks will render loans inaccessible to the common man, the All India Bank Officers’ Confederation (AIBOC) observed at a webinar organised to mark the anniversary of bank nationalisation. Planning Board member K.N. Harilal inaugurated the webinar themed on ‘Challenges faced by the banking sector during COVID-19’. The speakers at the webinar called for an organised public movement to retain banks in the public sector.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP to observe ‘black day’ tomorrow||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will observe a ‘black day’ in the State on Tuesday demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The Chief Minister was facilitating the smuggling of gold and anti-national activities, the BJP alleged. Mr. Vijayan’s reluctance to step down and face an investigation in the gold smuggling case brings shame to the entire State, BJP state president K. Surendran said.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demand for separate unit to run JJM gathers pace||The demand for a separate ‘vertical’ within the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) for implementing the Centrally assisted Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) rural water supply initiative appears to be gaining traction, given the steep targets. A section of officers in the water utility have approached the KWA management and the Water Resources Department in this regard, it is understood. Since its formal establishment in 1984, the KWA has provided a little over 25 lakh water connections across the State. Through JJM, the State government expects to provide 52.85 lakh connections in rural Kerala by 2024, an initiative in which the KWA is expected to play a pivotal role. The overall cost is estimated at Rs. 22,270 crore. The target for 2020-21 alone is ten lakh connections at a cost of Rs. 1,525 crore that will be shared equally by the State and the Centre. In this context, it would be advisable to have a robust mechanism within the KWA if the utility is to play a meaningful role, according to a section of KWA officers. ‘Short-staffed’ The All Kerala Water Authority Officers’ Association (AKWAO) has called for a separate vertical under the Technical Member, KWA. This is needed to guarantee the sustainable implementation of JJM-related works, the AKWAO said in a representation to the government. Since the KWA was short-staffed, personnel should be hired on contract. Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty said no decision had been taken in this regard.
20 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Archbishop’s appeal to coastal residents||Thiruvananthapuram Archbishop (Latin rite) Soosa Pakiam M. has exhorted the residents of coastal areas to be vigilant and follow all the instructions from health workers and civic authorities, in view of the community spread of COVID-19 in parts of the coastal area. Special prayers will be conducted in the churches under the Archdiocese on July 26, a pressnote said here.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chandy writes to CM on Enrica Lexie case||The State government should vehemently oppose the Centre’s move to close the investigation by the National Investigation Agency into the Enrica Lexie case, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy has said. Mr. Chandy, in a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, demanded steps to ensure that the two Italian marines underwent trial in India. The Centre was hastening to close the case without seeking the State’s opinion. This amounted to injustice to the families of the slain fishermen, Mr. Chandy said.
20 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Plea to increase old-age pension||The Senior Citizens Service Council has urged the State government to increase old-age pension, stating that senior citizens are facing difficulties during the COVID-19 pandemic. The pension should be raised to Rs. 3,500, the council said. The elderly should also be issued glucometer and digital BP monitor as they were unable to leave their homes for medical tests, given the COVID-19 scenario, the council said.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Siblings killed in road accident||Two siblings were killed when the car in which they were travelling rammed a tree and fell into a waterlogged field near Edathua on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Midhun M. Panicker, 22, and his brother Nimal M. Panicker, 15, of Thalavady. They were returning from a relative’s house in Ambalappuzha when the accident occurred at Kaithamukku Junction at around 10.30 a.m. The vehicle was pulled out of water with the help of Fire and Rescue Services personnel and Edathua police. Vehicle cut open The vehicle had to be cut open to retrieve the bodies, the police said. Midhun was an engineering student in Chennai and Nimal was awaiting admission to Plus One.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||His daily bread||
20 July 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Atmospheric moveable cabin’ to replace PPEs||The Srinivasa Ramanujan Institute of Technology in Anantapur has come up with an Atmospheric Movable Cabin (AMC) that claims to provide a 100% safe environment to doctors and paramedical staff for discharging their duties. Singanamala (SC) MLA Jonnalagadda Padmavathi, who is an M.Tech mechanical post-graduate from JNTU, designed and headed the project team that is currently building the prototype, which is being billed as an alternative to PPEs. The innovation has garnered national recognition. The project will be funded for research activity and will be commercially marketed by the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC). These temperature-controlled mobile cabins will be self-sanitising cubicles will be transparent with an in-built flexible hand that can offer 100% protection to doctors and paramedics from contracting not just COVID-19 but any communicable disease, Ms. Padmavathi told The Hindu . Stating that she was not at liberty to explain the design aspects fully or share pictures in order to abide by the contractual agreement with NRDC, Ms. Padmavathi said they had proposed three alternatives to the corporation, which was busy finalising the specific product. “It will have a 50% revenue sharing clause as and when it gets commercially produced, which is expected to be at short notice as the project is mainly to deal with the challenges in hospitals during the COVID-19 pandemic. A doctor or nurse can move around in the ICU or general ward with the patients fully visible and patients also able to see who they are interacting with,” she said. ‘Comfortable to use’ Another positive aspect in the design of the AMC is those using it can sit inside for long hours while on duty in the wards and use their hands normally to jot down details or have a working meal without having to waste a number of disposable PPEs. Weighing roughly 100 kg, it will be portable and foldable to carry to different locations.
20 July 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur logs second largest spike of 637 cases||Anantapur district has witnessed the second largest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases in the State with 637 (behind 647 of East Godavari) persons testing positive in 24 hours taking the total to 5,141. Three fatalities were recorded during this period. On the other hand, positive cases in Kurnool district saw a downslide at 364 reported on Sunday taking the total to 6,045. On Sunday evening, 64 persons were discharged from hospitals/COVID Care Centres in Anantapur district. Following the surge in cases, there is an acute shortage of beds in hospitals and COVID Care Centre in Anantapur district. Joint Collector Nishant Kumar along with Anantapur Medical College principal Myreddy Neeraja on Sunday visited the under-construction super-speciality hospital to study the feasibility of utilising the facility for COVID-19 patients. No vacancies As of Saturday morning, there were no vacancies in the four hospitals-GGH Anantapur, RDT Bathalapalli, Hindupur and KIMS Saveera. In the five active COVID Care Centres at PVKK College (40), SVJC (50), JNTU (140), Narayana (130) and SK University (20) only 380 beds are available. The district administration is making all-out efforts to create new facilities by converting an under-construction warehouse into a 1500-bed COVID Care Centre. Kurnool district reported 590 and 550 cases in the past two days and has cumulatively tested 1,45,339 samples so far. Kurnool Collector G. Veerapandian, Superintendent of Police Fakeerappa Kaginelli and Municipal Commissioner D.K. Balaji made a joint inspection and review of the implementation of the lockdown measures in Kurnool city.
20 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials impose curbs to check rise in cases||The growing number of COVID-19 cases under the Chittoor Municipal Corporation limits and surrounding mandals has prompted the officials to announce partial lockdown of all business establishments, vegetable markets from 2 p.m. till 6 a.m., with effect from Sunday. A majority of the cases during the initial days of the lockdown were of those who had returned from Tamil Nadu. The Chittoor police sub-division limits, having porous borders with Tamil Nadu and connected to Vellore, Tiruttani and Gudiyattam, has witnessed a sharp rise in the incidence of coronavirus cases during the last couple of months, with its present tally crossing over 600. A government employee at the Chittoor Collectorate was tested positive for the virus on Saturday, leading to its partial closure. The district administration had also cancelled the Grievance Day, scheduled on Monday. Deputy-Superintendent of Police (Chittoor) K. Eeshwar Reddy said that following the steady rise in cases in the district headquarters and surrounding areas, an emergency meeting was called for with the associations of various business establishments under the Chittoor district chamber of commerce. The members of the association had voluntarily come forward to observe the restrictions by running their operations only during the stipulated time period, that is from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. No restrictions on medical shops However, medical shops and private hospitals are exempted from the restrictions. The Deputy SP said a decision on further restrictions would be announced on July 20.
20 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor seized, two held||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) personnel from Palamaner circle on Sunday arrested two persons and seized an autorickshaw and liquor packets that it was carrying at Kalagatur Cross of Gangavaram mandal on the Palamaner-Punganur road. The officials said that they were conducting a raid at the cross road when they spotted an autorickshaw moving suspiciously. As they intercepted it, the inmates tried to flee but were later nabbed. They found that the auto was carrying as many as 240 tetra-packs of liquor procured from wine shops in Karnataka. The duo, identified as Nagaraju (40) and Kishore (25) of Kalagatur village of Gangavaram, were remanded. It was observed that those involved in smuggling of liquor across the Chittoor-Karnataka border were preferring packets to bottles, considering the zero-damage during transport. Meanwhile, the Additional SP (SEB), Rishant Reddy, said that vigilance was mounted at all vulnerable points in the villages with history of ID liquor making, and along the border with Karnataka to prevent illegal transportation of liquor stocks.
20 July 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman dies of snakebite in Chittoor||A 57-year-old woman farmer of Vepurikota village in Mulakalacheruvu mandal, 150 km from here, died after being bit by a venomous snake while she was working in the fields on Sunday. According to the area police, the deceased woman, identified as Ramalakshmamma, was removing weeds from her groundnut field when a venomous snake bit her. The woman soon tried to run for help but reportedly fell unconscious and was frothing from the mouth when some farmers in the neighbouring fields saw her. They rushed to her rescue and took her to the government area hospital at Mulakalacheruvu, where she was declared brought dead by doctors. Her body was shifted to the mortuary for an autopsy. She is survived by her husband and two sons.
20 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI special team reaches Pulivendula to investigate Viveka murder case||A special team from the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which was deputed to investigate the murder of former MP Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, arrived in Kadapa on Saturday and went to Pulivendula, where the murder was committed, on Sunday. The team was formed after the slain leader’s daughter and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s cousin, Y.S. Sunitha, approached the High Court seeking a CBI inquiry into the murder that had rocked the State ahead of the general elections. BJP leader C. Adinarayana Reddy and TDP MLC ‘B.Tech’ Ravi too had moved the High Court seeking a CBI probe. After meeting SP K.K.N. Anburajan in Kadapa on Saturday, the team left for Pulivendula on Sunday morning. The team members spoke to Deputy Superintendent of Police (Pulivendula) R. Vasudevan, who was earlier the investigation officer, and gathered information pertaining to the case. The team also visited the precincts of the ancestral house of Vivekananda Reddy, where the murder was committed on March 15, 2019. The victim’s close associate, Yerra Gangireddy, personal assistant Krishna Reddy, driver Prakash and watchman Rangaiah had been named as suspects in the case. ‘Suspects will be questioned’ Sources said the team would prefer to have a private talk with the suspects as part of the interrogation. Maintaining high confidentiality in view of the sensitivity of the case, the team of nine members remained out of bounds for the local police officials as well as the media. The team is expected to stay put in the district for longer, and leave only after completion of the probe. According to sources, the State government has been told to provide sufficient space for their office- cum-accommodation and ensure privacy.
20 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People heed curfew call in East Godavari district||People from all walks of life voluntarily followed the curfew guidelines on Sunday by staying at home except in emergency situations across the East Godavari district. The 24-hour curfew was imposed in the district from Sunday morning in the wake of spread of COVID-19. The curfew will be in force on every Sunday. The streets, roads and public places wore a desert look since early morning. A total of 695 cases have been reported over the past 24 hours ending Sunday morning in the district. A total of 143 and 142 cases have been reported in Kakinada and Rajamahendravaram cities respectively. In rural parts of the district, Ramachandrapuram witnessed 54 cases. A total of 69 and 50 cases have been reported in Mandapeta and Samalkota mandals respectively. District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has designated seven private hospitals as COVID-19 hospitals in Rajamahendravam. Sai Hospital, KIMS-Bollineni, Raju Neuro, Sreelatha hospital, Delta hospital, Naveen emergency and Universal hospitals have been permitted to treat the COVID-19 patients and charge the fee as per the recent guidelines issued by the State government. “The seven hospitals fall in the category-B hospitals where COVID and non-COVID cases are treated,” Mr. Reddy said In an official release, he said that 7,000 tests were being conducted every day in the and there was no impact of the curfew on tests.
20 July 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sangameswaram temple starts to submerge as Krishna rises||Heavy rain in the catchment areas of River Krishna during the past one week led to good inflows into the Priyadarshini Jurala Project or Jurala dam in Gadwal and outflows from this directly go into the Srisailam project, which has been receiving 70,000 cusecs to 1 lakh cusecs from all sources. The Sangameswaram Siva temple in the backwaters of the Srisailam reservoir began submerging on Sunday with water entering the sanctum sanctorum for the first time this season. Kurnool district recorded a total rainfall of 938.8 mm in 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Sunday with an average of 17.4 mm in 39 mandals, which also contributed to the rise in water level in the reservoir. The highest rainfall was recorded in Chagalamarri mandal (117.6 mm) and the lowest of 1.6 mm in Peapully mandal in the district, according to the Chief Planning Officer. The water level in the Srisailam reservoir was 842 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 885 feet with a storage of 64.90 tmcft against 215 tmcft at the FRL. While the reservoir was getting 69,676 cusecs at noon on Sunday, the outflows from the Jurala project reduced to 42,972 cusecs from 65,977 cusecs on Saturday. Submergence of the Sangameswaram temple is an annual feature and the last puja inside the sanctum sanctorum could be conducted on Saturday when the water just touched the boundary walls and the entrance gate. By Sunday afternoon, there was two feet water inside the temple, said chief priest Telakapalli Raghurama Sarma. The temple submerged on July 20 in 2019 and resurfaced on March 6, but due to COVID-19, devotees were not allowed till June 8 and darshan was stopped on July 18.  The State government, meanwhile, has put all details about the proposed Rs. 3,278.18-crore Rayalaseema Lift Scheme on the A.P. Judicial Preview website. The project proposes to draw 3 tmcft of water daily from Pothyreddypadu to deliver into the Srisailam Right Main Canal (SRMC), about 4 km away, to irrigate the Rayalaseema region. It has invited suggestions and objections on the project.
20 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||195 persons, including 27 scribes, test positive in Nellore; dist. tally 2,398||COVID-19 hospitals overflowed with patients in both Nellore and Prakasam districts and the onward march of coronavirus continued. Four deaths in Prakasam Four patients succumbed to the viral disease in Prakasam district, where 220 patients tested positive in the last 24 hours. With unrelenting rise in cases, the district authorities added nine new containment clusters to the existing 187 ones, with 33 of them being very active and 115 active. In SPSR Nellore district, 27 journalists were among the 195 patients who contracted the infection. The hotspot of Nellore city accounted for a maximum of 125 new cases. The total number of confirmed cases went up to 2,376 and 2,398 in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts respectively. Bed strength enhanced As many as 58 patients, 50 in Prakasam district and eight in SPSR Nellore district, were cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals during the period. In Prakasam district, the disease continued to spread far and wide with remote places accounting for 1,219 of the 2,376 cumulative cases. The bed strength was increased to 762 by putting 177 extra beds to treat the patients, including 60 admitted during the period.  Ongole bore the brunt of the disease, registering 75 cases, taking the tally in the city to 491. With 27 new cases, the total number of cases went up to 407 in Markapur. Other places with high number of cases included Chirala and Kandukur with 19 new cases, pushing up the tally to 224 and 162 respectively. Fresh cases also came from Kanigiri(21), Lingasamudram(10), Giddalur(8), Singarayakonda(6), Pamur(4), Podili(4) and Addanki(2). Seven of the newly-infected persons had returned from neighbouring Telangana and one each from Karnataka and Punjab. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh Union of Working Journalists(APUWJ) State president I.V.Subba Rao wanted the State government to provide an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh to scribes, treating them as corona warriors. It should provide an immediate assistance of Rs. 20,000 to each of the more than 150 journalists who had tested positive for the disease in the State, he said.
20 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman among 12 held in gang-rape case||Twelve persons, including a woman, were arrested on Sunday in connection with the alleged gang-rape of a 16-year-old Dalit girl under Korukonda police limits in Rajamahendravaram city. The 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by several persons for three days in a house in the city since July 12. The incident came to light after the gang-rape survivor approached the police on July 16. “A 20-year-old woman named M. Anitha of Rajamahendravaram city is one of the accused. She is the one who reportedly handed over the victim to the accused as per their plan,” North Zone DSP P. Satyanarayana Rao told The Hindu . “The gang of 11 youth sexually assaulted the victim in Rampa Agency before bringing her back to Rajamahendravaram city, where they allegedly raped her for three days in a room,” the police officer said. The 12 accused were arrested on Sunday evening, and all of them are in the age group of 20-25, the DSP told reporters. According to a press release, the accused have been identified as M. Sai, D. Siva Kumar, R. Venkata Durga, K. Vijaya Kumar, K. Gowri Manohar, P. Rajesh, G.S.S. Sai Vara Prasad, U. Raviteja and N. Bobby. Two others are yet to be identified. A.P. Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddi Padma on Sunday met the rape survivor at the District Government Hospital here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters later, Ms. Padma said that the survivor would be given the best medical care by thegovernment and promised swift action against the accused. Police are investigating the case.
20 July 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close call at Tirupati airport||A major mishap was averted at the Tirupati International Airport on Sunday when an IndiGo flight made an aborted landing after the pilot spotted an overturned fire tender on the runway during final approach. The 6E7105 Hyderabad-Tirupati-Bengaluru flight (AT76), with 70 people on board including passengers and crew, immediately made a go-around and continued on its way to Bengaluru without landing in Tirupati. The fire tender was on the runway for a mandatory check ahead of the flight’s arrival, and overturned while manoeuvring a sharp turn. Airport officials deployed rescue staff to remove the vehicle from the runway. The incident help up flights for three hours. The 40 Tirupati-bound passengers arrived at the airport on the flight’s return leg from Bengaluru to Hyderabad, officials said.
20 July 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chevireddy vows to stand by patients||Government Whip and TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy comforted COVID-19 patients and announced that the government will provide treatment to them in corporate hospitals extending treatment under Aarogyasri. At the COVID coordination committee meeting held here on Sunday, Mr. Bhaskar Reddy spoke of the importance of infusing confidence in the public about the government’s sincere efforts by offering corporate-level treatment and the need for the public to stay confident and face the situation courageously. “Those testing positive shall focus on taking nutritional food and better treatment, apart from boosting their immunity. Let us understand that nobody is an exception to this virus,” the Chandragiri MLA said.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Capital Bills go against spirit of State Reorganisation Act: Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan to consider the provisions of the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, the sacrifices made by farmers of Amaravati, and the decision taken by the Legislative Council before making up his mind on the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill and the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Bill. ‘Vendetta politics’ In a letter addressed to the Governor on Sunday, Mr. Naidu alleged that the YSRCP government, in pursuit of vendetta politics, had brought in the two Bills to pave the way for establishment of three capitals on the ruins of the existing capital city, Amaravati. “The Government of Andhra Pradesh has so far incurred around Rs. 10,000 crore in developing infrastructure and creating basic amenities in Amaravati. There is no need to invest any money hereafter, as Amaravati has been designed as a self-finance project. It has been designed to be a city on a par with national and international standards,” Mr. Naidu said. Council decision He further said that the A.P. Reorganisation Act, 2014, categorically states that there shall be only one capital for the State of Andhra Pradesh. “Thus, the Bills tabled and passed by the Legislative Assembly are not in line with the established customs of parliamentary procedures in India,” he observed. The Legislative Council did not reject the Bills, but referred them to the Select Committee, he said. When the Bills were introduced for the second time, the council did not consider them as they were pending with the Select Committee, he added. “This unmindful act of the YSRCP government poses a bleak future to the Telugu people. Amaravati is not only conceived and envisaged for the needs of contemporary times but also to cater to the requirements of the future generations,” Mr. Naidu said in his letter, and urged the Governor to consider these facts and take a decision accordingly in the larger interest of the people of Andhra Pradesh.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Healthcare services in for a sea change||Healthcare infrastructure and services in the State are set to witness a sea change in the near future with the government expanding the scope and reach of several schemes and projects. The government has revamped the Aarogyasri scheme to benefit 1.42 crore of the 1.48 crore families. This has been made possible by allowing those under the Rs. 5 lakh per annum income category to avail of the benefit under the scheme, according to a release. The beneficiaries can now avail themselves of 2,200 medical procedures in six districts under the scheme. The benefits will be extended to other districts as well, according to the release. All the eligible families are provided with the Aarogyasri cards, which have QR codes that enable the doctors to access the health records of the beneficiaries. The scheme can also be availed in about 150 hospitals in Hyderabad, Chennai and Bengaluru. In addition, the cardholders can also avail themselves of the benefit of post-operative assistance under the ‘Arogya Asara’ scheme. Considering the rapid spread of COVID-19, the government has brought the treatment for it under the ambit of Aarogyasri. YSR Village Clinics The government has plans to launch 10,000 YSR Village Clinics by April 2021. The clinics will be developed at a cost of Rs. 16,200 crore. This apart, the facilities at 7,458 Primary Health Sub-Centres, 1,145 PHCs, 52 Area Hospitals and 169 CHCs will be improved under the Nadu-Nedu programme. New medical colleges Besides, the government has announced 16 new medical colleges with a view to providing healthcare to most of the population in every parliamentary constituency. The government has also issued notification for the recruitment of 9,712 medical staff, and 60% of them are newly-created posts.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amaravati JAC joins chorus against Bills||The Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi Joint Action Committee (JAC) convener A. Sivareddy on Sunday appealed to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan not to commit a “historic blunder” by approving the three capitals Bill and the CRDA Bill. Addressing the media at the JAC office, Mr. Sivareddy said the people in the capital region had been protesting for the last 215 days in a peaceful way and 67 farmers had died in the course of the protests. He said the future of the State depended on the decision of the Governor on the two crucial Bills. Mr. Sivareddy said all political parties and people’s organisations were unanimous in their view that the issue should be taken to the President and then tabled for a thorough discussion in Parliament before going ahead with its implementation. The JAC leader urged the Centre to intervene and save the interests of the people in Andhra Pradesh. He said at a time when the coronavirus was raging and there was a sharp spike in the number of deaths and new ‘positive’ cases, it was unfortunate that the government’s focus was on getting the two Bills approved by the Governor. He said the three capitals Bill, if implemented, would whip up regional passions among the people. The government’s decision had pushed the State into uncertainty and no investor was prepared to put money here as the place did not have a proper capital so far. ‘Violation of norms’ Mr. Sivareddy said the JAC would continue the legal battle against the move. JAC co-convener Gadde Tirupati Rao alleged that the YSRCP government in the State had been resorting to gross violation of constitutional norms. He wondered how the ruling party could table the Bills for the second time after they were sent to a Select Committee, without following the due process. He called upon the Opposition parties to oppose the government’s “sinister” plans. He urged the Governor to use his discretionary powers and send the Bills to the President.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up committee to protect cows, says Narasapuram MP||Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to constitute a Goshala Development Committee to protect cows in the State. In a letter to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the MP said that the last such committee was set up in the unified State of Andhra Pradesh in 2005 during the Chief Ministerial tenure Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy with the aim of strengthening the Goshalas and take care of cows. “No such committee has been formed after the bifurcation of the State,” he said. The MP pointed out that the authorities of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam had removed all 31 contract workers from its Goshala owing to financial constraints. And subsequently, three cows died. Around 100 cows were allegedly poisoned to death at Kothur-Tadepalli Goshala near Vijayawada in August 2019. “It is, therefore, imperative to set up a Goshala Development Committee to prevent such incidents,” he said. Karnataka example Citing the example of Karnataka, the MP said the government had launched a project to protect cows through which all Goshalas were being run by the Endowments Department of that State. “The A.P. government may study the scheme and replicate it. Government officials, environmentalists, people’s representatives and those engaged in the running of Goshalas may be made the members of the committees,: the MP suggested.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on uninterrupted power to hospitals, quarantine centres||The Energy Department has laid special focus on 24x7 power supply to hospitals and quarantine centres to ensure continuous care to patients suffering from COVID. The power utilities are working closely with the Medical and Health Department towards that goal. According to an official release, Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy informed the Energy Department that the government had significantly ramped up the testing infrastructure and set up several high - technology laboratories for detecting the virus thereby facilitating proper treatment of the patients. Energy Secretary N. Srikant said the DISCOMs were geared up to attend to power supply disruptions in hospitals and other health care centres. Special team He said the Operations & Maintenance wing was working round the clock to ensure hassle-free power supply to hospitals, labs and quarantine centres. Special teams were formed for the purpose.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Capital shift will further burden exchequer: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan not to endorse the Andhra Pradesh Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Bill, 2020 and Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority Repeal Bill, 2020. In a letter to the Governor on Sunday, CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna claimed that the State government had brought in the Bills against the aspirations of the people. “All political parties, including the YSRCP, had supported the then TDP government’s move to develop the capital at Amaravati. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was the Leader of Opposition then, had stressed on the need for 33,000 acres to develop the capital, he said. “Assembly, Secretariat, High Court, quarters for employeesare already in place. Shifting of the capital at this juncture would be a burden on the exchequer,” he said.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Continue AFCs in municipal schools’||The decision of shutting down the Advance Foundation Course (AFC), a special course introduced at select centres to groom urban slum children for competitive exams, has drawn a flak from municipal teachers. Even as the teachers working at AFCs have been told to report to their parent schools, Municipal Teachers Federations (MTF) have sought that the centres be renamed as ‘School of Excellence’. MTF State president S. Ramakrishna said that students of 17 AFCs had bagged 80% of the top ranks in SSC exams and almost 90 % of the NMMS.
20 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4,176 children rescued in State||As many as 4,176 children, including 585 girls, have been rescued in the last six days under ‘Operation Muskaan’ in the State. According to the Crime Investigation Department (CID) police, 4,000 children were restored to parents and 176 were sent to Child Care Institutions (CCIs) till Sunday. Eleven cases have been registered against the owners for engaging children for work and show- cause notices were served on seven persons. Police conducted COVID-19 tests on 1,064 rescued children and of the total 59 children belonging to other States. The drive is being conducted from July 14 to 20, the police said.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records biggest single-day spike with 193 new cases||As many as 193 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 2,934 on Sunday. This is the biggest single-day spike the district has ever recorded since March. Meanwhile, the death toll increased to 51, as two more persons succumbed to the coronavirus. As many as 99 persons, who were undergoing treatment, have been discharged from various COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 1,004 and the number of persons discharged is 1,879. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, with the new cases, Ambedkar Nagar, Bakkannapalem, Carpenters’ Colony, Deendayalpuram, Jaya Bharat Nagar-2, Karasa police quarters, Lakshmi Narayana Nagar, Lalitha Nagar, Mandavari Veedhi (Dondaparthy) and a few other areas have been declared as new clusters on Sunday. 161 very active clusters The total number of very active clusters are 161 and the number of active and dormant clusters are 203 and 183 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been de-notified, he said. All the government sectors have been affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At least 15 police personnel, including Station House Officers (SHOs), have tested positive in the city. Employees of various offices are apprehensive to attend to their duties as cases are increasing, despite taking all precautions. A few media persons from the city have also tested positive. Journalist organisations have been condemning the hosting of press conferences by some local political leaders. A reporter from an electronic media channel said that even Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Opposition leader N. Chandrababu Naidu have never organised press conferences in the view of the pandemic, but were issuing recorded messages. A senior journalist said that local leaders from various political parties should think of using webinars and other forms of social media to convey their message to the media.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pregnant women more vulnerable to coronavirus, says expert||Pregnant women are more vulnerable to infection with COVID-19 compared to the general population, based on the experience of corona-affected patients in China and knowledge of viruses that cause severe respiratory illness, according to B. Radhika, consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist, KIMS ICON Hospital, Visakhapatnam. In a statement, she advised pregnant women to avoid routine antenatal checkups, if they are not in the category of high-risk category or in the last trimester of pregnancy. However, there are no reported deaths of pregnant women from coronavirus at the moment. The virus is unlikely to affect the pregnancy of the woman and the reported cases of COVID-19 pneumonia so far in pregnancy are milder with good recovery rates. Pregnant women with heart disease and obesity are at higher risk. ‘Strengthen support’ The pandemic increases the risk of perinatal anxiety and depression. It is important to strengthen the support for women and to reduce their fear and anxiety, she says. There does not appear to be any increased risk of miscarriage or other complications such as fetal anomalies for pregnant women, who are infected with COVID-19, she says quoting a study. ‘Take precautions’ The precautions for pregnant women are more or less the same like washing hands regularly and effectively with soap as in the case of the general population, avoid large gatherings, social distancing, hydration and adequate rest are also important in maintaining the health of the immune system, fetal kick count should be checked daily and telehealth services should be considered as much as possible. “More severe symptoms that necessitate immediate medical intervention include pneumonia, marked shortness of breath and patient unable to cope with the symptoms any more,” says Dr. Radhika. A study of nine pregnant women, who were infected with COVID-19, showed that none of their babies were affected by the virus. The virus was not present in amniotic fluid, the babies throat, or in the breast milk. The risk of passing the infection to the fetus appears to be probable but very low and there is no evidence of any fetal malformations or effects due to maternal infection with COVID-19, she added.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kailasagiri facelift works commence||Works have commenced on the much-awaited project to give a facelift to Kailasagiri, a popular tourist destination in the city. It is being taken up as part of the Andhra Pradesh Disaster Recovery Project (APDRP). After finalising the tenders for the project before the spread of COVID-19, officials of the Visakhapatnam Metro Region Development Authority (VMRDA) concluded the agreement for the execution of the Rs. 56.55-crore project with the contracting agency on July 13. Second ghat road According to the VMRDA officials, the works include development of a second ghat road (BT road) for a length of 1.50 km and width of 15 metres up to the Telugu museum, besides improvement of the existing ghat road. The project also includes construction of the much-needed footpaths for a length of 4.20-km. “The food courts and other shops that are scattered now will be housed in the shopping complexes / arenas to be constructed at three to four places. A children’s arena will also come up,” VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao has said. “It is also proposed to re-introduce battery-operated vehicles for the benefit of the elderly and differently-abled persons,” he says. More space for parking The project also includes construction of 14 more shelters and view points, besides improving the existing ones, and expansion of the parking facility to accommodate an estimated 180 cars, 25 buses and 200 two-wheelers. “Plantation and landscaping will be taken up in an extent of 80,000 sq m. An amphitheatre will also be set up. Besides ensuring supply of drinking water, a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) will also be set up. Modernisation of electrical and lighting network, and provision of CC cameras and public address systems are also on the cards,” Mr. Rao says. Spread across nearly 400 acres, Kailasagiri is one of the most sought-after tourist destination in the city. The view points that offer a panoramic view of the city, the rope-way facility, and the Telugu museum are major attractions. After suffering complete damage in the aftermath of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Hudhud in 2014, the World Bank had decided to fund the project. In 2019, the VMRDA had called for tenders after obtaining approval for the Detailed Project Report (DPR). July 2021 deadline Mr. Koteswara Rao said he had visited the site recently along with Additional Metropolitan Commissioner Manazir Jeelani Samoon, Superintendent Engineer K. Ram Mohan Rao and representatives of the contracting agency, and discussed the project with them. “There is a slight delay in the progress of works due to the pandemic. The contractors have commenced the works by collecting the soil samples. If everything goes well, the project will be completed by July 2021,” he says.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Madhubani masks make their way to Visakhapatnam from Bihar||In the front yard of a small house in the remote Kansi village of Darbhanga district in Bihar, Nabita Jha, along with 11 women, paints Madhubani motifs on cotton masks. These are later given a coat of colour in natural dyes. A few days later, a bunch of these masks travel thousands of kilometres to cities such as Visakhapatnam, Delhi, Mumbai and Goa. While the coronavirus pandemic wreaked havoc on the livelihoods of traditional craftspersons, for Ms. Nabita and other Madhubani artists it has opened up a new channel of earning. Their Madhubani motif masks have become a rage on social media. Several noted personalities such as industrialist Anand Mahindra and actors like Raveena Tandon have tweeted about these masks. Shifted base Following the lockdown, Ms. Nabita and her family were forced to move out of their base in Delhi to their village in Bihar after all sources of income dried up. She decided to use her artistic talent to fashion face masks. She is the daughter of Madhubani artist Baua Devi, a Padma Sri awardee. Ms. Baua was part of a pioneering generation of Madhubani artists, who transferred their artistry from the wall to paper and was known for her unique style of mythological narrative paintings. “My mother has been my guiding force from my childhood. Even today I derive my strength from her,” says Ms. Nabita, over a telephonic chat from her village. Marketing issues She heads a group called Bhagavati Jeevika who are churning out beautiful three-layered cotton masks with hand-painted designs. However, they faced one problem - to market the product to a wider audience. “Some people from Visakhapatnam and Delhi reached out to us to help market our masks,” says Govind, Nabita’s son. Visakhapatnam-based Sonia Gupta, who runs a boutique, came as a support for them. “We recently got the first batch of masks from them that are available at our store,” Ms. Sonia Gupta says. According to Ms. Nabita, the face masks have an aesthetic appeal and attracts new generation users.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing centre, isolation facility sought at steel plant township||The wife of a CISF employee of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP), who was pregnant, was admitted to the Visakha Steel General Hospital on July 10, after tests indicated that the amniotic fluid level was going down, which could be dangerous to the growing fetus. The fetal scan was taken on a daily basis and in the meantime a screening test revealed that the woman was COVID-19 positive. Though she was taken to various COVID hospitals in the city, she could not be admitted there, reportedly due to non-availability of beds, according to an INTUC leader of VSP. She was taken back to the Steel General Hospital as her bleeding increased. Gynaecologist G. Sujatha, anaesthetist A. Anant and their team of doctors performed the surgery, despite the COVID threat, in view of the emergency. The baby was was delivered successfully and both the mother and child are safe. “There is crowding around the scanning facility at VSGH and the woman had to undergo scanning several times for five days. She could have contracted the virus there. Though there was a demand for opening of a separate camp at Ukkunagaram for COVID-19 cases, the authorities failed to take action,” according to an employee. While appreciating the gesture of the medical team of VSGH, the INTUC leader appealed to the VSP management to provide quarantine facilities at the Ukku House for the mother and her baby. Meanwhile, the Visakha Steel Employees Congress (INTUC) and its allied unions staged a protest at the TTI, observing all COVID-19 guidelines on July 17 alleging that the RINL/VSP had failed to contain the pandemic at the plant and the township. They demanded among other things: provision of thermo temperature scanners, masks, gloves and sanitisers at all the working areas, symptomatic employees and their dependents should be screened on preferential basis, minimise or adjust the manpower to check the spread of the virus, to implement the insurance scheme of Rs. 50 lakh announced by the Central government to all the employees of the RINL, to treat the coronavirus death of an employee as Injury on Duty (IOD) and facilitate employment to one of the dependents and to immediately start testing centre and isolation facility at Steel Plant Township. Later, a memorandum was submitted to the Director (Personnel) of VSP/RINL.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Naidu wrote letter with malicious intent’||Former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had never considered the recommendations of the Sivaramakrishnan Committee, which was against the setting up of the capital in Amaravati because of the fertile lands in the region, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana said here on Sunday. The committee had, in fact, favoured decentralisation of administration, Mr. Satyanarayana said while addressing the media here. “Mr. Naidu has written a letter to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan with a malicious intent,” the Minister alleged. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised decentralisation of administration and reorganisation of districts during the padayatra he had undertaken prior to the elections, he said. In line with the promise, the government ensured passage of the decentralisation and CRDA repeal Bills in the Legislative Assembly with a view to making Visakhapatnam the Executive capital, Amaravati the Legislative capital, and Kurnool the Judicial capital, Mr. Satyanarayana said. ‘Jagan fulfilling promises’ Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was endeavouring to fulfil the promises he made, he said, and alleged that Mr. Naidu, on the other hand, had obstructed the passage of the Bills in the Legislative Council with an ulterior motive. The Minister further claimed that the decision to decentralise the administration was being lauded not only by people of the north coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema regions but also by those in Krishna and Guntur districts. “Mr. Naidu, who grabbed lands from the poor on the pretext of land pooling exercise, is now insisting on making Amaravati the capital only with an eye on his real estate business,” the Minister alleged. The establishment of village and ward secretariats across the State and the process initiated for reorganisation of districts were all aimed at ensuring better governance and taking the administration to the doorstep of the people, Mr. Satyanarayana said.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple killed in accident||A couple died in a road accident after their bike was allegedly hit by a car at Naidupalem under Sabbavaram police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The deceased were identified as S. Gangadhar (44) and S. Appalamma (38), both residents of Juttada area of Pendurthi mandal. The incident occurred when the couple were going to their house. The police have shifted the bodies to the government hospital for post-mortem. Sabbavaram police registered a case and investigation is on.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||KV students bring laurels to their school||Kendriya Vidyalaya, Sri Vijaya Nagar No. 1, Visakhapatnam, has topped KVS, Hyderabad Region, both in Std. X and XII (Humanities). K. Joshitha (X) secured first rank with 494 marks out of 500 (98.8%) in CBSE, 2020 exams, and topped Hyderabad region securing 100 % marks each in Maths, Sanskrit and Social Science and Science 99 and English 95. V. Harshitha from Humanities stream of Std. XII secured first position in the region by securing 429/55 (98.4%). School Principal P. K. Purohit congratulated the students on their achievement.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Raavi Sastry award for city novelist||Journalist and writer from the city Chintakindi Srinivasa Rao has been chosen for the Raavi Sastry (Rachakonda Viswanadha Sastry) Award - 2020 of the Raavi Sastry Foundation, according to representatives of the foundation Rachakonda Narasimha Sarma and Uma Kumara Sastry. The award will be presented to the winner at a function to be organised under the aegis of Visakha Rasagna Vedika on the 99th birth anniversary of Raavi Sastry, in the city. Chintakindi Srinivasa Rao has carved a niche for himself as writer and novelist with his works like ‘Dalappa Theertham’, ‘Kanpula Dibba’, ‘Kappa Sthambam’ on a wide range of topics, says Visakha Rasagna Vedika founder-president G. Raghurama Rao.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds youth’s death||A 19-year-old youth was found dead beside a road at Gamparai village under Pedabayalu police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Sunday. The deceased was identified as V. Radha Krishna of Gamparai village in Pedabayalu mandal in the district. According to the police, Radha Krishna was allegedly addicted to ganja and alcohol. On Saturday night, he left home and did not return. As per the complaint given by the family members, some youth, who used to consume liquor with Radha Krishna, were suspected to have reportedly beaten him up and threw him beside the road. Injury marks Police said that the youth had injury marks on his head apart from bruises all over his body, to which he might have succumbed. Based on the complaint, a case has been registered and investigation is on.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Modi kits’ distributed to artistes||A programme was organised to distribute ‘Modi kits’ to performing artistes at the BJP office here on Sunday. BJP State secretary Kasiviswanadha Raju, who participated as chief guest, said that the party would always be in the forefront to help the poor. He appealed to all to maintain physical distance to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.
20 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists, police exchange fire in Agency area||An exchange of fire took place between police personnel and Maoists in the forest area of Landulu village in Killamkota panchayat under Pedabayulu police station limits, in Visakhapatnam Agency on Sunday morning. There were no causalities in the incident, police said. “There was no major Maoist activity in the Agency area during the last six months. A similar situation was prevailing even in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB). So, this can be said to be the first exchange of fire this year,” a police officer said. According to Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam (Rural) B. Krishna Rao, the incident occurred at around 11.30 a.m on Sunday. The exchange of fire lasted for 15 to 30 minutes, he said. “According to our men, there were around 20 Maoists at the spot. We have recovered five kit bags and a .303 rifle,” the SP added. In April, senior Maoist leader Jallandhar Reddy made an appeal through a video for peace in the Left-Wing Extremism-affected areas in AOB region in light of the COVID-19 threat.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily grind||
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Day begins||
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Motorists’ nightmare||
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR to discuss reorganisation of Irrigation Department||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will hold a broad based meeting of irrigation officials on Monday to discuss the draft report on reorganisation of Irrigation Department with focus on creating 15 to 20 territorial wings, each headed by an officer of the rank of Chief Engineer, after dissolving the present setup. It was already decided at the previous meeting last week to do away with minor, medium and major irrigation wings, State Irrigation Development Corporation and packages based sub-wings of the department. Instead, they will all be brought under one umbrella organisation but territorial wings will be created to supervise works locally. The territorial wings will be responsible for all kinds of irrigation projects, reservoirs and check-dams within their limits. ‘Organise workshop’ Mr. Rao asked Principal Irrigation Secretary Rajat Kumar at that meeting to organise a workshop to chart out the course of action.   Hence, Mr. Rajat Kumar and a senior official in the Chief Minister's Office Smita Sabharwal held the workshop and prepared a draft report which will be taken up by Mr. Rao at Monday’s meeting. A release said Mr. Rao contemplated reorganisation of the department because irrigation had suffered regional imbalance in combined State though Telangana had immense potential to tap river water. The situation was set right with comprehensive understanding of problems and implementation of right plans in the last six years of separate Telangana. Push to agriculture Irrigation in the State gave a huge push to agriculture as it contributed to 55% of foodgrain production in the country in the rabi of 2019-20. The same was also acknowledged by the Food Corporation of India.  At another broad meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Rao will discuss the designs for the new Secretariat complex with officials and architects as a prelude to a meeting of the Cabinet which will finalise the proposals. Mr. Rao already had a look into some designs which were prepared with the objective to symbolise the hoary past and glory of the region. The meeting will discuss the exteriors and the facilities in the interiors of the complex.    After the Cabinet approves the designs, tenders will be invited for construction. Architects from Tamil Nadu -- Oscar and Ponni -- will be present, a release said.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Post recovery, NGO volunteers turn guides at govt. hospitals||Around eight volunteers from a city-based NGO who have recovered from COVID-19 are guiding people at government hospitals about the process to be followed for patient registration, testing, admission and other procedures. The NGO, Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), has set up help desks at three government hospitals visited by COVID-19 patients or suspects for testing or admission. Considering the rapid pace of virus spread, visitors prefer to walk in and out of hospitals as soon as possible. However, there have been complaints about the lack of sign boards directing one to the registration or testing area, leaving them wandering around in confusion. The issue was published in these columns and taken to the notice of Health department officials who had promised to address it. Mujtaba Hasan Askari, trustee of Helping Hand Foundation, said that they have established help desks at the District Hospital in King Koti, Government General and Chest Hospital in Erragadda, and Osmania General Hospital. People suspected to have COVID visit these health facilities. Around 10 volunteers at the help desks explain people how to get registered for out-patient (OP) consultation and coronavirus tests. They clear other queries too. “Many healthcare workers are scared to work in COVID hospitals fearing that they might get infected. It is a daunting task to find dedicated and trained resources. Of the 10 volunteers, eight of them have recovered from COVID-19. Tests were conducted on them and they had antibodies against coronavirus,” Mr Mujtaba said. After registering at the OP counter, the condition of a suspect is checked by doctors in triage and they decide whether a test is required or not. If it is needed, they are directed to another section of hospital. There are separate queues for OP registration, triage and sample collection. Guidance about these is provided by the volunteers. Jahangir (name changed), one of the volunteers serving at the District Hospital in King Koti, said that they are focusing on the elderly patients and attendants. “Around four days ago, an elderly man came rushing to our help desk asking if we can expedite the OP registration process as his wife had collapsed while waiting in the queue. We rushed her to the emergency ward, and alerted the doctors and nurses there. Since that incident, we have been keeping a keen eye on aged patients in queues. We provide information about various procedures and also test report collection centre,” he said. There is a separate process for patients with shortness of breath, the procedure of which is explained by volunteers. They also help rush suspects in critical condition to the emergency ward. HHF is working with partner NGOs and has decided to request the State government to set up help desks at Gandhi Hospital and Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital too.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Probe into city link to Kerala hawala scam||The high-profile multi-crore gold smuggling scam that had stung the Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Front government in Kerala has a stopover in Hyderabad, if investigators are to be believed. The Customs officials, who are investigating the case after they seized diplomatic baggage containing gold weighing over 30 kg from Thiruvananthapuram international airport on July 5, ‘strongly’ believe that one Ismail from Hyderabad played a key role in hawala. They found that the money, which was raised in Kerala against the smuggled yellow metal, was facilitated to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and other Middle Eastern countries through hawala channels that ‘actively’ operated from here to dodge banking regulators. Ismail managed a large amount of UAE Dirham and US Dollars transactions as against the Indian rupee through his ‘well-oiled’ network on several occasions, the officials suspect. A senior Customs officer confirmed that one Ismail with several aliases was involved and is probing to get more evidence. “A probe is on to know if Hyderabad was the hawala headquarters in this case. Names of Ismail and a few others cropped up while probing the role of outsiders,” he said. He added that they are trying to find ‘links’ between the accused Sandeep Nair, Swapna Suresh and Ismail. “We will find out how they came in touch with each other and started the multi-crore business,” the officer said. Meanwhile, the officials of the National Investigation Agency, Hyderabad, who arrested Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair from Bengaluru last week, are also trying to get information on Ismail. When contacted, several officials of Hyderabad city police were unaware of the existence of Ismail. “So far, no one has approached us for help and no one with the name Ismail, with such high-profile connections, is on our radar. It is a very common name,” said a senior police officer here. “Illegal money transfer is a common phenomenon in all major cities across the country. In many cases, we can’t even prove their role, as there is no recorded evidence. These days, criminals are using WhatsApp and other highly encrypted mobile applications for communication,” the officer said. Generally, hawala brokers in the city charge anywhere between Rs. 300 to Rs. 500 as commission for Rs. 1 lakh. The commission varies from country to country and season to season. “During the lockdown following COVID, they were demanding Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 1,300 commission for hundi (intra-country) transaction, as the risk of getting caught by the police, is very high,” a source in the Begum Bazaar grey market said. He added that hawala brokers in Hyderabad have a poor network in European countries, due to lack of counterparts.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HMDA for land pooling, development in 3 villages||The HMDA has entered into an agreement with farmers of three villages under its jurisdiction for land pooling and area development as per the terms of the recently-declared land pooling policy of the government. The villages include Bogaram of Ghatkesar mandal in Medchal-Malkajgiri district, Lemur in Kandukur mandal of Ranga Reddy district and Malkapur village in Choutuppal mandal of Yadadri-Bhongir district. The combined land to be pooled under the notification issued on Sunday amounts to over 678 acres from three villages. Of these, over 104 acres are from Lemur village, 219 acres from Bogaram village, and 355 acres from Malkapur village. Seeking to project it as response to the policy, which has enhanced the owners’ share from 50% to 60%, sources from HMDA said that the response was more overwhelming from Bogaram village, where land owners are vying to hand over 1,000 more acres. According to the recently-issued guidelines for land pooling, area development plan, development scheme and other land assemblage projects under HMDA, the urban development authority’s share will be 40% of the developed land, while land owners get 60%. Earlier, the land was being equally shared between HMDA and the owners after development. Besides, HMDA would bear the nala charges, registration and stamp duty of the sale deeds for allocated sites, and land use conversion charges too on behalf of plot owners. HMDA has successfully developed the Uppal Bagayat layout under the land pooling scheme, and also auctioned part of the plots recently.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spillway discharge of flood stopped at Jurala||Although the discharge of flood from the spillway of Jurala project was stopped on Sunday evening with the inflows into Jurala receding steadily, it is expected to be resumed in a couple of days as the flood Almatti is on the rise again. According to the flood monitoring officials, the spillway gates of Jurala were closed at around 5 p.m. on Sunday as the inflows from the upstream were reduced to 50,000 cusecs. Hydel units in operation However, release of about 39,000 cusecs of flood downstream towards Srisailam is continuing with the operation of five hydel units at the dam site power house. A Central Water Commission (CWC) forecast however has indicated that the flood to Almatti dam in Karnataka is rising again and its expected to cross 51,200 cusecs by Monday morning. Similarly, the inflows into Tungabhadram dam, also in Karnataka, are expected to cross 33,500 cusecs. In spite of falling inflows, the water storage in Srisailam reached about 66.5 tmc ft at 9 p.m. on Sunday against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft. On July 14, when the discharge of flood at Jurala was commenced first through power generation around noon, and later through the spillway too in the night, water storage in Srisailam was only 37.4 tmc ft. Srisailam reservoir started releasing the flood released from Jurala from July 15 evening and in little over four days, the common project of the Telugu States received nearly 30 tmc ft of water. Water build up As the discharge of flood is still continuing from Jurala after power generation, the build up of water level in Srisailam is likely to be steady.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two of 3 X-Ray machines at OGH non-functional||Bad times continue to haunt Osmania General Hospital, which made headlines last week following flooding of its in-patient block. It has come to light that COVID-19 suspects and emergency patients in need of X-Ray diagnosis are forced to wait for their turn for an inordinately long time at the out-patient block as only one out of three X-Ray machines is functional. No sanitation In a day, around 200 patients need the diagnosis. Besides, owing to the rush, sanitation measures are not taken up after a COVID suspect with symptoms is diagnosed using the lone machine. That leaves a wide scope for the coronavirus to spread faster among non-COVID patients. COVID suspects in critical condition, most of them experiencing shortness of breath, are admitted to Osmania General Hospital (OGH). Chest X-Ray is prescribed to them to know the condition of lungs. Besides them, some non-COVID patients in need of emergency medical attention are admitted to OGH. It was learnt that apart from the suspects, all patients at OGH in need of emergency medical care have to undergo X-ray diagnosis. Abnormal lungs indicate that the patient might have COVID. The diagnosis rooms are located on the ground floor of the OGH’s out-patient block. One X-ray machine is placed in each of the three rooms in a narrow corridor. Sources in the hospital said that out of the three X-Ray machines, two have been dysfunctional for the past several months. Overcrowding “As only one machine is working, the suspects and non-COVID patients along with their attendants are forced to wait for a long time in the corridors for their turn. Besides, since close to 200 people have to be diagnosed using one machine, there is hardly any time left for sanitising the room,” sources said. Maintaining physical distance, too, becomes a challenge in such situations. Healthcare professionals working at the hospital said all these factors facilitate uninhibited spread of the virus. “We don’t know how many must have contracted the virus while waiting for their turn. This situation can be avoided if the other two machines are repaired. It will help clear out the crowd fast,” a source said. Hospital authorities said that they are trying to resolve the issue. They are aware that there will be a huge crisis if the lone machine too stops functioning.  We don’t know how many must have contracted the virus while waiting for their turn. This situation can be avoided if the other two machines are repaired. It will help clear out the crowd fast. A source
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Matric pass, college dropout pose as doctors, arrested||Luck ran out for a matric pass and his college dropout friend, who had a medical practice for the past three years at Asif Nagar, after Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) sleuths arrested them for running a hospital without the mandatory qualification. The registration certificate issued by DM and HO and a photocopy of their Aadhaar cards were also seized from them. The arrested include Mohd Shoaib Subhani (35), a B.Com second year dropout, who is also the chairman of Sameer Hospital, and Mohd Abdul Mujeeb (42), who studied till Class X and the MD of the hospital. Both are from Mehdipatnam. Acting on a tip-off, the Task Force officials apprehended the duo on Saturday. Police said that Subhani started the hospital in 2017 for which he hired Mujeeb as the MD, as he had an experience of managing the hospital. Before joining Sameer Hospital, Mujeeb worked as the director of M.M. Hospital at Humayun Nagar. They managed to obtain a registration certificate and started the hospital illegally. “Posing as doctors and cheating innocent people by putting their lives in danger, the duo were running the said hospital without any hindrance to make a quick buck,” inspector B. Gattu Mallu said. He said that Mujeeb also managed to get an Aadhaar card with ‘Dr’ affixed to his name. The arrested accused along with the seized material were handed over to Asif Nagar police for further investigation.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||P.V. Narasimha Rao belongs to the whole of India: Uttam||Former Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao belongs to the Congress party and the nation, and his birth centenary celebrations will be held to remind his ideas and ideas of India to people through a variety of programmes, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said. Former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh and former Union Ministers P. Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh will formally inaugurate the year-long centenary celebrations on July 24 through Zoom App. The TPCC chief spoke to the media after the meeting of TPCC committee for centenary celebrations of PV Narasimha Rao at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday. The meeting was chaired by committee chairman Dr. J. Geetha Reddy, honorary chairman V. Hanumantha Rao, vice chairman D. Sridhar Babu, convener Mahesh Kumar Goud, TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy, MLA Seethakka, ex-MP Dr. Mallu Ravi, AICC spokesperson Dr. Dasoju Sravan, SC dept. chairman Preetam, Bollu Kishan, Prem Lal, Venugopal and other senior leaders. He said AICC president Sonia Gandhi, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, former President Pranab Mukherjee, NCP leader Sharad Pawar and other senior leaders will send their messages. Mr. Natasimha Rao’s brother PV Manohar Rao, who is also the chief patron of the committee, will speak on the above occasion, he said. The TPCC chief said that the Zoom App has been modified to facilitate 1,000 participants. Further, LED screens would be installed at Indira Bhavan in Hyderabad to watch the live stream. Similar arrangements would be made at all the DCC offices. Stating that PV Narasimha Rao was a Congress man since his student days and rose the lead the country, Mr. Reddy said he would be always remembered for the economic reforms and globalisation which he introduced to put India on the path of growth. “It was PV's vision that turned India into economic power and made it distinct from other developing nations,” he said. ‘Chalo Mallapuram’ Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy along with other leaders released the poster of 'Chalo Mallaram' programme being organised by the Scheduled Caste department of TPCC on July 26 to protest against the atrocities against Dalits under TRS regime. He said a Dalit youth, Revuli Raja, was brutally murdered in Mallaram in Malhar mandal of Bhupalpally district. He said that the Congress party would expose the atrocities on Dalits in TRS rule and demand protection and justice for the victims.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water Board power tariff cut||In an ad-hoc but major relief to Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) has reduced the power tariff to the water supplier on a par with that of Hyderabad Metro Rail – Rs. 3.95 per unit. In its suo motu order on Saturday and applicable to HMWS&SB from 2018-19, from when the tariff of Rs. 3.95 per unit is being levied to HMR, the electricity regulatory body fixed the revised tariff till the determination of tariff for retail supply for 2019-20 and 2020-21, both pending. Efforts to get the tariff to HMWS&SB reduced on par with that of HMR was started in August 2018, when the State government issued a GO for the purpose. The water supply and sewerage board was being charged at an average tariff of Rs. 6.15 per unit against Rs. 5 per unit being charged to Bengaluru water supply board by the power utility there, Rs. 5.1 per unit being charged to water supply schemes around Hyderabad and Rs. 3.95 per unit charged to HMR. Commission chairman T. Sriranga Rao and members M.D. Manohar Raju and Bandaru Krishnaiah have given their consent to the tariff proposed in the government orders issued in August 2018 and June 2020 for implementation from 2018-19 onwards. The Commission said the revised tariff for HMWS&SB would continue till a final view is taken by it on determination of tariff for retail supply for 2019–20 and 2020–21 and also in true-up of retail supply tariff for 2018–19. However, the Commission has directed the distribution licensee – TSSPDCL – to pursue with the HMWS&SB and the Government in obtaining necessary subvention to that effect due to implementation of the revised tariff as suggested by the government It was clarified that the reduction of tariff was an ad interim measure to give effect to the government decision and a final decision would be taken after retail supply true-up, aggregate revenue requirement and filings by the licensee, were received.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man booked for triple talaq over dowry||A man from L.B. Nagar was booked for allegedly giving instant triple talaq to his wife over dowry. Earlier, a similar case was booked against Abdul Sami in Vanasthalipuram police station, making it the first triple talaq case in Rachakonda police commissionerate. L.B. Nagar inspector V. Ashok Reddy said that on July 13, they received the case details from Vanasthalipuram and re-registered the case under Section 4 of The Muslim Woman (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act-2019, after the 24-year-old woman from Omkar Nagar lodged a case against her husband Mr. Sami, a lab technician. The couple got married in September 2017 at Mallepally of Mahabubnagar district and later shifted to Hyderabad in search of a livelihood. Since then, Sami and his parents started harassing her mentally and physically over dowry, Mr. Reddy said. “Her in-laws were torturing her for additional dowry and gold and every month she went to her mother or uncle’s home to get money,” he said. In August 2018, when she questioned Abdul Sami and his parents for stealing gold, they assaulted her very badly, and locked her in the house for three months without any contact with neighbours or her parents, the officer said. “He used the word talaq several times, and tortured her mentally and also tried to kill her for divorce. On March 25, when she refused to give divorce, he said talaq three times and criticised and dropped her at her maternal house around midnight,” Mr. Reddy said. Sami was earlier booked by Saroornagar women police station for domestic violence. Based on his wife’s complaint, a case was registered and Abdul Sami was arrested and remanded to judicial custody.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Face-off over proposal for burial/dumping grounds in forests||Telangana state government’s bid to take over forest lands for development of burial/cremation grounds, crematoriums and garbage dump yards has manifested in a confrontation between the district Collector and Forest department officials in the Kumram Bheem Asifabad district. Forest officials from the district are reported to have submitted a written complaint to the Minister for Environment & Forests A.Indrakaran Reddy, against the allegedly haughty attitude of the collector Sandeep Kumar Jha, and the matter has been escalated to the Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. As per the details shared by sources unwilling to be identified, Mr.Jha is pressing the district forest officials to issue no objection certificate (NOC) for carrying out non-forest activity inside the forest lands, for development of dumps and cremation grounds as per the government’s directives. Entreaties for adherence to due procedure under the Forest Conservation Act for alienation of forest lands have not yielded result, and miffed with the Collector’s attitude, the officials approached the Minister for redress. It is learnt that they have complained about “rude” language of the district Collector, even while addressing the District Forest Officer. While Adilabad DFO is given the full additional charge as the DFO of Asifabad too, Mr.Jha is reportedly insisting that the former be present at Asifabad district headquarters 24X7. Mr. Jha has not responded when sought his version about the complaints. In November last year, the State government issued directives to district collectors, DFOs, and District Tribal Welfare Officers to process the government’s proposals to provide certain amenities namely burial grounds, cremation grounds, crematoriums, and dumping yards ostensibly to the communities having rights under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, also known as Forest Rights Act (FRA). While there is no mention of provision of new burial grounds and garbage dumps in the Act, Section 3(1) talks about community rights in general. The government’s decision had drawn flak from environmental activists, who termed it as a misuse of FRA.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Geological fault line offshore of Vizag||A once repetitively active fracture line or geological fault line to the east of north Andhra Pradesh with maximum activity focussed in vicinity of offshore Visakhapatnam has been uncovered by a research team from University of Hyderabad (UoH), in collaboration with National Institute of Oceanography and Oil & Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. Researchers also stated that the fracture line may possibly become active again in future and turn out to be a major coastal hazardous event associated with seismicity and tsunami in and around Visakhapatnam region. The research team comprising Prof. K.S. Krishna and M. Ismaiel from UoH, K. Srinivas from NIO and D. Saha from ONGC analysed seismic reflection data in order to address a cause-effect relationship between the sediment load and response of underneath heterogeneous igneous rocks in the Bay of Bengal. They found presence of a 300 km long fracture line in the offshore region of north AP. The study concluded that fracture line activity in offshore Krishna-Godavari Basin was variable in nature, to begin with episodic starting at about 16 million years ago and resumed again at 6.8 million years.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AIMIM launches free ambulance service||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen on Sunday launched a free ambulance service for next two months. AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi said two ambulances will be available round the clock to ferry patients to hospitals. Apart from cost of ambulances, Rs. 1.6 lakh was spent on oxygen and PPE kits and fuel. Patients residing in Hyderabad district can contact 95507-05278 or 92461-03913 to avail the service.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Grievance redressal box at Collectorate||With increasing cases of COVID-19 affecting official work, Nizamabad Collector C. Narayan Reddy has decided to do away with weekly Prajavani programme conducted every Monday. Instead, he asked people coming to the meet him to drop their grievances in a specially installed box on the Collectorate premises. “I request people not to go to any office to submit their representations. Instead, they can drop their representations in the box and we will surely redress their grievances at the earliest,” Mr. Reddy said in a statement issued in Nizamabad on Sunday. Stating that every one coming to the Collectorate has to wear a mask and ensure physical distancing, the Collector said the representations could be dropped in the designated box. In addition, people unable to make it to the Collectorate can mail their representations todronzb@gmail.com. The same representations would be forwarded to the concerned departmental heads for speedy action, he added. He also appealed to the citizens of Nizamabad not to venture out of their houses as there is spike in Coronavirus cases in the district.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Uber updates maps to show containment zones||Ride-hailing aggregator Uber has updated maps in over 150 cities. These updates include road closures and COVID-19 containment zones. Uber India’s Global Scaled Solutions (GSS), which operates from Hyderabad and Bengaluru, led the map update initiative. The GSS team has, thus far, embarked on over 200 localisation projects, such as in-app messages in several languages to keep both riders and drivers informed of developments such as closure of services and financial assistance for drivers. The team has also developed a COVID-19 safety feature in the app which checks whether drivers are wearing face masks before going online, said Megha Yethadka, director, Programme Management, Tech, Uber India.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Alliance Air to connect city to Jagdalpur from Aug. 5||Alliance Air is the first airline to connect Jagdalpur of Chhattisgarh to Raipur as well as Hyderabad. Direct daily flight operations will commence from August 5. The airline will be deploying its 70-seater ATR 72 aircraft on the route to bolster regional connectivity under the Regional Connectivity Scheme. Flight 9I 885 will depart from Hyderabad at 0950 hours and arrive at Jagdalpur at 1115 hours further departing from Jagdalpur at 1155 hours and arrive in Raipur at 1300 hours. Flight 9I 886 will depart Raipur at 1340 hours and arrive in Jagdalpur at 1445 hours further departing from Jagdalpur at 1525 hours and arrive in Hyderabad at 1650 hours. Jagdalpur is said to be a paradise for tourists. The airline is adhering to all government guidelines and is following all the SOPs issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Required precautionary measures are being taken within the aircraft as well at the time of check-in, boarding and arrival. Aircraft were being rigorously disinfected after each flight, said an official spokesperson on Sunday.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hearing on filings of Singareni Power on July 23||Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) will hear the petitions of Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) seeking approval of its filings for its 2×600 MW Singareni Thermal Power Plant (STPP) on July 23. According to press release issued by the Commission, the filings on aggregate revenue requirement and tariff for the period from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2024; truing up of tariff for the period 2016-19; business plan for the period 2019-24; and capital investment plan for the 2019-24 period for STPP for the control period comprising five years from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2024. The Commission had earlier issued notice on February 19 this year calling for objections and comments and scheduled hearing on March.
20 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clerics seek to inspect Secretariat mosques||A group of Muslims religious figures on Sunday said that they are exploring avenues for inspecting the site of the reported demolition of two mosques inside the Telangana Secretariat Complex. The move comes after Muslim groups, including the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen-backed United Muslim Forum and the pan-India body All India Muslim Personal Law Board criticised the demolition and demanded immediate reconstruction of the mosques. Maulana Mohammed Husamuddin Sani Jafar Pasha said that given the road blocks around the Secretariat, it is not possible to visit the mosques. However, how to approach them is being deliberated. “If they are demolished, then construct them immediately. If they have been demolished due to other buildings collapsing on them, take us to the place and let us inspect the place,” the maulana said. Maulana Jafar Pasha, along with president of Hyderabad chapter of Jamiat Ulama Hind, Mufti Abdul Mughni Mazaahiri, said that the demolition is not political, but religious in nature. Mufti Abdul Mughni said that the next course of action, including mobilisation of people from districts, too will be deliberated upon. He said protection of religious places is the duty of the government and a failure to do so is an injustice. Touching upon prayers on Eid-al-Adha, popularly knows as Bakrid, the religious figures said that the government should take steps to create a ‘conducive situation’ for offering prayers. Taking a question on past meetings with Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, they said that the situation now is different and that further meetings with him can take place only after the construction of the mosques.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cash reward announced for info on burnt kitten||The Humane Society International on Sunday announced a cash reward of Rs. 50,000 for sharing information about the person who burnt a kitten alive and video recorded the incident. The video, which showed someone setting a kitten on fire with a lighter, went viral on social media. “It seems an accelerant was used as the kitten was seen immediately on fire. The act took place on a grassy land at night, and there was no sound other than the cries of the kitten,” said Shambhavi Tiwari of HSI-Hyderabad chapter. “The kitten looked weak as it did not make any attempt to run fast or be able to do anything other than making weak painful yowls, before dropping to the ground in a matter of seconds and taking its last, pain-filled breath,” the animal rights activist said. The NGO had already reported the incident to cyber crime police. “If you have any information that will help us and the police identify this person, please share it on india@hsi.org or +91 7674922044.” Ms. Tiwari said. Further, HSI India managing director (MD) Alokparna Sengupta said that if someone could set fire to a tiny, helpless kitten, and burn it alive means humanity has failed its moral test. “No person who can get away with doing this will stop just at this. How many animals, or humans, have suffered this fate at the hands of this person before or will after, is unknown. Unless we act immediately against such heinous crimes,” she said.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills woman after rape attempt||A 23-year-old woman was allegedly murdered by a man, after he attempted to rape her at a family care centre in L.B. Nagar on Saturday evening. The victim from Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district, got a job at a family care service centre in Janapriya, three days ago, and was staying at office. Prior to this, she worked at a private hospital in Kukatpally. Around 6 p.m. on Saturday, her colleague Venkateshwara Rao, who was in an inebriated condition, attempted to sexually assault her, but when she managed to escape from his clutches, he hit her with a blunt object and strangled her to death, L.B. Nagar inspector V. Ashok Reddy said on Sunday. The offence came to light after centre owner Chandrasekhar Reddy found her lying unconscious in the kitchen with a scarf around her neck.
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Governor’s greetings on Bonalu||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has conveyed her greetings to people on the occasion of traditional State festival, Bonalu. She recalled that people celebrate Bonalu with festivity and fervour by offering Bonam to the presiding deity, Mahankali, but for the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. The Governor said Goddess Mahankali would definitely come to the rescue of people and help them overcome the challenges posed by the pandemic. “We shall soon overcome the situation through our joint efforts, strict adherence to the preventive measures and the kind blessings of Goddess Mahankali,” she said.
20 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Pseudo naxal gang busted in Khammam||The Sattupalli police in coordination with the Task Force personnel on Sunday busted a pseudo naxal gang that extorted Rs. 1 lakh from the manager of a Sattupalli-based firm. Two alleged members of the gang Manoj and Harish were arrested from Medak district’s Tekmal mandal on Saturday charges of extorting money from the manager of the firm based in the coal belt region of Sattupalli posing as naxalites. Based on their confession, a police team arrested the alleged kingpin of the gang Vijayalakshmi, a resident of Jubilee Hills in Hyderabad, on Sunday. The police recovered Rs. 1 lakh in cash, two cars, a toy pistol and two mobile phones from the possession of the arrested members of the gang. A police team led by the Kalluru Assistant Commissioner of Police N Venkatesh launched a hunt to nab another member of the gang, who is absconding. Sources said that two members of the gang had already extorted Rs. 5 lakh from the private firm’s manager by threatening him with a toy pistol on the intervening night of July 11 and 12.
20 July 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||COVID victim cremated after much delay||The delay in shifting the body of a suspected COVID victim attracted severe criticism from various sources. Chirlancha Lacchavva (70) of Dubbak experienced respiratory problems and was shifted to the Government General Hospital at Siddipet. She died on the way while being shifted to Hyderabad from there. She tested positive for COVID-19, the result of which came after her death. Her body was meanwhile buried in the community burial ground as the test result was not out till her last rites were performed. As Lachhavva tested positive, seven of her family members were kept in home quarantine as all of them are asymptomatic. All these developments reportedly affected her son Ch. Srinivas (52) who developed serious cough since Thursday night and died on Friday morning. The efforts of family members to call 108 ambulance service failed and it did not reach till evening the next day. The 108 staff had reportedly told the family members that they were not having personal protection equipment (PPE) kits. Meanwhile, information about his death was conveged to municipal commissioner Golkonda Narsaiah who in turn asked the medical department to send the required staff to shift the body. The municipal officials said they were forced to wait till evening to shift the body. Even the neighbours did not open doors till the body was taken away from the house. Finally, an ambulance arrived with only a driver and the body was sent to the graveyard and was cremated following all precautions. “We have kept all seven family members in quarantine and collected samples. Three of the family members tested positive and are being treated,” said Dr. Bhargavi, a medical officer dealing with the patients.
20 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Traders observe voluntary lockdown||A Venkatesh, a small businessman in Pothireddypally running a grocery shop, would be shutting down his shop from July 20 onwards for about a week. There is no official order to close the shop, but the merchant association of the town has decided to voluntarily close the shops as the number of COVID-19 cases have been increasing alarmingly, creating tension among the public as well as in the business community. “An appeal to the public and business men: Coronavirus has been fast spreading in the town and on an average we are witnessing one death a day due to pandemic. Poor people are suffering heavily and unable to pay hospital bills running into lakhs of rupees. Now we have to save the lives of the public and protect ourselves. Self-control is the only way out to protect ourselves. Hence we have decided to observe voluntary lockdown for one week – 20-07-2020 to 26-07-2020. Hence, we appeal to the grain and grocery merchants to observe lockdown voluntarily,” said a pamphlet released by the Merchants’ Association on Saturday. Not only the district headquarters town, but also other towns like Sadashivapet, Zaheerabad and Andol-Jogipet have been following the same and already enforcing lockdown. Even in the neighbouring Siddipet district, the traders have been observing lockdown from Sunday and this will be in force till July 31. In Dubbak also the same is being followed and the weekly market on Saturday was closed down. The trade bandh is being observed by explaining the traders on how the virus has been spreading. Dubbak is the town which witnessed the death of two persons in the same family due to COVID-19. Three more members from the same family tested positive and are undergoing treatment .
20 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Collector M. Hanumantha Rao directed officials to complete the construction of Vaikuntha Dhamams and Rythu Vedikas at the earliest as the deadline had already passed. He paid a surprise visit to Lingapur, Jagannadhpur, Hukrana. G, Hangara. B, Gopla Naik tanda, Chapta. K, Abbenda, Chandapur villages. He expressed dissatisfaction over the pace of work and suspended the Akla tanda secretary for lack of sanitation.
20 July 2020||V. GeetanathHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Modernisation with focus on passenger safety, comfort’||Indian Railways is looking for a quantum jump in technology upgrades to infrastructure, especially in terms of rolling stock and maintenance, by inviting private parties to run modern train services in select routes in a few years’ time. “Railway technology globally has undergone tremendous changes. Last time we had a major upgrade was 13 years ago, when we got the German-made LHB coaches, a model that was already seven years’ old. It means the technology is 20 years old now and there were no changes since then,” explained Chairman, Railway Board, Vinod Kumar Yadav. “Through the Public, Private Participation (PPP), we are envisaging the latest technology coaches from the private partners for greater safety and passenger comfort. Modern coaches can be run for 40,000 km before going for ‘pit maintenance’ whereas our coaches need maintenance for every 4,000 km. You can imagine the efficiencies it will bring into the system with low maintenance and high capacity utilisation,” he pointed out, in an exclusive interaction. Railways had turned to LHB coaches for safety and maintenance, discarding the earlier coaches made by the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) because of high casualties during accidents. The ongoing successful PPP project with Alstom has already ensured that the most modern locomotives are now available for the Indian Railways and the first one has already started running for the last six months, said Mr. Yadav. The Chairman was at pains to insist that because of limited resources, Indian Railways is looking for private investment to the tune of Rs. 30,000 crore, hence initiative to run 109 private trains including 10 from South Central Railway (SCR) should not be looked in isolation. In fact, there will be more employment opportunities as the entire operations from running the trains, guards, signalling and safety certification will be done by the railway personnel only. “We have made elaborate plans for infrastructure upgrade for the next five years to run these private trains in addition to the normal trains for those who can pay,” he affirmed. With dedicated freight corridor between Delhi-Mumbai, Delhi Kolkata slated to become operational by Dec 2021-March 2022, it will certainly ease up capacity to run more passenger trains by April 2023-March 2024. “We have stopped new lines construction and put focus on doubling, tripling and quadrupling of existing high capacity 11,000 km by March 2021 and another 12,000 km in a couple of years so that by December 2023-2025, the capacity is doubled for freight and passenger operations,” said Mr. Yadav. The Chairman said the overall network capacity will increase exponentially with higher speeds with dedicated freight corridor, multi-tracking and electrification. This will allow passenger trains to be run on demand in three-five years and also double the freight capacity.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||No effort to check crowds at small temples||The State government had barred Bonalu celebrations in view of coronavirus but the norm was not implemented uniformly. While the major ones like the Ujjaini Mahankali temple in Secunderabad and the Lal Darwaza temple in the old city were closed for devotees as per an advance public announcement, women dressed in their best attire thronged the small temples in lanes and bylanes in large numbers. There was no question of maintaining physical distance nor wearing facial masks. The drumbeat that is familiar with Bonalu processions was also heard occasionally in narrow lanes. The police closed the roads leading to Lal Darwaza temple on Sunday but made no effort to check the crowds near smaller temples. Mutton and chicken shops did brisk business as people queued up in front of them since early hours. The scenes were no different at liquor shops the previous evening since the outlets were ordered to be shut on Sunday.   When there was large-scale public outcry over the energy bills, particularly of the domestic category consumers, last month, after the actual data of energy consumption was taken and the bills were raised/issued with the average method resulting billing slab change, the employees unions of power utilities, along with the elected representatives in power and authorities, too urged people to pay bills for the sake of utilities’ survival. However, the ‘duplicity’ of some of the employees has come to light recently when the Chairman and Managing Director of Northern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSNPDCL) issued a memo on the non-payment of electricity bills by certain employees. Not only the individual employees but some employees unions having their office in the Mint Compound area are also understood to be practising non-payment of energy bills of their union offices for long. Some of the unions are learnt to have ‘secured’ waiver of their office bills after prolonged persuasion. A few unions, however, admit that it’s not the right example to set for others, particularly for consumers!     The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the concept of friendly policing as most of the senior police officers are guarded in their personal interaction with visitors, including petitioners with urgent matters. But some enterprising officers are taking chances to reach out to people. Wanaparthy District Superintendent of Police Apoorva Rao devised a novel method of meeting the petitioners by taking all due care. It appeared like the age-old panchayat system where complainants were given audience in a serial manner. She endured herself for lending a patient hearing despite the threat of corona looms large. Ms. Rao provides chairs and other conveniences in the open space of the SP office complex to engage with the petitioners. (N. Rahul B. Chandrashekhar & Abhinay Deshpande)
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Happy days!||
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader’s Mail||It looks as if the high power committee headed by Health Minister is just a doll in the showcase which is locked. Bureaucrats seem to be running the show with health experts taking the blame for all deficiencies and public anger for deaths. There is no public health as majority of bureaucrats have no knowledge of the principles of the concept. When neighbouring states are enlisting the services of experienced epidemiologists,virologists, pulmonologists and other preventive medicine experts, why is the Telangana government unable to take their services in government and private sectors? In fact, no one knows who is in command in the war against COVID -19 in Telangana. J.P. Reddy, Nalgonda    The fact that Osmania General Hospital (OGH) is flooded with a single digit centimetre of rain shows the callousness on the part of the government. The fiasco has resulted in instant transfer of the Health Secretary but would that solve the problem? Earlier, the High Court closed the case as the government said that it was yet to take a decision on demolition of the building which is a heritage structure. What prevented it from relocating to a new building even if it was a rented premises until a new building came up? With the COVID-19 crisis adding to the misery of the poor and rich alike, the need for better government hospitals is acute as the day is not far off when rich too may not be able to afford private hospitals that are fleecing patients. D. Nagarjuna, Kushaiguda    There were reports that government testing centres do not issue a hard copy of reports for COVID-19 tests, but communicate results on the mobile number provided by the individual. The government should put a stop to this practice and make it a rule to compulsorily issue the report in hand to all those who are undergoing the test. People are still unable to know where to go for tests and get reports for treatment. I therefore appeal that the government publicise the information through all newspapers for clearing confusion. K. Durga Prasad Rao, Srinagar Colony    I feel the TSSPDCL calculation made for electricity bills of months of March, April and May is wrong as they have taken the average of three months and billed it. Based on the direction of TSSPDCL, consumers had already paid the bill amounts for March and April equal to corresponding months of last year; then how can they take the average of meter reading of three months for billing? The right way to calculate for May is by deducting the units paid for March and April from the total units of three months (March to May). T.Kailash Ditya, Barkatpura ( Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent, along with photos, to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Fear of the unseen||
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao shifted to Nanavati for neurological treatment||Poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, was shifted to Nanavati Hospital for neurological and urological treatment on Sunday, an official said. Mr. Rao, 81, was undergoing treatment at St. George Hospital after hetested positive for COVID-19 last week. Doctors said though his condition was stable, he hadneurological problems. Neurologists from JJ Hospital examined him on Friday and he was diagnosed with delirium, an acutely disturbed state of mind characterised by restlessness, illusions, and incoherence.  While at St. George Hospital, Mr. Rao responded well to COVID-19 treatment and his chest X-ray and ECG were normal. The activist also underwent a CT scan. Mr. Rao was admitted to JJ Hospital last week and was shifted to St. George Hospital, after he tested positive for the novel coronavirus. Lodged in Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai under judicial custody, Mr. Rao was hospitalised after his family members and several writers and activists requested the Maharashtra government to immediately shift him to a hospital for treatment, citing his deteriorating health. Mr. Rao’s family had asked jail authorities to provide him with immediate medical care, claiming that when he contacted them last week,he was in a “delirious state and hallucinating”. Mr. Rao has been behind the bars for the past 22 months. He has approached the special National Investigation Agency (NIA).court,seeking bail on medical groundsand the risk posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. On July 13, he filed two petitions in the Bombay High Court, seeking temporary bail owing to his ill-health and a direction to jail authorities to produce his medical records and admit him to a State-run or private hospital. Mr. Rao and 10 other activists werearrested in the Elgaar Parishad, which was initially probed by the Pune Police and later transferred to the NIA.
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||Issue orders to ensure safety of employees, bank unions tell CM||Bank unions have raised concerns over lack of regular sanitisation and adherence to physical distancing norms at bank branches in Maharashtra, putting lives of employees at risk. The unions have written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, seeking his intervention in issuing directives to banks and local authorities to take safety measures. In the letter, United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) said, “Despite standard operating procedure (SOP) prescribed by the Central and State governments and the local administration, banks are not complying with regular sanitisation of branches.” It also said banks were not deploying security guards at the entrances of branches to manage crowds. “This is resulting in violation of basic norms of distancing and cleanliness and thus banks have become a cause to spread the pandemic, in view of which we seek your indulgence to arrest the spread,” the letter said. It said that in Mumbai alone, over 15 bank employees have lost their lives to the novel coronavirus and more than a hundred employees have been infected. The UFBU is an umbrella body of nine unions, including the All India Bank Officers’ Confederation, the All India Bank Employees Association and the National Organisation of Bank Workers. The unions said banks in rural areas are flooded with farmers seeking crop loans but social distancing is not being maintained, posing a risk to bank employees. “We request you to advise the State administration to deploy police personnel to regulate the rush at branches and avoid any untoward incidents,” the letter said. It added that local administrations from Raigad, Alibaug, Panvel, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg have asked bank officials to keep branches open even during weekly offs and holidays. Banks were also asked to work on all holidays in June and July. The unions have requested the CM to direct these administrative officials to refrain from asking bank employees to report to duty on holidays and weekly offs.  Despite SOP... banks are not complying with regular sanitisation of branches Letter from United Forum of Bank Unions
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||‘97% Mumbai parents against reopening schools’||An overwhelming 97% of parents in Mumbai are opposed to the idea of reopening schools in the city anytime soon, according to a survey by LocalCircles, a community social media platform. Over 10,500 parents — 61% men and 39% women — took the survey, which sought their opinion on the right time to allow children to return to schools. While 26% of respondents said physical classes should begin only after a vaccine for COVID-19 is found, 33% said students should stay away from school till there are no new cases in Mumbai and its 20-km radius. A total of 15% of parents were of the opinion that children should go back to school only after no cases are reported in Maharashtra for 21 days. As many as 18% of respondents said schools should reopen only after active cases in Mumbai are reduced to zero, while 3% said they should wait till there are no cases in the country for 21 days. A minority of 3% of parents said schools should start classes from August 1 regardless of the severity of the COVID-19 situation. With online classes likely to be conducted for at least six months of the current academic year, parents were asked if schools should revise their fee structure. A total of 88% said the fee structure should be revised. While 29% of respondents said only the tuition fee should be charged, 41% said they should be allowed to pay only the tuition fee and the information technology (IT) fee. A total of 18% said only 75% of the tuition fee and IT fee should be charged. Only 12% said the full fees should be charged. According to the survey, 70% of parents said their children were attending online classes, 23% said there were some initial hiccups, and 7% said online classes were to yet start for their kids. LocalCircles has said it will submit the findings of the survey to the Maharashtra government.
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||Lockdown in MMR extended till July 31||A day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray directed officials not to buckle under pressure and refrain from taking firm measures to tackle COVID-19, municipal corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) have decided to extend the lockdown in hotspots till July 31. Due to mounting economic losses, traders and shopkeepers have been demanding a roll back of the lockdown. With cases continuing to rise in MMR despite the lockdown, the government has decided to extend the lockdown in areas reporting new COVID-19 cases. Following Thane and Mira-Bhayander municipal corproations, Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) on Sunday announced that it would be extending its lockdown. All municipal councils, nagar panchayats and rural areas too will remain under lockdown till then. KDMC has the second-highest number of COVID-19 cases after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. The civic body has also released a list of 48 hotspots, where strict measures will be imposed. The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation has also extended the lockdown in 42 hotspots within its limits. According to the guidelines issued by the civic bodies, malls, markets and commercial complexes will remain closed, while small shops and vegetable vendors may open based on the odd-even formula from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.
20 July 2020||Mumbai,||Seven arrested for selling Remdesivir at higher cost||Seven persons have been arrested for allegedly selling Remdesivir injections at a higher price, a police official said on Sunday. The accused were selling a vial of the injection, which is being used in COVID-19 treatment, at Rs. 30,000, much higher than the MRP of Rs. 5,400, the official said. Officials of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Crime Branch also recovered stocks of Remdesivir injections after raiding two places in the city on Saturday, the official said. “On a tip-off, an FDA official contacted a man for buying the injection over phone on Saturday. A decoy customer was sent at a meeting point in Mulund to collect the vial. Two persons who had come to deliver the injection were picked up from the spot,” a Crime Branch officer said. The accused have been identified as Vikas Dubey and Rahul Gada. Following their interrogation, the police arrested five men from Delfa Pharmaceuticals, a manufacturing unit based in Ghatkopar, the officer said. They have been identified as Bhavesh Shah, Ashish Kanojiya, Ritesh Thombre, Gurvinder Singh and Sudhir Pujari, the officer said. All the accused have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of the FDA Act.
20 July 2020||Nagpur,||Ex-DU professor Saibaba files bail application in HC||Former Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba, who is serving a life sentence for alleged Maoist links, has filed a bail application before the Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court, citing his poor health and the risk of contracting COVID-19 in Nagpur Central Jail. Over 150 inmates and 40 staffers have tested positive for the virus at the prison. The jail houses nearly 1,800 inmates and 265 police personnel are attached to it. Last week, a Division Bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar had issued notices to the Maharashtra government and other respondents to file their replies before July 24, when the court will hear Mr. Saibaba’s bail application.    In March 2017, a sessions court in Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli district convicted and sentenced Mr. Saibaba and four others, including a journalist and a Jawaharlal Nehru University student, for alleged Maoist links and indulging in activities amounting to waging war against the country. The court held Mr. Saibaba and others guilty under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. Following the conviction, Mr. Saibaba was lodged at NagpurCentral Jail.
20 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Seven booked for cheating govt. of Rs. 5.11 lakh in royalty||The NRI Coastal police have booked seven people for creating fake royalty receipts by forging the Collector’s signature and stamp, and cheating the government of Rs. 5.11 lakh in royalty. According to the police, the fraud came to light after the Panvel tehsil officials, acting on a tip-off, raided an apartment at Wahal village in Ulwe on July 11. Eight royalty receipt books in the name of J.M. Mhatre Infrastructure were found at the house, owned by one Omprakash Upadhyay. Forged receipts “Every firm that quarries minerals and stones from a site is given a royalty receipt from the Collector’s office,” senior police inspector Tanvir Shaikh from NRI Coastal police said. When officials of J.M. Mhatre Infrastructure were questioned, the police found that the receipts did not belong to them, but were forged, said Mr. Shaikh, adding that the fake receipts were used to illegally transport stones and minerals from the quarry. Fake rubber stamps On further inquiry, Mr. Upadhyay gave names of his six accomplices, who provided him with the rubber stamps, said the police. “We are investigating how the stamps were made. No arrests have been made till now,” Mr. Shaikh said. The accused have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, and the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code.
20 July 2020||Pune,||Raju Shetti calls for milk blockade on July 21||With dairy farmers across Maharashtra in dire straits in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) has demanded that the State government provide a subsidy of Rs. 5 per litre of milk while announcing a special package to offset their losses. The Swabhimani Paksha, along with the Left-affiliated All Indian Kisan Sabha (AIKS), has called for a symbolic day-long milk blockade on July 21. “While farmers will stop milk distribution on July 21, we have urged them to desist from agitating by throwing their excess milk. Instead of this wastage, milk will be distributed to the needy,” Mr. Shetti said, warning that the agitation would intensify if the State government fails to meet the farmers’ demands. Speaking to The Hindu from Kolhapur, Mr. Shetti, a two-time former MP from Hatkanangale, warned of the precipitously falling levels of milk procurement owing to successive COVID-19-induced lockdowns. Bearing the brunt “Farmers have borne the brunt of the lockdown, with hotels, ice cream parlours, malls remaining largely shut and marriage functions not taking place at their usual scale. As a result, apart from packaged milk, the demand for milk products and ancillary products like butter, milk powder, shrikhand has reduced drastically, leading to 55 lakh litres of milk lying unused from the State’s daily average procurement of 1.19 crore litres,” he said. Mr. Shetti said the rates of milk powder had dipped from Rs. 330 to Rs. 160 per kg, while that of butter had declined sharply from Rs. 320 to Rs. 200 per kg. Most of the packaged milk was only being sold by big cooperatives, with the lesser dairy farmers having no options to sell their milk produce, he said. ‘Give Rs. 500-cr. package’ Mr. Shetti said, “All this has resulted in milk prices falling from Rs. 35 to Rs. 17-20 per litre. Our demands are clear: the State government, besides giving a subsidy of Rs. 5 per litre, should provide a subsidy of Rs. 50 per kg on milk powder.” He added that a package of Rs. 500-crore over a three-month period was not much of a burden on the State exchequer. He also condemned the Centre’s decision to import milk powder despite thousands of tonnes of the commodity lying unsold in Maharashtra and other parts of the country. He said in a notification dated June 23, the Union Ministry of Finance exempted imports of milk and cream under the Tariff Rate Quota. He also urged the Centre to waive the GST on milk powder, butter and ghee to provide immediate relief to dairy farmers. He said, “The notification allows import of 10,000 tonnes of milk powder. There are 50,000 tonnes of the item lying about in Maharashtra. At this critical juncture, what is the need for the Centre to import and undercut dairy farmers?” Mr. Shetti said if the Centre does not stop the import of milk powder, or if the State does not accede to the Swabhimani Paksha’s demands, he would intensify the milk agitation, regardless of whether there was a lockdown or not. ‘Against fruitless talks’ Dr. Ajit Nawale, State General Secretary, AIKS, said when the State government purchased 10 lakh litres of milk a couple of months ago, the move benefited only larger cooperatives, while 78% of private and smaller dairy farmers could not avail of the benefits. He said, “While the government has invited the AIKS, the Shetkari Sanghatana and dairy producers for discussions on July 21, we are opposed to such fruitless parleys. Instead of wasting time, the government should immediately credit a subsidy of Rs. 10 to the farmers’ bank accounts.” Dr. Nawale said if no financial alleviation is announced soon, the dairy farmers will have no choice but to intensify their agitation, which will be backed to the hilt by the AIKS.  We have urged them to desist from agitating by throwing their excess milk. Instead of this wastage, milk will be distributed to the needy Raju Shetti Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana leader
20 July 2020||Pune,||Now, Kolhapur braces for a week-long lockdown||Kolhapur on Sunday reported a surge of 281 COVID-19 cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 2,141, ahead of a week-long lockdown starting Monday. The district also recorded three more deaths, pushing its toll to 46. There are now 1,111 active cases in Kolhapur, while the figure stood at only 503 on July 15. Since then, the district has witnessed a surge of 500 cases over a five-day period, compelling authorities to reverse their decision of not imposing a lockdown on the lines of the one in Pune district. Last week, Kolhapur Guardian Minister Satej Patil said there were no plans for a lockdown as it would affect economic activity in the district. He said, “The surge in cases, especially a 200-plus case spike in the past two days, has forced us to enforce a lockdown. There are 1,753 beds available in the district and the medical infrastructure is ready to cope with the crisis.” Mr. Patil said, of those who succumbed to the virus in the district, 30 had co-morbidities. “I appeal to people to immediately report any virus-like symptoms,” he said. No supply of vegetables During the lockdown, only stores providing milk and medicines will remain open in Kolhapur. Supply of vegetables will resume only after July 26. District Collector Daulat Desai said, “Government offices will function with minimum staff, while other establishments, including banks, will be shut. Religious functions or weddings will not be allowed. Funerals may take place in the presence of 10 people.” Till the end of June, the district managed to contain its active cases to a little over 50, with a recovery rate of nearly 90%. A month later, cases surged in several tehsils. Ichalkaranji, Shirol and Jaysingpur, the district’s prime industrial zones, have been under partial lockdown over the past few days. 3,000 new cases in Pune The case tally in Pune division has reached 60,675, while its death toll has touched 1,811. Pune district reported over 3,000 new cases to take its case load to 54,624, of which over 17,000 are active. The district’s death toll has reached 1,359. Solapur district also reported a spike of 324 cases, pushing its tally to 5,265, while its death toll has climbed to 370. Satara reported 64 new cases, taking its case load to 2,278. Sangli reported 54 new cases, pushing its tally to 945. A total of 37,351 patients in the division have been discharged till date.
20 July 2020||Johannesburg,||COVID-19 global toll crosses six lakh||The number of people around the world who have died as a result of COVID-19 has passed the 6,00,000 mark as countries from the U.S. to South Africa to India struggle to contain infections. Hong Kong also warned of a resurgence in the virus as it issued tougher new rules on the wearing of face masks. Concerns are rising that the pandemic has found fresh legs over the past few weeks, with Johns Hopkins University and the World Health Organization both recording daily highs in newly reported infections. Rising numbers in Africa While the U.S. leads global infections, South Africa now ranks as the fifth worst-hit country in the pandemic with more than 3,50,000 cases, or around half of all those confirmed on the continent. Its struggles are a sign of potential trouble to come for nations with even fewer health care resources. Confirmed global deaths from or with COVID-19 rose to more than 6,02,000, according to data compiled by Johns Hopkins. The United States tops the list with over 1,40,000, followed by more than 78,000 in Brazil, 45,000 in the United Kingdom and 38,000 in Mexico. The number of confirmed infections worldwide has passed 14.2 million, with 3.7 million accounted for by the United States alone. Brazil has witnessed more than two million while India has recorded over one million. Experts believe the true numbers around the world are higher because of testing shortages and data collection issues in some nations. Infections have been soaring in U.S. States such as Florida, Texas, Arizona, with many blaming a haphazard approach to the lifting of the lockdowns as well as the resistance of some Americans to wearing masks. Even where the situation has been largely brought under control, new outbreaks continue to worry authorities and prompt the return of some restrictions. Following a recent surge in cases, Hong Kong made the wearing of masks mandatory in all public places. Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said the situation in the Asian financial hub is “really critical”. Police in Barcelona are limiting access to some of the city’s beaches because sunbathers are ignoring regulations amid a resurgence of the virus. Authorities in Amsterdam are urging people not to visit the city’s famous red light district and have closed off some of the historic district’s narrow streets because they are too busy.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Democrats urge Indian-American voters to support Joe Biden||With about three and a half months to go for the election day, prominent Democrats urged the Indian-American community to vote this year and support presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden — emphasising his character and history of support for the India-U.S. relationship. The pitch is particularly significant in “battleground States”, and at a time when the country is highly polarised on key issues including U.S. President Donald Trump’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, immigration and racial justice. Drawing links to the message of civil rights leader John Lewis who died on Friday, Democratic National Committee (DNC) Chairman Tom Perez urged the Indian community to vote. Lewis called the vote “the most powerful, non-violent tool in a democratic society”. 8 battleground States The Indian-American vote and the AAPI (a term used in the U.S. to refer to the Asian-American and Pacific-Islander community) vote, more broadly, could make a significant difference in the elections, Mr. Perez said. There are about 1.3 million eligible Indian-American voters in eight “battleground States”, namely: Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin. “We lost Michigan by 10,700 votes in 2016,” Mr. Perez said making a reference to the 1,25,000 Indian-American votes in that State. “In Pennsylvania, a 1,56,000 [Indian-American voters]... we lost Pennsylvania by 42-43,000,” he said. In Wisconsin, 37,000... we lost Wisconsin by 21,000 in 2016.” With Mr. Trump’s numbers in the polls falling due to his handling of the virus and race-related issues, Democrats at the virtual townhall pushed Mr. Biden’s candidacy on the basis of his personality as much as his politics. Obama-era Surgeon General Vivek Murthy spoke about how, at his swearing in 2015, Mr. Biden walked backstage and knelt down in front of Mr. Murthy’s grandmother who was in a wheelchair and said, “Grandma, look at what you’ve done,” pointing to all those who had gathered there for the ceremony. The right questions Mr. Murthy also said he had weekly conversations with Mr. Biden on COVID-19 and that the Democrat was “asking the right questions” and coming up with ideas. Mr. Biden’s India policy credentials were discussed by some of the speakers. “I can confidently say there would have been no U.S.-India civil nuclear deal but for Joe Biden,” said former U.S. Ambassador to India Richard Verma. According to him, Mr. Biden would “help shape” the UN to give India a permanent seat at the UN Security Council. Mr. Verma also made references to Mr. Biden helping India with its neighbourhood challenges — without naming Pakistan with regard to cross-border terrorism or China with regard to changing the status of borders. “He [Mr. Biden] would work together with India to keep our citizens collectively safe. That means standing up against cross-border terrorism and standing with India when its neighbours attempt to change the status quo,” Mr. Varma said. The India relationship has strong bipartisan support in Washington. On China for instance, individuals in the Trump administration such as Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have supported India and repeatedly spoken of China’s recent actions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and characterised those as part of a larger pattern of Chinese aggression in other arenas — Taiwan, Hong Kong and the South China Sea for instance. Support has come from Democrats as well. House Foreign Affairs Committee Leader, Democrat Eliot Engel, asked China to “respect norms and use diplomacy” to resolve differences with India. Recent challenges But the relationships have not been without recent challenges on both sides of the aisle. Lawmakers, mostly Democrats (but also some Republicans) had taken issue last year with India’s legislative actions in Kashmir (Article 370 related), the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Registry of Citizens (NRC). While Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal rapport with Mr. Trump might sway some Indian-American voters towards the Republican Party, most of this demographic are expected to vote Democrat, University of California political scientist Karthick Ramakrishnan had said in February. A lot has happened recently that has impacted Indians in the U.S. Mr. Trump’s temporary suspension of H-1B visas has impacted mostly Indians and the administration’s recent policy battles over foreign students has left over a million students, including some 2,00,000 Indians, with a great deal of uncertainty about their plans over the next year.
20 July 2020||Colombo,||TNA points to devolution promise in poll manifesto||Campaigning for Sri Lanka’s August 5 general elections, the country’s main Tamil party has foregrounded the promise Colombo made to New Delhi on power devolution, the need for greater connectivity to India from the northern Palaly airport, and the need to expedite the return of Sri Lankan refugees living in India. Releasing its poll manifesto in Jaffna on Saturday, the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) said that during the Mahinda Rajapaksa presidency, the Sri Lankan government “repeatedly assured” the Indian government that it would “implement the 13th Amendment”. While the promises are yet to be fulfilled, the TNA manifesto pointed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the Sri Lankan Parliament in March 2015, when he observed: “ [W]hen we empower States, districts and villages, we make our country stronger and stronger... I am a firm believer in cooperative federalism.” The TNA, led by veteran Tamil leader R. Sampanthan, said sovereignty lies with the people and not with the state. In the November 2019 presidential elections, it backed Sajith Premadasa, against Gotabaya Rajapaksa, who secured very few votes in the Tamil-majority areas. Criticism from voters In terms of its own constituency, though the TNA has traditionally retained its support base in the post-war decade, the alliance faces growing criticism from voters for its lack of development initiatives, especially in regard to job creation and economic revival, while governing the Northern Provincial Council from 2013. Further, the failures of the TNA-backed former unity government, helmed by President Maithripala Sirisena and Ranil Wickremesinghe, to deliver on the many promises made to the Tamils have contributed to voters’ disillusionment with their elected representatives. In this parliamentary election, the TNA will compete mainly with former Northern Province Chief Minister C.V. Wigneswaran’s alliance, the All Ceylon Tamil Congress led by Gajendrakumar Ponnambalam and Minister Douglas Devananda-led Eelam People’s Democratic Party (EPDP), aligned to the current Rajapaksa administration, among others. In addition to underscoring its long-pending demand for power devolution, the release of political prisoners, the TNA said it would challenge militarisation and “attempts to Sinhalise” the Tamil region; the TNA promised an alternative economic vision, focused on local development. Better access to India The manifesto also spoke of better access to India through the Palaly International Airport and passenger services through the Kankesanthurai Port. Referring to Sri Lankan refugees living abroad, including those in India, the manifesto said: “In particular, expeditious steps must be taken for the return of about 1,00,000 refugees in south India with measures in place to enable to resettlement and successful re-integration post-return.”
20 July 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil’s indigenous leader hospitalised||Indigenous leader Raoni Metuktire, one of the Amazon rainforest’s best-known defenders, was transferred between hospitals on Saturday due to weakness and a “worsening” state of health, one of the medical facilities said. Mr. Raoni, a chief of the Kayapo people in northern Brazil, was likely suffering from a digestive hemorrhage, said Santa Ines Hospital, in Colider in Mato Grosso State, where he was admitted on Thursday. Mr. Raoni, in his 90s, was showing “signs of improvement” including a rise in blood pressure after being administered first aid, according to Dois Pinheiros Hospital in the city of Sinop, where he was transferred.  Known for his feather head-dresses and the large disc inserted in his lower lip, he has traveled the world raising awareness of the threat posed by destruction of the Amazon. Mr. Raoni tested negative for COVID-19, said Gert-Peter Bruch, leader of French NGO Planete Amazon, even as many indigenous people in the Amazon have contracted the illness.
20 July 2020||London,||China committing gross abuses against Uighurs: U.K.||Britain on Sunday accused Beijing of “gross, egregious human rights abuses” over its “deeply troubling” treatment of ethnic and religious minorities in China’s western Xinjiang region. Rights groups and experts estimate that more than one million ethnic Uighurs and other minorities have been rounded up into a network of internment camps. British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said the reports of forced sterilisations and mass detentions in the region required international attention.  China’s Ambassador to London Liu Xiaoming warned on Sunday that it will make a “resolute response” if Britain follows the U.S. in sanctioning Chinese officials for the alleged abuses. “If the U.K. government goes that far to impose sanctions on any individuals in China, China will certainly make resolute response to it,” he said.
20 July 2020||Brussels,||EU leaders struggle to reach accord||An EU summit to agree a huge COVID-19 economic rescue package was at risk of collapse without a deal on Sunday as bickering leaders struggled to find compromises on a third day of talks. The 27 leaders have argued for more than two days over the scale and rules for the package, with the Netherlands leading a band of “frugal” allies in demanding lower budgets and tougher conditions for handouts. At the start of what she said was probably the “decisive” third day of the extraordinary summit, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said there were still many divisions among the leaders.
20 July 2020||Melbourne,||Mask-wearing to be compulsory in Melbourne||Australia’s second-biggest city will make it compulsory to wear a mask in public, authorities announced on Sunday, as Melbourne steps up efforts to bring a COVID-19 outbreak under control. Victoria State, which includes Melbourne, now has nearly 3,000 active cases of COVID-19 after a further 363 infections were reported on Sunday despite a 10-day lockdown. Victoria State’s Premier Daniel Andrews said more than five million people in Melbourne and neighbouring Mitchell Shire would be required to wear a mask or other face-covering in public spaces from midnight Wednesday into Thursday. Failure to comply with the new rule will mean a Aus$200 ($140) fine. The decision makes Melbourne the first place in the country to mandate the use of face-coverings.
20 July 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, July 19, 2020 (AFP) -||Iran has halted the execution of three people linked to November protests sparked by a hike in petrol prices, said one of the accused’s lawyers on Sunday. “We conveyed a request (for a retrial) to the supreme court and they have accepted it. We hope the verdict will be overturned,” said Babak Paknia. Iran’s judiciary said last week that a court had upheld the death sentence for the three.AFP
20 July 2020||Dubai,||Kuwait's ruler, 91, undergoes a 'successful' surgery||Kuwait’s ruler Sheikh Sabah Al Ahmad Al Sabah, 91, underwent a “successful” surgery on Sunday that required the oil-rich nation’s Crown Prince to be temporarily empowered to serve in his place, its state-run news agency reported. The state-run KUNA news agency had described Sheikh Sabah’s hospitalisation on Saturday as “medical checks,” citing a statement from the country’s royal court.AP
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Piloting a protocol of accommodation||Very many decent voices and noble souls are disappointed over the Ashok Gehlot-Sachin Pilot dust-up in Rajasthan, which has so far produced only losers and no winner. The dismay is all the more pronounced because over the decades, this oldest political formation in the country had indeed perfected the art of reconciling diverse, often conflicting, ideas, egos, personalities and ambitions. Much before Independence, the Congress leadership had written the blue book on political accommodation and resolving conflicts within. The Mahatma’s choice A bit of history. In 1929, after much internal debate, the Congress had decided to demand “purna Swaraj” (complete independence) at its Lahore Session at the end of the year. Once the party had spelled out its agenda it would have to galvanise the organisation and the masses behind the demand for total independence. It also needed a new president. Over the objections and doubts of the “old guard,” Mahatma Gandhi settled on the young Jawaharlal Nehru. And, the shrewd judge of men and matters that he was, the Mahatma argued: “a lover of discipline, he [Jawaharlal] has shown himself to be capable of rigidly submitting to it even where it has seemed irksome. He is undoubtedly an extremist, thinking far ahead of his surroundings. But he is humble and practical enough not to force the pace to the breaking point.” Gandhi had proposed a classic formula for accommodating the younger generation’s ambitions without letting it rock the boat. He understood the need to enlist Jawaharlal Nehru’s energies and rapport with the young and the intelligentsia in the campaign for complete independence. And, Nehru kept his end of the bargain, remaining a disciplined organisational man, restraining his impulse as never to “force the pace to the breaking point”. Protocol and adjudication After Independence and after the Mahatma was gone, the Congress necessarily had to revisit the protocol of accommodation; idealism of a national struggle against the British had inevitably to give way to the demands of ideology of building a new nation. Despite their differences in temperament and preferences, Nehru and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel were unsentimentally unambiguous on one point: the post-Partition situation demanded consolidation, stability and coherence in the Congress. Hence, the Congress Socialist Party, so far tolerated and used as a ginger group, was given a choice of either dissolving itself or heading for the door. Substantive leaders such as Acharya Narendra Dev and Jayaprakash Narayan chose to part company with old comrades. And, in the next few years, Acharya Kripalani, N.G. Ranga and others walked out over differences on policies and direction for the new nation-state. And, then, some like Rafi Ahmad Kidwai, Ajit Prasad Jain and others left [only to come back later] because they wanted to “force the pace”. The Nehruvian years saw creative harmonisation of regional bosses need for autonomy and the national leadership’s imperatives. A protocol of adjustment and accommodation forged itself out as an operative proposition. The party also needed to tap the ambitions and the enthusiasm of emerging leaders of newly empowered social groups. New energies and new voices deepened the democratic legitimacy, but they also necessarily meant a renewed contestation over resources, respect and patronage. The high command arbitrated and adjudicated disputes judiciously and fairly among Congressmen, without getting mired in factional quarrels . And these quarrels were unending but could be contained and managed because the national leadership was able to mobilise the nation’s imagination and attention. In addition, it was widely recognised and acknowledged that Nehru was the maximum vote-getter in the nation. And that fact added that extra punch to the high command’s command and control. The years of change The Nehru years finessed a culture of consensus that insisted that the Congress’s leaders should never allow factional rivalries and personal ambitions “to force the pace to the breaking point”. It was this mantra that enabled the Congress to manage three leadership transitions — 1964, 1966 and, 1967. Rivals, Indira Gandhi and Morarji Desai became cabinet colleagues. But the Congress did not work in a vacuum. Its policies and politics were unleashing and provoking new forces which were striving to break the Congress’s stranglehold on national power. And, the Indira Gandhi years saw a substantive shift away from the protocol of accommodation; a prime ministerial overlordship and a personality cult combined to not only to drain away the Congress organisation’s openness and internal elan but also sanctified the family principle. In 1977, there was the Janata Party, a party that had dislodged the Congress for the first time from national power but collapsed within three years, all because there was no culture, no experience, no mechanism to sort out the prime ministerial ambitions of Morarji Desai, Charan Singh and Jagjivan Ram . And, then, again in 1989, the Janata Dal government tottered because there was no one to counsel V.P. Singh, Devi Lal and Chandra Shekhar to be “humble and practical enough not to force the pace to the breaking point”. And, yet again, in 1996, the United Front government was bound to collapse because small men could not rise to the responsibility and restraint of national office. The post-Emergency Janata Parivar could not imitate the Congress culture of accommodation; it consequently splintered in a dozen groups, almost all family outfits. It meant political fragmentation, a drain on stability at the national level. The only party that has strived to imitate reasonably the Congress protocol of accommodation is the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP); L.K. Advani was practical enough to come to terms that Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the man of the masses; and, A.B. Vajpayee in turn was gracious enough to see to it that Mr. Advani had a sense of power and prestige commensurate with his standing. Yet the BJP, too, has found it problematic to manage clashing ambitions and egos in the States. It seems competent in containing and accommodating factional ambitions because it has control of power at the Centre and all the patronage that comes with it. The BJP test will come when it is out of power. As long as a national party has a strong, popular, engaged and competent “high command” the conflicts in the State units remain within manageable limits. The high command loses its efficacious edge when it fails to perform the leadership’s basic task — mobilising imagination, introducing ideas, shoring up idealism, hammering out an esprit de corps , promoting solidarities among the cadres. The party today The conflicts within the Congress appear so intractable because it has a high command that wields only legal authority, but without any moral suasion or political clout. Worse, it has become partisan, waging a pointless, directionless war. For example, the high command needlessly tried to prop up a Navjot Singh Sidhu against Capt. Amarinder Singh; it itself is violating the dictum against forcing the pace. It encouraged Jyotiraditya Scindia in Madhya Pradesh to breaking point, and now we have the impatience and arrogance of a Sachin Pilot blotting the Rajasthan copybook. The central contradiction is that while the invocation of talent, ambition, youth is valid reaffirmation of modern democratic aspirations, the party remained trapped in the quagmire of feudal loyalties, anchored in dynastic ties. And, if that was not enough, like the Gandhis, the “young Pilots” lack even the brio and the verve to crowbar their way to the centre-stage. They rely on the indulgence of another family, with fading authority and failed leadership. Harish Khare is a senior journalist based in New Delhi
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A chance to restore the rule of law||The killing of gangster Vikas Dubey was clearly a case of premeditated murder and not a spontaneous act of self-defence as the Uttar Pradesh police would have us believe. No person can be expected to believe the police version of the incident which is riddled with multiple absurdities. First, Dubey surrendered publicly in Madhya Pradesh. Why then would he try and run away in an open field from more than two dozen policemen? Second, he was seen travelling in a different car, just a few minutes before he was killed, from the one that overturned. Third, the media vans trailing the convoy from Ujjain were stopped by the police minutes before the “accident”. Fourth, why had Dubey, a dreaded criminal, not been handcuffed? And if he was, how could he have snatched a pistol after the car overturned? Last, he was shot in the chest, while supposedly running away. And despite the scuffle that allegedly ensued, his clothes were spotless and his COVID-19 mask was on! Before Dubey, five of his aides had been killed in similar fashion. Spate of extra-judicial killings No disciplinary action has been taken against the police officers who participated in this extra-judicial killing. The killings of Dubey and his aides highlight the disturbing trend of extra-judicial killings in the State. U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s disregard for judicial due process is captured in his 2017 statement: “ Agar apradh karenge toh thok diye jayenge (If they commit crimes, they will be knocked down)”. This has prompted many to colloquially refer to his regime as ‘Thoki Raj’. Dubey’s killing suggests that there were people in this government who were at risk of being exposed if he testified in court. It is ironic that Dubey thrived even during ‘Thoki Raj’, which could have been possible only if he enjoyed political patronage from those in the current State government as well. Over the past three years, his name did not figure in the ‘Most Wanted List’ of the U.P. government despite the fact that he had more than 60 serious cases against him. Dubey’s killing has been applauded by a large number of people who have been made to believe that this is the only way of ensuring justice in a State where the courts are increasingly seen as weak and effete institutions incapable of dispensing justice. Dubey was acquitted in case after case by various local courts. We have reached a stage where lynch mobs and extra-judicial killings are celebrated. There is a progressive weakening of people’s faith in the rule of law. Nothing can be more alarming and shameful for a country that takes pride in the claim that unlike many banana republics of the world, it is still a democracy governed by the rule of law with an independent judiciary capable of enforcing it. Alarmed by the spate of extra-judicial killings happening in the country, the Supreme Court, in People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. State of Maharashtra (2014), said that “the ‘encounter’ philosophy is a criminal philosophy” because it affects the credibility of the rule of law. The Court laid down a number of guidelines for the prevention and investigation of such killings, including immediate registration of FIR in respect of such killings; independent investigation by the State Criminal Investigation Department (CID) or the police force of a police station other than that involved in the extra-judicial killing, and headed by an officer ranked higher than the policemen involved in the incident; and simultaneous magisterial inquiry under Section 176 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Utter disregard for guidelines However, according to a fact-finding report by Citizens Against Hate (CAH), a collective comprising public-spirited members of civil society, there is utter disregard in U.P. for the guidelines for investigation of extra-judicial killings laid down by the Supreme Court as well as the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The report, published in May 2018, titled ‘Countering the Silence — Citizens’ Report on Extra Judicial Executions in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, India’ undertakes, inter alia, a detailed study of 16 extra-judicial killings in U.P. since March 2017. The findings reveal that the FIRs registered by the U.P. police in respect of the 16 killings contain similar, if not identical, facts, and seem to be modelled on a fixed template. The sequence of events leading to the killings are identical, with names being the only difference. CAH’s interactions with the family members of the victims of these killings suggest that rather than being spontaneous acts of self-defence by police officers, these are premeditated acts of murder. The report also documents how investigations into these killings did not follow the Supreme Court guidelines. For example, none of the 16 cases was transferred to the CID for investigation; final reports under Section 173 of the CrPC submitted to magistrates did not contain reports of forensic/ ballistics analysis; and in 11 out of the 16 cases, the family members of the deceased are not even aware about the magisterial inquiry being conducted, and their statements have not even been recorded by the magistrate concerned. Ending the culture of impunity The extra-judicial killings in U.P. show that the NHRC and the Supreme Court guidelines need a reworking. The only way to stem the rising tide of extra-judicial killings is to end the culture of impunity and punish police officers who resort to such extra-legal means. This is only possible if the investigation into such cases is independent and fair. I was a counsel in the PUCL case and had suggested to the Court that the National and State Human Rights Commissions have an investigative arm to probe police encounters and custodial deaths. This would be one way of ensuring that the investigations are independent of police and political interference. Another way would be to handover investigation of such cases to an agency independent of the State government like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Dubey killing is perhaps the last wake-up call for our democracy and the judiciary. If the higher judiciary wants to inspire respect in the rule of law, it must call out this extra-judicial killing. The U.P. government has announced the constitution of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to undertake an inquiry into the episode. However, the SIT comprises Deputy Inspector General of Police Ravinder Goud who was himself charge-sheeted by the CBI for an extra-judicial killing many years ago. No body formed by the U.P. government to conduct an inquiry would inspire any confidence in this matter. The inquiry must be done under the aegis of a retired judge with some credibility and independence to go to the root of this matter and hold the police officers and other persons accountable. Only then can we begin to redeem the pledge of our Constitution-makers to establish a republic governed by the rule of law and protected by an independent judiciary. Prashant Bhushan is a public interest advocate practising at the Supreme Court of India
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Make the right call on ‘Malabar’ going Quad||There is speculation in the media that New Delhi could soon invite Australia to join the Malabar naval exercises to be held later this year. According to reports, the most recent being Sunday (Page 1, The Hindu , July 19, 2020), a key meeting on Friday of India’s Ministry of Defence discussed the issue of adding Australia to the trilateral Malabar naval exercise with Japan and the United States in the Bay of Bengal later this year. While no decision was reached, it appears a green signal to Australia could soon be given, making it the first time since 2007 that all members of Quad will participate in a joint military drill, aimed ostensibly at China. Possible conflict point Beijing has long opposed a coalition of democracies in the Indo-Pacific region. The Chinese leadership sees the maritime Quadrilateral as an Asian-NATO that seeks only to contain China’s rise. Earlier last week, an opinion piece in The Global Times , the Chinese communist party’s mouthpiece, noted that at a time of strained bilateral ties with China, India’s intention to involve Australia in the Malabar drill could only be construed as a move directed against Beijing. By “putting more pressure on China” and moving to expand its “sphere of influence into the entire Indian Ocean and the South Pacific”, India, the article (“Strategic intent behind New Delhi’s plan to invite Australia to join Malabar drill”) suggested, was risking harsh consequences. Expectedly, Indian commentators welcomed the development, hailing it as a long overdue move. Following the stand-off in Ladakh, many Indian analysts believe the time is right for India to shed its traditional defensiveness in the maritime domain. The realists advocate an alliance with the U.S., Japan and Australia to counter Chinese moves in the Indian Ocean. Yet, Indian decision-makers have reason to be cautious. At a time when India and China are negotiating a truce on the border in Eastern Ladakh, New Delhi’s invitation to Australia to participate in the Malabar exercise sends contrary signals to Beijing. If China responded churlishly — as is its wont — through aggressive posturing in the Eastern Indian Ocean, it could needlessly open up a new front in the India-China conflict. The prospect of modest gains Indian decision-makers should also reflect on the strategic rationale of the military-Quad. Unlike the U.S. and its Pacific partners, whose principal motivation in forming a maritime coalition is to implement a ‘rules-based order’ in the Indo-Pacific littorals, India’s priority is to acquire strategic capabilities to counter a Chinese naval presence in the Indian Ocean. While India has acquired airborne surveillance assets from the U.S., the Indian Navy is yet to develop the undersea capability to deter Chinese submarines in the eastern Indian Ocean. With U.S. defence companies hesitant to part with proprietary technology — in particular, vital anti-submarine warfare tech — the pay-off for New Delhi, in exchange for signing up the ‘military-quad’, is modest. Maritime watchers know cooperation with the U.S. and Japan without attendant benefits of strategic technology transfers will not improve the Indian Navy’s deterrence potential in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR). In operational terms also, it might be premature for Delhi to initiate multilateral engagement with Quad partners. With the strategic contest between the U.S. and China in East Asia and Southeast Asia hotting up, there is every possibility that the military-Quad will be used to draw India into the security dynamics of the Asia-Pacific. In recent days, China has stepped up its naval presence in the South China Sea, even as Washington directed three aircraft carrier groups — USS Theodore Roosevelt, USS Nimitz and USS Ronald Reagan — to the region, in a seeming bid to counter the People’s Liberation Army Navy (PLAN). The U.S. would expect its Indo-Pacific partners, including India, to assist the U.S. Navy in its South China Sea endeavour. Notably, neither Washington nor Tokyo believes China’s threats in the Indian Ocean equal the challenges the PLAN poses in the Pacific. While they may engage in the occasional naval exercise in the Bay of Bengal, the U.S. and Japanese navies have little spare capacity for sustained surveillance and deterrence operations in the IOR. Australia, ironically, is the only one ready and able to partner India in securing the Eastern Indian Ocean. China has been cautious There is also the question of timing. A balancing coalition must come together when the nature and magnitude of the threat is wholly manifest. Again, it is worth pointing out that despite a growing presence in the Indian Ocean, the PLAN is yet to physically threaten Indian interests at sea. Chinese warships have not challenged Indian sovereignty in its territorial waters, or ventured close to Indian islands with malign intent. Nor have PLAN assets impeded the passage of Indian merchantmen in the regional sea lanes and choke points. To the contrary, the Chinese Navy has avoided any entanglement with Indian naval ships in the subcontinental littorals, limiting its ventures to friendly countries in the region, many of which are happy to benefit from Beijing’s economic and military power. Sure, Chinese research and intelligence ship presence close to the Andaman Islands has relatively expanded, but Chinese maritime agencies have gone about their task cautiously, ensuring that operations do not cross the threshold of conflict with India. This also means that the onus of the first move to precipitate a crisis in the Eastern Indian Ocean lies with the Indian Navy. Were the Indian Navy to combine with friendly forces to raise the ante in regional littorals, it would need to be ready for the consequences. Need for careful thought The sobering reality for New Delhi is that naval coalition building alone will not credibly deter Chinese naval power in the Indian Ocean. Upgrading the trilateral Malabar to a quadrilateral, without acquiring the requisite combat and deterrence capability, could yield gains for India in the short term, but would prove ineffective in the long run. This is not to suggest that inviting Australia to join the Malabar is a bad idea; far from it. It is simply to posit that New Delhi should not sign up to quadrilateral engagement without a cost-benefit exercise and commensurate gains in the strategic-operational realm. What might appear politically sensible could be operationally imprudent. Abhijit Singh is Head of the Maritime Policy Initiative at the Observer Research Foundation in New Delhi, and a retired naval officer. The views expressed are personal
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-imagining journalism-3||As I was trying to explore the idea of journalism for the post-pandemic era, there was disturbing news of more job losses in the news media. Those who have been tracking the changes in the newsroom and the job losses in the news industry since the COVID-19 outbreak came up with a stark question: does the re-imagination of journalism mean salvaging the profession without journalists? The extent of the problem While the reduction in the workforce is real, editors and media managers have a different understanding of the situation. They argue that the effort is to save as many journalistic jobs as possible despite the terrible economic situation. Some readers were not comfortable with the fact that I cited research from Western universities to build my arguments. It remains a fact that systematic studies of the transformation of newsrooms at the time of the pandemic and the economic meltdown are being done by some of the major universities of the world. I mentioned the specific cases of job losses in the BBC and The Guardian because they represent different business models. The BBC with its licence fees and The Guardian , which is owned by the Scott Trust Limited, have an additional revenue stream that is not subject to the vagaries of the market. The examples provided were meant to explain the extent of entrenchment of the financial crisis in the media industry. The idea of re-imagining journalism for the digital age is at least three decades old. From the creation of the MIT Media Lab in 1985 to the controversies it generated for accepting financial support from the disgraced Jeffrey Epstein, the task itself has been on a roller-coaster ride. We have always gone one step forward and two steps backward. For me, it is clear that re-imagining journalism is neither a business strategy nor an attempt to apportion blame on technology disruptions.  The attempt is to widen the scope of the discussion and include readers as key partners in this important democratic task. Some readers ask: is it necessary to go back in time to recollect the observations of Benjamin Franklin and Mahatma Gandhi to address a contemporary issue like re-imagining journalism? Given the centrality of credible information for the survival of our democratic institutions, it is important to know the history of our institutions and how they were built. The discussions and reflections that have gone into the making of modern journalism are significant, and it is important to know the past to define our future. For instance, is it possible to re-imagine the purpose of journalism without remembering the short monograph, ‘A Test of the News’, by Walter Lippmann and Charles Merz published in 1920? They wrote: “It is admitted that a sound public opinion cannot exist without access to the news. There is today a widespread and a growing doubt whether there exists such an access to the news about contentious affairs. This doubt ranges from accusations of unconscious bias to downright charges of corruption, from the belief that the news is coloured to the belief that the news is poisoned. On so grave a matter evidence is needed.” Insouciant suggestions fail to recognise the building blocks of a public information ecosystem because they are made without adequate evidence. A viable model It is important for us to keep in mind what journalist and media teacher George Brock said about the nature of the news business. He said: “News media does not follow a master narrative or plan because it involves connecting two elements: the person or group with something to tell and the people who are interested enough to hear it.” How do we identify relevant and credible information from the vast amount of material on the Internet — through which, according to one study, nearly five exabytes of information courses through in just a day? This, according to technology experts, is the equivalent of 40,000 two-hour movies per second. The idea is to come up with a viable model that takes into account the fact that contemporary news negotiates a complex web of partisan politics, technology, capital and a fundamental human desire for an egalitarian world. I recognise the limitations of a weekly exchange of 700-odd words to address an issue of immense gravity, but will try and wrap up this series next week. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Why a separate anti-torture law?||The alleged torture of a father-son duo in Sattankulam town in Tamil Nadu has once again given rise to the demand for a separate law against torture. It is therefore essential to examine whether the existing law is inadequate to deter incidents of custodial torture. Torture is not defined in the Indian Penal Code, but the definitions of ‘hurt’ and ‘grievous hurt’ are clearly laid down. Though the definition of ‘hurt’ does not include mental torture, Indian courts have included psychic torture, environmental coercion, tiring interrogative prolixity, and overbearing and intimidatory methods, among others, in the ambit of torture. Voluntarily causing hurt and grievous hurt to extort confession are also provided in the Code with enhanced punishment. Under the Code of Criminal Procedure, a judicial magistrate inquires into every custodial death. The National Human Rights Commission has laid down specific guidelines for conducting autopsy under the eyes of the camera. The Supreme Court judgment in DK Basu v. State of West Bengal was a turning point in the evolving jurisprudence on custodial torture. The Court’s decision in Nilabati Behera v. State of Orissa made sure that the state could no longer escape liability in public law and had to be compelled to pay compensation. Similarly, the Court has held in many cases that policemen found guilty of custodial death should be given the death penalty. Therefore, there is neither a dearth of precedents nor any deficiency in the existing law. Vague, harsh, retributive However, a fresh draft of the Prevention of Torture Bill was released in 2017 for seeking suggestions from various stakeholders. The Bill was not only vague but also very harsh for the police to discharge its responsibilities without fear of prosecution and persecution. It was inconsistent with the existing provisions of law. It included ‘severe or prolonged pain or suffering’ as a form of torture but that was left undefined. The proposed quantum of punishment was too harsh. Though the 262nd Law Commission Report recommended that the death penalty be abolished except in cases of ‘terrorism-related offences’, the Bill provided for the death penalty for custodial deaths. While most countries have deleted or are deleting the death penalty from their statute books, for India to enact fresh legislation with the death penalty as the ultimate form of punishment shows its continuing passive mindset towards human life. In the Bill, the proposed registration of every complaint of torture as an FIR and blanket denial of anticipatory bail to an accused public servant was not reasonable. The bail can be refused in appropriate cases, but excluding an investigating officer, struggling every day to meet the challenges of emerging crime, from availing such an opportunity shall be no less than putting him on the highest pedestal of mistrust. Overall, the proposed Bill was not a reformative one. It was vague, harsh and retributive in nature. In 2017, the Central government admitted in the Supreme Court that it was seriously considering the 273rd Report of the Law Commission that recommended ratification of the UN Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhumane or Degrading Treatment (CAT). CAT was signed by India, but is yet to be ratified. However, except for minor discrepancies, the prevalent law in India is adequate and well in tune with the provisions of CAT. Root cause of the problem Retired Supreme Court Justice Deepak Gupta said that we first need to implement the law as we have it. “The investigations, the prosecutions are not fair; these must be rectified first,”he said. He exhorted that the police need to be trained better. The temptation to use third-degree methods must be replaced with scientific skills. Thus, the need of the hour is to strike at the root cause of the problem and implement recommendations of various commissions to bring in necessary reforms. R.K. Vij is a senior IPS officer of Chhattisgarh. Views are personal
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Pyrrhic victory||Can Singapore’s People’s Action Party (PAP) of Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong reinvent itself? That is the looming question in the city state, despite its winning a super majority in the general election on July 10, as the leadership has set in motion a succession plan. The PAP, which has been the face of Singapore’s managed democracy since 1965, secured but a pyrrhic victory in the snap ballot. The party polled 61% of the vote, which translates into 83 seats out of 93 contested. That is way below the 69.9% it obtained in 2015, during the commemoration of 50 years of Singapore’s independence and in the aftermath of the death of the country’s founder and first Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, Prime Minister Lee’s father. The party’s record lowest performance was 60% in 2011. The PAP’s poor showing is all the more telling because the elections were called months ahead of schedule and the COVID-19 restrictions denied the Opposition even the normal, if highly limited, channels of outreach during the nine-day campaign period. Crucially, Mr. Lee has acknowledged the real meaning of the PAP’s reduced majority, which he described as a reflection of the desire of younger voters for greater diversity of voices in Parliament. In a concrete response, he has announced that Workers’ Party (WP) chief, Pritam Singh, would be formally recognised as the leader of the Opposition, an unprecedented development in Singapore’s unicameral legislature. The 10 seats the WP has won, up from six in 2015, is the highest ever by an Opposition party. These are gains in what is in effect a one-party state, where the Workers Party opposition won its first parliamentary seat in 1981, 16 years after Singapore’s separation from Malaysia. Another dilemma for Mr. Lee is the slender margin of victory for the country’s Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat, who is tipped to succeed as Premier in 2022. Whereas Mr. Lee has already hinted that he might stay on until the end of the pandemic, the election outcome could further alter the timetable. He has to fix an economy that is in recession, continue to fight the coronavirus outbreak, and adapt himself to the winds of political changes. It is conceivable that given the gradual democratisation of the polity, Singapore’s customary method of settling the leadership question behind closed doors would sooner rather than later become a subject of public debate. That is a sign of an evolving society where, besides the benefits of economic affluence, citizens recognise the value of greater political participation for its own sake and regard a respect for dissenting opinion as a necessary concomitant. Singapore’s political leadership should read the mandate correctly and fast-track the country’s democratisation process.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Policy retreat||Market forces and common sense appeared to triumph over narrow-minded economic protectionism in the U.S. on student visas. President Trump’s administration had to walk back a recent immigration policy diktat, that it would no longer issue visas to university students in programmes involving a substantial online component, starting in the fall 2020 semester. Had this policy withstood the legal challenge that was immediately mounted by Harvard University, the MIT, and over 200 other universities, it might have led to large numbers of students enrolled in such courses facing the risk of deportation and those intending to enter the U.S. for higher studies stranded abroad without options. The universities joining the case against the decision of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement argued in court that this policy, described as “cruel” and “illegal”, undermined their efforts to create a safe, online-based learning system amidst the raging pandemic. However, their fight may be far from over. Both the universities and their prospective international enrollees would be wise to remain alert to the possibility of additional restrictions foisted onto the entry process at a future date. Already the administration has clarified that newly enrolling international students, possibly up to 200,000 across the U.S., will be barred from taking purely online courses while living in the country. Yet the battle will continue from the other side too — the judge in the legal case brought by the universities is keeping the case open, implying that arguments could be made against additional restrictions. For Mr. Trump, his administration’s immigration sagas will only ratchet up the pressure on him to perform and deliver during what he probably considers the hardest year, politically, of his first term. On the one hand, he is facing a sharp legal backlash in the realm of immigration policy, not only in the case of students taking online courses but also on his ban on the issuance of H-1B visas for skilled workers and several other worker visas. Second, his job approval ratings are on the decline in the face of his government’s mismanagement of policy to contain the spread of COVID-19, the ineffective steps it has taken to bolster the economy, and a surge in racial tensions. Third, his Democratic rival, Joe Biden, is trying to capitalise on Mr. Trump’s failings and find a path to victory in November’s presidential election. Despite the embarrassment of retreating on his latest visa policy, Mr. Trump is unlikely to back down from his broader protectionist impulse for fear of alienating the core of his base — those whose jobs he claims to protect from foreigners and immigrants. However, he will have to proactively address the precarious state of the U.S. macroeconomy through fiscal measures, while also providing succour to tens of millions of workers who have lost their livelihoods through this crisis.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Education and citizenship. (From an editorial)||Viscount Burnham addressing the Association of Education Committees at Manchester dwelt upon the goal of education as being citizenship and remarked that our schools and colleges exist for the creation of good citizens. Indian politicians have from the very beginning realised the importance of this ideal of education and recognised that the education of the nation’s youth on proper lines, imbued with high ideals of life and service, alone lays the surest foundation of national emancipation and greatness. The future of India, especially in the critical periods of national struggle for freedom and equality, depends to a large extent on the efficiency of its younger generation to carry on the flag of nationalism to its destined goal and the public cannot any longer afford to look with indifference on the denationalising and devitalising tendencies of our educational system which is to prepare our youth for the future citizenship of the country.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Border issue delicately balanced’||The Prime Minister, Mrs. Indira Gandhi, reiterated here [Bellary] to-day [July 19] that the aim of the Central Government was to find some solution to the Mysore-Maharashtra border issue, which caused least bitterness later. At a press conference in her saloon in Hospet railway station, the Prime Minister said already there was considerable acrimony on both sides, and any solution should not make it worse. It was difficult to set any time-limit to resolve the issue. To a question whether she would have any discussion on the issue with the Mysore Chief Minister, Mr. Veerendra Patil, before her current tour ended, Mrs. Gandhi said he (Mr. Patil) said only one thing (implementation of the Mahajan Commission’s report) and there could hardly be any discussion unless he had other proposals. Asked whether the division of Belgaum had been suggested in the tentative proposals sent to both the Mysore and Maharashtra Governments, the Prime Minister merely said: “May be I do not know.” Asked whether the endless delay in finding a solution would not encourage divisive forces like the Shiv Sena, Mrs. Gandhi stated that if the question was decided in the way Mysore wanted, then also it would encourage the Shiv Sena activities. The whole question was delicately balanced and anything she might say might be misinterpreted.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Hunting for value||Why do we invest in stocks? Obviously, to compound capital over a longer period at a higher rate than inflation, and hence create real wealth. But investing can sometimes get to being like driving a Ferrari without fuel! While investing, an investor can fail to make money under three different scenarios:  Scenario 1 : Stock slides from the purchase price. At an absolute level, the investor makes a loss. For example, if Mr. X bought Stock A at Rs. 100 and after a few years, if the stock drops to Rs. 50, he would make an absolute loss of 50%.  Scenario 2 :  The stock stagnates at about the purchased level for a long period. This is also a losing proposition as there is time value of money and opportunity cost attached to it. For example, if Mr. X had bought Stock B at Rs. 100 and after three years, the stock is trading at about Rs. 100, then at the absolute level, Mr. X is in the no-profit, no-loss zone, but he has incurred the opportunity cost. If the same amount had been invested in a fixed-yield (assume at 7% per annum) instrument, it would have fetched him about 21% in absolute return for a three-year period.  Scenario 3 : A stock may rise but at a slower rate than the broader index, and underperform the benchmark. For example, if Mr. X had bought Stock C at about Rs. 100 and it had risen to Rs. 120 in two years; assume that in the same time the broader index had gained about 40%. Even though the investor has seen returns, it is lower than what the index would have returned. The investor would have been better off by investing in the index instead of choosing the particular stock. In investing, we always want to buy a ‘great’ business and believe that’s good enough to make money but if the ‘great’ business doesn’t produce earnings and cash-flow growth — which would grow its intrinsic value — then that ‘great’ company is as good as a Ferrari without fuel. Buying a ‘great’ business is the first step in investing and not the last. In the past, many ‘great’ businesses have failed as investment vehicles due to various reasons:  Reason 1 : The business did not produce growth in operational business. Examples: Hero MotoCorp and Siemens India. Hero MotoCorp is India’s largest two-wheeler manufacturer with a great balance sheet. It has a good return on equity (ROE) — five-year average at 33.3% — and a stable promoter group but still the stock has delivered about only 3% CAGR return in the last 10 years, which is even lower than a bank savings account rate. From FY10 to FY20, sales growth was 6% and growth in profit after tax (PAT) was a meagre 5% CAGR. In the case of Siemens India, it is a unit of one of the world’s largest companies with high technological capability; the stock’s 10-year CAGR stands at 4.7%. Sales growth was about 4% and PAT growth was about 5% in the last 10 years. Both Hero MotoCorp and Siemens are market leaders in their respective fields but have not delivered reasonable returns due to lower velocity in operational performance that resulted in lower PAT and a lower intrinsic value growth over 10 years.  Reason 2 : When investor expectation is high; even though a company may have generated higher profit and cash flow, the same did not match the expectation of the investors, resulting in shareholders’ wealth destruction. The following two examples are cases in point. Eicher Motors: The company is known for the iconic Royal Enfield brand and also has a commercial vehicle portfolio in a joint venture with Volvo of Sweden. Eicher is a debt-free company with an average five-year ROE of about 32%. During the last five years, the company had delivered a sales growth of 7.5% and PAT growth of 42%. Still, the stock’s CAGR has been about -2.5% in that period. The stock has not only underperformed the broader index but underperformed even the savings account rate. Even though the company produced good earnings, expectations have been high, resulting in a derating in valuation multiples once earnings slowed down. This resulted in the price performance in the last five years not matching the earnings’ growth. The PE of the stock had dropped from a high of 83 to 27. Page Industries: It is a licensee for one of most successful textile brands in India; it has a five-year sales CAGR of 19% and a PAT CAGR of 20.3%. The CAGR of the stock price has been only about 5.4% in the last five years. The stock was priced for perfection and the slightest of slowdowns lowered the stock’s performance vis-a-vis earnings growth. Both Eicher and Page have taught us that it’s not good enough to buy high quality businesses with great earnings growth in the medium term, without factoring in what the market has priced in. If the market has fully priced in a ‘good growth’ stock by paying higher multiples, your entering the stock at such high multiples can, at best, give you normal returns if the company sustains its earnings growth. Any disappointment in earnings outlook can lead to a severe derating in valuation as seen above. So, investments made at any price without considering value is outright speculation and might not yield desired results. Search for those Ferraris that are fully tanked up and ready for the ride.  Note: Data as of July 15, 2020 used for stock price performance. Results data are from March 2020, except for Siemens India, for which it is from September 2019. Source: Ace Equity, Screener.in   (The writer is Head of Research and co-fund manager at Ithought Financial Consulting LLP)
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Wash hands but also buy a Corona cover||Never let a good crisis go waste said Winston Churchill. So, use COVID-19 to strategise your health insurance. Your hospitalisation policy covers COVID-19 treatment but may fall short because non-medical expenses are not covered and the COVID-19 treatment protocol is heavy on just such expenses such as isolation, personal protective equipment, sanitisation costs and so on. In late June, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) designed two standardised COVID-19-specific covers and directed all insurers to introduce them by July 10. They are Corona Kavach, (CK) an indemnity policy (that meets your expenses) and Corona Rakshak (CR), a benefit policy (that pays a fixed lumpsum on COVID-19 diagnosis). CK can be offered only by a general or an health insurance firm while CR can be offered by life insurers also. Being short-term policies, neither is eligible for life-long renewability, migration or portability. Let us look at what they cover, their necessity and utility. Corona Kavach CK comes with sum assured (SA) options of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 5 lakh in increments of Rs. 50,000, policy periods of 3.5, 6.5 or 9.5 months (including a maximum of 15 days’ waiting period), reimbursement of treatment costs and non-medical expenses without sub-limits, domiciliary hospitalisation, Ayush treatments without sub-limits and pre- and post-hospitalisation expenses of 15 and 30 days respectively. Cashless facility will be available in network hospitals. CK will also cover cost of treatment for any co-morbid condition or conditions, including pre-existing ones, along with COVID-19 treatment. Persons from age 18 to 65 can be covered. Individual and family floater covers are available. In the case of family floater cover, the insured person, spouse, parents, parents-in-law and children from 1 day to 25 years of age can be covered (with the exception of financially-independent children above 18 years of age). Group covers are also available with the usual rule that the group should be pre-existing and not formed for the purpose of buying insurance. Additionally, a hospital daily cash benefit cover can be offered as an option. Usual hospitalisation policies have zone-wise premium rates, but for CK and CR, the whole country is rated as one zone. Underwriting discretion is with the insurerincluding acceptance/ rejection of the proposal and premium rating/ loading which will be based on medical tests. Choosing the insurer depends on a few factors. If you have a good relationship with an insurer, that will be a natural choice. If not, choose one which people in your circle have good experience with and where the agent or other intermediary has a proven track record. Premium rates differ quite widely across companies making your choice difficult. Corona Rakshak This is a simpler policy where, if the insured is diagnosed with COVID-19 from a government-authorised diagnostic centre and is hospitalised for 72 hours, the entire SA will be paid as a fixed benefit. Only individual cover is available. SA options range from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2.5 lakh in multiples of Rs. 50,000 and policy period options are 3.5, 6.5 and 9.5 months, including a waiting period. To buy or not to buy If you have a hospitalisation policy, then your only need will be meeting the non-medical expenses. From that point of view CR can be the policy to take, but it has a relatively limited cap of Rs. 2.5 lakh. If you don’t have a hospitalisation policy yet, CK can be a good entry point for health insurance at a time when it is a critical need.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||ask us||Q.I retired from BSNL and get pension from the Union government. BSNL reimburses out-patient (OP) treatment expenditure to its serving as well as retired employees in the form of quarterly allowance or against vouchers. It also allows us to take in-patient (IP) treatment in empanelled hospitals. Reimbursement of OP expenditure against vouchers/quarterly allowance is being taxed. Of late, BSNL has permitted only pensioners to opt for CGHS (Central Governement Health Scheme) and asked us to pay yearly/10-year subscription direct to CGHS. We were told to claim reimbursement from BSNL. I opted for CGHS by paying 10-year subscription of Rs. 1.20 lakh in October 2019 and submitted my claim to BSNL. I am waiting for reimbursement. Some of my retired colleagues have received reimbursement during February/March 2020. Normally, only Central government servants (serving/retired), residing in CGHS covered area, are eligible for the CGHS facility by deducting from their salary/paying CGHS subscription, which is not reimbursed by the government. As per Section 80 D of the IT Act, CGHS subscription paid can be claimed as deduction as eligible for medical insurance. My doubt now is with respect to taxabiity of reimbursement of CGHS subscription. I feel reimbursement of CGHS subscription is to be taken as income under Section 192 just like medical reimbursement and due tax has to be paid/recovered. Kindly clarify. N. Venkatesan A.CGHS subscription paid can be claimed under Section 80D as deduction depending on the limits prescribed in the provision. However, in your case, CGHS subscription amount is being reimbursed by your employer as a part of an arrangement with pensioners from the organisation. As the reimbursement is not in direct connection with the employment nor is it discharged in the course of the employment, the reimbursement is a form of a medical allowance or any other allowance only. Hence, the same is taxable in your hand and Section 80D benefit to the extent eligible can be claimed. Q.Which ITR form has to be filled in by a person who is salaried and does stock trading in cash and F&O segment? How will the taxes will be calculated? Zeeshan Hussain Bhat A.Profit or loss in intraday stock trading are taxed under “Income from Speculative Business.” You are required to disclose each day’s profit or loss in your ITR by way of consolidating them and arriving at profit/loss for the entire year and disclose it under “Speculative Business” while derivative trading in both shares and commodities come under “Income from Non-Speculative Business” (It is to be noted that both speculative and non-speculative businesses come under Profits and Gains from Business or Profession). You are required to file your ITR under ITR-3 and taxes will be calculated at your respective slab rates for the particular assessment year in case of overall profit in “Speculative Business” and likewise in “Non-Speculative Business”. In case of loss, the same can be either set off against other speculative income and carried forward for a period of four years in case losses are unadjustable. While non-speculative loss can be set off against Income from Other Sources or Income from House Property or Income from other non-speculative business and carried forward for eight years in case losses are unadjustable, the carried forward non-speculative business losses can be adjusted in the forthcoming years with only non-speculative business income. Further, any direct expenses incurred for trading in stock and derivatives can be claimed as business expenses.  (The author is partner, GSS & Associates, Chartered Accountants, Chennai)
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
20 July 2020||MANCHESTER,||Brathwaite, Brooks defy England||Shamarh Brooks led the West Indies to within sight of avoiding the follow-on in the second Test against England at Old Trafford on Sunday. The tourists, already 1-0 up in the three-match series, were 227 for four at tea on the fourth day, needing 43 runs to make England bat again. Brooks was 60 not out, having kept England at bay in an attractive fourth-wicket partnership of 76 with opener Kraigg Brathwaite. The latter, who had made 134 in a five-wicket win against England at Headingley three years ago, was dismissed for 75 when, trying to turn Ben Stokes to the leg-side, he was caught and bowled off the leading edge. After the third day was washed out, play resumed in bright sunshine with the West Indies 32 for one. Off-spinner Dom Bess removed nightwatchman Alzarri Joseph with his second ball of the day, having him caught by Ollie Pope at short-leg for 32. Shai Hope, whose only two Test hundreds came at Headingley in 2017, helped Brathwaite add 53 before he was caught behind jabbing at a Sam Curran cutter. After Chris Woakes had bowled the 41st over of the West Indies innings, umpire Michael Gough was quick to notice that Dom Sibley had used saliva on the ball. The umpires pulled out a sanitised tissue to clean the ball on both sides. The fielding side will get a warning if saliva is used. If a team does it more than twice, it will be given a five-run penalty.  West Indies 287 all out West Indies was dismissed for 287 in 99 overs. Brooks (68) and Chase (51) helped it avoid the follow-on
20 July 2020||VERONA,||Pessina breaks Atalanta hearts||Matteo Pessina grabbed the equaliser to help Hellas Verona hold his high-flying parent club Atalanta 1-1 in Serie A on Saturday. Atalanta moved level on points (71) with second-placed Inter Milan, but is six points adrift of Serie A leader Juventus. Pessina scored just before the hour-mark in Verona, minutes after Colombian striker Duvan Zapata had put the visitors ahead. Atalanta's hopes of a first Scudetto in the team’s 112-year history are all but over with four games left. AC Milan its unbeaten run to eight games, including six wins, with a 5-1 win over Bologna. It moved to sixth and into the Europa League places.  The results: Serie A: Hellas Verona 1 (Pessina 59) drew with Atalanta 1 (Zapata 50); Cagliari 1 (Joao Pedro 63) drew with Sassuolo 1 (Caputo 12); AC Milan 5 (Saelemaekers 10, Calhanoglu 24, Bennacer 49, Rebic 57, Calabria 90+2) bt Bologna 1 (Tomiyasu 44).   Premier League: Norwich 0 lost to Burnley 2 (Wood 45+5, Godfrey 80-og) .
20 July 2020||MUMBAI,||Karim resigns as BCCI cricket operations chief||Saba Karim has resigned as the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s general manager — cricket operations. The former India wicketkeeper is understood to have submitted his resignation hours before the apex council meeting on Friday. During his two-and-half year stint, Karim was responsible for senior domestic cricket, all , cricket hosted in India and the women’s cricket wing of the BCCI. While his resignation hasn’t surprised some of his colleagues, the timing has raised a few eyebrows. Karim’s resignation comes less than a week since Rahul Johri stepped down as CEO. Johri was instrumental in hiring Karim when the BCCI was governed by the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators. According to a BCCI insider, Karim did not have “the best of working relationships” with K.V.P. Rao, the next in command in the cricket operations wing. It had apparently put him on a sticky wicket when the current dispensation, with Sourav Ganguly as president and Jay Shah as secretary, took over. Rao is understood to have earned Shah’s trust, which eventually resulted in Karim tendering his resignation on Friday. Interestingly, Rao is learnt to have been in attendance when the apex council took up discussions regarding planning the upcoming domestic season.
20 July 2020||BUDAPEST,||No stopping Hamilton at Hungary||A masterful Lewis Hamilton won the Hungarian Grand Prix in dominant style, and for a record eighth time, on Sunday. The six-time champion, who triumphed at the Hungaroring in 2018 and 2019, took his overall total at Hungary to eight, drawing level with Schumacher's eight wins at the French Grand Prix in Magny-Cours, the most by any driver at a single venue. Showing exemplary concentration and aplomb, he drove a tactical race to clinch his 86th career win, five short of Schumacher's record of 91.  Hamilton’s second win of the season, following victory at the Styrian Grand Prix a week earlier, lifted him to the top of the standings. Leading the table He is a point ahead of Mercedes teammate Valtteri Bottas, who won the opening Austrian Grand Prix and finished third here. “Round One was multiple, different punches that I wasn't ready for,” said Hamilton, referring to the defeat in the season opener. “But I have refocused and we've just been on point here right through the weekend.” Red Bull’s Max Verstappen finished second, a remarkable result after his crew repaired the severe damage to the car’s suspension after he had crashed before the start. The Dutchman held off a late charge by Bottas, finishing ahead by fractions of a second. Amazing job “It wasn't how I wanted it, of course, but the mechanics did an amazing job to fix the car. To pay them back with second place is great,” said Verstappen.  The results: 1. Hamilton (Mercedes) 1h 36m 12.473s; 2. Verstappen (Red Bull) +8.702; 3. Bottas (Mercedes) +9.452; 4. Stroll (Racing Point) +57.579; 5. Albon (Red Bull) +78.316; 6. Vettel (Ferrari) +1 lap; 7. Perez (Racing Point) +1 lap; 8. Ricciardo (Renault) +1 lap; 9. Magnussen (Haas) +1 lap; 10. Sainz (McLaren)+1 lap; 11. Leclerc (Ferrari) +1 lap; 12. Kvyat (Alpha Tauri) +1 lap; 13. Norris (McLaren) +1 lap; 14. Ocon (Renault) +1 lap; 15. Grosjean (Haas) +1 lap; 16. Raikkonen (Alfa Romeo) +1 lap; 17. Giovinazzzi (Alfa Romeo) +1 lap; 18. Russell (Williams) +1 lap; 19. Latifi (Williams) +5 laps; Gasly (Alfa Tauri) Retd.   Standings: Drivers : 1. Hamilton 63; 2. Bottas 58; 3. Verstappen 33; 4. Norris 26; 5. Albon 22.   Constructors: 1. Mercedes 121; 2 Red Bull Racing 55; 3. McLaren 40; 4. Racing Point 40; 5 Ferrari 27 .
20 July 2020||Hyderabad,||Amalraj advocates single national league||Former India football captain Victor Amalraj feels it is better to have a single National league in place of the ISL and the I-League. “I believe one league will do a lot of good to Indian football as it will ensure the players have a common platform to showcase their skills with the assurance that their performances will be noted,” Amalraj said during an online chat on khelupdates.com on Sunday. “I think the new rule allowing three foreigners and one Asian player per ISL club is a welcome decision. But again, it is imperative to ensure that the best of talent from across the country plays in the league,” he said. “Similarly, it is disappointing that there is not even one Indian coach for any of the ISL teams. So, I feel it should be mandatory to have an Indian at least as assistant coach to help Indian football standards improve,” said the Hyderabadi with the unique distinction of leading all the three famous Kolkata clubs. Amalraj believes that East Bengal and Mohammedan Sporting should follow Mohun Bagan’s example and merge with an ISL team.
20 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy loses in the final||Koneru Humpy had her chances but could not stop Russia's Alexandra Kosteniuk in the final of the fourth leg of the FIDE Chess.com Women's Speed chess championship on Sunday. Kosteniuk, who won 7-5, will be back on Monday to play the Super Final against Anna Ushenina of Ukraine. Kosteniuk’s win gave her 24 Grand Prix points, while Ushenina scored 22. Humpy’s best opportunity came when she won two games in a row to make it 3.5-3.5, but the Vijayawada-based Grandmaster could not sustain the momentum. Hou Yifan took the third spot with a 7.5-2.5 win against Sarasadat Khademalsharieh of Iran.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Harikrishna triumphs||P. Harikrishna won the Chess960 event of the 53rd Biel International Chess Festival in Switzerland. It is the first major chess tournament taking place over the board since the coronavirus outbreak. Hari scored 5.5 points — half-a-point more than Vincent Keymer, the 15-year-old German prodigy — from seven rounds to top the field of 8 players. Chess960 is one of the three events of the main section of the Biel festival, the others being rapid and classical. The tournamenet concludes on July 29.
20 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Footballer Puttaswamy passed away||Former Karnataka and HAL footballer T. Puttaswamy passed away here. He was 79. Puttaswamy was part of the Karnataka team which won the Santosh Trophy in 1969. He also represented the South India team which took on the visiting Russian team in 1966. In club football, he represented HAL in several tournaments like TFA Shield, Durand Cup, Sri Narayana Guru Swamy Trophy and the State league. He served as a Bangalore District Football Association (BDFA) member, and a Governing Board Member of the Karnataka State Football Association (KSFA). The KSFA and BDFA condoled his death.
20 July 2020||BUDAPEST,||Daruvala seventh||India's Jehan Daruvala finished seventh in the reverse grid race of the FIA Formula 2 championship here on Sunday, pocketing two points. The Indian, starting third, floundered at the start and dropped to ninth on the opening lap. He was forced to play catch up for the rest of the race. “Really frustrated at my starts. I really need to work hard over the next couple of weeks on sorting out the start. Apart from that, it was a positive weekend and the pace is there to fight at the front,” Daruvala tweeted.
20 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s tribals better placed in keeping virus at bay||With many States resorting to lockdown measures, tribal communities in Odisha’s protected forests seem to be better placed to keep the virus at bay during the monsoon season. Most national parks and reserves have shut their doors for visitors with the onset of the monsoon season. While the government justifies the closure of protected forests stating that the roads turn non-motorable, conservationists say the decision is based on sound scientific logic as the forests and wildlife need time to rejuvenate. Blessing in disguise It has, however, come as blessing in disguise for the forest communities. “While the tribal hinterland has so far largely been untouched by the pandemic, seclusion of aboriginal communities in protected forests for the next four months would help them stay away from the infection,” said Hemanta Sahoo, a senior researcher who works with Vasundhara, a city-based voluntary organisation. “We have already heard of the virus. The lesser we interact with outsiders, the better we will be,” said Gunjeram Bodra of Kohla village inside the Similipal Tiger Reserve in Mayurbhanj district. Mr. Sahoo said, “The tribals do not depend on markets during rainy season. Nature gives them abundant nutritious food in the shape of leafy vegetables, roots, tuber as well as fungi. As per our studies, 228 nutritious food items are found in Similipal alone. And half of the edible varieties are sourced during the monsoon.” According to a study by Debal Deb, a scientist, on the foods consumed by the indigenous forest households in Rayagada district, the wild foods provide between 12% and 24.4% of annual household uptake of cooked food and many of them are rich in macronutrients and energy contents.  Around 8 lakh people, mostly tribals, live in 1,461 villages that fall in Similipal. They grow indigenous rice varieties, horse gram, black gram and sesamum indicum. This population virtually stays in lockdown mode during monsoon. As per conservative estimates, 20 lakh people stay inside the 18 major protected forests. Odisha houses the largest diverse groups of tribal population (62 tribes) in India. Thirteen of them are particularly vulnerable groups. “They also preserve food such as roots, seeds and meat. As a matter of fact, they find it difficult to step out of their villages as roads get cut off by swirling stream water,” said A.B. Ota, Director of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute (SCSTRTI). Odisha has been witnessing a sudden spike in COVID-19 cases in July with Ganjam and Khordha districts being the major contributors. Though there has been a substantial rise in the cases in the tribal-dominated districts such as Sundargarh, Keonjhar, Kandhamal, Mayurbhanj, Koraput, Malkangiri, Rayagada, Kalahandi and Nabarangpur, the spread has been confined to mainly district and sub-divisional headquarter towns.  The forest hinterland is untouched by the pandemic. Researchers emphasised that the government must ensure tribals’ seclusion. Most of the tribal areas are bereft of robust healthcare facilities. In the event of the spread of the virus, the government may find it difficult to save its aboriginal tribes, researchers warned.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||In praise of Lord Rama||One of the names in praise of the Rama avatara in the Vishnu Sahasranama is Tushtah — He who was pleased. What was it that pleased Him? He was happy to be a mortal, the son of Dasaratha. When Brahma and the celestials praise His divine qualities, Lord Rama says He is human. Vaishnava Acharya Nampillai had a unique interpretation for Rama’s words that He was a mortal. Nampillai said Rama was happy only when He thought of Himself as a human being! So Rama is Tusthtah, because He was pleased to think of Himself as a human being, and as the son of Dasaratha, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. The next name in the Sahasranama, namely, Pushtah, also describes Rama. It means He who is so noble, that He takes everything with equanimity. When Dasaratha sent for Him, and told Him about His coronation, He accepted His father’s decision gladly. When He was later told the kingdom was not to be His, He accepted that decision too with grace. Kamban, attempting to describe the scene, could not find apt words to describe Rama’s face when these decisions were announced. Kamban put away his manuscript and went to sleep. In his dream, Rama appeared and showed him what He looked like at these crucial moments. Kamban immediately put down what he had seen in his dream. He says that when Rama is told about the pattabhisheka, His face has the beauty of a just bloomed lotus. But when He is told He has been exiled, His face is even more beautiful than a just bloomed lotus. When He is exiled, Rama feels like a bull that has been untied from its yoke. Rama, freed from the responsibilities of being a ruler, is, naturally, delighted.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 07:37 IST,||Sudoku - July 20, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||Over 10 houses collapse near ITO due to heavy rain||Over 10 houses collapsed in the slums of Anna Nagar near ITO due to heavy rain, which led to the displacement of residents on Sunday morning. The colony is located behind the under-construction WHO headquarters at ITO. After the incident was reported, the police, Delhi Fire Service (DFS) and National Disaster Response Force (NRDF) teams rushed to the spot. According to the DFS, a call was received at 8 a.m. stating that a house had collapsed. Due to the rain, many residents of the area had evacuated their houses on Saturday night. Drain overflowing The drain next to the slums started overflowing in the morning and swept away the houses, trees and shops. However, no injuries were reported due to the collapse. Jyoti, a resident of the area said: “It is difficult to say how many people have been affected due to the rain. I along with my month-old baby, in-laws and husband have shifted to another place. We are staying in a tent erected by the authorities. The rain did not bring down our house but it developed cracks and the officials asked us to shift out due to safety reasons. Our belongings, household items have been swept away.” An NDRF team was also sent to the spot to take stock of the situation.
20 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Oppn. in Punjab turns up heat over pay scales to new recruits||After the Punjab government decided to offer pay scales to the new recruits in the State government on the Central government pattern, the Opposition parties have turned the heat on the Congress. They are terming the move ‘anti-employees’ and demanding a ‘White Paper’ on the jobs given by the Amarinder Singh government in its present tenure. The main Opposition, the Aam Aadmi Party, has demanded an immediate withdrawal of the order, terming it an ‘anti-employee’ decision. Senior party leader and MLA Aman Arora said the decision to implement the Central pay scales in Punjab would mean a drastic cut in the salaries of the newly recruited employees. “Employees across Punjab have already been forced to take to the streets against the excesses, injustices and anti-employee policies being meted out to them under the high-handedness of the government,” he alleged. Another AAP MLA, Meet Hayer, said the government should issue a ‘White Paper’ on how many jobs had been offered to the youth in the State so far under the Congress’ much-hyped poll promise — ‘G har-Ghar Naukri ’ (job in every household). Punjab Finance Department had last week issued an instruction, stating, “The State government, after careful consideration, has decided that pay scales admissible to all prospective appointments — direct recruitments/compassionate appointments — in any cadre of any administrative department or the entities there under shall not be higher than the pay scale admissible to the said cadre in the Government of India.” Pay scales of the Punjab government employees are higher than their equivalents at the Centre. Shiromani Akali Dal also opposed the decision and accused the State government of failing to safeguard the interests of its employees. Party spokesperson N.K. Sharma, said, “... it is shocking to see that the Punjab government is continuously taking decisions to cause maximum damage to the interests of the government employees. The government has already delayed the Sixth Pay Commission and has failed to give pending dearness allowance to the employees.” “We will oppose this anti-employee decision, which is set to harm the interests of the newly recruited employees. If the Congress wants to save the government money, then it should curtail its expenditure on Ministers and others,” he added.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital records lowest no. of fresh cases in a month||The Capital recorded 1,211 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,22,793, a heath bulletin by the Delhi government said on Sunday. The number of death added in the last 24 hours, it said, was 31, taking the total number of deaths due to the virus to 3,628. The number of cases was the lowest in over a month after it shot up to over 3,000 a day. On June 8, the city had recorded 1,007 cases. The Capital now has 16,031 active cases. The number of people discharged in the past 24 hours was 1,860, taking the total number of people recovered to 1,03,134, the heath bulletin added. The data in the bulletin showed that 5,762 RT-PCR/TrueNat tests and 14,444 rapid-antigen tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. A total of 8,18,989 tests have been conducted till date, which is 43,104 tests per million population. The number of patients under home isolation now stands at 8,819, with 3,592 out of 15,475 hospital beds occupied. Dedicated COVID-19 care centres and heath centres now have 2,250 and 159 beds occupied out of a total of 9,454 and 554 beds respectively. There are 685 containment zones in the city at present.
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||Two minors and their mother found dead in Nihal Vihar||The bodies of a 28-year-old woman and her minor children were found at their house in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar on Sunday, the police said. They suspect that the woman’s husband is behind the murders since he has been missing. The police said that they received a call around 11.30 a.m. According to a relative, the woman’s phone number was not reachable and the husband was also not responding. The police said they found that the woman, identified as Preeti, her nine-year-old son and five-year-old daughter were found murdered at their house at Shiv Ram Park, in Nihal Vihar area. “We broke open the gate and entered into the house and found that the victim and her children were lying dead on the same bed. It seems that they were hit with a hammer. Preeti also had multiple stab wounds in her abdomen. Her son’s hands and legs were tied and the daughter was lying next to them,” said a police officer. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) A. Koan said a case of murder is being registered and further investigation is being done. Preeti’s parents, who live nearby, claimed that her husband, Gagan, was an alcoholic who would often fight with her.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon diary: from deficit to surplus rain in one heavy spell||Heavy rain on Sunday morning ensured that the Capital, which had a deficit rainfall this season, now has 14% surplus rainfall. The Met department said it was the heaviest spell of rain since the onset of the monsoon in Delhi on June 25. The weather station at Safdarjung, which gives the official reading of the Capital, recorded 74.8 mm of overnight rainfall while weather stations at Lodhi Road and Ridge reported 81.2 mm and 86 mm respectively. Other parts of the city such as Palam and Ayanagar received much less rainfall at 16.9 mm and 12.2 mm respectively. While the rain was a welcome relief, the main roads of the Capital started resembling waterways with children seen swimming at a parking lot in Connaught Place and on Vikas Marg. Reports of uprooted trees, wall collapses and waterlogging came in from various parts of the city. Social media was abuzz with people sharing photos of water entering their homes and of inundated streets. Traders in Connauaght Place shared videos of water entering their shops and damaging property and hit out at the NDMC for not preparing for the monsoon by cleaning drains. Waterlogging was reported in Kailash Colony, Greater Kailash, Sirifort Auditorium, Hari Nagar, ISKCON temple    in Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden market, Janakpuri West metro station, Tagore Garden, Lajpat Nagar, Defence Colony, Taimur Nagar, Maharani Bagh, New Friends Colony, Jamia Nagar, Abul Fazal Enclave, Okhla Mandi and Nizamudin West in south Delhi. Trees fell in east of Kailash, Lajpat Nagar, Kalkaji, Tilak Nagar, at the cyber crime office in Dwarka, at DDA flats in Kalkaji, Alaknanda and Vasant Kunj in south Delhi. Buildings collapse In east Delhi, two buildings reportedly collapsed — one each in Laxmi Nagar and Gandhi Nagar. Waterlogging was reported at only two places by the East body — at Mayur Vihar Phase 1 and at the Meetnagar Main Road. Apart from this, trees reportedly fell near a school in Mayur Vihar Phase 1, at Chitra Vihar, Kalyan puri, Yamuna Vihar and at New Usmanpur. In north Delhi, about 10 instances of buildings collapsing partially or dangerous buildings were identified. These included two houses in Turkman Gate market, Dharmapura Gareeb Masjid, the dome of a masjid in Hauz Qazi, two houses in Chandni Chowk, one in Paharganj, one in Keshavpuram and two more in Sultanpuri. Apart from 36 instance of waterlogging identified in different parts of north Delhi and 14 instance of trees falling, in Pitampura, a tree was reported to have fallen on a car. During the day, the city received 1.8 mm of rainfall between 8.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. The maximum temperature settled at 35.2 degrees Celsius, which was normal for the season. The minimum temperature settled at 23.4 degrees Celsius, which was four degrees below normal for the season. The forecast for July 20 reads “generally cloudy sky with light rain/thundershowers.” The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to remain between 35 and 26 degrees respectively. Light rainfall is expected in the region till July 25 with generally cloudy sky and gusty winds.
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||HC issues notice to Centre on petition by 19 BSF personnel||The Delhi High Court has issued notice to the Centre on a petition by 19 Border Security Force (BSF) personnel seeking direction to extend the benefit of the old pension scheme to them as is being given to the Army, Navy and the Air Force. The plea stated that the New Contributory Pension Scheme, which came into effect from January 1, 2004, specifically provides that it was not applicable to the Armed Forces of Union of India. However, the Centre was applying a hybrid pension scheme – a mixture of old and new – to the BSF personnel including those who joined the service after January 1, 2004. A Bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon also took note of the fact that another petition entailing the same question in relation to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) is already pending before the High Court. It posted both the petitions to be heard together on August 26. Advocate Ankur Chhibber, appearing for the 19 BSF personnel, stated that they are presently holding the ranks of Assistant Commandants, Deputy Commandants or personnel below Officer rank and are posted at various locations across the country, including Jammu and Kashmir, Mizoram, Punjab and Delhi. Mr. Chhibber stated that a representation made by one of the BSF officers with the authorities to extend the benefit of the old pension scheme was rejected without giving any reason. He argued that as per Section 4(1) of the BSF Act, 1968, BSF is an Armed Force of the Union of India for ensuring the safety of borders of the country. “Even though BSF was raised as an Armed Force of Union of India and is governed by a special Act called the BSF Act, 1968, despite that the respondents [Centre and Director General, BSF] had taken wrong interpretation of notification, dated December 22, 2003, and illegally invoked new pension scheme to the members of BSF,” the plea said.
20 July 2020||Bhopal,||Dalit family in M.P.’s Guna gives up hope of owning land||The previous year’s nightmare came haunting back for the Ahirwar family on July 14. Seeing wheat they nurtured for months being bulldozed in minutes had meant forsaking half-year’s income, mounting debt and giving up the hope of owning a patch of land one day. But this time, when revenue officials rolled in with earthmovers and jeeps escorted by the police, the family’s resolve was stronger to protect their 40-bigha field, sown with the year’s first crop. “We requested them to wait for at least another two and a half months for the soyabean harvest,” said Sishupal Ahirwar, 20. But officials didn’t pay heed, began measuring the land allotted for the construction of a government college, and dug up their fields. “I had no option but to consume pesticide. We had taken the land on lease to feed my six children. There was no point in surviving if I couldn’t fulfil my duty as a father,” said Rajkumar Ahirwar, 38, who consumed pesticide along with his wife, now being treated at the Guna district hospital. Outraged seeing his family being abused, roughed up, his brother Mr. Sishupal blocked police personnel attempting to move the couple into an ambulance, to which they landed lathis on him. The children wailed inconsolably over the unconscious couple. “They thrashed us and then registered a case against us. I want justice. Otherwise what happened to us could happen to someone else tomorrow,” said Mr. Rajkumar. The couple face the charge of obstructing officials from performing duty. The family of six brothers cultivated the land for at least five years as sharecroppers with purported owner Gabbu Pardhi. “Every harvest, we give half of the roughly 200-250 quintals produce to him,” explained Mr. Sishupal. But last year, when their crops were destroyed, the family couldn’t repay loan taken for implements and pesticide. And it mounted this year.  ‘How will we repay’ “We have to repay Rs. 3 lakh this year, including the Rs. 1 lakh carried from the previous year,” said Mr. Sishupal. “How will we repay the loan if they continue to destroy our crops this way?. And I don’t think we will be able to buy land on our own now. ” The State government has replaced the Guna Superintendent of Police and Collector besides the Gwalior range Inspector General of Police after the incident and initiated a magisterial inquiry.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Due to COVID-19, drains could not be desilted properly’||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday said due to the pandemic this year, desilting of drains could not be carried out effectively in March and April. It also said that post lockdown, the work was started by the BJP-ruled civic bodies and the Delhi government. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also took to Twitter to explain why there was waterlogging. He said: “This year, all agencies be it Delhi government or civic bodies, were busy in preventing COVID-19. They faced many difficulties due to the virus. This is not the time to blame each other. All have to fulfil their responsibilities together. Wherever there is waterlogging, we will try to pump out water immediately.” In another tweet, he said he has been monitoring the situation closely and also shared photos of water being drained out. AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said earlier in Delhi, waterlogging was a huge issue but in the last two-three years, after the AAP government came to power, the situation has drastically changed. “Unfortunately, in such a time when all the agencies are busy in working to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, the BJP is blaming us for the waterlogging incidents,” Mr. Chaddha said. He added that the government does not believe in such a blame game at a time of crisis and is accepting that due to COVID, there have been some delays in cleaning drains. “We believe that both the government and the civic bodies will work together to get the necessary work completed,” he said. He also said: “One person has lost his life due to heavy showers and waterlogging, which is very unfortunate but I do not want to name any particular agency or to play politics on this matter. I just want to again request all the agencies to work together.”
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP blames govt. for not cleaning drains, resulting in waterlogging||The BJP on Sunday attacked the Delhi government for their alleged inaction in cleaning drains, which lead to waterlogging in the city. The Minto Bridge area falls under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department (PWD) and pumps which ensure proper drainage was not commissioned on time, said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. The water from pumps is lifted and poured into a Delhi Jal Board (DJB) line but the line was not cleaned, which led to waterlogging, he added. There would have been no death on the Minto Bridge if the DJB and the PWD had taken the right steps on time, he alleged. “Such an incident highlights the irresponsible attitude and negligence of the Kejriwal government,” he said, adding that Chief Minister “was busy promoting himself in press conferences and advertisements that he does not get time to solve real problems of Delhi”. North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said despite repeated requests made by the area municipal corporation, the PWD had not desilted drains in their jurisdiction. Responding to the attacks, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said all agencies, including those of the government and the municipal corporations, had to work together to tackle the issue and that this was not the time to blame each other. He requested the BJP and the civic body Mayors to work together with the government.  CM was busy promoting himself in press conferences and advertisements that he does not get time to solve real problems of Delhi Adesh Gupta Delhi BJP president
20 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||5 more die in Assam floods, toll now 84||Five more people lost their lives despite improvement in the flood situation in Assam on Sunday, taking the death toll to 84. Assam State Disaster Management Authority officials said a person each drowned in five districts in 24 hours, even as the number of flood-affected districts fell to 26 from 30 a few days ago. “There are about 25.29 lakh affected people with 2.35 lakh of them having returned home since Saturday. But the number of people who moved into 301 relief camps jumped overnight from 47,465 to 50,559,” said an ASDMA spokesperson. She attributed this to sudden flooding in specific areas due to the discharge of high volumes of water from Bhutan and Arunachal Pradesh. Many farmers, however, heaved a sigh of relief as the total affected crop area came down from 1.16 lakh hectares to 1.12 lakh hectares. Goalpara district was the worst hit with 4.53 lakh people affected, followed by Barpeta (3.44 lakh), Morigaon (3.42 lakh), Dhubri (3.15 lakh) and South Salmara (2.25 lakh).
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tempo driver who died had plans to go home for his daughter’s wedding||A 56-year-old man, who drowned at a waterlogged underpass in Minto Road on Sunday morning, had plans to go home in Uttarakhand as his elder daughter’s wedding was scheduled for November, said a family member. The victim — Kundan Kumar — had come back from Uttarakhand a few days before the lockdown in March, said his cousin Pritam Singh. “He wanted to go home as his elder daughter, Kavita’s, wedding was scheduled for November but was advised by his family to wait till the situation returns to normal.” ‘Last seen’ On the day of the incident, a boy, who knew Kumar, last saw him on the top of the tempo, said Mr. Singh. “When the boy returned to the spot with help, they could not see my brother anymore. Maybe he got scared and could not escape or maybe he slipped. Later, his body was retrieved from the water,” Mr. Singh said. Kumar was the sole breadwinner of his family. He is survived by his elderly parents, wife and two daughters — aged 22 and 11. His family lives in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh. Kumar used to drive his cousin’s mini truck for ferrying goods and food to a paramilitary canteen, Mr. Singh said. Kumar lived near a taxi stand in Shankar Market where he parked his vehicle. He used to leave for work at 5 a.m. and return home at around 7 p.m., his cousin said. “I last spoke to him on Saturday evening. At 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, I got a call regarding the incident after which I sent some men to Minto Bridge,” Mr. Singh said. The police said Kumar was trying to manoeuvre his vehicle through the waterlogged underpass when it got stuck and he drowned. Kumar, who earned Rs. 15,000-Rs. 20,000 per month depending on work availability, used to be in the city for 3-4 months and then go home for next 4-5 months. Kunar’s body was shifted to a mortuary at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital wherein it will be handed over to the police after post-mortem. Some other vehicles were also stuck due to massive waterlogging at Minto Bridge due to a heavy downpour. Delhi Fire Service personnel rescued a driver and a conductor of a DTC bus and an auto driver from their vehicles stuck in the waterlogged underpass.
20 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram society residents allege poor construction; complaint lodged||Bathroom and kitchen fittings in at least three flats of Emaar Palm Hills in Sector 77 here came loose and fell dangerously over the past few months in separate incidents, prompting allegations of substandard construction from the residents. Minor injuries In a recent case, a kitchen cabinet came off in a flat, two days ago and fell on the hands of the resident causing minor injuries. The resident, Uttam Biswas, lodged a formal complaint. The police are examining whether it was a cognisable offence. Emaar spokesperson said that the residents undertook modifications in the flats through external contractors and did not adhere to the condominium guidelines. He said that incorrect installation and insufficient holding material led to these incidences. Mr. Biswas said, “The quality of plaster is very inferior. It is all sand. I got the kitchen interiors done from a reputed Bengaluru-based firm in October last year. The plaster on many walls has peeled off at many points,” alleged Mr. Biswas who owns the three-bedroom flat. Another resident, Sanjeev Garg, had a narrow escape when the geyser in his flat crashed on the commode seat breaking it into pieces. “I was lucky as I was standing at a distance,” said Mr. Garg.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Both AAP and BJP failed to carry out duty: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Sunday said that waterlogging on the first day of monsoon unmasked the inefficiency of the AAP government as well as the BJP in municipal corporations. Delhi Pradesh Congress President (DPCC) Ch. Anil Kumar said that rainwater not only entered the homes of people and damaged their houses but also entered the WHO office, tarnishing the image of the city at the international level. “The death of a man at Minto Bridge is unfortunate and the Delhi government and municipal corporations are directly responsible for this death,” Mr. Kumar said. Desilting drains He added that both the Delhi government and the corporations failed to carry out desilting of drains in time, which fall under their jurisdiction. “Due to the carelessness of both [parties], waterlogging has taken place in Delhi and it is sure to spread many diseases in the months to come,” Mr. Kumar said. The DPCC president visited Anna Nagar, where a cluster of shanties were swept away by gushing water from a drain and spoke to residents of the slum as well.
20 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Rainwater floods ward of COVID-19 patients||In a video that went viral on Sunday, water could be seen gushing from the roof of a COVID-19 ward in a private hospital at Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. The infected persons could be seen staring helplessly at the thick stream of water falling almost in the middle of the ward, with no hospital staff around. Raising questions about the efficiency of the State government, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also tweeted the video. The incident happened at the Rajshree Medical Research Institute & Hospital, designated as a COVID-19 hospital by the district administration. Arjun Singh, the Medical Superintendent of the hospital said the incident happened on Saturday when the rainwater outlet got damaged because of heavy rain. He said the hospital has around 100 COVID-19 patients. Ishan Pratap Singh, Joint Magistrate, Bareilly, told reporters that as soon as the video came to his notice, officials concerned were rushed to the hospital.  ‘Plumbing issue’ “It was found that because of construction activity in the hospital, there was a plumbing issue that led to this leakage of rainwater. The patients were removed from the ward and the roof was repaired,” he said.
20 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha government to scale up plasma therapy||The Odisha government is likely to scale up plasma therapy in the State after tasting initial success. Stating that plasma therapy brought a great relief to serious COVID-19 patients in the State, the Chief Minister’s Office said out of six critical patients who were under plasma therapy, four were responding very well and they were not in need of oxygen support, and would soon be discharged. Condition of other two patients was stable and they were expected to be out of danger zone soon, said CMO in a statement on Sunday. Total 8 units of plasma were collected from four donors. Six plasma units had already been used. Last week, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik had inaugurated a plasma facility at SCB Medical College Hospital at Cuttack which acts as the nodal agency. According to government, plasma therapy was taken up in SUM Hospital, Bhubaneswar and Ashwini Hospital in Cuttack. KIMS Hospital in Bhubaneswar was ready to start the therapy. Personnel of Odisha Fire Service and National Disaster Response Force, who had tested positive for coronavirus following their deployment in cyclone-hit West Bengal, have come forward to donate plasma after their recovery. Ten men of Odisha Fire Service would donate plasma at SCB Medical College Hospital in first phase. Similarly, 37 personnel of third battalion NDRF have volunteered to donate plasma. Around 300 Odish Fire Service and NDRF personnel, who were infected by COVID-19, have recovered from the disease.
20 July 2020||Bhopal,||Robbers blow up ATM, steal Rs. 22 lakh||Two unidentified persons on Sunday morning reportedly blew open an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and stole Rs. 22 lakh in Panna district of Madhya Pradesh, said the police. “Two men arrived at around 2 a.m. and blasted the machine using explosives,” Panna Superintendent of Police Mayank Awasthi told reporters. “We have set up check posts. Our teams are searching for the accused.” According to the nationalised bank, he added, the persons reportedly stole Rs. 22-23 lakh from the machine in Simaria area of the district. The bank’s security guard Sukhvinder Choudhary was sleeping inside when he heard a knock on the shutter. “When I opened it, they pushed me and pointed a gun at me, telling me to keep quiet while they did their job,” Mr. Choudhary said. “They threatened to kill me if I told about the incident to anyone,” he added.
20 July 2020||Bhopal,||OBC man thrashed for ‘stealing’ pesticide in M.P.||The Guna police have registered a case and arrested two of the accused who allegedly thrashed a man belonging to an Other Backward Class (OBC) community after he was reportedly caught selling stolen pesticide at a local market. “We have caught two of the accused and are questioning them. Others involved are being identified,” said Guna Superintendent of Police Rajesh Kumar Singh. The incident took place on July 16, two days after a Dalit couple reportedly consumed pesticide while resisting an anti-encroachment drive in Guna district. The District Collector and Superintendent of Police of the district were shunted out later, and a magisterial inquiry ordered. Vikas Mali had reportedly stolen the pesticide from a local farmer who had bought it for Rs. 5,500. “He then sold it to a shopkeeper for Rs. 3,000. The public caught him and thrashed him,” said Mr. Singh, adding that Mali had been sent to a jail. Dragged on the road A video of the incident, which did the rounds on the social media on Saturday, showed Mali being thrashed and dragged on the road with a scarf around his neck. A resident of Ashoknagar district, he had seven cases registered against him for theft, bootlegging and gambling, among others. A local court had also issued an arrest warrant against him which was pending, said Mr. Singh.
20 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dome built in 1822 damaged||The dome of Masjid Mubarak Begum in Bazaar Hauz Qazi was damaged due to the heavy rains in the Capital on Sunday. North Delhi Municipal Corporation officials said they received complaints of the dome, built in 1822, breaking due to the rain and lightning. Located near Chawri Bazaar metro station, the Masjid according to an INTACH listing is constructed of Lahori brick, sandstone, terrazzo and local stone and is a living monument that continues to be used as a mosque. The masjid built in Mughal style is two-storeyed with the upper floor consisting of a large courtyard and prayer chamber of three compartments and is roofed by disproportionately high domes.
20 July 2020||New Delhi,||BJP is behind Delhi riots, alleges AAP||Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh on Sunday attacked the BJP over the Delhi riots case alleging it was a well-planned conspiracy by them. “The Delhi riots was a conspiracy by the BJP. It was carried out in a planned manner by the BJP and their police, which comes under the Home Ministry has done no investigation,” Mr. Singh said. Points finger at police Further, he said that the police weren’t admitting chargesheets properly. “While in some cases they were filed poorly, in other cases, they were especially strong with additional details. Sometimes, they were hiding the truth,” he said. He also asked, “Why are they bent on putting the Central government’s BJP’s and the L-G’s favourite lawyer on the case.” Mr. Singh said that it was an attempt to hide the crimes and the role played by people in the BJP in the riots.
20 July 2020||July 20 2020 00:00 IST,||From the therapist’s couch to yours||In early May, Mani S*, a Chennai-based writer and journalist, found himself talking to an empty chair. ‘Imagine a friend seated there, going through your emotional crisis, and talk to him,’ said his therapist’s calming voice over a WhatsApp call from Bengaluru. Though initially awkward with the exercise — especially now in our socially-distanced reality — Mani soon found that the new perspective helped him deal with his anxiety. “I thought in-person sessions were better, but I’ve had no trouble [with teletherapy] because my psychologist is aware of the medium’s limitations and helps me with specific instructions,” says the 32-year-old, who first got help last October to cope with his divorce. “During lockdown, I realised that medicines alone were not helping my depression, so I turned to teletherapy.” In New Delhi, the fortnight after the first lockdown saw a spike in Covid-related phone calls at IWill Therapy, the online specialist therapy company. The first week was spent addressing anxiety from both first-timers and existing clients. “With lay-offs, pay cuts and mounting bills, everyone is facing some issue now. But our callers have been triggered to a point where their depression or anxiety is painful,” says Nayamat Bawa, 32, head psychologist, adding that they’ve seen a 65% jump in sessions between May and June. Even social media platforms are upping their game. This week, Snapchat rolled out its ‘Here For You’ feature. While there are no teletherapists, its content covers a range of topics including eating disorders, anxiety and how to identify distress in a loved one. Though teletherapy has been around for years, the pandemic has most certainly brought the psychotherapist home. Help’s just a tap away Teenagers, millennials and people in their 40s are reaching out the most, to address concerns such as job insecurity, couple discord, behaviour issues with children, sleep disorders and loneliness. “Anxiety and depression as clinical conditions have seen a strong spike. This is because the pandemic has created stressful conditions for people with no pre-existing issues as well as those with an existing risk for burnout,” says Bawa. One of her first sessions, she recalls, was a client in his 40s whom she’d been seeing for a couple of years. “His business was overseas and he had to shut shop. He was experiencing suicidal thoughts. I had to use positive coping mechanisms and cognitive behaviour therapy, such as thought restructuring, to help him,” she says. In Chennai, psychiatrist Vijay Nagaswami, 62, has also noticed a much higher incidence of anxiety and irritability over the last four months. “Many couples haven’t spent as much time in direct contact with each other as they have now. So the cracks that were once papered over are now opening and people are realising that they can’t delay addressing the issues any longer,” he says.  Need for privacy  For those who’ve never had therapy, teletherapy is an easy introduction. “Many first-timers find video sessions more comforting as they remain in their own environment,” says Nagaswami, who has been taking online sessions since 2013. Moreover, taking 50 minutes out of one’s day is far easier than travelling a couple of hours to get to a therapist’s office. “Virtual sessions are more convenient for someone with anxiety as the smallest of things, such as traffic or bad roads, can seem impossible to handle,” says Mani. But convenience and flexibility aside, there are challenges too. Therapists have to be alert for non-verbal cues. They also have to judge the baseline for a new client’s anxiety. “I talk this through at length with patients, but mostly we go by how long the problem has been persisting and how badly it affects their daily life,” says Jessica Gold, Assistant Professor at Washington University’s Department of Psychiatry (St Louis), who has authored articles on issues faced by therapists. “Where I need to check their heart rate or blood pressure [for those on stimulants for ADHD, etc], I’ve been asking them to use Fitbit or other ways to get their own measurements,” she adds. Another constraint: lack of a ‘safe space’. When you pay for therapy, you pay for the psychotherapist’s knowledge and the space — where you can open up without the risk of interruption or being overheard. Nagaswami believes teletherapy won’t completely replace face-to-face sessions in the future. “For those living with large families, privacy is a concern. They will prefer to wait for in-person sessions, unless their issues are too compelling and require urgent intervention,” he says. This explains why many opt for sessions on WhatsApp or the chat platform on IWill’s app. Poornima Bhola, faculty at the Department of Clinical Psychology at NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences), recalls a 19-year-old who found it challenging to speak to a psychologist because his family didn’t know he was in therapy.  Let’s talk money  Price is a concern, too. Especially since no insurance company covers therapy (though the 2017 Mental Health Act provides for the inclusion of mental illness cover). Last month, Delhi-based feminist researcher Radhika Radhakrishnan, 26, tweeted about the exorbitant cost of therapy in India. With over 2,000 retweets and 10,000 likes, it resonated with many. “A session with a psychologist costs between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,000 for an hour, and psychiatrists cost more, close to Rs. 3,000. This, added with the cost of medicines, is a high expense every month,” she says. Finding the right specialist takes time too, says Radhakrishnan, who has consulted four psychologists and two psychiatrists in the last five years. Then there are the bad experiences no one talks about. “I once had a psychologist who disagreed with me during a session, stopped midway and then blocked me on WhatsApp!” Unfortunately, at the moment, such cases can’t be reported. “There is no governing body that regulates psychotherapists and counsellors in the manner that the Indian Medical Council regulates doctors,” says Nagaswami. Expert speak Of course, teletherapy has been a learning curve for therapists too. Gold says making the virtual switch in March wasn’t easy. “It can be really exhausting to go from person to person on Zoom or Skype all day,” she says, adding that some things simply can’t be done over video or phone, like handing someone “a tissue if they are crying”. But what they all agree on is that teletherapy will be the new normal in tackling the mental health crisis — albeit as a hybrid version. “It will not replace traditional sessions entirely; there will be a mix of the two. It will give us the opportunity to reach out to more people, especially those in rural and semi-urban areas,” says Bhola. As more glitches get fixed and more experts join the expanding roster of online resources, this will mean help at hand for anyone, anywhere. *name changed
