20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Nine suspected al-Qaeda operatives held||Nine “al-Qaeda terrorists” were arrested in simultaneous raids at several locations in Ernakulam, Kerala, and Murshidabad in West Bengal on Saturday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) said. The accused were associated with a “Pakistan-sponsored module of the Al-Qaeda”, the agency said. Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen were picked up from Ernakulam, while Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman were held in Murshidabad. “The NIA had learnt about an inter-State module of al-Qaeda operatives at various locations in India, including West Bengal and Kerala. The group was planning to undertake terrorist attacks at vital installations with an aim to kill innocent people and strike terror in their minds,” the NIA said in a statement. A large quantity of incriminating material, including digital devices, documents, jehadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally fabricated body armour, articles and literature used for making home-made explosive devices have been seized from their possession, the NIA stated. “As per preliminary investigation, these individuals were radicalised by Pakistan-based al-Qaeda terrorists on social media and were motivated to undertake attacks at multiple places, including the National Capital Region. For this purpose, the module was actively indulging in fund raising and a few members of gang were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition. These arrests have pre-empted possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country,” the statement said. Produced before courts The accused were produced before the courts concerned in Kerala and West Bengal for custody and further investigation, the NIA added. The raids in Ernakulam were conducted in a joint operation involving the anti-terrorism squad and nearly 30 personnel of the Ernakulam Rural wing of the Kerala police and the NIA. The operation began around 2 a.m. Murshid Hasan was held from the Pathalam industrial area, while Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen were arrested from Perumbavoor near Aluva.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Protocol violations rampant: CM||The State on Saturday registered 4,644 new COVID-19 cases, after 47,452 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total case burden to 1,31,025. The State also registered 2,862 recoveries. With the total recoveries reaching 92,947, the number of patients being treated in various hospitals is 37,488. Of these, 319 patients are critically ill and in ICU, with 88 of them requiring ventilator support. The State’s official death toll surged to 519, when 18 deaths, which occurred between August 29 and September 17, were added to the provisional list by the Health Department. Five of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, four from Thrissur, three from Kollam, two each from Ernakulam and Palakkad and one from Kasaragod. Of the 4,644 new cases registered on Saturday, almost 84% — 3,881 cases — are locally acquired infections. These include infections reported in 86 health-care workers, 36 of which are in Thiruvananthapuram. In 498 new cases, the source of infection has not been ascertained yet. Thiruvananthapuram is emerging as the biggest hotspot for COVID-19 in the State with 824 new cases on Saturday. The district has the highest number of active cases — 6,721 — in the State. Addressing media here on Saturday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that lack of vigil and COVID-19 protocol violations were rampant, for which the State was paying a heavy price. An institutional cluster centred around a private hospital in Pathanamthitta has so far resulted in 55 positive cases. People getting together for social events such as weddings and not following the precautions were resulting in intense disease transmission.
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||Court allows Deepak Kochhar to be treated at private hospital||A special court in Mumbai on Saturday allowed Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, to be treated at a private hospital. Mr. Kochhar is admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, after he testing positive for COVID-19 five days ago. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested him earlier this month under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. His legal team, led by Vijay Agarwal, had urged the special PMLA court to shift him to a private hospital in Delhi or Gurugram. Mr. Kochhar has multiple health issues such as chronic high cholesterol, enlarged prostate and a history of kidney stones, his lawyers said. In reply, the ED said as the accused is in judicial custody, the court may pass appropriate orders. Special judge Milind Kurtadikar on Saturday permitted Mr. Kochhar to undergo treatment either at Apollo Hospital in Delhi or Medanta Hospital in Gurugram at his own cost. “But he shall not be allowed to meet any visitors,” the court said, directing the ED to post security guards round the clock at the hospital at Mr. Kochhar’s expense. After discharge from the hospital, the accused should be lodged in the appropriate jail, the court said. Mr. Kochhar’s current judicial custody has been extended till October 3. The PMLA court had remanded him in the ED custody till September 19. The ED had said Mr. Kochhar had been evasive and non-cooperative. He was involved in laundering the proceeds of crime and in projecting the proceeds as untainted. The case pertains to the deals between the Videocon Group of companies and the bank. The ED has relied upon an FIR registered by the CBI in 2019.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon session may be cut short owing to rising virus cases||All political parties have unanimously agreed to cut short the monsoon session of Parliament that was scheduled to end on October 1, at an emergency business advisory committee meeting called by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, owing to the rising number of COVID-19 cases. Speaker’s discretion The parties left it to Mr. Birla’s discretion on when to end the session, though sources indicated that it could end on Wednesday. A final decision will be taken by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs. At the beginning of the session, the government had listed 23 new Bills for consideration and passage, including 11 Bills replacing ordinances issued since March, when the Budget session ended. The Lok Sabha has passed six Bills, including three agriculture-related ones — the approval of which led to the exit of Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur from the Narendra Modi Cabinet. On Sunday, these three Bills — the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — will come up in the Rajya Sabha, where it is expected to sail through, since the Opposition barely has the numbers to put up a reasonable resistance. According to sources, the Congress has demanded a discussion on COVID-19. The Rajya Sabha has already held a debate on the pandemic and its management. DMK MP T.R. Baalu has sought a discussion on the National Education Policy.
20 September 2020||Kolkata,||Identifying corridors key to conservation||Identifying and monitoring corridors is a key step in conservation of the red panda in the Himalayan regions, according to scientists. With the recent classification of red panda into two phylogenetic species, a group of scientists from India have described the Siang river in Arunachal Pradesh as a potential boundary for the species’ divergence between the Himalayan red panda (Ailurus fulgens) and the Chinese red panda (Ailurus styani). Mukesh Thakur, one of the authors of a paper entitled ‘New insights on species divergence in red panda’, said that on the basis of genomic DNA analyses of about 132 fecal samples collected from north West Bengal, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh, the species can be placed under two different clusters. Clade 1, that represented the Himalayan red panda, was formed by the inclusion of samples from the north West Bengal, Sikkim, and central Arunachal Pradesh and South Tibet. On the other hand, clade 2, that represented the Chinese red panda was formed by the inclusion of the samples from the Dibang valley of eastern Arunachal Pradesh, India and Southwest China. Classified as “endangered” by the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN), scientists believe that the population of red pandas has declined by nearly 50% in 20 years. The two species are found in the eastern and north-eastern Himalayan subalpine forests and the eastern Himalayan broadleaf forests, that geographically fall in China, India, Nepal, Bhutan, and northern Myanmar. Speaking at a webinar organised on the International Red Panda Day on September 19, Mr. Thakur said it is believed that in the wild, there are about 2,500 species, of which one third are in the country. The scientist with the Centre for DNA Taxonomy, Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) said that the recent study, as well as the study by the ZSI in the Kanchenjunga landscape, together emphasised the need for identification of biological corridors and their monitoring for the conservation of the species. “The model in Kanchenjunga landscape, where we have identified biological corridors, which are essential to maintain genetic diversity and gene flow among the population, can be replicated elsewhere,” he said. The study of biological corridors helps scientists in studying habitat degradation, anthropogenic pressure and also the availability of bamboos in the habitat, since red panda is a bamboo-dependent species, he added.
20 September 2020||Mysuru,||IMD sounds red, orange alerts in Kodagu||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded red and orange alerts in Kodagu with a warning of heavy rains over the next three days from Saturday. The IMD has forecast moderate to heavy rains accompanied by thunderstorm and gusty winds. The red alert has been issued from Saturday till 8.30 a.m. on Monday, with a forecast of rain measuring 204.5 mm and above. Likewise, the orange alert has been issued from the morning of Tuesday till Wednesday, forecasting rain between 115.6 mm and 204.4 mm. The Kodagu district administration has urged the people to be watchful and take precautions. The district witnessed floods and landslides three years in a row and the Centre had recently sent its team to assess the flood damage in the district. The State government had already been urged to release funds for the relief works, including the construction of houses for the flood victims. Virajpet and Madikeri taluks have reported incessant rains, stepping up paddy planting in the areas. Out of a targeted area of 30,500 hectares of paddy cultivation, planting had been done in nearly 23,010 hectares, achieving 75.44 per cent target so far, said Joint Director of Agriculture Shabana M. Sheikh. Paddy cultivation in rain-fed lands had also achieved progress with the widespread rain reported over the last few days. Planting in 4,700 hectares of rain-dependent land in Madikeri taluk had been done. As many as 6,980 hectares and 9,100 hectares in Somwarpet and Virajpet had been covered under paddy cultivation as on today. Ms. Sheikh said adequate quantities of fertilizers had been stocked in the district and there is no shortage.
20 September 2020||Mangaluru,||Incessant rains continue in DK, Udupi||While incessant rains continued in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Saturday, a labourer died after he came under the debris of a compound wall that slipped in Kulur in Mangaluru. According to the police, part of the compound wall of St. Antony Church in Kulur collapsed in the morning. Umesh, 37, a resident of Neermarga, who was working nearby, came under the debris. Following nearly a two-hour exercise, the Fire and Emergency Services personnel removed the body of Umesh. Dakshina Kannada recorded an average 41.3 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, ending at 8 a.m. on Saturday. Mangaluru taluk recorded the highest 71.3 mm, followed by 47.7 mm in Bantwal, 31.6 mm in Sullia, 29.1 in Belthangady, and 27 mm in Puttur. Water level The water level in the Nethravathi at Uppinangady was 25 metres and 3.6 metres at Bantwal. The water level of the Kumaradhara in Uppinangady was 10 metres, according to an official press release. Udupi district received an average of 20 mm rainfall during the same period. While 33 mm was recorded in Udupi, Kundapur saw 16.5 mm, and there was 14.5 mm in Karkala.
20 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland apples: sowed by conflict, marketed in COVID-19||The unfamiliar apple travelled from Kashmir to Nagaland’s Thanamir via Assam Rifles soldiers during the peak of conflict in 1980, when the extremist National Socialist Council of Nagaland was born. The COVID-19 pandemic has made Thanamir’s apples, sowed from the ‘fruits of friendship’ between a Gurkha soldier and Village Guard J. Yongphukhiung, travel out four decades later as a branded farm produce marketed by a local students’ union. Bordering Myanmar, Thanamir is a village in Kiphire district inhabited by Nagas of the Yimchungru community. Thanamir was primarily known as the last stop for trekkers to Saramati, Nagaland’s highest peak at 3,840 m above sea level, until the State government declared it as a vegetable village in 2013, almost five years after it was connected by a road. But the Kashmir-origin apples grown organically added gloss to the village after the Thanamir Students’ Union (TSU) began organising a festival to attract officials, horticulture experts and visitors. “We could not organise the annual Apple Festival this year after eight editions due to the COVID-19 restrictions. This made us work on a project to market our apples to the nearest urban centres in an organised way,” TSU vice-president N. Lemchimong told The Hindu.  This meant delivering the apples to State capital Kohima, more than 300 km and eight hours’ drive away, and Nagaland’s commercial hub Dimapur further beyond in August-September. At a wholesale price of Rs. 1,000 a carton of 7 kg each, the apples sold out in no time. Kohima-based Vatsu Meru, a former minister, said the Thanamir apples have been high on demand but difficult to get. It needed an initiative like the TSU’s to make it available for urban consumers nearer home. “The apples are quite large, hard, sweet and juicy,” said Kohima-based homemaker Adeno Koutsu. Her Dimapur-based acquaintance Moaben Kitchu said the green apples from Thanamir have a sweet-sour taste while biting into a red one makes the juice flow out of the mouth.  According to Kiphire’s district horticulture officer Elias Lotha, seven villages produce 25 metric tonnes of apples annually on about 30 hectares. “Apart from fiscal assistance for maintenance and free saplings, we provide training for proper planting method and rejuvenation of older plants for higher yield,” he said. Mr. Yongphukhiang, Thanamir’s first apple planter recognised by the village council, did not need any training though. He taught himself the technique of cloning saplings from the roots of the mother tree and distributing them to the villagers. Locals said the mother tree continues to bear fruit and remains the apple of the eye of its wizened planter.
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra records 21,907 new cases||Maharashtra reported 21,907 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking its total case tally to 11,88,015. The State also recorded 425 more fatalities, pushing its death toll to 32,216. With 23,501 patients being discharged, the number of recoveries has increased to 8,57,933. While the State’s recovery rate stands at 72.22%, its case fatality rate is 2.71%. Out of 2,97,480 active cases in the State, the highest — 79,489 — are in Pune district, followed by Mumbai at 30,639. Also, among the 8,57,933 recoveries, the highest (1,72,732) are from Pune district, followed by 1,42,769 from Mumbai. Mumbai division reported 5,228 new cases, taking its tally to 4,29,964, while 113 fatalities pushed its death toll to 14,681. In Pune division, 5,402 new COVID-19 cases were found, increasing the tally of cases to 3,17,434, while 97 fresh fatalities took the toll to 6,949. With 3,407 new cases and 31 deaths, the tally in Nashik division rose to 1,55,178 and toll increased to 3,199. In Kolhapur division, 2,053 new cases took the tally to77,942, and the death toll increased to 2,281 with 58 deaths. With 2,768 new cases and 57 more fatalities, the tally in Nagpur division rose to 81,775 and death toll to 1,838.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Give us same rights to progress and development, says Farooq||National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah said in the Lok Sabha on Saturday that the people of Jammu and Kashmir should have the same rights to progress and development as the rest of the country. “The sad reality of today is the fact that children in Kashmir are not even able to get quality education due to various reasons. People there do not have access to 4G facility, when this is available to everyone else across the country,” he said. Like India was now in talks with China to resolve various issues, “we need to hold talks with the other neighbouring country as well because people are dying every day, border skirmishes are on the rise. We need to find some solution,’’ he added. ‘Release J&K leaders’ Trinamool Congress MP Sougata Ray, also speaking during Zero Hour, said the situation in J&K, even after one year of blunting of Article 370, was a cause for concern. He demanded the release of all 230 political leaders who were in detention in Kashmir. “Political leaders are still not released, journalists are being harassed... State Human Rights Commission is closed, education of children is adversely hit and jails have become COVID-19 hotspots. We demand that the situation be remedied immediately,’’ he said. MP Sumalatha Ambareesh, raising the issue of “imposition” of Hindi, especially in the southern States, said the insistence of learning and using the language by the Central government would kill regional languages. “This is not acceptable,’’ she said.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Two suspected Maoists killed||Two persons, believed to be members of CPI-Maoist squad, were killed in an exchange of fire with police in Kadamba forest area in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district late on Saturday night. The suspected Maoists were yet to be identified. Ramagundam Police Commissioner V. Satyanarayana, confirming the exchange of fire, said that police parties were combing the area when they noticed movement of suspected Maoists. On noticing the approaching police parties, the extremists opened fire. When police parties returned fire, they fled the place. Two bodies were found lying at the site. It occurred in Kagaznagar rural police circle area near Kadamba village. This is the third exchange of fire incident in northern Telangana in less than a month. Earlier, a Maoist was killed in an exchange of fire with the police in Gundala mandal of Bhadradri Kothagudem on Sept. 3. Four days later, two Maoists were killed in an exchange of fire with the police parties near Charla mandal in the same district.
20 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab CM dares Akalis to pull out of NDA||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday accused the Shiromani Akali Dal of misleading people on the contentious agriculture Bills and asked the party to withdraw from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). “The Badals [Akali Dal leaders] should stop lying on such a critical issue and instead come out in the open to fight against the NDA by withdrawing from the alliance,” said the Chief Minister, adding that the party’s claims of standing shoulder to shoulder with farmers were hollow as long as they remained a part of the “anti-farmer” Central government. Hitting out at Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and former Union Minister Harsimrat Badal, Capt. Amarinder asked, “Did either of you even once call the ordinances anti-farmer till they were presented in the Lok Sabha?” “The ordinances, which you [Akali Dal] had been supporting all through till you decided to back off under political compulsions out of fear of losing your farmer vote bank, were never discussed or even mentioned at the high-power meetings – a fact on which your coalition partners either deliberately kept you in the dark or which you chose to consciously ignore in your own petty interest,” he said.
20 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||It’s miles to go for a safer childbirth in Odisha’s Kalahandi||After walking down two hills, taking a boat across a huge reservoir and then finally travelling 30 km on bumpy country roads in a rickety autorickshaw, the actual process of giving birth was not difficult at all for 35-year-old Kusum Nayak. The labour pains pale into insignificance for the pregnant women of 16 largely tribal villages under the N. Podapadar panchayat in Odisha’s Kalahandi district as they prepare to reach the nearest hospital 35 kms away. ‘Additional pain’ “Labour and giving birth is one of the most exhilarating events in one’s life. However, we undergo an additional pain thanks to the lack of connectivity. The pain is worth taking if the baby is born healthy,” said Ms. Nayak, who gave birth to a baby girl at the Tentulikhunti Community Health Centre in Nabarangpur district. Three men and four elderly women from Ghutrukhal village escorted Ms. Nayak on July 13 on the walk down the hill road, the boat ride over the 4 km-wide Indravati reservoir and the last leg in an autorickshaw to the hospital. Earlier on May 24, Chanchala Majhi from the nearby Bhitardunga village embarked upon a similar journey to the hospital. “Lack of connectivity to the mainland is a curse for us. We cannot access emergency health services like child delivery as no ambulance can reach our village,” said Ms. Majhi, who gave birth to a boy.
20 September 2020||Hassan,||Many girls leave colleges after being pressured into marriage||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, many girls in Karnataka are dropping out of colleges after being persuaded by their families to get married. In many cases, efforts by lecturers to convince the parents to postpone the wedding, till after the course is completed, have failed. The last date to complete college admissions without fine was September 15, and many colleges are reporting that 10% to 20% of the girls did not turn up. “About 150 students are yet to take admission for the second and final year in the current academic year,” said Mahendra Kumar, principal of Government First Grade Arts College in Hassan. While every year there are some students who get married and give up studies, this year the numbers are markedly higher, he said. T.M. Manjunath, president of Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association, said this was the trend across the State as many parents were facing financial problems amid the pandemic. “In such a situation, very often boys get preference over girls in continuing education,” he said. An additional factor that has spurred parents to hold weddings during this period is cost. Wedding expenses are lower during the pandemic given the restrictions on gatherings, said Dinesh K.S., assistant professor at Holenarsipur. With colleges closed and classes being held online, there is little chance for lecturers directly contacting their students. “Some got married during the lockdown. We are trying to convince them not to discontinue their studies,” said H.K. Lalitha Devi, principal of Government First Grade College for Women at Holenarsipur. Two of her final-year students did not appear for the examinations. When the teachers contacted the parents, they were told that their husbands did not want them to complete their studies. “They have studied for three years. I hope they come back to clear the exams,” she said. Lecturers still remain hopeful of some girls coming back, as there is time till the end of the month to get enrolled with a fine.  ‘Need govt. action’ Amaresh Kadagada, State president of the Students’ Federation of India, said there was a need for the State government to intervene and ensure that girls do not drop out, especially in backward regions where child marriage is rampant. In 2018, Karnataka’s Gross Enrolment Ratio was 26.5%, the lowest among the southern States. The ratio measures how many students in the 18-24 age bracket are enrolled for higher education programmes — undergraduate, postgraduate, and research studies — and is expressed as a percentage of the population. Parents have defended their decision. One father said, “There were no classes. Friends and relatives suggested we might as well hold her marriage, since we had already found a boy from among our relatives. We arranged the marriage with minimum expenses.” Asked if his daughter would complete her education, he said her husband and in-laws would take that call.  (With inputs from Tanu Kulkarni in Bengaluru)
20 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland apples: sowed by conflict, marketed in COVID||The unfamiliar apple travelled from Kashmir to Nagaland’s Thanamir via Assam Rifles soldiers during the peak of conflict in 1980, when the extremist National Socialist Council of Nagaland was born. The COVID-19 pandemic has made Thanamir’s apples, sowed from the ‘fruits of friendship’ between a Gurkha soldier and a village guard, J. Yongphukhiung, travel out four decades later as a branded farm produce marketed by a local students’ union. Bordering Myanmar, Thanamir is a village in Kiphire district inhabited by Nagas of the Yimchungru community. Thanamir was primarily known as the last stop for trekkers to Saramati, Nagaland’s highest peak at 3,840 m above sea level, until the State government declared it a vegetable village in 2013, almost five years after it was connected by a road. But the Kashmir-origin apples grown organically added gloss to the village after the Thanamir Students’ Union (TSU) began organising a festival to attract officials, horticulture experts and adventurous visitors. “We could not organise the annual Apple Festival this year after eight editions due to the COVID-19 restrictions. This made us work on a project to market our apples to the nearest urban centres in an organised way,” TSU vice-president N. Lemchimong told The Hindu.  High on demand This meant delivering the apples to Kohima, more than 300 km away, and Dimapur further beyond in August-September. At a wholesale price of Rs. 1,000 a carton of 7 kg each, the apples sold out in no time. Vatsu Meru, a former Minister, said the Thanamir apples had been high on demand but difficult to get earlier. It needed an initiative like the TSU’s for urban consumers to get them nearer home. “The apples are quite large, sweet and juicy,” said homemaker Adeno Koutsu. Thanamir’s Head Gaon Bura (village elder) Rethrongki said more than 150 apple farmers had a better harvest this year compared to 2019. Offloading the apples would have been difficult without the help of TSU because of periodic lockdowns, he said. “Our project to market the apples is for three years. We are also looking at coordinating with students of other apple-producing villages for marketing fruits on a larger scale,” Mr. Lemchimong said.
20 September 2020||Special Correspondent Kolkata,||Strong reactions about law and order in Bengal||The arrest of six alleged al-Qaeda operatives in Murshidabad district early on Saturday evoked strong reactions from the Opposition which raised strong questions about the law and order. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar targeted the DGP saying “his ostrich stance” is “far from reality” and “cause of worry”. “How far distanced is DGP @WBPolice from reality is cause of worry. His ‘Ostrich Stance’ is very disturbing. Appreciate (the) role of policemen in general-they r (are) working in difficult situations. Problem is with those at helm who r ( are) unmindful of conduct and r ( are) politically guided,” he tweeted. The Governor said the DGP had responded to him by saying, “West Bengal police firmly adheres to the path laid down by law. There is no discrimination for or against anyone in an extra legal sense.” Mr. Dhankhar said,Those at helm @WBpolice cannot escape their accountability for this alarming decline in law and order.” State unit BJP president Dilip Ghosh and Congress president Ahir Ranjan Chowdhury also targeted the State government. While Mr. Chowdhury said it “is a matter of grave concern”, Mr. Ghosh said every time such a module is busted, West Bengal’s name crops up.
20 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State records over 8,000 COVID cases again||For the sixth day in a row, the State has reported more than 8,000 infections. The tally of infections went up to 6,17,776 with the registration of 8,218 more cases in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. During the period, 58 deaths, the lowest daily toll since August 1, were reported, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said. The toll, thus, climbed to 5,302. The mortality rate stood at 0.86%. Recovery rate In the last 24 hours, 10,820 persons recovered, pushing the recovery rate further to 85.91%. The total number of recoveries was put at 5,30,711. The number of active cases further came down to 81,763. With 74,595 samples tested in the last one day, the total samples tested so far crossed the 50-lakh mark and reached 50,33,676. The positivity rate of these tests was 12.27%. Andhra Pradesh is one of the few States to test over 50 lakh samples since the outbreak of the pandemic. In the last two weeks, an average of 71,311 samples were tested per day and 9,317 of them turned positive. The tests per million ratio stood at 94,263 and 9.43% of the State’s population had been tested so far.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. to tap artificial intelligence in governance||The Tamil Nadu government has released policies on artificial intelligence, blockchain and cybersecurity. They were unveiled virtually by Chief Minister Edappadi. K. Palaniswami at the valedictory function of CII Connect 2020. The main objective of the Safe and Ethical Artificial Intelligence (AI) policy is to encourage fast, efficient, secure and transparent public service delivery with the help of AI-driven e-Governance applications. The policy has been prepared, after the pros and cons of the technology were considered, to provide a roadmap for the policy-makers to adopt AI-based solutions. It is also aimed at promoting investments in AI research and development.  Expert groups According to the policy note, the government, with the help of Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency, would help identify AI opportunities across departments. The government will set up expert groups to identify application opportunities for AI and related solutions. The State of Tamil Nadu wants to create a set of standards to be followed for all government blockchain implementations to ensure enhanced interoperability, security, privacy, and uniformity in technology stack across departments. This policy will be applicable to any authority or body in Tamil Nadu, established or constituted under any Central or State law and owned or controlled by the State government or which receives any aid directly or indirectly from the government. The policy recommends building a blockchain backbone infrastructure (network) for the State to function as the single source of truth and trust anchor for all government processes and data. This would be implemented within the e-governance system, and other government departments and agencies would be assisted to leverage it to build applications and solutions. The cybersecurity policy is applicable to all government departments and associated agencies. It covers information assets that include hardware, applications and services provided by these agencies to other government departments, industry or citizens.  Central services too This policy also applies to Central government infrastructure and personnel who provide services to the Tamil Nadu government either on specific deputation or by specific tasking. The main aim is to develop a comprehensive security risk reduction strategy.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||BDA initiates process to sell over 1,400 leased CA sites||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has initiated the process to sell 1,403 civic amenity (CA) sites currently leased to private and government bodies. Going by the State government’s order, the authority has started accepting applications from lessees interested in buying the property. They will have to pay the rates fixed by the authority. Some lessees have already made enquiries with the authority. “We have developed an application for sale of the leased CA sites. The government wants BDA to charge no less than the guidance value prevailing now. Buyers should use the land for the purpose it was leased,” said BDA Commissioner H.R. Mahadev. Asked how much revenue BDA was hoping to generate, the Commissioner said it would depend on the interest shown by the lessees. Recent notification The government recently issued a notification amending the BDA Allotment of Civic Amenities Rules to sell CA sites. “The allottee who has already executed the lease agreement for civic amenity site may purchase the civic amenity site by expressing intent in writing to pay the site value of the civic amenity site as determined by the authority not less than the prevailing guidance value for the site,” said the notification. According to another BDA official, of the 1,403 CA sites leased, a database has been created for 1,257 sites. “For the remaining sites, verification is under way to check legal issues and others,” the official said. With its coffers affected by the pandemic, the government --- in an attempt to boost revenue generation --- decided to sell the leased sites. In addition, the government directed BDA to sell corner sites. The authority has already finished two rounds of site allotments. A few days ago, the State cabinet took another major decision to regularise constructions on ‘B’ kharab land by imposing a penalty. In Bengaluru, CA sites have been leased over the years for various purposes such as education, and the lessees include welfare associations, clubs, and government institutions among others. However, there have been allegations of some lessees not paying the lease value or renewal lease value. There are instances of lessees using the allotted land for other purposes. In a notice issued in May, BDA asked 34 lessees to make payments that were due. As per the notice, one institute, which was on 33,294 sq m of land in Banashankari, had dues of over Rs. 81 crore. It is not known how many have made payment after the notice.
20 September 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal adds 3,188 COVID-19 cases, total crosses 2.20 lakh||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 3,188 fresh COVID-19 cases taking the tally in the State to 2,21,960. The State recorded 56 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the number of fatalities to 4,298. The number of active cases in the State stood at 24,648 and the discharge rate was 86.96%. Of the 56 deaths in the past 24 hours Kolkata and North 24 Parganas, the two worst-affected regions of the State, recorded 15 deaths each. The toll in Kolkata and North 24 Parganas due to the contagious viral infection climbed to 1,566 and 965 respectively In terms of new infections 543 cases were recorded in Kolkata in the past 24 hours taking the number of total infections in the city to 49,613. As many as 501 new infections were recorded in North 24 Parganas in the past 24 hours taking the number of infections in the district to 44,685. Of the fatalities 3,684 patients, or 85.7% of the total deceased were suffering from co-morbidities. About 13.42 % of death was observed in the age group of people above 75 years. 6.27 % deaths occured in the age group of 61 to 75 years. A total of 45,563 samples have been tested for COVID-19 since Friday, according to a bulletin issued by the health department.
20 September 2020||Mangaluru,||Sri Krishna Mutt in Udupi to reopen on Sept. 28||The Sri Krishna Mutt in Udupi will re-open for darshan on September 28, according to Govindaraj, manager of Paryaya Admar Mutt. He told presspersons in Udupi on Saturday that the mutt had remained closed for devotees since March 22 due to COVID-19 restrictions. Devotees can visit the mutt only between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. through the north entrance near Rajangana and exit through the steps near Mukhyaprana gudi. The ‘tirtha prasada’ will not be served for the time being. No sevas are allowed and devotees are not allowed to chant bhajans inside the mutt for the time being, he added. The manager said that local people will be allowed to enter the mutt from the main entrance near the Madhwa Sarovar after some days.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi journalist held for ‘passing info’ to Chinese||Days after freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma was arrested by the Delhi police under the British-era Official Secrets Act (OSA) for allegedly passing on “sensitive information” to Chinese intelligence, the police said on Saturday that two of his associates — a Chinese woman and a Nepalese man — have also been arrested. ‘No role of defence staff’ An officer said, so far the role of any officials from the Ministry of Defence is not under the scanner.
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC permits PMC accused to attend father’s funeral||The Bombay High Court on Saturday permitted an accused in the Punjab Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank fraud to attend his father’s funeral “humanitarian grounds”. The court said the State will bear the cost for the personnel escorting him from Taloja Central Jail, where he is lodged. A single Bench of Justice S.V. Kotwal was hearing an interim application in the criminal bail plea filed by S. Rajneet Tara Singh Nandrajog (50). He was arrested on November 16, 2019, after a case was registered against him by the Economic Offences Wing. The plea filed by his advocate Nishant Katneshwarkar sought temporary bail for 20 days to attend his father’s funeral on Sunday. The Bench said, “Though this application is preferred for temporary bail; without considering merits of the matter, I am not inclined to grant temporary bail to the present applicant. However, on purely humanitarian grounds, I am inclined to permit the applicant to attend the funeral and to perform final rites, with escorts.” The Bench also allowed him to meet his family for one more day and attend the religious ceremonies on the 13th day. The court directed jail authorities to arrange for escorts in plainclothes for Mr. Nandrajog.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Devise plan for containment zones: L-G||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal directed the authorities to chalk out a strategy to reduce COVID-19 cases to non-existent levels in containment zones across the Capital. Sources said expert groups and the Delhi Health Department have been tasked with preparing reports on the zones over the weekend. They are scheduled to meet early next week to figure out strategies to reduce the number of cases being reported from containment zones, which account for roughly 40% of the total daily COVID-19 cases in the city. This will be followed by a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), sources said.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Last journey||
20 September 2020||MANGALURU/Belagavi,||DK, Udupi report six deaths, 647 new cases||Five COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died, while 432 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. With the discharge of 404 patients, active cases in the district was at 4,529. Of the new patients, 226 were symptomatic and 206 were asymptomatic. In Udupi, one COVID-19 patient with co-morbidities died while 215 new cases were found on Saturday. As many as 311 patients were discharged and the active cases were at 1,337. Of the new patients, 112 were symptomatic and 103 asymptomatic, according to official press releases. The number of patients discharged was more than the number of fresh COVID-19 positive cases across North Karnataka on Saturday. There were 22 deaths across the region. Against 1,994 recoveries, there were 1,241 fresh positives. The highest recoveries were in Uttara Kannada, where 407 persons were sent home. Dharwad had 277 persons discharge while Belagavi had 272. The highest number of fresh cases was in Gadag with 391.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Last journey||
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||10% pvt. bank staff can travel on locals now||The Railways on Saturday allowed 10% employees of co-operative and private banks to travel on Mumbai’s suburban trains. Employees of nationalised banks are already allowed to travel by trains. “On the Maharashtra government’s request, 10% of the total staff strength of co-operative and private banks will be permitted to travel by local trains,” a joint release issued by the Central and Western Railways said. The selected 10% staff will need to obtain QR ID codes from the State government. Until then, those with valid identity cards can buy tickets and travel. Recently, the railway authorities allowed aircraft maintenance and repair staff to travel on local trains.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Last journey||
20 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,||MLA quits TDP||TDP MLA from Visakhapatnam-South Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has quit the party to extend support to the YSRCP. Mr. Kumar submitted his resignation to TDP president on Friday night.
20 September 2020||COIMBATORE,||Coimbatore airport sees rise in passengers||Coimbatore International Airport saw an increase in domestic air traffic movement after the relaxation of restrictions.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Opposition all geared up to corner govt.||The monsoon session of the State legislature, which will get under way on Monday, is expected to be a raucous one, with the Opposition eager to corner the BJP government on many issues.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP proposes hike in property tax||If the civic body has its way, citizens are likely to pay more in tax and cess. The BBMP has proposed to increase property tax and garbage cess, and land transport cess in a bid to bring in more revenue to the financially starved civic body.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Two actors, ex-councillor quizzed in drug case||Two actors, Akul Balaji and Santosh Aryan, and former city councillor R.V. Yuvaraj, were questioned for over seven hours by the Central Crime Branch in connection with the ongoing investigation into the drug scandal on Saturday.
20 September 2020||Srinagar,||Three LeT terrorists arrested in Rajouri||The J&K police said three Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists were arrested with weapons dropped by a drone from across the LoC on Saturday.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Total COVID-19 cases in Delhi near 2.5 lakh mark||As many as 4,071 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,42,899, said a government health bulletin.
20 September 2020||Kolkata,||Veteran Rabindra Sangeet exponent Purba Dam dies||Veteran Rabindra Sangeet exponent Purba Dam died at her residence here on Saturday, family sources said. Dam, 85, died of cardiac arrest at her Dhakuria residence in south Kolkata this morning, they said. She is survived by her husband and daughter. She was a true disciple of legendary Rabindra Sangeet singer Suchitra Mitra. Condoling her demise, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recalled her cordial relations with Dam who was conferred Sangeet Samman in 2013.PTI
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Stormy legislature session on the cards||The monsoon session of the State legislature, which will get underway on Monday, is expected to be a raucous one, with the Opposition eager to corner the BJP government on its handling of COVID-19, “anti-farmer” bills, among other issues.
20 September 2020||Mangaluru,||Actor-choreographer held; drugs recovered||A 30-year-old actor-turned-choreographer was among the two persons arrested by the Mangaluru city police on Saturday for alleged illegal possession and consumption of narcotic drug MDMA.
20 September 2020||Pune,||Oxford vaccine: phase-III trial in Pune next week||The phase-III human clinical trial of the COVID-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) will begin at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune next week, Dean of the State-run Sassoon General Hospital Dr. Muralidhar Tambe said on Saturday. “It is likely to start on Monday. Some volunteers have already come forward for the trial,” he said.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,||E-pass counters closed at Chennai airport||The e-pass counters at the domestic terminal of Chennai airport have been closed. Passengers from other States can apply for it online.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. to be transformed into innovation hub: CM||Tamil Nadu will be transfor- med into an innovation hub and the knowledge capital of the country, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Second wave of cases likely, says Kerala CM||Kerala’s rising trend continued with 4,644 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday; 47,452 samples were tested in one day. The number of patients being treated in hospitals was 37,488, of which 319 were critically ill and in ICUs, 88 requiring ventilator support. The State’s official death toll surged to 519, as 18 deaths, which occurred between August 29 and September 17 were added to the provisional list. Five deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, four from Thrissur, three from Kollam, two each from Ernakulam and Palakkad and one from Kasaragod. Among new cases, almost 84% were locally acquired infections. New cases in Thiruvananthapuram surged to 824 on Saturday. The capital district had the highest number of active cases at 6,721. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the media that lack of vigil and protocol violations were exacting a heavy price. An institutional cluster around a private hospital in Pathanamthitta had resulted in 55 cases. COVID-19’s second wave was imminent in the country, when the situation could become worse, Mr. Vijayan said, quoting experts. Telangana recorded 2,123 cases on Friday. While 54,459 people were tested on September 18, results of 1,025 were awaited. There were nine more deaths. There were 305 cases from Greater Hyderabad, 185 from Rangareddy, 149 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 135 from Nalgonda, 112 from Karimnagar, 93 from Khammam. Of the total, 30,636 were active cases. For the sixth day, Andhra Pradesh reported over 8,000 infections: 8,218 on Saturday. During the daily window, 58 deaths were reported. The number of active cases further came down to 81,763. With 74,595 samples tested, the test positivity rate was 12.27%. In the last two weeks, an average of 71,311 samples were tested per day and 9,317 of them returned positive. East and West Godavari districts again reported over 1,000 new cases, the former clocking the highest number. Chittoor had the highest number of fresh deaths and the maximum among districts at 580 cumulatively. Tamil Nadu reported 5,569 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total tally of cases reported till date to 5,36,477. The number of COVID-19 patients reported as recovered was 5,556. With the total number of recoveries being 4,81,273, the State’s recovery rate was at 89.7%. The State had 46,453 active cases as on Saturday. A total of 66 persons lost their lives due to COVID-19, according to the media bulletin, taking the total death toll to 8,751. Thirty six of these deaths happened in government hospitalsand the remaining 30 in private facilities.  (With inputs from Chennai, Hyderabad, and Vijayawada bureaus)
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army races to stock for winter||As India and China prepare for another round of Corps Commander-level talks for disengagement and de-escalation along the disputed boundary in Ladakh, the Army is racing to complete advance winter stocking in forward locations and build habitat for the thousands of additional troops deployed in high-altitude areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), a defence source said. The sixth round of talks are likely to be held in the next two or three days, another defence source said. Ahead of the talks, the ground situation and future course of action was reviewed at a high-level government meeting on Friday. “It is not just about stocks reaching Leh. Its about the rations and other essentials reaching the forward areas where troops are deployed. It is under way in full swing. Then there is also storage. Stocks cannot be left out in the open. There are limitations of storage space with additional stocks coming in. They are also being created,” the source said. In Leh, heavy snowing occurs by the end of November, so there is still some time, the source stated. Frosting has already started in many places and any stagnant water gets frozen at night. Temperatures have already dipped to minus zero degrees Celsius in super high-altitude areas, the source added. Two major roads The two major road axis used by the Army for sending supplies to Leh are Zojila and Rohtang. Rohtang gets blocked by the end of October, while Zojila can continue till mid-November. The routes are being kept open longer than normal, a senior Army officer had stated earlier. After that, it will be only air maintenance using Indian Air Force C-17 and IL-76 transport aircraft to move loads to Leh, and helicopters to deliver them to forward locations. The logistical management needs careful planning so that supplies to high-altitude areas in other sectors is not affected, the source said. The Army has moved around 30,000 troops to Ladakh and forward areas since the beginning of the stand-off in May, and the massive build-up of forces by China at several places in Ladakh and along the LAC. Stating that with these additional troops, there is not enough warm habitat available to house them in the peak winter, the source said orders have been placed in time and work is on to set them up. “Extra engineering task forces have been moved but they are racing against time,” the defence source said. The second source said that since the meeting between External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Moscow on September 10, the situation has been quiet along the LAC. The Ministers had agreed on a five-point plan for disengagement.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Opposition trains guns on PM CARES||The Lok Sabha cleared the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020, here on Saturday, despite strong criticism from the Opposition which said the Bill was aimed at giving an “all clear to the PM CARES Fund”. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Bill will replace an ordinance brought in to help the common man during the COVID-19 times. ‘Absolutely transparent’ Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur in his response to the debate on the Bill, said the PM CARES Fund was absolutely transparent and had been set up under the law and registered as a Trust under the 1908 Act. Questioning the distrust about the fund, Mr. Thakur asked, “Is there any past experience which has caused it? PM CARES Fund today has five times more funds than the PM National Relief Fund.” The Minister added that earlier, “public funds and government machinery were misused and diverted by one specific family-owned foundations/funds and charitable trust in India.” Questioning why the members of “this one family aren’t behind bars despite the repeated accusations”, Congress leader in the House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the government must give clear details of Chinese donations to the PM CARES Fund. “I also want to ask the need for creating a parallel fund when PM National Relief Fund is there,” he said. Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra said the “deeply problematic Bill” was being brought in to give an all clear to the PM CARES Fund which is covered in non-transparency. “The discriminatory provisions of the Fund also weaken the rights and resources available to State governments by taking away statutory promises made under the new GST regime. It corners the public funds for PM CARES depriving even the Chief Minister’s relief funds and in turn making State governments suffer,” she said. ‘Foreign donations’ Questioning the government’s decision to accept contributions for PM CARES, which, she said, is not open for audit, from firms in China operating spy organisations and running mobile applications banned in India, Ms. Moitra said, “This unverified foreign donation is dangerous.” She added that the government was also hiding the fact that 70% of funds to PM CARES came from public sector undertakings, which was also public money. Manickam Tagore of the Congress said through the PM CARES Fund, the only people served were corporates that turned black money into white. “The government must tell us why the government is privatising airports/telecom and other services. Who exactly is running the country? Is this a democracy,” he asked. Though supporting the Bill, K. Ram Mohan Naidu of the TDP said the government should allow transparency in public funds. “This will ensure reinforcement of public trust. The government should consider releasing GST revenue to States,” he said.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India tops in COVID-19 recoveries||Overtaking the U.S., India has become the top country in number of patients recovering from COVID-19, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. A total of 42,08,431 patients have recovered, the Ministry said in a press release. “India now accounts for close to 19% of the total global recoveries. It has registered the highest-ever single-day recoveries in the last 24 hours. A total of 95,880 recoveries have been recorded. 90% of the new recovered cases are being reported from 16 States/UTs [Union Territories], including Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Delhi,” the release said. Of the new recovered cases, about 60% are being reported from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra alone has more than 22,000 (23%) and Andhra Pradesh more than 11,000 (12.3%) in single-day recoveries. Of the total recovered cases, 90% are being reported from 15 States/UTs. “The top five States with the maximum case load — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh — are also nodal ones for the highest number of total recoveries,” the Ministry said.
20 September 2020||Kochi,||Kochi prepared to deal with any terror threat, say officials||The city of Kochi is prepared to deal with any form of terror threat, top security officials said here on Saturday, hours after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested nine al-Qaeda operatives during raids conducted here and in West Bengal. After the NIA said the arrested terrorists had planned to launch terror attacks on vital installations in the country with an aim to kill innocent people, defence sources said the Kochi-based Southern Naval Command (SNC) has been under heightened security for some time. “The SNC will continue to take all precautions against all possible threats,” a defence source said. Highly placed sources in the Kochi city police said the police have been working to identify terror elements in the city. “We are well-prepared to deal with any form of terror threats,” a senior officer said. “People suspected to have terror links are put on surveillance. We are always on the lookout for such elements,” another senior officer said.  BJP, Cong. flay govt. Meanwhile, the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) attacked the State government over the issue. KPCC President Mullappally Ramachandran said, “...it is evident that that law and order machinery in the State has collapsed and it has become fertile soil for terror groups.” BJP State president K. Surendran said Kerala has become a “hideout” for terrorists under the rule of both CPI(M)-led LDF and the Congress-led UDF. He added that the State government ignored a recent UN report on terrorism that warned that there are “significant numbers” of ISIS terrorists in Kerala and that al-Qaeda terrorists were planning attacks in the country.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three Bills in Lok Sabha to bring in changes in labour sector||The government on Saturday introduced three Bills in the Lok Sabha to amalgamate laws on social security, occupational safety and industrial relations, which would, among other changes, allow companies with fewer than 300 workers to terminate employment without prior approval and provide gig and platform workers social security schemes. Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar introduced the Industrial Relations Code, 2020; the Occupational Safety, Health & Working Conditions Code, 2020; and the Code on Social Security, 2020, after some Opposition MPs opposed them citing the lack of public consultation. Mr. Gangwar also withdrew the 2019 versions of the Bills, which were introduced and then referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour. Mr. Gangwar said the government had accepted 74% of the 233 recommendations of the committee. The three Bills are part of the government’s labour law reforms agenda, of which the first, the Code on Wages, was passed in 2019. He said 29 labour laws are to be amalgamated into four codes. Congress MP Manish Tewari said the government had not followed the pre-legislative consultative policy that was put in place in February 2014 of putting all Bills in the public domain for 30 days for comments. Congress MP from Kerala Shashi Tharoor said the Bills could face “judicial scrutiny”. Mr. Gangwar said the Bills had been drafted after nine tripartite consultations, four sub-committee meetings, 10 regional conferences and 10 inter-ministerial consultations. He said 6,000 comments had been received after the Bills were put in the Ministry’s website for two-three months. The Industrial Relations Code Bill mandates companies with 300 or more workers to prepare and submit to the government standing orders regarding the conditions of service, including shift timings and termination of employment. As of now, this applies to establishment with over 100 employees, under the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act, 1946, which is among the three Acts the Bill proposes to subsume. The Social Security Code Bill proposes to bring unorganised sector, gig workers and platform workers under the ambit of social security schemes, including life and disability insurance, health and maternity benefits, provident fund and skill upgradation. Among the 13 Acts the Occupational Safety Code proposes to subsume is the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979, which has been highlighted during the recent migrant workers crisis due to COVID-19.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. justifies objections to Bills despite similar promises||With the Rajya Sabha set to consider the agriculture marketing reform Bills on Sunday amid protests from most of the Opposition, the Congress is trying to refute the ruling BJP’s narrative that it had promised similar reforms in its own election manifesto last year. Rajya Sabha member and Congress leader P. Chidambaram said the party had promised to promote farmers’ companies and markets with sufficient infrastructure before repealing the existing laws. The BJP is accusing the Congress of duplicity in its opposition to the two Bills that promote barrier-free trade and facilitate the sale of farm produce outside the mandis notified under the Agricultural Produce Market Committee. In its 2019 poll manifesto, the Congress had gone a step further, saying it would “repeal the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-State trade — free from all restrictions”. Mr. Chidambaram noted that the Congress manifesto had also promised to “promote Farmers Producer Companies/Organisations to enable farmers to access inputs, technology and markets,” and to “establish farmers’ markets with adequate infrastructure and support in large villages and small towns to enable the farmer to bring his/her produce and freely market the same”. Only after these promises were accomplished, giving farmers the choice of multiple accessible markets would the Congress have gone on to repeal the APMC Act, he claimed. “The Prime Minister and the BJP spokespersons have deliberately and maliciously distorted the Congress Manifesto,” said his statement. Mr. Chidambaram accused the BJP of “surrendering to corporates and traders” and “undermining the only regulated market available to the farmer today, without creating thousands of alternative markets that will be accessible to the farmer”. The Bills were passed by the Lok Sabha on Thursday.
20 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||SAD stood on right side of the line on farm Bills: Badal||After Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal, one of the oldest alliance partners of the NDA, stepped down as Minster from the Union Cabinet in protest against the Centre’s three agriculture sector Bills, former Punjab Chief Minister and SAD patron Parkash Singh Badal on Saturday said the party had tried to act as a bridge to find an amicable way to accommodate farmers’ interests, but when that did not seem possible, and a line had to be drawn, it stood on the right side of the line. Mr. Badal described the party’s decision to pull out of the Union government to fight alongside the farmers as “a proud and landmark moment in the party’s long history of standing up for the principles and of always being on the side of the people”. Wider consultations Mr. Badal said the legislation on the marketing of the farmers’ produce needed wider consultations, especially with the stakeholders, the farmers and with parties like SAD. The party tried to convey the sentiments of the farmers to the Union government and also tried its best to persuade it to refer the legislation to an all-party select committee of MPs for wider consultations with the farmers. “The party tried to act as a bridge to find an amicable way to accommodate the farmers’ interests. But I am glad that when that did not seem possible, it did the only thing that its proud heritage demanded — quit the government. The SAD could never be a party to anything which harms the interests of the farmers.” Mr. Badal said the farmers’ issue relates to the overall national interests. The former Chief Minister said with the resignation of its sole representative in the Union Cabinet, SAD has demonstrated yet again that nothing is dearer to it than its principles and the interests of the people, especially the farmers, the farm labour and other poor classes who are toiling for their rights.
20 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||5 killed in scrub typhus outbreak||The outbreak of scrub typhus, a bacterial disease, has claimed the lives of five people in Nagaland’s Noklak district bordering Myanmar, officials said. More than 600 others tested positive for the disease but recovered following treatment. Scrub typhus, also known as bush typhus, spreads to people through bites of larval mites. The symptoms include fever, headache and body ache. The district’s Sub-Divisional Officer (Civil) C. Phuniang said Noklak has had to grapple with the disease in the past too, although there has been no scientific study on the whys. “People recover if treated in time. Unfortunately, five people died probably because they were ignorant about the disease,” he said. He added that doctors and other healthcare workers in the district have been trying to create awareness on a large scale to contain the spread of the disease. “Doctors have advised people to visit a hospital in case they have the symptoms. The hospitals are well-equipped with testing kits,” Mr. Phuniang said. String of diseases Scrub typhus has been the latest in a string of viral and bacterial fatalities in the Northeast. Apart from the novel coronavirus, which has killed 911 people in the region, vector-borne diseases such as malaria and Japanese encephalitis have accounted for 53 lives in Assam so far. Animals have also fallen to “exotic” diseases. More than 17,000 pigs have died in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya due to African swine fever.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Concept of e-Lok Adalat can transform legal landscape’||The concept of e-Lok Adalat has the potential to transform the legal landscape of India by providing a platform to millions of people to settle their grievances at their places, said N.V. Ramana, a judge of the Supreme Court of India and the Executive Chairperson of the National Legal Services Authority, on Saturday. After e-inaugurating Karnataka’s first State-level mega e-Lok Adalat conducted by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, he said the “techniques and methods which we [the judiciary] have adopted during this time to get over this pandemic will prove to be solution for long-standing problems”. “We [the judiciary] always thought of making use of technological services like video conferences, e-courts, etc. to enable marginalised people to access justice. Now, finally it has been put into action,” Mr. Ramana said. He, however, said the crucial challenge was to popularise e-Lok Adalats at thegrassroots levels, where people have no facility of videoconferencing, by providing access to technology, while appreciating e-Lok Adalat being held in all the 30 judicial districts of the State by forming 940 Benches for settlement process. “It is important to ensure that e-Lok Adalat remains as people’s Lok Adalat and retains its simplicity and wider reach,” he said while underlining the importance of e-Lok Adalats for Karnataka, which is one of the States in southern India having the highest number of around 17.5 lakh cases pending in district- and taluk-level courts. Mr. Ramana appreciated the works done by executive chairperson of the KSLSA Aravind Kumar and his team of judicial officers during the lockdown period to ensure release of over 11,000 undertrial prisoners and 489 convicted prisoners on parole while hailing the Chief Justice for initiating measures to address the issues of migrant workers and others. Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, Chief Justice of the High Court of Karnataka, said as many as 1.87 lakh pending and pre-litigation cases were identifiedfor settlement through the mega e-Lok Adalat.  It is important to ensure that e-Lok Adalat remains as people’s Lok Adalat and retains its simplicity and wider reach N.V. Ramana, Supreme Court judge
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Anti-govt. protests continue in Kerala||Protests against the government continued in different parts of Kerala for the eighth consecutive day on Saturday. Youth Congress workers seeking the resignation of Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel charged the police lines in Pathanamthitta and Kozhikode, resulting in injuries on both sides. The police trained water cannons, lobbed tear gas grenades and swung batons to subdue the belligerent demonstrators. Youth Congress State secretary Abeed Shahid was injured in the police action in Pathanamthitta. In Kozhikode, baton-charged Youth Congress workers attempted to storm the district headquarters. Several persons were injured in the melee. In Kasaragod, the police used water cannons to disperse a Mahila Morcha march organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran and BJP State president K. Surendran condemned the police action as brutal. In separate statements, the leaders accused the government of using the police to stifle democratic dissent. The National Investigation Agency on September 17 questioned Kerala Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel in connection with its probe into the smuggling of gold via air cargo shipments addressed to the UAE’s Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Crack down on secessionist forces, Madras HC tells Centre||Impressing upon the need for the Centre to prevent youth from being misled by secessionist forces functioning on the grounds of race, region, religion and language across the country, the Madras High Court has advised the Centre to not create an impression among people of any State that their language was being neglected. Justice N. Kirubakaran made the suggestion while denying bail to R. Kalailingam, 33, of the Tamil Nadu Liberation Army (TNLA), a banned organisation. The bail applicant is accused of planting bombs in Madurai and Sivaganga districts and also under the car of Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy in 2014. Justice R. Hemalatha, the other judge in the Division Bench, agreed with the dismissal of the bail application but did not concur with any of the observations made by Justice Kirubakaran in the 48-page verdict, which accused many political parties too of encouraging “linguistic chauvinism to harvest political dividends”. The senior judge also said Naxalism was now raising its ugly head in Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, and the borders of Tamil Nadu and Kerala.  Observing that the country was facing danger more from elements within the country than those in enemy countries, Justice Kirubakaran said the recent Galwan valley conflict between India and China “exposed people who are lovers of the neighbouring nation as they openly support the enemy country”. He expressed shock over the existence of many such persons in the media industry. “They are not giving straightforward news and only disseminate their views in the name of news to mislead people. These elements are a threat to our nation,” he added. The judge also claimed that many anti-national forces masquerade themselves as non-governmental organisations, human rights bodies and political outfits. “There is a huge difference between fighting against people in power and fighting against the country. These elements do a lot of damage to our country and democracy and therefore people should be wary of those elements,” he added. Stating that these forces use Tamil race, Tamil culture and Tamil language as weapons for their sinister plans, the judge said that any act of the Centre perceived to be discriminatory against a particular language would add fuel to the mischievous propaganda by secessionist forces.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Give us same rights to progress’||National Conference leader Dr. Farooq Abdullah said in the Lok Sabha on Saturday that the people of Jammu and Kashmir should have the same rights to progress and development as the rest of the country. “The sad reality of today is the fact that children in Kashmir are not even able to get quality education due to various reasons. People there do not have access to 4G facility, when this is available to everyone else across the country,” he said. Like India was now in talks with China to resolve various issues, “we need to hold talks with the other neighbouring country as well because people are dying every day, border skirmishes are on the rise. We need to find some solution,’’ he added. Trinamool Congress MP Saugata Ray, also speaking during Zero Hour, said the situation in J&K, even after one year of abrogation of Article 370, was a continued cause of concern. He demanded the release of all 230 political leaders who were in detention in Kashmir. “Political leaders are still not released, journalists are being harassed... We demand that the situation be remedied immediately,’’ he said.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Public Health Act in the works to address biological emergency’||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told the Rajya Sabha on Saturday that a Public Health Act is in the works for the past four years to address any “biological emergency”. Dr. Harsh Vardhan made the announcement while the Rajya Sabha passed the The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020 on Saturday. The Bill replaces an ordinance passed in April. The parent Act was envisaged in 1897 by the British. He said the data on death of healthcare professionals is provided by the States and if the Centre was not giving the exact numbers it did not mean it is not sensitive to the issue. A few days ago, the Ministry had told Parliament that it did not have data on the doctors who died of COVID-19, following which the Indian Medical Association published a list of 382 doctors who died of the infection. The legislation passed on Saturday provides for up to seven years in jail for those attacking doctors and healthcare workers fighting the COVID-19 outbreak or during any situation akin to it. It also fixes a 30-day limit for police investigations and a one-year limit for the courts to complete the proceedings, failing which the judge will have to give an explanation. “We have also aggressively pursued the National Public Health Act with the States after the Law department specifically asked us to seek the opinion of the States. Initially only Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Tripura and Himachal Pradesh gave replies. Ten more States gave suggestions later and 14 have given suggestions so far. All the issues not included under the Epidemic Act or the National Disaster Management Act will be included in the Public Health Act,” Mr. Vardhan said.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon session may be cut short||All political parties have unanimously agreed to cut short the monsoon session of Parliament that was scheduled to end on October 1, at an emergency business advisory committee meeting called by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, owing to the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The parties left it to Mr. Birla’s discretion on when to end the session, though sources indicated that it could end on Wednesday. A final decision will be taken by the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs. At the beginning of the session, the government had listed 23 new Bills for consideration and passage, including 11 Bills replacing ordinances issued since March, when the Budget session ended. The Lok Sabha has passed six Bills, including three agriculture-related ones — the approval of which led to the exit of Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur from the Narendra Modi cabinet. On Sunday, these three Bills — the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — will come up in the Rajya Sabha, where it is expected to sail through, since the Opposition barely has the numbers to put up a reasonable resistance. According to sources, the Congress has demanded a discussion on COVID-19. The Rajya Sabha has already held a debate on the pandemic and its management. DMK MP T.R. Baalu has sought a discussion on the National Education Policy.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Viraat cuts through the waves for one last time, to Alang||The decommissioned aircraft carrier INS Viraat on Saturday set sail on its last journey from the Mumbai harbour to the Alang ship-breaking yard in Gujarat where it will be dismantled. The iconic naval ship was sold off for scrap last month after all efforts to convert it into a museum failed. In an e-auction conducted by Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd. (MSTC), the aircraft carrier was purchased by Shree Ram Green Ship Recycling of Gujarat for Rs. 38 crore. On Saturday, social media was abuzz with calls for last- minute efforts to save the carrier from being scrapped. “Worth attempting a ‘last ditch’ effort. There are still a few days before the ship reaches Alang and acetylene torches start cutting,” said former Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Arun Prakash (Retd). There have been demands from various quarters not to let Viraat go the Vikrant way, India’s first carrier that was scrapped. However, none of the proposals put forward by various States fructified.  INS Viraat , a Centaur- class aircraft carrier weighing 27,800 tonnes, had served in the British Navy as HMS Hermes for 25 years from November 1959 to April 1984 and after refurbishment, was commissioned into the Indian Navy in May 1987. It had operated Harrier fighter jets and was decommissioned in March 2017. Since it was decommissioned, the Navy had been incurring expenditure on the vessel’s upkeep and it also had been blocking space in the crowded Naval dockyard in Mumbai.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Red alert sounded across four districts in Kerala||Idukki, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod have been put on red alert on Sunday with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting the possibility of extremely heavy rainfall (in excess of 20.4 cm in a 24-hour period) in the four districts. Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Wayanad are on orange alert for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Southern districts Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram are on yellow alert. For Monday, orange alert has been issued for 10 districts: Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. Arrangements ready Meanwhile, the State government has made arrangements to tackle rain-related emergencies. More teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in various districts in view of the development. The armed forces and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) unit in the State are on standby. The Border Security Force (BSF) and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) units in the State will be deployed if needed, according to the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA). Two NDRF teams in Thrissur district have been deployed in Kozhikode and Idukki districts. The Defence Service Corps (DSC) based in Kannur is on standby for handling emergencies. Additionally, IAF helicopters are on standby in Thiruvananthapuram and Coimbatore, KSDMA member secretary Sekhar L. Kuriakose said. Steps have been initiated to evacuate people residing in landslide and landslip-prone areas and to temporarily ban night-time travel to hilly regions. The IMD Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, has forecast a spike in southwest monsoon rainfall activity under the influence of a low pressure area expected to take shape in the Bay of Bengal region by Sunday. The low pressure area is likely to become more marked over the northwest part of the Bay during the subsequent 24 hours, centre director K. Santhosh said.
20 September 2020||Pune,||Oxford vaccine’s Phase 3 trial soon||The phase-III human clinical trial of the COVID-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and being manufactured by theSerum Institute of India(SII) will begin at the Sassoon General Hospital in Pune next week, Dean of the State-run Sassoon General Hospital Dr. Muralidhar Tambe said on Saturday. “The phase-III trial of ‘Covishield’ vaccine will begin at Sassoon hospital from next week. It is likely to start on Monday. Some volunteers have already come forward for the trial. Around 150 to 200 volunteers will be administered the vaccine candidate dose,” he said. “From Saturday, Sassoon General Hospital started enrolling volunteers for the trial. Those who are willing to volunteer for the vaccination should contact the hospital,” Mr. Tambe said. Under phase-II, trials were conducted at Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and also KEM Hospital in the city. The SII has partnered with British-Swedish pharma company AstraZeneca for manufacturing the COVID-19 vaccine candidate. Earlier this month, the SII had paused the clinical trials of the vaccine candidate in the country.
20 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Some Punjab institutes to reopen||The Punjab government on Saturday allowed the opening of higher education institutions for PhD scholars and postgraduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory work from September 21. However, schools, colleges and coaching centres will remain closed. The orders were issued in compliance with the directives of Unlock 4.0, issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs. According to the guidelines issued by Special Chief Secretary (Home) Satish Chandra, open-air theatres will be allowed to function with strict adherence to social distancing norms. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks, theatres and similar places will however remain closed. Online distance learning shall be encouraged but schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutions will remain closed for students and regular classes. Mr. Chandra said 50% of the teaching and non-teaching staff would be allowed to attend schools at a time for online teaching and tele-counselling in areas outside the containment zones The total number of COVID-19 cases in Punjab as on Saturday stood at 95,529.
20 September 2020||KOCHI,||Antisocials infiltrate among migrant workers||Maoist and antisocial elements have often infiltrated the migrant community, especially in the rural areas of Ernakulam district, in the last more than a decade. The arrest of three suspected al-Qaeda operatives by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Perumbavur and Eloor in the district is the first such incident in which members of a global terror outfit have been nabbed from among the community.  Case in Assam The incident comes nearly two years after the arrest of three suspected National Democratic Front of Bodoland members from the district. They were working at a plywood factory at Mannoor, near Perumbavur, when they were nabbed by the Rural police in November 2018. It soon emerged that cases had been registered against them under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in Assam. Eventually, they were handed over to the Assam Police. Four suspected Bangladeshi nationals carrying Indian passports were deported back to Dubai and Kuwait on their arrival at the Cochin international airport in November and December 2018. It is suspected that they had plans to mingle with the large migrant population in the district to avoid detection.  Arrest at Angamaly Enforcement officials were aghast to find that all four had seemingly original Indian documents, including PAN cards, Aadhaar cards, and voter identity cards, which they had allegedly procured from Kolkata after crossing the border. In October 2015, a Maoist commander from Jharkhand, Jitendar Oraon, was arrested from Angamaly, another migrant worker-intense town in the district. Similarly, the arrest of Malla Raji Reddy, a senior leader of the now defunct Naxalite outfit Peoples War Group (PWG), and his wife, Beecha Suguna, from Angamaly by a special Andhra Pradesh police team in December 2007 had made headlines. He was in charge of the movement in Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat and was reportedly planning to take the movement forward in the State.  Four suspected Bangladeshi nationals caught at Kochi airport in 2018 had seemingly original Indian documents
20 September 2020||Srinagar,||Three LeT terrorists arrested in Rajouri||The Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) police said three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorists were arrested with weapons dropped by a drone from across the Line of Control (LoC) on Saturday. “Three persons had travelled from Kashmir to Rajouri to receive a weapon and cash consignment from across the LoC from a drone. On Friday, the trio was chased by the police and the Army. One of them hurled a grenade at the forces, which luckily did not explode and all the three persons were caught alive,” said Director-General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh at a press conference in Rajouri. The police said the three arrested persons were located at Gurdan near Rajouri town. They were identified as Rahil Bashir, alias Ayan Bhai, from Pulwama, Amir Jaan, alias Hamza, from Pulwama and Hafiz Younis Wani, alias Zubair, from Shopian. “Amir, alias Hamza, is the one who threw a hand grenade at the search party,” the police said. Mr. Singh said all the three are affiliated with the LeT outfit. “They were in touch with the handlers from across and had received weapons and cash through drones,” he said. The neighbouring country is trying hard to keep the pot of militancy boiling in Rajouri and Poonch districts, he added. “Two AK-56 rifles, two pistols, four grenades and Rs. 1 lakh in cash have been recovered,” he said. Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Jammu, Mukesh Singh, said a huge consignment of heroine weighing 7 kg and worth Rs. 7 crore was also recovered on September 14 and one person was arrested from Kulgam.
20 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Group to unveil India’s first CRISPR test||The Tata Group has announced that the Tata CRISPR test, developed by CSIR-IGIB ‘Feluda’ (Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology) had received regulatory approvals on Saturday from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for commercial roll-out in accordance with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. The test has met high benchmarks, with 96% sensitivity and 98% specificity for detecting the novel coronavirus. It uses indigenously developed CRISPR technology for the detection of the genomic sequence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. “The Tata CRISPR test is the world’s first diagnostic test to deploy a specially adapted Cas9 protein to successfully detect the virus causing COVID-19. This marks a significant achievement for the Indian scientific community, moving from R&D to a high-accuracy, scalable and reliable test in less than 100 days,” Tata Group said in a statement. The Tata CRISPR test achieves the accuracy levels of the traditional RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) tests, with quicker turnaround time, less expensive equipment, and better ease of use, it said. The effort is the result of collaboration between the scientific community and industry. The Tata Group worked closely with CSIR-IGIB and ICMR to create a high-quality test that will help India ramp up COVID-19 testing quickly and economically, with a ‘Made in India’ product that is safe, reliable, affordable, and accessible, it said.
20 September 2020||Srinagar,||L-G unveils relief package for J&K||With J&K facing an estimated Rs. 42,000 crore loss in the past 13 months, Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Kumar Sinha announced a relief-and-revival package of Rs. 1,350 crore to revive the Union Territory’s business sector on Saturday. “I am glad to announce the package with a message that this is just a beginning. The Rs. 1,350-crore economic package is apart from the Rs. 1,400 crore package announced for J&K under the Aatma Nirbhar Abhiyan, of which Rs. 6,000 crore is for power sector reforms etc.,” Mr. Sinha said at a press conference in Srinagar. Mr. Sinha, who met over 35 delegations since taking over the office, had constituted a committee headed by Advisor K.K. Sharma. Kashmir’s top business body, the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industries (KCCI) had projected losses of around Rs. 42,000 crore first due to the August 5 decision last year and thereafter due to the pandemic. “It has many components, which seek to help business entities in multiple ways such as provision of liquidity and other financial support,” Mr. Sinha said. This is the first effort since August 5, 2019, to infuse stimulus in J&K.
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||KKM artistes sent to judicial custody till Oct. 3 in Bhima-Koregaon case||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Saturday sent three artistes — Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor and Jyoti Jagtap — to judicial custody till October 3 in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. The artistes belonged to a Pune-based cultural group Kabir Kala Manch (KKM) Mr. Gorkhe, 32 and Mr. Gaichor, 38, were arrested on September 7 and Ms. Jagtap, 32, was arrested from Kondhwa the next day. With this, the count of those in jail in connection with the case has gone up to 15. Previously, special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty had appeared for the NIA and sought Ms. Jagtap’s remand on the ground that she was named in the original FIR of January 8, 2018, and since then, the police had been searching for her. He had said, “deep-rooted conspiracy” and “serious offences having a severe social impact” are found to be committed by her “along with the other accused”.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Debt tribunal sets aside auction for loan recovery||The Debt Recovery Tribunal (DRT) in Chennai has set aside an auction held in 2018 for recovery of loans, as it was not in compliance with the provisions of The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002, also known as the SARFAESI Act. The proprietors of Shanmugadurai and Firm moved a petition contending that said they had availed a loan of Rs. 31.35 crore from Karnataka Bank in 2013 and the account was declared as an NPA on March 31, 2016. Later, the bank assigned the loan to ASREC (India) Ltd. to initiate recovery proceedings. ASREC had initiated recovery proceedings for a sum of Rs. 41.8 crore, which was now reserved for passing final orders. Meanwhile, it proceeded under the SARFAESI Act and sold the secured asset situated at Madhavaram for a sum of Rs. 21.01 crore through a public auction held on October 26, 2018. The proprietors challenged the sale stating that the authorized officer relied upon the valuation report dated July 9, 2018, which was obtained in respect to an earlier sale, dated August 2, 2018, which failed to take place. They noted that the reserve price was cut to Rs. 21 crore in the second auction, where the sale did take place, from the initial Rs. 25 crore. The authorised officer had also granted the successful bidder nearly two months to pay 75% of the remaining proceeds against the norm of within 15 days, the proprietors said. The tribunal ruled that the reserve price was not in conformity with the rules. It noted neither the SARFAESI Act nor the rules made thereunder empower the authorised officer to extend the time for deposit and the purchaser to enter into an agreement for a payment deadline extension. On the contrary, the law and rules mandated that deadline extensions for payment of 75% of the balance sale consideration should be authorised by entering into a written agreement between the secured creditor and the purchaser, the tribunal said. It told ASREC to return the Rs. 21.01 crore along with interest of 12% per annum from the date of deposit of the money till the date of payment.
20 September 2020||Kolkata,||Trinamool MP attacks Centre for holding UGC NET during Durga Puja||Trinamool Congress youth wing president and party MP Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday targeted the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government on the issue of scheduling UGC NET exams on panchami, shashti & saptami, this Durga Puja. Mr. Banerjee took to social media tagging Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that “blatant disrespect for the students and culture of Bengal is out in the open”. “@narendramodiJi’s blatant disrespect for the students and culture of Bengal is out in the open! What a ridiculous decision by @DG_NTAto schedule UGC NET exams on the auspicious days of Panchami, Shashti & Saptami, this Durga Puja,” Mr. Banerjee tweeted. The Trinamool MP also shared a photograph of the schedule of the examination by the National Testing Agency on October 21, 22 and 23. This year panchami will be observed on October 21, shasti and saptami on October 22 and October 23.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Miles to go for a safer childbirth in Kalahandi||The ordeal of the new mothers does not end with childbirth as they face the punishing return journeys home with their fragile newborns. However, despite the immense challenges, an increasing number of women have been opting for an institutional delivery. Of the 40 deliveries reported from the water-locked 16 villages in 2019-20, 13 were recorded from the hospital. Further, a majority of women who had delivered their babies at home, came to the hospital for antenatal care. Role of health workers The deployment of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) and Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs) in the 16 villages proved to be the turning point. The health workers persuaded the women to opt for institutional deliveries. Moreover, a conditional transfer of Rs. 5,000 as maternity benefit under the ‘Mamata Scheme’, referral transport assistance and an additional Rs. 1,000 in transport costs for women in inaccessible areas have also encouraged them to approach hospitals. The expenses incurred on institutional deliveries for the women of N Podapadar, however, far exceed the benefits extended by the government. The two-way boat ride across the reservoir and the autorickshaw trip cost around Rs. 2,200, while a woman is entitled to a transport subsidy of Rs. 1,400 only. The additional Rs. 1,000 transport cost announced by the government is yet to reach many of the beneficiaries. Added to this are the expenses borne by the family members or friends who must needs accompany the woman on the long journey and her stay at the hospital. Each day also means loss of earnings for these daily wage labourers. “More than 200 villages, mostly in remote areas of Nabarangpur and Kalahandi districts, depend on our hospital. We register about 700 births every year. Despite difficult terrain hindering access to health services, more and more mothers are coming forward for institutional deliveries,” said D.B. Panda, a doctor at Tentulikhunti CHC. N. Podapadar panchayat lost links to the mainland due to Indravati reservoir project for which former Prime Minister Morarji Desai had laid the foundation stone on April 4, 1978. In the early 1990s, more than 17,000 families faced displacement. Those who did not opt for resettlement continued to live in villages whose surrounding areas were submerged in the reservoir. Dillip Das, chairman of a Bhawanipatna-based NGO, said more than 200 people have so far drowned in the Indravati reservoir. “In 2014-15, a fund of Rs. 54 crore was sanctioned for construction of a bridge to connect the 16 water-locked villages. Another Rs. 60 lakh was sanctioned for expediting the construction of another bridge. However, the bridge that could have been a lifeline remains elusive,” Mr. Das said.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi journalist held for ‘passing info’ to Chinese||Agencies are trying to establish how Mr. Sharma accessed the sensitive information. The nature of information shared with the Chinese was also not clear. Wrote for think tank Mr. Sharma, 61, a political commentator accredited by the Press Information Bureau, and strategic analyst, has earlier worked with The Tribune newspaper and was also associated with the Vivekananda International Foundation (VIF), a think tank whose founding director is National Security Adviser (NSA) Ajit Doval. Following his arrest, a webpage linking his work to the VIF has been removed. On the day of his arrest, he posted on his LinkedIn page that, “Despite the five-point peace plan reached between #india and #china in #moscow last week, China can still do mischief and the only mantra for India in dealing with the #chinese must be: distrust and verify.” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said on Saturday that the other two accused have been identified as Qing Shi and Sher Singh alias Raj Bohra, a native of Nepal, who were allegedly supplying money to Mr. Sharma, routed through hawala channels for sharing sensitive information to Chinese intelligence. Police said they had received an input from an intelligence agency that Mr. Sharma, resident of Pitampura, was having links with foreign intelligence officer and had been receiving money through illegal means and Western Union Money Transfer following which a case under sections of the OSA was registered on September 13 and Mr. Sharma was arrested the next day. “Laptop, confidential documents related to Indian Defence department and other incriminating documents were recovered,” Mr. Yadav said. During interrogation, Mr. Sharma allegedly told police of his involvement in procurement of sensitive information and then conveying it to his handlers Michael and George, based in Kunming in China. “He said he had sent several documents in the form of reports to his handlers and got a handsome remuneration for it,” Mr. Yadav said. Who is Qing Shi? A senior government official said Qing Shi,30, first arrived in India in 2013 on a student visa. She enrolled in two courses at a Central university in Delhi and pursued Masters in nursing and completed a course in English language. Her latest “business visa” was issued on July 18 last year. Till 2017 while living in Delhi, she worked for KEDI Healthcare, a Nigeria-based healthcare products company with business interests in pharma sectors in China, promoting traditional Chinese medicines globally.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||9 suspected al-Qaeda operatives arrested||The police said Hasan reached Pathalam after the lockdown restrictions were eased. Iyakub Biswas was working in a hotel at Perumbavoor. Mosaraf Hossen has been settled in Perumbavoor with his family for the last 10 years. The accused had taken up various jobs at construction sites and factories, they said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in Thiruvananthapuram that the arrest of the suspected al-Qaeda operatives posed no immediate security threat to Kerala.  (With inputs from Kochi)
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||MSMEs not to be hit by new IBC Bill: Minister||The Rajya Sabha on Saturday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill (IBC), 2020, to ensure that fresh insolvency proceedings will not be initiated for at least six months starting March 25 amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Bill replaces an Ordinance passed in June. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed the Rajya Sabha on Saturday that the IBC is not a recovery law, and saving the lives of the companies is more important than recovery of loans, which may be utilised through other options. She said that there is a distinction between small and large borrowers, and the amount varies from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. “IBC cannot be initiated for companies below Rs. 1 crore, so Micro, Small and Medium and Enterprises (MSME) are not going to be affected,” she said. The Finance Minister said that the provisions of the IBC will be confined to only those default payments that may arise due to the COVID-19 period, and will not affect the applications filed before March 24, when the lockdown was imposed. “The Ordinance and the Bill does not provide any protection to frauds. Section 166 of the Companies Act, 2013 remains intact, thus there is no protection from fraud. If the company is pushed into insolvency when it is recouping from losses, the objective of the Ordinance will be lost.” ‘258 companies rescued’ The Minister added that, so far, 258 companies had been rescued, and roughly one-third were defunct companies. “Nine hundred and sixty five companies proceeded for liquidation, three-fourth of them were defunct, loss of employment is minimal even after liquidation. The 965 companies had assets of Rs. 38,000 crore, so in value terms, the asset saved is more than liquidated,” she said. She added that when it came to non-performing assets (NPA) of scheduled commercial banks, then in the year 2018-19, the IBC ensured 42.5% recovery or Rs. 17,819 crore recovery, whereas such recoveries made through Lok Adalats stood at 5.3% and those made under Debt Recovery Tribunals at 3.5%.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Alert in parts of Karnataka||A red alert has been issued for coastal Karnataka [Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada] for three days beginning Saturday. An orange alert has been given on September 22 for the districts, meaning very heavy rainfall. Red alert, indicating extremely heavy rainfall, has also been sounded out in south-interior Karnataka for two days until Sunday. Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kodagu, and Shivamogga are expected to receive extremely heavy rainfall. According to the India Meteorological Department, rain/thundershowers are very likely to occur at most places over coastal Karnataka and at many places over interior Karnataka in the next 24 hours. “Thunderstorm with lightning is very likely to occur at isolated places over interior Karnataka,” a release said. “Heavy to very rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall very likely to occur over coastal Karnataka and south interior Karnataka. Heavy rainfall is very likely to occur at isolated places over north interior Karnataka,” the press release added.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Flood forecast to Krishna, Godavari projects||Heavy flood is likely to continue for a few more days into most of the reservoirs both in the Krishna and Godavari Basins in the two Telugu States with rains forecast for at least two more days in the Upper Krishna, Upper Bhima and Upper Godavari Basins in Maharashtra and Karnataka. From Jurala to Prakasam Barrage in the Krishna Basin and from Sriramsagar to Dowlaiswaram Barrage in Godavari Basin, all the reservoirs and barrages continued to get heavy inflows in different measure on Saturday, thanks to flood from the upstream of the river courses including their tributaries. Over 305 tmcft of flood from Prakasam Barrage and over 2,601 tmcft of flood from Dowlaiswaram Barrage has already gone into the sea from June 1 this year. The discharge of flood at Almatti, Narayanpur, Ujjani, Tungabhadra and Jaikwadai projects in Karnataka and Maharashtra was either equal to the inflows or higher due to continuing rainfall in catchment areas. A Central Water Commission advisory indicated more rains in north interior Karnataka, Telangana and Rayalaseema and rise in water level in the Krishna river in Raichur, Yadgir and Jogulamba-Gadwal districts.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS to vote against farm Bills in RS||With seven members, the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) has decided to vote against the farm Bills when they came up before the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. TRS president and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the party MPs of the Upper House to stoutly oppose the three Bills and vote against them as they were a severe detriment to farming community. The legislations will cause heavy loss to agriculture sector. He told the TRS leader in Rajya Sabha K. Keshava Rao that the Centre aimed to benefit corporate houses at the cost of farmers by enacting the laws. “On the face of it, the Centre provided in the Bills that the farmers can sell their produce anywhere. But, the government paved the way for corporates to go anywhere to buy the produce. The corporate sharks can spread their wings throughout the country. Thus, the doors will open to private trade,” a release quoting Mr. Rao said. Wondering the logic behind the claim that the produce can be sold anywhere, Mr. Rao asked if the farmers were in any position to shift their small quantities of stocks at high transportation costs by lorries to far off places. The Bills were like honey coated knives in the hands of the Centre. For instance, Mr. Rao said there was an import duty of 50% on maize. Reducing the duty to 15%, the Centre decided to import one crore tonnes of maize. Already, about 75 lakh tonnes of maize was procured. The 35% reduction in duty was aimed for whose benefit? he asked. Mr. Rao also wondered how the Centre took such a decision when the country was in a financial crisis. The country was already rich in maize cultivation. What will be the fate of farmers of the country if the Centre went ahead with maize procurement at reduced duty?  The government paved the way for corporates to go anywhere to buy the produce. Thus, the doors will open to private trade. K Chandrasekhar Rao, Telangana Chief Minister
20 September 2020||Srinagar,||Poll to Ladakh council on October 16||The Ladakh administration on Saturday announced that the election for the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Leh (LADHC-Leh) will be held on October 16 in 26 constituencies. “The voting will take place on October 16 in 26 constituencies of the Council,” said Saugat Biswas, Secretary, Election Department, in a notice. Sachin Kumar Vaishya, District Magistrate, Leh, announced a model code of conduct for the district and directed all political parties and independent candidates to follow the guidelines. The decision comes amid the objections raised recently by some major parties like the Congress, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the BSP. The parties argued that the ongoing Indo-China border tensions have left many border areas out of bounds for campaigning. The 26-member LAHDC-Leh was established in 1995 to handle governance issues at the local level. The previous polls were held in 2015.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||10 women IAF fighter pilots since 2016||Ten women officers have been commissioned into the fighter stream of the Indian Air Force (IAF) since the stream was opened up for women in 2016, Parliament was informed on Saturday. The strength of women officers serving the IAF as on September 1, 2020, is 1,875, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. There were also 18 women navigators. Selection board Separately, the Army said the Special Selection Board constituted to screen women officers for grant of Permanent Commission has commenced its proceedings at the Army headquarters on September 14. “The board is headed by a Senior General Officer and includes a woman officer of the rank of Brigadier. Women officers have been permitted to witness the proceedings as observers in order to add transparency to the process,” a statement said. The orders follow a Supreme Court verdict in February.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,569 fresh infections, 66 more fatalities||Tamil Nadu reported 5,569 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking its tally of cases to 5,36,477. A total of 5,556 persons were discharged from hospitals after treatment. With the total number of recoveries at 4,81,273, the State’s recovery rate now stands at 89.7%. There are 46,453 active cases in the State as of Saturday. A total of 66 persons succumbed to the infection, according to the media bulletin, taking the State’s toll to 8,751. Thirty-six of the deaths occured in government hospitals and the remaining 30 in private facilities. Chennai reported the highest number of cases, 987, followed by Coimbatore at 565. Chengalpattu (293), Cuddalore (289), Salem (286), and Tiruvallur (282) had more than 200 cases. Another 12 districts reported over 100 cases. According to the bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department, 56 of the deceased had co-morbidities. Fifty of them were men. Thirty among those who died were aged below 60. Chennai reported eight deaths, followed by Salem (6) and Chengalpattu (5). Deaths in State The youngest among those reported dead was a 25-year-old man from Coimbatore, who had Type 1 diabetes mellitus. He tested positive on September 15, and died two days later at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Among the deceased was also a 38-year-old man with no comorbidities. The bulletin said that he had cough and fever for seven days. He was admitted to a private hospital on September 17, and died in a day. The eldest among the deceased was an 83-year-old man, admitted at a private hospital in Chennai. He had Type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, the bulletin said. A total of 83,265 persons were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of persons tested in the State so far to 61.9 lakh. U.T. toll at 448 The Union Territory of Puducherry on Saturday reported 11 more COVID-19 deaths, taking its toll to 448. Addressing a press conference here, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said that of those who had died, eight people succumbed to the infection in Puducherry and the remaining three in Karaikal region. In the last 24 hours, Puducherry recorded 543 new cases, even as 5,159 samples were tested for COVID-19. In the next three to four days, the Health Department aims to test at least 10% of the population, he said. “The case fatality rate is 2% and recovery rate 76.63%. The ramping up of testing has helped contain the spread of the infection. The entire credit goes to healthcare workers and staff of other departments,” he added.   At 987, Chennai reported the highest number of cases, followed by Coimbatore at 565
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. will be transformed into innovation hub: CM||Tamil Nadu will be transformed into an innovation hub and knowledge capital of the country through creation of world class institutions and leveraging the human resources, said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Addressing the business fraternity at the valedictory function of CII Connect 2020, the flagship annual ICT conference and exhibition organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry in partnership with the Government of Tamil Nadu, he said the State had been effectively leveraging the IT skills of its human resources to achieve this objective. Even during the lockdown, the State signed 42 MoUs involving an investment of Rs. 31,464 crore with a potential to create 69,712 jobs. On the IT sector in Tamil Nadu, the Chief Minister said the State continued to be a ‘destination of choice’ for the IT/ITeS sector in India. “The State has been upgrading its IT infrastructure in a dynamic manner so as to facilitate speedy access to information and delivery of various services of the government to the citizens in a faster and efficient manner,” he said. He said 81 projects, signed during the Global Investors Meet, 2019, had commenced commercial production, while another 191 were under various stages of implementation. “Subsequent to the GIM 2019, the State has also attracted 63 projects, including those that have taken shape during his visit to USA and UAE with an investment of Rs. 19,000 crore, which would create 83,300 jobs,” the Chief Minister said. Major announcements Hari K.Thiagarajan, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu State Council, said, “This year Connect saw some important announcements to spur the economic and employment growth in the State. For example, the Skill Tech University will digitally connect the students and industry to upgrade their skills to meet the industry requirements.” “This year, the five-day event witnessed the participation of 116 speakers in 32 sessions. Over 3,000 participants joined virtually from India and abroad with representation from nine countries,” said Suresh Raman, chairman, CII Connect 2020. R.B. Udhayakumar, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management and Information Technology, urged the industry to take advantage of the investor-friendly policies of the government and establish new IT companies in emerging technologies like Blockchain, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Electronics Manufacturing, thereby increase employment opportunity in the State.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNSDC strikes a deal with Coursera||The Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC) has partnered with online-learning platform Coursera to train 50,000 unemployed youth during the COVID-19 crisis. The partnership is part of Coursera’s global rollout of the ‘Workforce Recovery Initiative’, where any State or country can provide unemployed workers with free access to online learning. “Over 4,000 courses on Coursera will be made available through the initiative. The courses are spread over eight sectors,” said V. Vishnu, managing director, TNSDC. “Those taking up the courses will also be provided professional certificates, like the Google IT Support Professional Certificate,” he said. The programme aims at developing high-demand skills like data science, cloud computing, blockchain, artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things among the youth. “Tamil Nadu has been taking various initiatives to build a skilled workforce that companies around the world will find attractive to employ. The pandemic-induced slowdown is an opportunity for students and graduates seeking jobs and professionals aspiring for career growth to equip themselves with future skills,” Mr. Vishnu said. Those interested in pursuing the courses can enroll by October 31. They will be given access to the lessons until the end of the year to complete the courses. A virtual job fair “We will look at expanding the course duration based on the response we get. We are working out a formula to see if we can also arrange a virtual job fair for those taking the courses,” he said. “Employability and skilling have been major challenges around the world, and COVID-19 has made it worse,” said Jeff Maggioncalda, CEO, Coursera. He added, “We are honoured to partner with the State, known for its innovative policies and rich talent pool, during a crucial phase of employment recovery.” TNSDC was formed to transform the State into a skill hub, by training the youth to enhance their employability and match the expectations of the industry. Last year, TNSDC trained over 1.25 lakh persons across the State.  Employability and skilling have been major challenges around the world, and COVID-19 has made it worse Jeff Maggioncalda CEO, Coursera
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Discussion at AIADMK meet neither hot nor juicy, says Minister||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Saturday asserted that there was no “heated discussion” among senior functionaries of the ruling AIADMK at a meeting held on Friday. “The discussion was neither hot nor juicy,” Mr.Jayakumar told The Hindu, commenting on the various media reports on the issue. The meeting took place to review the party’s preparedness for the Assembly elections. Among the topics discussed were the enrollment drive of the party and micro level planning. A call was made to all sections of the party to remain cohesive and face the elections as a united force, he added. The Minister’s observations pertained to the reports, which had stated that the issue of the formation of a 11-member steering committee was raised by Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam during the Friday meeting, apart from the measures being contemplated for restructuring the party. This was not the first time that Mr. Panneerselvam has referred to the issue. When a meeting of the senior functionaries was held in June last year, he reminded his colleagues of the matter. At the time of merger of his group with what was led by Chief Minister and the party co-coordinator, Edappadi K. Palaniswami in August 2017, the formation of the committee was one among the points of agreement between the two. Deputy Coordinator R. Vaithilingam had even stated that the panel would be formed within a week. Mr.Pannerselvam’s reiteration of the issue acquired importance in the light of the debate last month over the party’s Chief Ministerial candidate for the polls. However, the Palaniswami camp did not relish the idea regarding the steering committee, sources said.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM opens retail fish market at Kasimedu||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday opened a retail fish market inside the Kasimedu fishing harbour. The work, including an auction centre, high-mast lamps, low-level wharf and improvements to the existing selling yard, had been carried out at a cost of Rs. 10.50 crore. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said slots would be allocated for retailers who were evicted to make way for the Ennore-Manali Road Improvement Project. “We have a list of names of those who were evicted, we will ensure that they are rehabilitated. If there is more space, genuine persons would be accommodated,” he said. Meanwhile, there have been reports of people collecting money from retailers saying that the space in the market would be sold to them. Fisheries Department officials clarified that money would not be collected from anybody. “We have put up banners saying nobody should make any collection in the name of allocating space or selling sheds,” said an official.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N.’s investment promotion agency inks MoU with ISB||Guidance, the nodal agency of the Tamil Nadu government for investment promotion and single-window facilitation, has inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Indian School of Business (ISB) to work on a broad objective of economic recovery and growth monitoring, especially in the post-COVID-19 period. The partnership will bring ISB’s resources to address critical issues of economic recovery as well as investment promotion. ISB will specifically look at developing a strategy for the pharma and chemicals sector in Tamil Nadu, in sync with environmental sustainability. It will also come up with drivers of investments in the southern districts of Tamil Nadu. ISB will be executing the identified projects through its initiative JumpStartIndia@ISB, wherein the current batch of ISB students will work with the research team and expert faculty on specific problems of importance for economic recovery and growth. Neeraj Mittal, MD & CEO, Guidance, and Rajendra Srivastava, dean, ISB, inked the MoU at a virtual event. Mr. Mittal said: “Guidance’s engagement with ISB through Jump Start India is an important beginning in the collaboration of government, academia and industry in these testing times. The role of academia in developing innovative solutions for economic recovery has never been more critical.” Mr. Srivastava said, “The government-academia partnership has become very critical in solving the growing socio-economic problems.”  ISB will specifically look at developing a strategy for the pharma and chemicals sector in Tamil Nadu, in sync with environmental sustainability
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||When a job could make a difference||For Shanu, a transperson, getting a job meant more than just a source of livelihood. It was a means to lead a life with dignity and respect. “We have had no support. But now, through our work, people will respect us,” said the resident of Ernavoor in north Chennai. Shanu and nine other transgender persons have been roped in by the north region of Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) as ‘clean workers’ under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM). They will collect waste from houses and promote source segregation among the residents. Like her, Mageshwari hopes the job will make a difference to the transgender community at Ernavoor. They used to seek alms at shops earlier. “It was in 2016 that the State government allotted nearly 240 houses for transpersons at the tsunami quarters at Ernavoor. At present, there are nearly 100 of us. We face a lot of difficulties. Now, 10 of us have got jobs with the Corporation. We want to prove ourselves through hard work and sincerity. Many more like us should be taken in,” she said. On Wednesday, officials of Zone-I (Tiruvottiyur) of the GCC launched a new initiative — ‘Clean Ambassadors’. This has been rolled out on a pilot basis in the zone with a total of 3,128 persons identified as ‘Clean Ambassadors’. The transpersons joined work at the tsunami quarters at Ernavoor. This initiative of taking in transpersons as ‘clean workers’ (conservancy workers) is being piloted in division-3 of the Tiruvottiyur zone, officials said. During the launch, 152 ‘Clean Ambassadors’ were honoured by zonal officer Devendran. They pledged to spread awareness of waste segregation and keep their residential area clean. According to officials, this initiative was taken up for better community participation in source segregation of waste and for better awareness. P. Akash, Regional Deputy Commissioner (North), GCC, said the initiative of ‘Clean Ambassadors’ was taken up on a pilot basis in Zone-I. “The idea was to take people from the community, say from every street, to promote source segregation of garbage at the household level. This was when a group of transgender persons volunteered to be ‘Clean Ambassadors’. They went ahead and expressed their willingness to work for the Corporation. They were enthusiastic, sincere and wanted to make a difference. So, we have taken them as NULM workers and turned them into a group. They will collect waste from households and promote segregation at source,” he said.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai airport closes e-pass counters at domestic terminal||Chennai airport’s arrival hall in the domestic terminal will no longer have the e-pass counters. Henceforth, air passengers coming in from other States have to get the e-pass online from the designated portal. On Friday evening, Chennai airport, in a tweet said: “The TN e-Pass facility at #Chennaiairport domestic arrival stands withdrawn from 1800 hrs, today. We request all interstate passengers arriving at #Chennai to apply for TN e-Pass from the linkhttps://tnepass.tnega.org/#/user/passprior commencing the journey.” Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said, every day, thousands of passengers arriving in the city from several destinations either get the e-pass online or decide to get it at these counters set up by the Tamil Nadu government in May this year when the domestic flight services resumed. It was to help passengers who were not aware of the e-pass system or had trouble getting it. But over the last few weeks, as many relaxations were put in place by the government, the passenger traffic grew significantly. And, hundreds of passengers did not get the e-pass online and instead got it from the counters only. “The queues were very long, with barely any physical distancing between passengers. It was a cause of concern for us. Though we had been constantly reiterating the need to obtain it online, majority of them bought the e-passes here because they were hard pressed for time or they did not know this rule was still in place in the State,” an official said. Greater Chennai Corporation officials said they had stopped playing a role in issuance of e-pass for passengers from other States. All passengers who arrive from other States and are asymptomatic have to be on home quarantine for a period of 14 days.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temples witness crowds on first Saturday of Purattasi||Devotees thronged Vishnu temples on Saturday, the first on the Tamil month of Purattasi , which is believed to be auspicious. In many places, physical distancing was thrown to the winds, especially when people waited in queues or groups outside the temples. Many temples ensured that visitors wore masks, sanitised their hands and did temperature checks before entering. Jostling for space In some temples such as the Sri Oppilliappan Temple near Kumbakonam, physical distancing went for a toss, as a large number of devotees gathered in the morning for darshan . Though most devotees were seen wearing masks, they jostled for space and darshan at the temple. Similarly, several popular Vaishnavite temples in the State saw crowds outside. At the Sri Parthasarathy Temple in Chennai, the temple administration kept barricades, and volunteers at regular intervals ensured distancing. Around 10,000 devotees visited the temple. S. Ramanujan, a devotee, said it took him around 30 minutes to enter and exit the temple. Many temples also let in senior citizens without stopping them. “We cannot stop people from entering. Senior citizens account for 60% of our devotees,” said a manager at a temple. A large number of devotees visited the Sri Koodal Azhagar Temple in Madurai and the Sri Sundararaja Perumal Temple at Alagarkoil. Koodal Azhagar Temple Executive Officer M. Ramasamy said around 5,000 devotees visited the temple in the morning. “It was an arduous task for temple officials and the police to repeatedly ask them to maintain adequate distance while standing in queues,” he said. Some exceptions Some temples like the Sri Varadaraja Perumal Temple in Kancheepuram and the Sri Aranganathaswamy Temple at Karamadai in Coimbatore, there were not much crowds. In Coimbatore, the number of devotees who came to the temple on the first Saturday of Purattasi this year was far less than last year. While 9,000 devotees visited the temple last year, it was 1,000 this year.        We cannot stop people from entering. Senior citizens account for 60% of devoteesA temple manager
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Activists unleash a ‘dragon’ to drive home message of safety||After warnings from Greater Chennai Corporation officials and the Chennai police fell on deaf ears, it was the turn of a 15-ft Chinese ‘dragon’ to warn residents of slum tenements in T.P. Chatram to wear masks on Saturday afternoon. The orange dragon, with bloody eyes, sharp horns and menacing teeth, carried by volunteers of the Goodwill NGO, charged at people not wearing masks, and seeing it advance towards them, people took cover. “It was an attempt to create awareness about the dangers of not wearing masks. Accompanied by music, the volunteers carried the dragon through the lanes of Naalu Aduku Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB), Jothi Ammal Nagar, Telugu Lane, T.P. Chatram and V.S. Puram,” said S. Kalairasan, area engineer, division 102, Zone 8. Magnell Marshall from Goodwill NGO said volunteers went ahead, warning people to wear masks or face the wrath of the dragon. “It is part of our community intervention programme. We thought of using the dragon to symbolise COVID-19, as the virus is said to have come from China,” he added. He said the dragon was made of old newspapers. “The children were excited to see the dragon. They were asking their parents to wear masks,” added Mr. Kalaiarasan.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police lend helping hand to teen who was cleaning stormwater drain||Even as help is pouring in from different quarters for 16-year-old L. Samuel following a report published in The Hindu , the Greater Chennai police have decided to take care of the educational needs of the teenager and his two sisters. Samuel, a resident of Kodungaiyur, was seen cleaning a stormwater drain near the Koyambedu market on Thursday to meet education expenses and other needs. Following the publication of the article on Saturday, City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal instructed his team to look into the educational needs of Samuel and other children like him. Additional commissioner (north) A. Arun and joint commissioner C. Mageshwari have instructed Pulianthope deputy commissioner Rajesh Kannan and Anna Nagar deputy commissioner S. Jawahar to take care of the academic needs of Samuel and his sisters. Since Samuel and his younger sister want to study in a good school, the Kodungaiyur police station will co-ordinate with the relevant authorities and admit them to the institution of their choice. “His elder sister wants to write NEET, and we will help her enrol in a good coaching centre,” said Mr. Kannan. The police are also planning to put Samuel and his younger sister in art classes as they are good at painting. “We have also gifted them two tablet devices. Since Samuel wants to become an IPS officer, the Kodungaiyur police have arranged for the delivery of The Hindu newspaper — English and Tamil — to his house. This will help him prepare for the civil services examination,” Mr. Kannan said.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly Secretariat’s sanction not needed to prosecute Ministers for private acts: HC||There is no need to obtain prior sanction of the Legislative Assembly Secretariat or the Chief Government Whip before initiating criminal action against a Minister for alleged illegalities committed by him in his private capacity, the Madras High Court has ruled. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy held so, while disposing of a writ appeal filed by two individuals who had accused Commercial Taxes Minister K.C. Veeramani of attempting to dispossess them of a property reportedly worth Rs. 225 crore. The complainants claimed that the Minister was acting at the behest of popular businessman J. Sekhar Reddy, and was threatening them to part with 6.9 acres of prime land in Vellore town. They also accused him of trying to evict them from the property using illegal force. The complainants, B. Ramamoorthy and J. Jayaprakash, had initially filed a writ petition in the High Court in 2018, seeking a direction to the Assembly Secretary and the Chief Government Whip to consider a representation made by them for action against the Minister. Counter-affidavit The petitioners wanted Mr. Veeramani to be prosecuted under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. However, the Minister filed a detailed counter affidavit, denying all allegations levelled against him. He specifically refuted the charge of misuse of his office. After hearing both sides, a single judge of the High Court dismissed their petition on June 22, leading to the present appeal. Authoring the judgment for the first Division Bench, Justice Ramamoorthy said the allegations against the Minister were not related to discharge of his official duties. Since the appellants were only aggrieved against his alleged private acts in relation to a property transaction, there was no need to obtain sanction of the Assembly Secretariat to launch prosecution for the alleged offences committed by the Minister, the Bench clarified.  The complainants claimed that the Minister was acting at the behest of popular businessman J. Sekhar Reddy and threatening them to part with 6.9 acres of prime land in Vellore town
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police salute COVID-19 warriors in music album||The Greater Chennai Police on Saturday released a music video, Salaam Chennai , that salutes the relentless work put in by front-line workers and stresses the need to prevent the spread of COVID-19 by wearing masks, maintaining physical distance and through personal hygiene. The song has been composed by music director Ghibran with Karthik Netha penning the lyrics. The short film, made by Happy Unicorn and released by Think Music, features cricketers Murali Vijay, Harbhajan Singh, Suresh Raina and L. Balaji. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal formally released the video in the presence of Ghibran and senior police officers in the city. Mr. Aggarwal said Salaam Chennai song was created to celebrate and salute the selflessness of front-line workers, who have put their lives at risk and vigilantly worked during this crucial juncture. The basic idea is to pass on the message: “We shall overcome this together” and enliven the spirit of the people so that they bounce back in style, he said. The Commissioner said that although over 2,400 police personnel were affected by COVID-19, the city police had been discharging their duties with the same level of commitment. Avinash Hariharan, director of the film, said: “The cricketers instantly responded by sending their videos from the safety of their homes. They took this inspiring thought a step further by saluting the warriors in their style. The film was shot with several constraints with a minimum crew following strict safety precautions.”
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Driver, woman held for robbing auto passenger||The Sankar Nagar police on Saturday arrested an autorickshaw driver and a 23-year-old woman who robbed another woman of gold chain in a moving share auto. Savithri, 45, of Tiruvalluvar Nagar in Pammal, is a teacher at a government school in Urapakkam. On Friday, she was travelling in a share autorickshaw from Pammal to Pallavaram. On Pammal Main Road, a woman passenger snatched the 7.5 sovereign gold chain from Ms. Savithri. When Ms. Savithri fought back, the woman assaulted and kicked her out of the moving vehicle. Passersby on bikes chased the auto and stopped it near Pallavaram. The public thrashed the driver and the woman before handing them over to Shankar Nagar police. The names of the suspects were given as Rosemary, 23, of Pammal, and Prasanth, 26, of Mangadu, the auto driver.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK rule will be over in six months: Stalin||DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Saturday accused Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of hogging media attention by denying an opportunity to the Opposition to express their views in the Assembly. In a statement here, he alleged that there was no space for alternative views in the Assembly debates. “Subsequently they release to the media assembly developments without the views of the Opposition. It is against the democratic norms. The fake drama of the AIADMK government will come to an end in six months,” he said. Mr. Stalin said he was not allowed to speak on the issue of appointing teachers who had already cleared the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) examinations and remained seniors on the waiting list. “Instead of giving them jobs the government is conducting examinations every year,” he said. Mr. Stalin said while Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was an ally of the BJP, had resigned her post to express protest against the farm bills, the AIADMK government had supported it. “The AIADMK government’s attitude proved that it is a slave of political games,” he said, adding that the Chief Minister had not said anything about extension of time granted to oil companies to dig wells in the Cauvery delta region, declared as a protected agriculture zone. Mr. Stalin said the decision of the AIADMK to hold the Assembly session in Kalaivanar Arangam had thoroughly exposed its animosity towards the new Assembly and secretariat building constructed by DMK leader M. Karunanidhi when he was the Chief Minister. “The new secretariat was constructed since there was inadequate space at Fort St. George. Now the AIADMK government has conducted the Assembly session in Kalaivanar Arangam to protect itself from the COVID-19,” he said.  The AIADMK government’s attitude proved that it is a slave of political games
20 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AMMK chief on farm Bills||AMMK leader T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Saturday called on the Central government to remove provisions that adversely affect farmers from the three Bills on agriculture reforms. In a series of tweets, Mr. Dhinakaran said that as agriculture formed the backbone of the country’s economy, any proposed change should be beneficial to the farmers.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not give approval for Mekedatu dam: Anbumani||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Saturday urged the Centre not to give approval to Karnataka to construct the Mekedatu dam. In a statement, he pointed out that Karnataka Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa had urged the Centre to give early approval for the dam, during his visit to New Delhi. Mr. Anbumani said this would affect relationship between the two States, and was condemnable. Karnataka cannot build the dam without the permission of Tamil Nadu, he said, noting that then Union Minister for Water Resources Uma Bharti had assured him of this in writing. Mr. Anbumani said there must be a similar assurance now either from the Jal Sakthi Minister or from the Prime Minister, which would give confidence and peace to farmers in the Cauvery delta region. The Centre should take back all permissions given so far for the dam and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should make a request to the Prime Minister on this issue, he added.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister inaugurates projects||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday inaugurated and laid the foundation for various projects through video-conferencing. He inaugurated the buildings of the School Education department, constructed at a cost of Rs. 49.60 crore, and handed over appointment orders as a symbolic gesture to fill 635 vacancies. He also laid the foundation for the construction of a check dam in Madurai district and a walkway around the Seevalaperi lake in Tenkasi. Power sub-stations were inaugurated in Erode, Chennai, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Salem, Thanjavur, Tiruvallur, Tiruvannamalai, Thiruvarur, Tiruchi and Vellore districts.
20 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Case against Murugan registered||The Mambalam police has booked a case against Bharatiya Janata Party State president L.Murugan for taking out a procession in a chariot in violation of prohibitory and regulatory orders. The City police has been issuing orders every fortnight regulating/prohibiting assemblies, processions, fasts, demonstrations, human chain and meetings within the city. It has also issued orders under section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code prohibiting gathering of more than five people in public places. On Thursday, the State unit of the BJP celebrated the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at party headquarters here. Mr. Murugan and others went in procession on a chariot to the party office. Case has also been booked against party general secretary Karu Nagarajan, vice-president M.N. Rajan, media coordinator A.N.S.Prasad and others for causing obstruction to free flow of traffic and inconvenience to the people.
20 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore airport sees rise in domestic passenger movement||Coimbatore International Airport saw an increase in domestic air traffic movement from June to August after the relaxation of restrictions imposed to control the spread of COVID-19. While 328 flights operated from the airport in June, the number of flights increased to 552 in August. The number of domestic air passengers from the airport increased from 27,117 in June to 43,071 in August. The airport had 16 international flight movements in June. Though the number of international flights increased to 29 in July, the airport saw a decline in international services in August. The number of international passengers also reduced from 2,943 in July to 1,715 in August. Sources with the Airports Authority of India said the number of international flights operated under Vande Bharat Mission and chartered services came down after July. According to Airport Director R. Mahalingam, Coimbatore currently sees 30 % passenger traffic while the Government had allowed for passenger traffic up to 60 %. “We expect an increase in the air traffic movement soon. Some operators have made changes in schedules to fit the current need,” he said. SpiceJet has released schedules of flights operating through Coimbatore from September 18 to October 24. The daily flight from Chennai arrives Coimbatore at 10.20 hours. The flight to Chennai departs Coimbatore at 18.40 hours. The flight from Bengaluru on six days, except Tuesday, reaches Coimbatore at 10.30 hours. The flight to Bengaluru leaves the airport at 10.55 hours. The flight to Delhi operated on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday leaves the airport at 11.00 hours. The flight from Delhi reaches Coimbatore at 18.00 hours. The flight to Mumbai operated on Wednesday, Friday and Sunday leaves Coimbatore at 11.00 hours. The flight from Mumbai reaches Coimbatore at 18.00 hours as per the schedule shared from the airport.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Supplementary examinations begin tomorrow||A total of 101 differently abled candidates will write the supplementary examinations for Classes X, XI and XII, Class VIII (ESLC) examinations and Diploma in Elementary Education (DEE) examinations in Coimbatore district from Monday. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said on Saturday that 88 of the 101 differently abled candidates have requested for scribes to write the examinations. A total of 180 scribes will be available for these examinations, she said. COVID-19 tests were carried out for the differently abled private candidates and the scribes with the help of Health Department. The consolidated lists of candidates and scribes, who tested negative, have been sent to the respective examination centres," Ms. Usha said. In Coimbatore district, 1,686 candidates will sit for the Class XI and XII supplementary examinations in old and new syllabus in 12 examination centres. Syllabus For the Class X supplementary examinations, 1,055 candidates will appear for old and new syllabus at 16 centres. The ESLC and DEE examinations will see 332 and 106 candidates respectively. Concludes on October 7 The examinations will go on from September 21 to October 7. The Class XII and X supplementary examinations will begin on Monday. The Department of School Education has appointed 1,100 officials including scribes, chief superintendents, departmental officers, hall invigilators and flying squad members. Custodian centres A total of six custodian centres were set up to safeguard the Class X question papers, two custodian centres for Class XI and XII question papers and one custodian centre each for ESLC and DEE question papers, District Collector K. Rajamani said in a release on Saturday.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Identify gaps in solid waste management work’||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian has asked officials in-charge of solid waste management in engineering and sanitation wings to identify gaps in the solid waste management work. Mr. Pandian said at a review meeting he had asked officials to identify gaps right from the first step - waste collection at doorstep – to the last waste processing in Vellalore so that the Corporation could plug the gaps. “I’ve asked officials to look at gaps in primary stage – collection, secondary stage – transportation to the nearby transit station or micro compost centre and third stage – transportation to Vellalore and the process thereafter so that the civic body can systematically address those.” He said he had also asked the officials to prepare a status report on each micro compost centres to make operation those that were yet to be functional. Fogging exercise Sources that attended the meeting said the Commissioner also asked sanitary inspectors and zonal sanitary officers to resume regular fogging exercise to control mosquito breeding. Asking them to intensify the mosquito eradication drive, he said the focus should be on destroying the larvae and prevention of breeding.
20 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Domestic cargo movement gains momentum||Domestic cargo movement from Coimbatore International Airport has reached almost 50 % of the pre-lockdown period volume, according to sources. On an average, 12 tonnes of domestic cargo is lifted from the airport every day now. After the lockdown came into force, in April, it was just three tonnes. The volume gradually went up to six tonnes and then to nine. Now, on some days the volume goes up to even 15 tonnes a day. On Friday nearly 25 tonnes were sent from here by flights, the sources said. The number of flights operated is also increasing and when the frequency and destinations connected increase, the volume of cargo handled will touch the levels that existed before the lockdown. The major commodities booked in domestic cargo segment are automobile parts, engineering goods, jewellery, garments, medical samples, and perishables. More flights taking off from here at night is also facilitating freight movement from here as industries are ready with the goods by evening. Coimbatore Cargo terminal has seen record upliftment of domestic cargo per single flight belly space with 7.8 tonnes stuffed in a passenger flight to New Delhi recently. Stuffing higher volume of cargo in the available belly space of the flight also requires skills, the sources pointed out.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation demolishes 60-year-old building||Coimbatore Corporation on Saturday demolished a dilapidated building in Ukkadam. According to sources, the civic body’s Town Planning wing officials demolished the building housing eight shops based on representation from the public that the building was old and posed a threat to residents of the area and those who frequented the shops. The building was at least 60-year old and stood on a land that belonged to a trust that managed a temple near the Lakshmi Narasimhar temple in Ukkadam. The sources said the Corporation officials issued notice more than 15 days ago to the owners of the eight shops. On Saturday, they went there and after asking the shop owners to vacate the building started the demolition process. Prior to starting the demolition, the shop owners entered into a wordy duel with the officials to stop the demolition process but their efforts went in vain, the sources added.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Poompuhar sets sales target of Rs. 50 lakh||Nearly 15 artisans from in and around Coimbatore have exhibited kolu dolls and decorative items at the exhibition-cum-sale organised by Poompuhar here. The event will be on till October 31. According to C. Ronald Selvestin, manager of the outlet here, different sets of dolls are on display, including temple models, Athivaradar, Ashtalakshmi, etc. One of the new products this year are models and dolls made out of matchsticks. Five more artisans are expected to put up stalls in a day or two. They will display bottle art, acrylic painting, and small clay dolls. The outlet has also displayed the dolls and art work on Flipkart and plans to expand to more online platforms. “We are targeting sales of Rs. 50 lakh this year. We are trying to push the sales online, especially for exports,” he said. In order to ensure safety of the artisans and visitors, a homoeopathy medical camp will also be on till the end of next month at the outlet. All the visitors will go through the mandatory screening and will be given immunity boosting homoeopathy medicine free of cost.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||60-year-old man held for sexual assault on minor girl||The Periyanaickenpalayam police arrested an elderly man on charges of sexually assaulting his neighbour, a minor girl. The arrested has been identified as a 60-year-old man from Army Nagar. The police said that the accused saw the 17-year-old girl with learning disability sitting outside her house on Friday. Her parents were not at the house. He went to the house and sexually assaulted her. The girl’s brother witnessed the incident and he informed the same to his father. The police registered a case against the man based on a complaint lodged by the father of the girl. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Saturday.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Municipality initiates action against rent defaulters||Mettupalayam Municipality has begun sealing shops after the owners failed to pay rent. According to sources, after the civic body sealed a shop on Thursday last, shop owners, who had defaulted rent payment, had come forward to clear their dues. Ninety shop owners owned around Rs. 6 crore. The sources said after the civic body revised rent in 2016, a section of the shop owners started defaulting on rent, one after another. Despite repeated efforts and gentle reminders, they shop owners continued to default on rent. The pending rent rose so much so that the Municipality faced severe financial crunch and had to borrow money to even pay salary, the sources said.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Less number of devotees visit Karamadai temple||On the first Purattasi Saturday this year, Aranganatha Swamy temple at Karamadai saw lesser number of devotees compared to last year. According to the officials of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department and the district police, around 1,000 devotees visited the temple on Saturday. The number of devotees, who visited the temple on the first Purattasi Saturday last year, was 9,000.
20 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||No power||Due to maintenance work there will be no power supply in the following areas coming under OK Mandapam and Pattanam sub-stations on September 21 between 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.: Part of MM Patti, Elur Pirivu, part of Arisipalayam, OK Mandapam, Okkilipalayam, Premier Nagar, Myleripalayam, Mampally, Periyakuili, Orrttukkuppal, Thegani, Chettipalayam, Pattanam, Pattanam Pudur, Kamban Nagar, Noyal Nagar, Sathyanarayanapuram, Pallapalayam EB office, Karavali Salai, Nakamanaikanpalayam, Kaveri Nagar, and Kamatchi Puram.
20 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Private buses to be operated from October 1 in Erode||With the State government relaxing norms for operating buses, private bus operators have announced that buses would be from October 1. Due to lockdown, bus services were stopped in the third week of March and resumed from June 1. However, due to a spike in cases, services were stopped for a month and resumed on September 7. But, private bus operators wanted permission for operating buses to full capacity of seats and also wanted road tax waiver and refused to commence operations. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Limited (TNSTC) resumed operations while private buses were off the roads. There are 268 private buses in the district of which 40 were operated within the district while 248 were operated to other districts. Since private bus operators in Salem, Tiruppur and Coimbatore had resumed services this week, private bus operators also decided to resume the service. Commuters affected Palanisamy, president of Erode Private Bus Owners’ Association, said that commuters were affected due to non-operation of private buses and the demands of the associations were taken up with the State government.
20 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 90% of final year students attended core paper exams: VC||With the completion of final year online examination for the first core paper in arts, commerce and science at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels at Madurai Kamaraj University, over 90% of students have attended the examination. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said apart from a few difficulties of students being unable to upload PDF version of their answer scripts and sending them online, no major and unanticipated technical difficulties were experienced by teachers conducting the examination. Although a majority of students handed over the papers to the colleges directly, not many preferred the online mode, said professors. M. Buvaneswaran, Principal, MKU Constituent College, Tirumangalam, said many students handed over papers in person while others sent them by email. “After submitting the scripts, professors will keep a count of the number of students who have handed over the paper. If they have not, the professors would call the students and ask them to attach files or scan the sheets properly. Although we received most of our papers early, some could only hand it in on Saturday morning because of personal problems. They have submitted letters regarding the delay. Since most are credible reasons, we hope the university considers their answer scripts,” he said. He added that a majority of students in his college are from remote areas but were able to cope with sudden and new introduction of technology. An assistant professor from the institution said a majority of the students prefer handing over the papers physically to institutions as they feel the need to provide a tangible answer script for proper evaluation. “While many students are accustomed to the use of emails, others are not,” he said. V S. Vasantha, Registrar in charge, said despite a section having lack of direct access to internet connectivity, the experimental online exam only requires downloading of the question paper for students to write. “Since we provided the students many options, the answer scripts are coming. Every one is aware that this mark could be useful for their future education and job,” she said. The Vice-Chancellor said “this is the first time we are hosting such an examination. So, we too understand the difficulties of students. We are willing to accommodate their needs on a case to case basis,” he said.
20 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||68 test positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district||A total of 68 people in Madurai district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday taking the overall tally to 15,792. All the cases were indigenous. The total number of discharged patients rose to 14,655 as 38 people went home. The death toll remained at 377 as there was no death. The total number of active cases as on date is 760. Virudhunagar district recorded 55 fresh cases that took up the total number of cases to 13,984. With 94 patients getting discharged on Saturday, the number of patients who were discharged till date is 13,473. The number of active cases has come down to 304. Theni district had 55 new cases taking the tally to 14,167. There were 81 discharges. There were 636 active cases. Dindigul had 74 fresh cases and the tally stands at 8,304. Hospitals discharged 88 patients and 619 cases were active. Ramanathapuram district had 31 new cases and the tally remains at 5,363. Hospitals discharged 40 patients. Sivaganga district had 37 fresh cases taking the tally to 4,738. Fifty patients were discharged from hospitals and number of active cases remained at 261. Adding 108 new cases, the tally of Tirunelveli district moved up to 11,729 and the number of active cases rose to 1,041 even as 115 patients were discharged and two patients died of the viral infection to take the fatality to 195. In Kanniyakumari district, the tally rose to 11,652 and the number of active cases moved up to 658 after 105 patients tested positive for COVID-19 after 197 patients were discharged from hospitals. The district’s fatality continued to stand at 215. Thoothukudi district recorded 65 fresh cases and the tally went up to 12,775 and the number of active cases to 770 after 94 patients were discharged. Thoothukudi did not witness any death so that the fatality stood at 119. Tenkasi district did not record any death but added 65 new cases to have 542 active patients after 94 cases were discharged and the tally stands at 6,703.
20 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Devotees throng Perumal temples||A large number of devotees thronged the Perumal temples here on the first Saturday of Tamil month Purattasi, an auspicious day, amid the COVID-19 pandemic. In many of the temples, personal distancing norms were flouted by the devotees. Executive Officer of Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple M. Ramasamy said around 5,000 devotees visited the temple on Saturday morning. “The devotees stood in long queues that extended upto Periyar bus stand from 5 a.m. onwards,” he said. But the temple officials and police personnel repeatedly urged the devotees to maintain adequate distance. The devotees were asked to wear face masks and they had to undergo thermal screening before entering the temples. Hand sanitisers were provided to devotees inside the temple, he added. Similarly, around 3,500 devotees thronged Sundararaja Perumal Temple at Alagarkoil in the morning, said temple Deputy Commissioner (in charge) T. Anitha. “Devotees were asked to stand in long queues with adherence to personal distancing norms,” she said. But the crowd was relatively less at Prasanna Venkatachalapathy Temple in Tallakulam. “The flag hoisting for the Purattasi Brahmotsavam was held in the temple in the morning in the presence of very few devotees,” said Ms. Anitha. Srivilliputtur Hundreds of devotees thronged Srinivasa Perumal Temple at Tiruvannamalai near Srivilliputtur. The temple authorities had made arrangements for online tickets for devotees to avoid crowding. While all the 1,700 online free tickets were booked, only 900 devotees booked special darshan tickets for Rs. 10, Executive Officer of the temple A. Elangovan said. Those who had not booked online tickets were also allowed but those with online tickets were given priority during select timings of 30-minute period. Separate queues were formed for online ticket holders. In view of the COVID-19 situation, no devotee was allowed for the abishekams at 2.30 a.m. “They were allowed only for the deeparadhana that was held throughout the day,” he added. Besides, people were not allowed to bring puja offerings and they were not given theertham as a precautionary measure. Temple Fitperson K. Ravichandran and officials from departments of revenue, health and police were present.
20 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to set aside detention order||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has refused to set aside the detention order passed against a Sri Lankan national, a member of a suspected fundamentalist group. The members have a WhatsApp group by the name, ’Shahadat (martyrdom) is our goal.’ The court was hearing the petition filed by Mohamed Ribas who challenged the order passed against him in January 2020 by an Executive Magistrate under Section 122 (1)(b) of CrPC (Imprisonment in default of security). The order was passed by the Kilakarai Tahsildar after the petitioner was said to have violated the bond condition executed under Section 110 of CrPC, an undertaking that was given to maintain good behaviour for two years, in 2019. While the petitioner contended that no show cause notice was issued on him nor was an inquiry conducted before passing the order, the State said the petitioner was frequently involved in criminal offences. It was said that the petitioner had suppressed his nationality, obtained relevant documents and was enjoying benefits from the government. Therefore the order was passed for violating the bond that was executed. Considering the serious nature of the offence and the extraordinary circumstances involved, Justice R. Tharani declined to set aside the order passed by the executive magistrate. The court dismissed the petition filed by the petitioner. The court took cognisance of the fact that the petitioner, a habitual offender, had already been detained under the National Security Act. In a connected case, the court set aside a similar detention order passed against Sheik Dawood from Ramanathapuram, an associate of Mohamed Ribas, as he was not given a reasonable opportunity by the authorities. The duo had started the WhatsApp group. However, considering the fact that he was a history-sheeter and taking into account the criminal antecedents, the court said the authorities were at liberty to take fresh action under Section 122 (1)(b) of CrPC, if so required.
20 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Girl missing case: two SIs of Saptur police station suspended||Two Sub-Inspectors of Police of Saptur police station near here were placed under suspension for ‘negligence’ in investigation into a girl missing case. Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar on Saturday ordered their suspension after it came to light that the two SIs had seized a motorbike and a mobile phone in connection with the investigation of the case. They did not inform the Investigation Officer, Inspector of Police, Peraiyur, and the Deputy Superintendent of Police, Peraiyur, about the seizures.. “They have been placed under suspension for negligence of duty,” an official said. Investigation revealed that after the girl had reportedly eloped with one Idayakani on August 23, the police seized the motorbike and mobile phone of Idayakani’s brother Ramesh. After the police visited their house on Wednesday and asked the mother and two brothers to appear at the police station next day for enquiry, Ramesh, 20, was found dead hanging in a tree at Anaikaraipatti on Thursday. A large number of villagers have been protesting since then alleging that the youth was tortured in police custody. However, the SP said CCTV footage showed that the police had not picked up the youth. The suspension comes amidst the protest continuing at Anaikkaraipatti seeking action against the police personnel.
20 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates check dam||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated a check dam worth Rs. 17.39 crore at Kodimangalam here on Saturday via video conferencing. According to a press statement from the district administration, the check dam will help supply water to Madakulam, Keelamathur and Thuvariman irrigation tanks in Madurai. Apart from helping irrigate 3,360.37 acres of farmlands cumulatively, the water will recharge groundwater in many parts of the city. Ponmeni, Madakulam, Achampattu, Palanganatham, Ellis Nagar, T.V.S Nagar and S.S Colony will have augmented groundwater supply. The Chief Minister inaugurated renovation work along Tirumangalam main canal’s first branch on an outlay of Rs. 6.82 crore. The branch of the canal, which spreads over 6.64 km, supplies water to 1,032 acres. It feeds three major tanks helping farmers when water from major rivers, including Periyar and Vaigai, supply water to the city. However, due to damage over the last few years, extensive damage along the canal, particularly during the time of water release, has caused breakage of the pipeline. The branch of the canal will be converted to cement and will also be repaired, following pleas from farmers in the area, according to the district administration.
20 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Saturday stood at 125.80 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 900 cusecs and a discharge of 1,400 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 61.86 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,164 cusecs and a discharge of 972 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,150 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Viraganoor 9, Periyar dam 6.6, Gudalur 3.7, Thekkadi 1.8, Uthamapalayam and Shanmuganathi dam 1 each. The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 82.40 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,227.55 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 66.10 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 458 cusecs and 680 cusecs of water was discharged.
20 September 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Collector, SP review containment measures||District Collector K. Megraj and Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan reviewed containment measures at Namakkal bus stand and town areas here on Saturday. Mr. Megraj said that persons venturing out in public places without masks would be fined Rs. 200, those driving to containment areas in two or four-wheelers would be fined Rs. 5,000 and those spitting in public places would be fined Rs. 500.
20 September 2020||P.A. NarayaniMADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Students face problems in uploading answer scripts||A section of final year students from various institutions affiliated to Madurai Kamaraj University, including autonomous colleges, have flagged several issues while scanning and uploading their answer scripts in PDF format after the completion of the examinations. G. Balamurugan, a final year undergraduate student from an autonomous institution, said there were several technical snags with the college server, when many students tried to upload their scanned answer sheets after completion of the exam. “They have set a deadline of one hour after the completion of the exam to upload the answer scripts. Students often get apprehensive as they are unable to upload them within the deadline,” he said. Also, there are difficulties in scanning and uploading all the pages of the answer script in PDF formats from mobile phones as it consumes a large quantum of data, he added. For many students, especially those from interior pockets, the options of sending the answer scripts by courier or submitting them in person at the educational institutions are not viable, said Students Federation of India district secretary S. Veldeva. G. Senthil, another student of an autonomous college, said they were instructed to submit the scripts in person at the college, in addition to uploading them. “Many students from rural pockets cannot reach the college on time,” he said. Karthik of District Youth Federation of India said many students from underprivileged families do not have access to the necessary digital infrastructure to complete the online exams. “There are a few cases where two students from a family have to upload the answer scripts within an hour by using a single smartphone,” he said. Mr. Veldeva said many students were unable to attend the online classes that were held for the last semester during the pandemic. “Hence, the online exams must be scrapped. Instead, they can evaluate the students based on an assignment,” he said.
20 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Consult States before going ahead with 3 farm Bills: CM||Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to refer the three agriculture reform Bills to the Parliamentary select committee and consult States before proceeding further with their implementation. Addressing a press conference, the Chief Minister said that under the guise of agriculture reforms, the Centre was trying to bring corporate entities into the trading of farm products. The minimum support price (MSP) was implemented by the Congress to protect the interest of farmers. With the new reforms, corporates would stock up, fix the price and sell the agricultural products, he said. An ally of the National Democratic Alliance quit the Central government, opposing the Bills, he said, adding that the Prime Minister should at least now refer the Bills to the Parliamentary select committee and consult States before their implementation. Reiterating his demand that the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) be scrapped, the Chief Minister said the BJP should own the moral responsibility for the sufferings of the students of Puducherry and Tamil Nadu due to the conduct of NEET. The Union Territory’s admission process, through the Centralised Admission Committee, for medical and engineering seats ensured social justice, and now, with the introduction of NEET, poor students were not able to obtain seats, he said. The CM also announced the setting up of a committee, comprising medical experts, to bring down the number of deaths due to COVID-19 in the U.T.
20 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||200 sand smuggling cases booked in Pudukottai district||The Pudukottai district police has cracked the whip against sand smuggling and illegal sale of lottery tickets. Over the last two months , around 200 cases of sand smuggling were registered in various police stations across the district, Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai L. Balaji Saravanan said. Special teams of the district police conducted prohibition and enforcement raids and booked cases. Mr. Balaji Saravanan said the drive against sand smuggling and other offences would continue. He said women Inspectors had been visiting various villages in the district sensitising the public and children to crimes against minors, besides the POSCO Act, good touch and bad touch and work done by Childline.
20 September 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||briefly||A. Leelavathi, 55, was hacked to death at Ayyanapuram under Keezharajakularaman police station limits on Friday night. Police said she was going for night duty to a mill when she was waylaid and hacked to death around 11.30 p.m. M. Murugan, 38, son-in-law of Leelavathi’s younger sister, was arrested. Property dispute had led to the murder. The accused was sent to judicial custody.   A book on the importance of English usage titled ‘English for Elegance and Excellence’, authored by S. Venkatesh, Assistant Professor of English, Madura College, was released recently marking Teacher’s Day. The first copy was received by vice-president of Madura College Board S. Seetharaman, who highlighted the importance of communicative English. Principal J. Suresh was present.
20 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man installs his statue in Salem||A 60-year-old man of Athanurpatti village near Vazhapadi in the district has installed his statue “to leave a mark on Earth”. A. Nallathambi, who makes a living out of discarded items near Vazhapadi, has installed a 5-ft-tall statue of himself on Vazhapadi-Bellur village road. Though his native village is near Kurichi, he moved to Athanurpatti after a quarrel with his family. Earlier, he worked as a mason. But, when it became too demanding, he took up lighter jobs. Always desiring to create a name for himself, he hit upon the idea of installing a statue for himself that would enable people remember him. Mr. Nallathambi said he bought a land near Vazhapadi with the savings he made over the years, paid a sculptor Rs. 1 lakh to make his life-size statue and got it installed on the land. The statue with folded hands resembles those of ancient kings. Mr. Nallathambi plans to conduct a grand function to unveil the statue.
20 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Left parties condemn Bills introduced in Parliament||Members of Communist Party of India and Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a protest demonstration in front of the district Collectorate here on Saturday condemning various Bills introduced by the Centre. They demanded that the Centre compensate States for GST revenue loss. They condemned the Centre for introducing National Education Policy, Electricity Amendment Bill and Bills against the interest of farmers.
20 September 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Minor fire in cracker unit||A minor fire accident was reported in a fireworks unit at Meenampatti here on Saturday in which no one was injured. The police said that friction while filling chemicals for a ground chakkar led to the fire. All employees managed to escape without any injuries. Officials found that Sanjay Fireworks, owned by Sanjay Pradeep, was leased out to one Muthusamy of Sivagamipuram. They found that the unit, licensed by the District Revenue Officer, had violated safety norms. “The crackers were being made under temporary sheds instead of working sheds in the unit,” Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar said. Special Tahsildar (Inspection of Match units and Fireworks Units) G. Loganathan said the unit had been frequently violating safety norms and its licence had been suspended at least four times in the recent years. The suspension of licence was revoked only in April this year.
20 September 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Siddha practitioner’s house looted||Thieves looted the house of a Siddha practitioner after tying him and his brother with a rope on Saturday. Six men entered the house of siddha practitioner Ravindran of Mela Meignanapuram under Courtallam police station limits on Saturday under the pretext of buying his house as he was searching for prospective buyers. Even as he was negotiating with them, the strangers, brandishing knives, tied him and his brother Dhanapalan with rope and stole gold ornaments weighing about 106 grams and escaped in a car. After managing to untie the knots, Ravindran informed the police who have registered a case.
20 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Kin refuse to receive youth’s body||A stalemate in handing over the body of S. Selvan, 30, who was abducted and beaten to death by a group of people, continues as his family insist that they would receive the body only after Inspector of Police of Thattarmadam Harikrishnan, the prime accused, is arrested. Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar met the family members and relatives of the deceased on Saturday to appease them and make them receive the body after post-mortem nut in vain. “He (Harikrishnan) filed more than 10 cases against Selvan (the deceased), his brothers Panguraj and Peter Raja at the instance of their opponents while even genuine complaints preferred by Selvan was not entertained. Moreover, the brothers were taken to the police station at his (Harikrishnan’s) will and thrashed whenever he registered cases against them. Having left with no other option, Selvan approached the State Human Rights Commission and the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on the belief that legal intervention alone will put an end to the atrocities orchestrated by this police officer. Having lost one of our family members, Harikrishnan, who is the mastermind behind this gruesome murder, should be arrested,” the relatives told the Superintendent of Police. Though Mr. Jayakumar told them that Harikrishnan had been shifted to Armed Reserve Police camp as punishment, they rejected it forthwith. The police have picked up three persons, all supporters of the second accused, Thirumanavel, in connection with the murder. In the afternoon, the Chokkankudiyiruppu villagers,gathered in front of St. Stanislaus Church, accusing the police of coercing them to receive the body without arresting Harikrishnan. When Additional Superintendent of Police Gopi, DSP of Sattankulam Godwin Jegadish and Tahsildar Rajalakshmi asked them to disperse, it triggered a heated argument. Though they left the spot after a few minutes, police personnel have been deployed in the village. Meanwhile, the post-mortem was conducted by doctors Sridhar and Seethalakshmi at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital in the afternoon that ended at 4.20 p.m. The body is being kept in the mortuary as none turned up to receive it.
20 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments on watercourses come under scanner||Acting on a slew of complaints on increasing encroachments on watercourses and drains in the city, the Tiruchi City Corporation has planned to carry out a comprehensive survey on such encroachments. Several open drains, which were once irrigation channels, criss-cross the city. These includes channels such as the Kathan, Thotti, Vannarapettai, Virupatchipuram, Thennur Rettai, Kottai, Devadhanam and Tharanallur vaicals. Many of these and the minor channels branching off from them have been encroached upon heavily over the years. Encroachments are blatantly visible in places such as Ramalinga Nagar and Ramalinga Nagar Extension. The channels have been blocked at many places and the network can no longer be traced as concrete structures have come up over them. “Houses were constructed by openly blocking the waterways. Many small channels have almost become extinct in the city. It is painful to see houses constructed on channels,” M. Sekaran, a consumer activist. Though the issue had been brought to the notice of the officials of the Tiruchi Corporation on many occasions, encroachments were very much intact for several years. Conceding that encroachments have come up over channels at several places, a senior official of the Tiruchi Corporation told The Hindu that a comprehensive survey on the illegal construction of buildings on irrigation channels would be carried out shortly. It would be done jointly with the revenue and police officials. The matter would be taken to the knowledge of the Collector as well for a follow up action.
20 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Traders stage protest after minor fire breaks out at Gandhi Market||A minor fire inside the Gandhi Market triggered a protest by a section of traders demanding the reopening of the market. The market has remained closed since late March following the pandemic. The traders also demanded that the market complex be opened so that they could tend to the fire and clean up goods which had been locked up in various shops. V. Govindarajulu, State secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, who led the protest, alleged that traders were not even allowed to enter the market to inspect the losses caused by fire. Heads of various traders associations of the market met District Collector S. Sivarasu on Saturday seeking action. “We have urged the district administration to install CCTV cameras at all important locations at the market,” Mr. Govindarajalu said. The traders also reiterated their stand against shifting to the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi. “The Kallikudi market has only 830 shops of which over 150 have been allotted to farmers’ groups. There is not enough space for all of us there,” Mr. Govindarajulu maintained claiming that more than 2,000 traders were operating in and around Gandhi Market.  The protesting traders were taken into custody by the police even as a group of their representatives were taken to meet the Collector. Police sources 184 traders were taken into custody. All the traders, who were accommodated in a marriage hall, were later released. A case has also been book against the protesters for violating the Disaster Management Act, and Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, Section 270 of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, S. Sivarasu, in a statement, said that there was no move to shift the Gandhi Market entirely to the central market at Kallikudi. Applications were invited from traders from across the State and shops at the central market were allotted based on the bids. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has barred the reopening of the Gandhi Market up to October 13, after which steps will be taken to reopen the market, he said. The Collector said the police will conduct a probe into the fire and initiate appropriate action. The City Corporation Commissioner has been advised to clear the garbage inside the market, he added.  There is no move to shift Gandhi Market entirely to the central market at Kallikudi S. Sivarasu Tiruchi Collector
20 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||630 test positive in central region||The central district on Saturday recorded new cases for COVID-19, down from Friday's tally of 714 cases. Nine deaths - three from Nagapattinam, two each from Thanjavur and Tiruchi, and one each from Ariyalur and Karur -- were also recorded according to the bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Two men aged 60 and 62 with no pre-existing conditions, and a 60-year-old woman with co-morbidities including hypertension and diabetes succumbed to the infection in Nagapattinam. A 51-year-old woman who suffered respiratory failure and a 61-year-old man with a history of coronary artery disease died of COVID-19 in Thanjavur, while a 61-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man died in Tiruchi. In Ariyalur, a 67-year-old woman with a medical history of hypothyroidism from Ariyalur and a 68-year-old man who had been suffering from co-morbidities including diabetes, hypertension and pituitary adenoma from Karur succumbed to the viral infection. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases for the viral infection among the central districts on Saturday with 151 new patients. Tiruchi recorded 103 new cases. Meanwhile, Ramalinga Nagar in Woraiyur was added as a containment zone by city corporation officials. Tiruvarur recorded 100 fresh cases, while 90 patients tested positive in Pudukottai. Nagapattinam recorded a drop in COVID-19 cases with 50 patients testing positive on Saturday. The patients who tested positive were primary contacts, local index cases with no history of travel or contacts and patients with medical history of respiratory illnesses. In Karur, 68 patients tested positive for the virus, as the district crossed the 2,500-mark with 2,512 total cases reported so far. A total of 38 cases were recorded in Ariyalur district, of which 11 hailed from Ariyalur block, four from Thirumanur, eight from Sendhurai, three from T. Palur, four from Andimadam and eight from Jayankondam. In Perambalur, 26 cases were recorded. Of them, 11 patients hailed from Perambalur, five from Veppanthattai, six from Veppur and four from Alathur.
20 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Proper nutrition is essential for building a healthy society’||Ensuring proper nutrition by including vegetables, fruits and traditional food produce such as millets in diet was essential for building a healthy society, Collector S.Sivarasu said here on Thursday. Inaugurating the Rashtriya Poshan Maah 2020 observation jointly organised by the ICAR –Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sirugamani, Mr. Sivarasu also emphasised the need for ensuring balanced diet and nutrition for pregnant women, children and adolescents and observed that if this was done, the good health of the community can be ensured within two years. Every year September is celebrated as National Nutrition Month across the country to ensure community mobilisation and bolster people’s participation. The major activity of the Rasthiya Poshan Maah 2020 will be to identify and track children with acute malnutrition and promotion of kitchen gardens. Vegetable seeds and planting materials were distributed to anganwadi workers and farm women, according to a KVK press release. N. TamilSelvan, Programme Coordinator, KVK, Sirugamani,T. Bhuvaneswari, Project Director, Integrated Child Development Scheme, and others spoke. Scientists of the KVK briefed the anganwadi workers on nutrition, raising nutri gardens, raising suitable varieties and management techniques, integrated pest and disease management in vegetable crops, and use of vegetable waste as animal feed. Forty anganwadi workers and 30 farm women participated in the event.
20 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Exhibition of ‘kolu’ dolls begins||The annual exhibition-cum-sale of ‘kolu’ dolls opened ahead of the Navarathri festival at the Poompuhar showroom of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation in the city on Friday. Celebrating the 49th anniversary of the exhibition in Tiruchi, the showroom has an array of kolu dolls including Gods and Goddess, both individual and sets, and also special dolls featuring traditional and modern games and spots including cricket. The prices of the dolls range from Rs. 50 to Rs. 50,000. To cater to the varied tastes of customers, dolls have also been brought in from Calcutta, Manipur, Rajasthan, Odisha, Karnataka and even Andhra Pradesh. Last year, the showroom sold dolls worth Rs. 20 lakh, while this year, they are looking to exceed the figure, officials at the showroom said. The exhibition at the showroom at Singarathope will go on till October 31, including Sundays. District Collector S. Sivarasu inaugurated the exhibition on Saturday and urged the public to patronise the products as the dolls are made by artisans in the State and purchasing their products would support their livelihood.
20 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||TNBA urges Centre to direct banks to stop auction||The Tamil Nadu Boilers Association, comprising manufacturers of boiler and boiler components, has appealed to the Union Ministries of Finance and MSME to direct banks to stop auctioning properties of MSME units under the SARFAESI Act until the pandemic comes to an end. Expressing concern over banks initiating such action against micro, small and medium enterprises, Rajappa Rajkumar, treasurer of the association, in a representation to the Ministries, observed that the MSMEs were already facing a severe crisis due to general recession. “Many of them were fighting for their very survival and workers were losing jobs. MSMEs were awaiting clear guidelines from the government regarding stressed and NPA units. But at this critical junction, banks have started auctioning properties of various MSME unit under the SARFAESI (The Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002) Act,” Mr. Rajkumar said. In such cases, the only court the borrower can appeal to is the Debt Recovery Tribunal. “But it takes more than a week after paying the requisite fee for the hearing to come up at the Tribunal in Madurai, whereas the bank auction notice gives the MSME units only two weeks, with just 10 working days,” Mr. Rajkumar claimed. Under these circumstances the borrowers are denied their legal right to appeal against the bank action. Hence, the Centre should either direct banks to stop all auctions until the pandemic is over or provide a special channel for appeal, he demanded.
20 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man gets parcel containing explosive substance||A parcel containing an electric detonator and a gelatin stick was sent by courier to a photo studio owner in Needamangalam on Saturday. According to sources, Veerakumar upon receiving the parcel, opened it to find the explosive substance. He informed the police. Police officials from Needamangalam took the parcel to the station. The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad personnel too checked the substance. Veerakumar is the second person to receive a parcel containing explosive substance within two days. A farmer, Arivazhagam of Kandrakudi in Orathanadu police station in Thanjavur district received a similar parcel on Friday.
20 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Water to be released from Amaravathi dam for kuruvai cultivation||Water from Amaravathi dam in Udumalpet Block will be released in phases over a period of 135 days from Sunday for kuruvai cultivation in Tiruppur and Karur districts. Officials at the Water Resources Organisation of the Public Works Department said that the actual release of water would be made for 70 days between September 20 (Sunday) and February 2, 2021 as per requirement and in a phased manner. Officials from the Public Works Department (Water Resources Organisation) said 26,653 acres in the old ayacut of Tiruppur and Karur districts and 25,250 acres in the new ayacut of Tiruppur district will benefit from the water release. Water not exceeding 6,048 mcft will be released into 16 irrigation channels for the old ayacut and water not exceeding 2,661 mcft will be released through the main canal for the new ayacut. Water for irrigation was previously released in August for both the old and new ayacuts. On September 4, the PWD officials released the surplus water from Amaravathi dam due to increased inflow.
20 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Water to be released from Amaravathi dam||Water from the Amaravathi dam in Udumalpet will be released from Sunday for kuruvai cultivation in Tiruppur and Karur. Officials from the State Public Works Department said 26,653 acres in the old ayacut of the two districts, as well as 25,250 acres of new ayacut in Tiruppur, would stand to benefit.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore’s daily case tally stays above 500||Coimbatore district reported 562 positive cases of COVID-19 and four deaths on Saturday. While the toll so far touched 376, the cases tally rose to 25,344. Those who died were aged 73, 55, 53 and 25. Totally, 308 people who recovered were discharged from hospitals on Saturday. Tiruppur district saw 163 new positive cases, but reported no deaths. While 148 persons recovered from the disease were discharged from hospitals, the had 1,760 active cases of the disease on Saturday. Erode district reported 166 new cases taking the district’s tally to 5,282. Seventy-four people were discharged on Saturday and 1,056 are under treatment. In Salem district, five persons, including three who belonged to Namakkal, died of the disease. They were aged 46, 47, 54, 58 and 78. Salem also reported 286 new cases of infection on Saturday. Health officials said 274 of these were indigenous cases, including 174 in Salem Corporation limits. Twelve patients had returned from Dharmapuri, Kalakuruchi, Karur, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Thiruvanamalai and Villupuram districts. Namakkal reported 98 cases. Health officials said 15 patients had returned from Erode, Madurai, Salem, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Hosur and three patients had returned from Hyderabad, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. The Nilgiris saw 72 new cases that raised the district’s tally to 2,750. people tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris stands at 2,750. The district had 589 active cases. Krishnagiri recorded 74 new cases and Dharmapuri 112 cases.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||People told to inform officials about damages due to rain||With monsoon setting it, the district administration has asked the public to provide details of damaged buildings to the toll-free number. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that as part of preparations to face the monsoon, details of damaged government and public buildings, damaged electric lines and poles, and damaged mobile towers in residential areas and trees that pose a threat to the public should be reported to the 24-hour toll free control room functioning at the Collectorate. He said that the public can contact 0424-2260211 or the toll free number 1077 and provide any information. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services are gearing up to handle any natural calamity. Firefighters conducted a mock drill at River Cauvery at Karungalpalayam on rescuing people.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Advisory issued on safety measures||The district administration has issued an advisory in view of the monsoon lashing through the district. Collector S. Malarvizhi has urged public to exercise caution during the ongoing monsoon. Public are advised not to step out into water bodies with the water levels rising with the rains. People have been advised not to step out in the open during rains, and thunderstorms. Those outside in the open during thunderstorms are advised to take cover under a concrete building and not under trees or stand in the proximity of electricity posts. Those travelling by cars, and buses are advised not to hold on to any metal that conducts electricity. The administration has asked people not to crowd out to protect themselves from the rains in the open. Also, those inside houses are advised against using electric gadgets. Livestock owners are urged not to leash their cattle in the open during the thunderstorms. Livestock owners are urged to collect their livestock and move them to safer spots, once the rain clouds gather indicating rains, the Collector said. Further, public may contact the administration’s control room on the toll free number 1077, 1800 425 1071 or 1800 425 7016, and also on the administration’s Whatsapp 8903891077.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for murder||A 42-year-old man, who strangled his wife to death was arrested by the Bungalowpudur police. On September 16, Kavitha was found dead at the house and her elder son Karthikeyan lodged a complaint with the police that his father could have murdered her. Following probe, Mohana Sundaram was arrested and lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Removal of anti-dumping duty on viscose staple fibre sought||As many as 10 textile industry associations have written to the Centre seeking removal of anti-dumping duty on import of Viscose Staple Fibre (VSF). The Union Ministry of Textiles has set a target of $ 350 billion market size for the Indian textile and clothing sector, to be achieved by 2025. The associations said that the target can be achieved with growth in export of man-made fibre (MMF) products. However, MMF and filament yarn are not available at internationally competitive prices to the Indian textile and clothing sector. According to a press release from the Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, one of the associations that has represented to the Central Government, the associations pointed out that cotton is available to the domestic industry at competitive prices and hence it is the engine of growth for the Indian textile and clothing sector. The stakeholders in the VSF value chain pointed out that India is the second largest producer of MMF. But, the share of MMF in total textile and clothing exports is only 20 %. In China, the share of MMF products stands at 80 %. The Indian textile industry is unable to capture the market opportunities abroad compared to countries such as Vietnam, Bangladesh, Pakistand and Indonesia since the price of VSF is high in India. During the last four years, import of VSF spun yarn increased 27 times, it said. The Union Government helped the MMF sector by removing anti-dumping duty on PTA, which is a major raw material for polyester staple fibre and by rejecting the proposal of anti-dumping duty on VSF. However, VSF is protected with anti-dumping duty and this affects the entire viscose staple fibre textile value chain. VSF attracts anti-dumping duty of 0.103 $ to 0.512 $ a kg. If the Centre removed the anti-dumping duty on VSF, it will align the domestic prices with the global VSF prices making the entire Indian textile value chain globally competitive.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||25 detained under Goondas Act this year||As many as 25 persons, who were involved in criminal activities were detained under the Goondas Act, in the current year in the district. Recently, S. Moorthy (33), of Sellipalayam who was arrested for selling ganja by the Bungalowpudur police was detained under the Act. Likewise, D. Anand alias Anand Kumar of Marapalam, S. Vigneswaran alias ‘Thakkali’ Viki of Vivekananda Road, B. Dinesh alias Merlin of Surampatti, and E. Sam Prakash of Balaji Garden, who were involved in criminal activities were detained, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai, said in a press release,
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to tap artificial intelligence in governance||This policy will be applicable to any authority or body in Tamil Nadu, established or constituted under any Central or State law and owned or controlled by the State government, or which receives any aid directly or indirectly from the government. Single source The policy recommends building a blockchain backbone infrastructure (network) for the State to function as the single source of truth and trust anchor for all government processes and data. This would be implemented within the e-governance system, and other government departments and agencies would be assisted to leverage it to build applications and solutions. Applicable to all The cybersecurity policy is applicable to all government departments and associated agencies. It covers information assets that include hardware, applications and services provided by these agencies to other government departments, industry or citizens. This policy also applies to Central government infrastructure and personnel who provide services to the Tamil Nadu government either on specific deputation or by specific tasking. The main aim is to develop a comprehensive security risk reduction strategy.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TH-20-09-2020_CITY_CINEMA||MISCELLANEOUS  C.P. ART CENTRE, 1, Eldams Road, Alwarpet, Chennai-600018 Exhibition of Textiles, Jewellery, Bags, Masks, Sanitizers, Gloves and Home-made Food items made by self-employed women. Today last day. 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. All are welcome.
20 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Stringent steps to remove riverbed encroachments’||The State government will take stringent steps to remove encroachments from riverbeds and banks in the Krishna basin, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said in Belagavi on Saturday. Addressing a meeting of officers of revenue, irrigation, forest, and geology departments in all the districts of Mumbai Karnataka division, the Minister said the State government was very serious about removing encroachments on waterbodies. “At first, we will take up identifying encroachments in Malaprabha, Ghataprabha and Hiranyakeshi rivers in Belagavi district and the Bellary Nala that flows in Belagavi city. We will also extend the operation to other river systems later,” Mr. Jarkiholi said. “It is very obvious that the rivers have been encroached. When we were children, we used to go swimming in the Malaprabha, that had a wide expanse. But now its size has been reduced significantly. That is leading to flooding in the rivers and deposition of silt in dams. Rivers can be protected by removing encroachments,” he said. Scientific methods However, this has to be done on a systematic way using scientific methods. Once that is done, we will ensure that they are all removed, he said. A committee of officers led by Regional Commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas will be in charge of the project. The government would provide all necessary funds for the project. The Minister later told journalists that the issue of sand extraction and its effects would also be considered by the committee. It had begun a drone survey to identify encroachments. Mr. Biswas told the meeting that the Karnataka High Court had considered the riverbeds and banks as public property and had asked the government to remove encroachments. “However, if the encroachers are poor people, then the government can give them some relief," he said.
20 September 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘NEP will ensure students’ holistic development’||The Karnataka State Akkamahadevi Women’s University organised its 11th convocation, partially online and partially offline, in Vijayapura on Saturday. Some students attended in person, and some others received their degrees online. M.K. Shridhar, member, University Grants Commission, New Delhi, delivered the convocation address. He hailed the new National Education Policy saying it would ensure holistic development of students who would build a self-reliant India in the competitive global scenario. He said that the policy helps an Arts student choose subjects like Science and any other course from any other stream, in the inter-disciplinary course choice mode. Many reforms have also been introduced in the field of higher education, that include graded academic, administrative and financial autonomy for institutions. This can help the country to have uniform rules for government, private and deemed universities, he said. The guests gave away 55 doctoral degrees, and 65 students got gold medals in various subjects. Onkaragouda Kakade, Vice-Chancellor (in-charge) KSAWU, Vijayapura, presided over the function.
20 September 2020||belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Jarkiholi clarifies on his meet with Fadnavis||Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has dismissed as rumours that the BJP was trying to destabilise the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition government in Maharashtra. “These rumours spread after I met former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis in New Delhi recently. I had only gone to meet him to thank him. He contributed greatly to our party gaining power and in me becoming a Minister. I had been wanting to meet him since I became a Minister. But I could not travel due to the COVID-19 lockdown. When I got a chance after the lockdown ended, I met him,” he said. The Minister said that he was in favour of A. Vishwanath and N. Nagaraju (MTB)joining the Cabinet. He said there was no plan of a change of the Chief Minister.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP proposes hike in property tax||If the civic body has its way, citizens are likely to pay more in tax and cess. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has proposed to increase property tax and garbage cess, and land transport cess in a bid to bring in more revenue to the financially starved civic body. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters on Saturday that the proposals had been forwarded for approval to the Administrator Gaurav Gupta. Though the proposals had been placed before the previous BBMP council, they had not been approved for various reasons. Property tax, which is one of the main revenue sources for the civic body, was last hiked during the 2016-17 fiscal. According to sources, the BBMP’s Revenue Department had recommended increasing the tax rate by 20-25%. Though the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, mandates increasing the tax rate every three years by a minimum of 15% and maximum of 30%, the civic body’s council had not approved the proposal tabled by the Commissioner for various reasons. “In the eventuality of the State government not approving the proposal to hike property tax, the civic body is likely to seek approval for increasing other revenue sources, such as fee for building plan approval and khata transfer, garbage cess and land transport cess.” The BBMP collects cess for beggary, labour, library, solid waste management (SWM) and land transport. Earlier this year, the BBMP council approved a proposal to collect land transport cess. Mayor M. Goutham Kumar had claimed that this would bring in an estimated Rs. 150 crore in revenue. According to Mr. Prasad, the civic body spends Rs. 1,000 crore on SWM, but collects only around Rs. 45 crore through garbage cess. “We proposed increasing the service charge in the hope of meeting at least part of the expenditure on SWM,” he said, and added that once approved by the Administrator, the proposal would be sent to the State government for ratification. Smart parking on 87 roads The civic body is expecting annual revenue of Rs. 31.56 crore with implementation of smart parking system on 10 major roads in the Central Business District. The projected was inaugurated by Mr. Gupta and Mr. Prasad on Saturday. In the first phase, it was implemented on 10 major roads, which have parking facilities for 475 four-wheelers and 510 two-wheelers. Mr. Prasad said that this system will be put in place on 87 roads in the city covering parking slots for up to 9,000 vehicles.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Opposition all geared up to corner government on various issues||The monsoon session of the State legislature, which will get under way on Monday, is expected to be a raucous one, considering it is the first time the legislature is meeting amidst the pandemic, with the Opposition eager to corner the BJP government on its handling of COVID-19, ‘anti-farmer’ bills, the alleged failure of the police in handling violence in K.G. Halli and D.G. Halli in Bengaluru, as well as all the drug-related investigations.  Seniors may skip session It will be an eight-day session amidst a host of safety measures in place to ensure physical distancing and other norms to contain the spread of the pandemic. In fact, citing precautionary measures, many senior members are likely to skip the session. A COVID-19 negative report has been made mandatory for all legislators, officials and media personnel to enter the Secretariat during the session. The Budget session had ended abruptly on March 24 as the number of cases started rising. As per the Constitutional provision, the legislature has to meet within six months from the last sitting. While both Houses will function simultaneously, this time, due to extraordinary circumstances, no schoolchildren or public will be allowed to watch the proceedings of the Houses. Both ruling and Opposition lounges in both houses would be closed and the canteen facility would be at the entrance of the first floor. Media personnel are allowed to cover the proceedings from the second floor of the Assembly gallery. Politically, the eight-day session is expected to be stormy as the Opposition parties, particularly the Congress, have been protesting against the government’s proposed bills related to land reforms, agricultural produce market committee (APMC), failure in handling of floods, violence in Bengaluru and ongoing investigation into the drug racket.  Over two dozen bills The government has taken the ordinance route to make sweeping changes in laws, particularly in two vital sectors – agriculture and industry/labour – since the pandemic set in. Now, over two dozen bills are to be tabled during the session to frame new laws or amend existing ones. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Bill, 2020, which was referred to the joint select committee during the last session, too is likely to be tabled. The Congress is all set to target the government on bills on amending Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, and the APMC Act. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has already said that the amendments are ‘a scam bigger than illegal mining’ as farmers are set to lose lands valued over Rs. 50,000 crore. The proposed bill enables non-agriculturists to purchase agricultural land and repealed the income limit. The farmers too have been opposing the Bill on amending the APMC Act for removing restrictions on sale of farm produce outside the AMPC markets. Congress has said the bill would disrupt the symbiotic relationship between farmers and the marketing yards and allow MNCs to dictate prices. COVID-19, GST issues Other major issues that are likely to rock both Houses are alleged mismanagement of the COVID-19 situation and alleged corruption in the purchase of equipment and lack of coordination between Ministers. The government would face criticism on frequent transfer of officials and poor handling of migrants during the lockdown. The Opposition has been protesting against the Centre for not releasing the GST payout to the State, limited financial support to the State during the pandemic, large-scale job losses, lapses in providing compensation to unorganised sector workers during the lockdown, and other problems. These too are expected to be raised during the Session.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Symptomatic patients prime drivers of infection in State during lockdown: study||While both asymptomatic and symptomatic COVID-19 patients transmit infection, a study by a team of experts from Karnataka has found that the main driving force behind the spread in the State during the lockdown were symptomatic people. The team of experts led by V. Ravi, senior professor and Head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 task force, studied 3,404 cases reported from March 8 (when the first case was detected) to May 31. Of these, while 3,096 (91%) were asymptomatic, 308 (9%) were symptomatic. Majority of the asymptomatic cases were aged between 16 and 50 while symptomatic cases were aged between 31 and 65. Most of those affected were males. “As per our analysis, on an average, each symptomatic patient has spread the infection to 7.1 individuals as against every asymptomatic patient who spread the infection to 3.1 individuals. While 90 symptomatic source cases transmitted infection to 645 people, 54 asymptomatic source cases transmitted infection to 177 people,” Dr. Ravi told The Hindu . “Symptomatic patients can spread the infection to a large number of people because when they cough and sneeze they throw out higher viral particles,” he added.  Cluster analysis A cluster analysis revealed that symptomatic source patients contributed to 33 large clusters (more than five cases) with the mean size of each cluster being 17.03 (range five to 56 cases per cluster), he said, quoting the study that has been posted on medRxiv, the pre-print server for health sciences. “In contrast, asymptomatic source cases contributed to 14 large clusters (more than five cases) with the mean size of each cluster being 8.1 (range five to 22 cases per cluster). Also, mortality was higher among the symptomatic, especially among the aged and those with co-morbidities,” he said. “Therefore, our results indicate that public health actions focused on testing, tracing, tracking, and treating the symptomatic person must be accorded top priority in curbing the transmission and in reducing the mortality,” he said. During the study period, the infection was mainly spread through travel. While 68% (2,136) of cases got the infection through domestic travel, 4% (128) was through international travel. As many as 873 (27.8%) of the cases studied got the infection through a known contact with a COVID-19 positive case. In the remaining 267 cases, the precise reason behind the acquisition of infection could not be ascertained. Another author, R. Giridhara Babu, who is also a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said the findings have major implications for policies related to testing. “It is important to actively find people who have symptoms and test them on priority. Testing for asymptomatic persons can continue but the priorities for symptomatic persons is underscored in the study,” he said. Among the 3,404, the highest number of cases were identified in Bengaluru, followed by Kalaburagi, Mandya, Yadgir, Udupi, and Raichur. During the study period, the State was testing approximately 4,377 per million, with a positivity rate of 1.1. The total cases per million were 2, 708 in Karnataka then.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two actors, ex-councillor quizzed in drug case||Two actors, Akul Balaji and Santosh Aryan, and former city councillor R.V. Yuvaraj, were questioned for over seven hours by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) in connection with the ongoing investigation into the drug scandal on Saturday. “They were interrogated based on the evidence so far. Their responses will be analysed and further course of action decided,” Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime), said. Mr. Balaji owns a resort on the outskirts of the city that has hosted several parties where allegedly narcotics use was observed. Mr. Balaji reportedly claimed that while he owns the property it was sublet to another firm and that he had no involvement in its operations. “He produced relevant documents for the same. However, his participation in some of the parties was also probed,” CCB sources said.  ‘Fleeting acquaintance’ Earlier in the day, Mr. Balaji told the media that he had only a fleeting acquaintance with some of the accused in the case. Mr. Aryan and Mr. Yuvaraj were summoned for questioning for their links with businessman and alleged drug peddler Vaibhav Jain. While Mr. Aryan acknowledged his friendship with Mr. Jain and his business dealings with him, he claimed he had no role in drug peddling. Mr. Yuvaraj, son of former Congress MLA R.V. Devaraj, claimed Mr. Jain had taken a loan from him and had not repaid the same, and hence he had been in constant touch with him. Meanwhile, the bail hearing of actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, arrested in connection with the case, was adjourned till Monday by the Special NDPS Court here on Saturday. The two actors are in the Bengaluru Central Prison. The prosecutor sought a week to file objections to their bail application. The judge gave the prosecutor two days and adjourned the case till Monday.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dream big, follow your passion, and work towards fulfilling it: Rakshit Shetty||“Nobody starts off as a hero, that does not happen even in films. It is passion, hard work, and perseverance that makes the difference. Dream big, follow your passion and work hard towards fulfilling it and it will pay well,” said Rakshit Shetty, actor, director and entrepreneur. He was speaking at the inaugural session of the 18th edition of The Hindu -EducationPlus Career Counselling Conclave, which began on Saturday. The conclave, which has gone digital this year, will conclude on Tuesday. Mr. Shetty urged students to consider their interest and passion while mapping out their career path. “If you find yourself waiting for the weekend to approach, then it means that you are not happy for at least five days a week. Doing what you love and loving what you do comes into picture here,” he said. He called upon students to take failures positively. “Failure is a better teacher than success. I am what I am today because of failures and successes,” he said. While responding to a question about how he handles trolls, Mr. Shetty said that he does not make space for hatred and negativity. ‘Get basic degree’ D. Jogish, principal, Sai Vidya First Grade College, Yelahanka, Bengaluru, who also held a session spoke about career options for those interested in commerce and management. The Indian economy has more to offer to commerce and management students than to engineers, he said, while advising students to get at least a basic degree. “Mr. Shetty is a star now. He followed his passion, but completed his engineering,” he said. Emphasising on skill set and certification in the field, Mr. Jogish said that in India, demand exceeds supply when it comes to skilled human resource and domain expertise. “Hence, a skill set with proper certification along with passion makes all the difference in the fields of commerce and management,” he said. Leena Kumar, founder & principal of Kumar Consultants, spoke about careers in architecture. She said if one was good at numbers and liked formulas and had scientific bent of mind with creativity, architecture was best for them. Quoting Winston Churchill, she said: “We shape our buildings and thereafter they shape us,” adding that architecture was designing for human comfort. Sponsors Insights IAS is the gold sponsor for the event; and East West, Acharya Bangalore B-School, the Institute of Company Secretaries of India, and the Shaheen Group of Institutions, Bidar, are the silver sponsors.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students cannot visit their schools till month-end: govt.||Although the Union government had announced that high school students can visit their schools to get their doubts clarified from September 21, the State government has decided that no such visits will be allowed till the month-end. In an order issued on Saturday, S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of Primary and Secondary Education Department, said there has been a rise in the number of COVID-19 cases. “We have ordered that no visits to schools or PU colleges will be allowed till the end of the month. At the end of the month, we will seek the opinion of the Department of Health and Family Welfare and see if these visits can be allowed from October,” he said. Earlier this month, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued a standard operating procedure for partial reopening of schools for students from classes nine and 12 on a “voluntary basis” so that they can take guidance from their teachers from September 21. However, most private schools were not keen on this asparents had said they preferred online classes and did not want to put their children’s health at risk. A few schools, however, had told parents that they can book a slot if their children wanted to come to school to get their doubts clarified. They had said that students would be allowed only by prior appointment.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ACB raids officials linked to failed Mandur project||Sleuths from the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) raided premises linked to four BBMP officials, one of whom is retired, in connection with the alleged corruption in the Waste to Energy (WtE) plant at Mandur landfill, on Saturday. The officials are executive engineers K.V. Ravi and Venkateshappa, junior engineer Raghavendra, and retired executive engineer Suresh. The case dates back to more than a decade. Srinivas Gayatri Resource Recovery Pvt. Ltd. was awarded the tender to build a WtE plant at Mandur in 2005 and 35 acres of government land was allotted. The firm, however, failed to put up a WtE plant, but instead mortgaged the government land to raise a loan of Rs. 52.75 crore. BBMP reviewed the project and cancelled the MoU in 2014 after the firm failed to put up the plant, said civic officials. Sources in BBMP alleged that the firm was made to repay the loan and the land allotted was withdrawn. However, BBMP had paid the firm Rs. 4.61 crore as tipping fee for the waste dumped at Mandur landfill despite the firm not processing the waste. This matter was taken up by the Committee on Petitions of the State legislature, which directed the BBMP to refer the matter to ACB.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two arrested with drugs worth Rs. 10 lakh||Sleuths from the CCB Anti-Narcotics Wing arrested two African nationals and seized Rs. 10 lakh worth of 134 ecstasy pills and 25 LSD strips from them. The accused have been identified as Nonso Joachin, 36, from Nigeria and Traori Ben, 25, from the Ivory Coast. “The duo are known drug peddlers and have had cases booked against them in Ramamurthy Nagar and K.R. Puram before. They came to the country on medical visa, but have been indulging in drug peddling since 2017,” said police sources. They were arrested when they were trying to sell ecstasy pills in OMBR Layout on Friday evening. The police have also seized a weighing scale and empty ziplock pouches from them. In another case, the Basaveshwara Nagar police arrested Madan Kumar, 22, who was trying to sell ganja at a playground in Shivanagar on Friday evening and recovered 1.05 kg of ganja from him.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 8,364 new cases, 114 deaths||The State on Saturday reported 8,364 new cases, taking the tally to 5,11,346. With 114 new deaths, the toll rose to 7,922. This includes death of 19 COVID-19 patients owing to other reasons. As many as 10,815 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries to 4,04,841. After remaining at over one lakh for the past three consecutive days, the number of active cases came down to 98,564. Of these, 822 patients are being monitored in the ICUs of various hospitals. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,733 cases, taking the total tally to 1,91,438. With 33 of the 114 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 2,625. As many as 63,784 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 28,822 rapid antigen tests. With this the total number of tests rose to 41,79,567.
20 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nominations invited||The Karnataka State Council for Child Welfare (KSCCW) has invited nominations for bravery awards from children aged between six and 18 who have shown exemplary courage and valour in performing brave deeds. According to a press release, applications can be obtained from the KSCCW office at Shishuraksha, no. 135, 3rd Cross, Nandi Durga Road, Jayamahal, Bengaluru 560046. The last date to submit the applications is September 30, according to the release. For more information, call 080-23330846.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM hopeful on expansion, but no word from Delhi yet||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who returned to the city from a two-day trip to the national capital on Saturday, said he was hopeful that the party high command would give him suitable directions on Cabinet expansion before the assembly session scheduled on Monday. However, there was no communication from the party’s Central leadership even by Saturday late night, dashing hopes of a Cabinet expansion before the session, sources said. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister is still giving hope to Ministerial aspirants that if the high command permits he will expand the Cabinet even on Monday morning, before the session commences, sources in the ruling party said. On directions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, whom he met on Friday, Mr. Yediyurappa met BJP national president J P. Nadda on Friday night and discussed the proposed Cabinet expansion/reshuffle. However, Mr. Nadda is learnt to have told the CM that he would consult other leaders and give him suitable directions, which has not happened so far. Party leaders said it was highly unlikely that an expansion would happen at least before the end of the Assembly session.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Babu joins Congress||Former JD(S) MLC Ramesh Babu joined the Congress in the presence of KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday. He was welcomed with a party shawl by both senior leaders. Mr. Babu quit the JD(S) after he was sidelined by the State JD(S) leaders, sources said. Mr. Shivakumar said many leaders who quit the party have shown interest in rejoining. A committee had been formed for this. The leaders would be readmitted after the committee scrutinized their applications, he added.
20 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officials inspect road work||BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad and Administrator Gaurav Gupta, accompanied by senior officials, inspected the widening of Anepalya Junction and Sarjapur Main Road, Silk Board Junction, apart from the ongoing white-topping work on Saturday.
20 September 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||ASHAs to hold Statewide protest on Sept. 22 to condemn govt. apathy||Condemning the State government’s apathy towards their long pending demands, Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) will stage a Statewide protest on September 22. Addressing presspersons here on Saturday, Gangadhar Badiger, president of the Dharwad unit of the Karnataka Rajya Samyukta ASHA Karyakarteyara Sangh, said that despite the ASHAs’ long struggle the State government had not bothered to consider their demands and it had even forgotten the assurances given to them. Mr. Badiger said that over 42,000 social health activists from across the State would boycott work and join the agitation on Tuesday. Apart from demonstrations at the district headquarters across the State, there will be a massive agitation at Bengaluru to press for their demands, he said. The main demand of the ASHAs are enhancement of the honorarium to Rs. 12,000 per month and clearance of the pending wages.  Mr. Badiger said that if their demands were not met, then the sangh would be forced to launch an agitation to lay siege to the Vidhana Soudha during the legislature session.
20 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Centre and State should rescue MSMEs’||Both the Union and State governments should come to the rescue of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) facing a crisis due to COVID-19 pandemic, said K.B. Arasappa, president of Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association. Speaking to presspersons in Shivamogga on Saturday, Mr. Arasappa said the Centre should take up measures to revive the industry, particularly small enterprises. He suggested the government step up expenditure on infrastructure, public works, increase investment on critical health infrastructure, urban housing, among others. The government must inject cash into micro and small enterprises through direct payroll support until the end of the current fiscal. Besides that, interest rate on bank loans should be reduced to 6%, he said. Regarding Shivamogga, he said the district had 20,107 micro and small industries with an investment of 939 crore. Twenty medium, six large and three mega units had been functioning in the district with total investment of 1,646 crore. “The district accounts for 3.1% of manufacturing, 4.3% agriculture and nearly 2.5% services in the State. But, this is still far below the actual potential of the district, he opined. The district, he said, had been suffering from rickety industrial infrastructure. KASSIA with the district industries association would urge the State “government to take steps to correct deficiencies. “KASSIA has been in consultations with the State and Union governments on issues bothering the industrial sector due to COVID-19,” he added.
20 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Actor-choreographer held; drugs recovered||A 30-year-old actor-turned-choreographer was among the two persons arrested by the Mangaluru city police on Saturday for alleged illegal possession and consumption of narcotic drug MDMA. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash gave the names of accused as Kishore Aman Shetty, 30, of Kulai and his friend Akeel Nousheel, 28, from Surathkal. The police recovered few packets of MDMA and a motorcycle. Mr. Vikash told reporters that the accused reportedly brought MDMA packets from Mumbai. “They have consumed MDMA. The two had planned to sell few packets,” he said. Shetty, a native of the city, had all his choreography activities in Mumbai. He has acted in the Hindi movie ABCD. He had won awards in reality shows ‘Dance India Dance Season 2’ and ‘Dance Ke Super Star’ and in ‘Dance’ show of a Kannada channel. Noushal, who worked as a sales officer in Dubai, came to the city a year ago.  Four arrested in Udupi The Gangolli police in Udupi district arrested Mohammed Sakir, 24, Mohammed Jaffer, 32, Alaz, 20, and Yusuf Sab, 45 for alleged illegal transportation of cannabis in a vehicle on Friday.
20 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Defence Ministry takes over 158 acres of land for Coast Guard academy||The country’s first Indian Coast Guard Training Academy proposed in Mangaluru is becoming a reality with the Ministry of Defence taking over 158 acres of land near Baikampady in the city. The PRO Bengaluru, Ministry of Defence, tweeted on Saturday: “India’s first coast guard academy to come up at Mangaluru. 158 acres of KIADB (Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board) land taken over for setting up the ICGA. A milestone towards professional maritime training to Indian Coast Guard officers, men and stakeholders.” Sources said that earlier the Centre had proposed to set up the same academy at Irinavu, Azhikkal, near Kannur in Kerala. After the project was approved by the Union Cabinet in 2009, the Kerala government transferred 164 acres of land and the foundation stone was laid on May 28, 2011, by then Defence Minister A.K. Antony. After learning about the move to shift the proposed academy from Kerala to Karnataka, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan had written to the PM to drop the move. After the high powered committee of the Karnataka government cleared the proposal, Defence Ministry officials visited Mangaluru and had inspected the site in 2017. Clearance denied The Union Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik had informed Kerala MP Elamaram Kareem in the Rajya Sabha in December, 2019, that the project had been dropped in Kerala following the denial of environment and CRZ (Coastal Regulation Zone) clearances by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC). He said the MoEFCC had denied clearance as the project site at Azhikkal fell within the CRZ-1(A) area where no construction is permissible.
20 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru-Mumbai KSRTC bus service from Sept. 24||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation will operate multi-axle Volvo and non-AC sleeper bus services between Mangaluru and Mumbai from September 24. The non-AC sleeper bus will depart from Mangaluru at noon and reach Mumbai at 7.30 a.m. the next day via Udupi, Kundapura, Bhatkal, Ankola, Belagavi, and Mumbai. The travel fare will be Rs. 1,600 per person. On the return journey, it will leave Mumbai in the noon and arrive here at 7.30 a.m. the next day. The multi-axle Volvo will start from Mangaluru at 1 p.m. and reach Mumbai at 7 a.m. The fare is Rs. 1,800 per person.
20 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Tendering for AC Road work completed||The tendering process for the reconstruction of the Alappuzha-Changanasserry (AC) Road has been completed, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. In a statement issued here on Saturday, Mr. Sudhakaran said that the work had been awarded to the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society. The Minister said the road work under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative was expected to be completed in three years. The detailed project report was prepared considering the geography of the Kuttanad region, he said. Rs. 672 crore The 24.14-km AC Road reconstruction will be carried out at a cost of Rs. 672 crore. It is expected to prevent flooding of the road during monsoon. As part of the project, 20.04 km of the road will be raised and strengthened. Five flyovers will be constructed between the Onnamkara bridge and Mankombu Junction (370m); Mankombu Junction and Mankombu culvert (440m); Jyothi Junction and Parasseril bridge (260m); Ponga culvert and Pandarakulam (485m); and near Mankombu Thekkekara (240m). Widening of bridges Besides, three existing bridges at Kidangara, Nedumudi, and Pallathuruthy will be widened. The Muttar bridge across the AC canal will be reconstructed. Apart from these, construction of nine causeways, 13 minor bridges, drains, ducts, retaining walls, culverts, bus shelters and road safety features are also planned.
20 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Crop calendar for Kuttanad released||The crop calendar for Kuttanad will give a fresh impetus to the agriculture sector, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was releasing a report titled ‘Eco-restoration of Vembanad wetland - mainstreaming operation of Thanneermukkom barrage by devising crop calendar for Kuttanad’ prepared by the International Research and Training Centre for Below Sea Level Farming, Kuttanad. The crop calendar is included in the report. Farming schedule Mr. Vijayan said that the crop calendar was part of the second Kuttanad package. He said the operation of the Thanneermukkom barrage would be scientifically managed. As per the calendar, the ‘puncha’ paddy farming in ‘kayal’ fields will commence in the middle of October and harvest will take place in the first week of March. In Upper Kuttanad, the cultivation will begin in December with an aim to harvest the produce by April-end. “The crop calendar will help increase agriculture production in the region. It will also help inland fisheries and clam sectors,” Mr. Vijayan said. The second Kuttanad package is being implemented jointly by the State Planning Board, Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, and Rebuild Kerala Initiative. The eco-restoration of the Vembanad wetland ecosystem, farming, development and flood mitigation have been given major thrust in the package.
20 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||348 more in Alappuzha||COVID-19 cases continue to spike in the district with 348 people testing positive for the disease on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 284 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Sixty-one people who came from other States, one from abroad, and two health workers also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 284 local cases include 39 from Ambalappuzha South and 27 from Alappuzha. Aryad (17), Pathiyoor (17), Thycattusserry (16), Kayamkulam (14), Kavalam (14), Purakkad (14), Arattuppuzha (14) and Ezhuppuna (10) also reported a high number of contact cases. Meanwhile, 224 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 2,789.
20 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmer suicide in Wayanad||A 59-year-old farmer committed suicide at Kaniyaram, near Mananthavady, in the district on Friday night. The police identified the deceased as Jose, 59, of Vazhaplam Kudiyil at Kaniyaram under the Mananthavady police station limits. He went missing in the evening and was found dead inside his plantation after consuming poison, sources said. His relatives said he had borrowed nearly Rs. 3 lakh from various sources for farming and to start a poultry unit. However, he could not repay the debts on time owing to crop loss. He had also faced huge loss in the poultry venture owing to the lockdown. The debts forced him to take the extreme step, they said. Jose is survived by his wife, Gracy, and three children. Disha suicide prevention helpline can be reached at 1056, 0471-2552056.
20 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New generation courses by November||The Higher Education Department has asked universities in the State to initiate steps to launch new undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in innovative areas by November 1 this year. These include four- and five-year programmes recommended by an expert committee set up by the government. The universities have been told to receive applications from accredited government and aided colleges and unaccredited aided colleges managed by Scheduled Tribe trusts. Each college could apply for short-listed courses in the order of priority. As these courses are suggestive, any other course recommended by the universities concerned may also be included, according to a directive issued to the Registrars of Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi, Calicut, Kannur and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological Universities. All varsities need to seek the permission of the Chancellor expeditiously to start the programmes by November 1. The four- and five-year courses may be launched this year only in colleges with adequate facilities and having a National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) score of 3.26 or ranking under 100 in the National Institute Ranking Framework, 2020. The universities should recommend the courses considering the syllabus and evaluation. The assistance of faculty from outside higher educational institutions offering similar courses can be sought while preparing the syllabus and credit requirements. The universities should consider and implement changes in the examinations proposed by the committee headed by Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University, this year itself. It should shift from memory-based testing to creative learning expressed through assignments, presentations and academic writings and earning of substantial credits through online courses from the prescribed list of global online courses. The government order said the target of increasing the gross enrolment ratio in higher education to 48% from the present 37% by 2030 can be achieved only by a collective effort by all stakeholders. This called for timely changes in the exam system as well to ensure qualitative improvement of the learning outcomes. Some of the innovative programmes suggested by the expert committee included four-year courses in Epidemiology, Nanoscience and triple-main programmes in Modern Biology, Astrophysics and Disaster Management.
20 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||No clear policy to police migrant community in Ernakulam||The arrest of three suspected Al-Qaeda operatives from among the migrant community has brought to focus yet again the absence of a clear policy to effectively police the vast migrant community residing in the district. Arbitrary surveillance and interrogation of migrants without valid reasons, a senior police officer said, ran counter to their rights guaranteed under the Constitution and would attract legal reprimand if questioned in a court of law. “After all, they too are Indians and have the right to move around and work anywhere in the country. Instead, there needs to be a clear policy for law enforcement agencies on how to monitor them,” he said, adding that it was for the Labour Department to collect data on the migrant workforce. The department, however, hardly has any comprehensive database. Till before the outbreak of the pandemic, it had issued insurance cards to around 1.12 lakh migrant workers, and that remains the only database with the department for all practical purposes, said a senior District Labour Officer. Futile exercise While the police ask contractors to regularly update details of migrants, the latter often engage in gross under-reporting to substantially reduce their financial commitments, thus rendering the entire exercise futile. That migrants are a heavily floating population further complicates their effective monitoring. The police had in 2011 launched a programme to audit labour camps in Ernakulam Rural following suspicion that the large migrant workforce was being used as an effective cover by Maoists. But that project fell through owing to lack of cooperation from contractors. Document rackets Verification of original identity documents also remains far from foolproof considering that in the past even illegal migrants were found to have original Indian documents. “There are thriving rackets in the border districts of West Bengal and Assam that run fake document factories,” said the police officer. For instance, four illegal Bangladesh migrants deported from the Kochi airport in 2018 were found to have Indian passports, Aadhaar, and PAN cards. Despite the bi-monthly meeting of various stakeholders, including the Railway Protection Force, Government Railway Police, and the local police, to take stock of the migrant scene, it has had little impact.  They [migrants] too have the right to move around and work anywhere in the country. There needs to be a clear policy on how to monitor them A senior police officer
20 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Arrest may put labourers in a spot||For the migrant community faced with absolute poverty and hunger back home and forced to risk a return to their workplaces amid the spread of COVID-19, the arrest of three among them on suspicion of terror links could not have come at a worse time. The three arrested persons hail from the border district of Murshidabad in West Bengal. The incident may prove damaging for the Ernakulam-Murshidabad inter-State migrant corridor, one of the longest and most thriving migrant corridors in the country. About 30% of all migrant workers in Ernakulam are from Murshidabad, which also accounts for 74% of the total workforce from West Bengal. Benoy Peter, executive director of Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, traced the birth of the corridor to the late 90s, coinciding with the Supreme Court’s timber ban in the northeast in 1996. “It badly affected the forest wood-based plywood industry in Assam, which had a monopoly in the sector at that time and proved a blessing to the rubber wood-based industry in Perumbavoor that started thriving. This led to an exodus of workers from places like Nagaon in Assam to Perumbavoor who had Bengali as their mother tongue and connections in Murshidabad district. That social networking-based migration led to a surge in the migrant flow from Murshidabad to Ernakulam over the years,” he said. Mr. Peter said that at present almost all families especially in Damkal and Jalangi community development blocks within Murshidabad had someone working in Ernakulam and seemed to know the names of even remote places in the district. “Along with their counterparts from Tamil Nadu, the workforce from Murshidabad now dominates the footloose migrants engaged largely in unskilled and semi-skilled jobs, mainly in places such as Muvattupuzha, Angamaly, Kalady, Perumbavoor and Piravom,” he said. ‘Baseless perception’ George Mathew, coordinator of Progressive Workers’ Association, said the arrest could reassert the baseless public perception of migrants being criminals besides strengthening religious polarisation. “This could even be part of a now-familiar ploy in the country to propagate majoritarian politics, using enforcement agencies,” he said. Mr. Peter said Kerala society, historically dependent on expatriates, should be more compassionate and not resort to “othering”.
20 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Little it dawned on them that ‘fugitives’ were around||Abubacker, who runs a textile shop at Perumbavoor, is yet to recover from the shock to which he woke up in the early morning hours on Saturday. When he received a call from the Perumbavoor Police Inspector around 2 a.m. asking about the house of one of his employee Mosaraf Hossen from Murshidabad in West Bengal, hardly did he imagine that his trusted worker for the last 10 years would be declared an Al-Qaeda fugitive shortly. “He was with me for three years initially and then he returned home. By the time he came back seven years ago, he was married and his family was also with him. I still can’t believe this,” said Mr. Abubacker who always found him good-mannered with everyone, including the customers. Mosaraf was so trusted that he opened the shop daily and Abubacker and his brother only came in the afternoon. “There was nothing suspicious about him, else I would have thrown him out long back. His elder daughter is in a local school and is the class topper, and I have seen him swell with pride on getting appreciative calls from the school,” said Mr. Abubacker who was devastated on witnessing the heart-rending cries of Mosaraf’s wife. “If I can’t trust a man who has been with me for 10 years whom will I trust now,” he wondered. Mosaraf’s co-worker at the shop Thahir from Assam is also in disbelief knowing that the man who worked with him till the other day has turned a terror accused literally overnight. Haris who employed the other terror accused Iyakub Biswas in his shop selling readymade porotta and chappathi at Kandanthara at Perumbavoor is equally perplexed. He was summoned to his shop by the police after Iyakub was nabbed when he was about to start his job around 2.30 a.m. “He had left me about one-and-a-half-year unsatisfied about the pay. He then returned three months ago when we reopened the shop after the lockdown. Never during his time with us did we have any reason to suspect that something was amiss,” he said. Those in the neighbourhood of Murshid Hasan, who was picked up from a rented house in Pathalam, also failed to see what was coming for who they regarded as an unassuming and a religious youngster. “He had been staying in that home for some months now since the lockdown and appeared a decent man. To my knowledge he was not into drinking or such other vices,” said a man in the neighbourhood who did not want to be named considering the serious charge against his neighbour.  “Pathalam is house to a large migrant community and there are many houses rented out to them. However, owners never really give the exact number of occupants and that posed us serious difficulty after the floods of 2018,” said Jasmine Muhammadkunju, local councillor.
20 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||IS module case: one more held||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday arrested one more person in the case relating to a secret meeting of the IS module, named Ansarul Khilafa, at Kanakamala in Kannur in 2016. The accused Mohammad Polakkani, a native of Kannur, had been working in Georgia for the last several years. He was arrested by the agency on his arrival at an airport in the State, according to NIA officials. Mr. Mohammad had operated using a different name in Telegram and WhatsApp groups in which the group had planned its operations. The NIA had traced his original identity last year and issued a lookout notice for him. He was produced before an NIA court judge here and was remanded in judicial custody. Six persons convicted The NIA court had convicted six persons in connection with the case last year. A follow-up investigation had established that the accused prepared to target prominent persons and foreigners on visit to India.
20 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Spike in leptospirosis cases worries officials||The spike in cases of leptospirosis in the district this year, which is higher than the instances recorded in the past two years, has left health authorities baffled. From April onwards, the number of cases of leptospirosis have been rising consistently with 210 suspected cases till Friday. There have been eight deaths this year, seven of which were suspected and one was confirmed. For the same period, 114 suspected cases were recorded in 2019 and 133 cases in 2018. Usually, leptospirosis is restricted to certain high-risk persons such as MGNREGA workers or pineapple farmers who work in fields, said Vinod Paulose, district surveillance officer for non-COVID diseases. But this year, a 19-year-old who had played football on a marshy field for a week had contracted leptospirosis, possibly due to contact with cattle urine on the field. Two people who had gone fishing during the lockdown had also developed the disease. Though no analysis had been done, it could be due to environmental factors such as pollution or increasingly poor waste management, he said. Diagnosis had been complicated by the COVID-19 scenario, since patients were hesitant to visit hospitals, said Dr. Paulose. Dengue cases decline Meanwhile, dengue has been on a declining trend in the district so far, with about 91 cases in September, after a surge in June that saw about 972 cases. But the rains this month remain a cause for worry for health officials.
20 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam gets waste collection calendar||The Green Kerala Mission has constituted a non-biodegradable waste collection calendar for Ernakulam district on the basis of which a training programme has been launched under the aegis of the Kerala Institute of Local Administration for members of Haritha Kerala Mission, Sushitwa Mission, Clean Kerala Company, and Kudumbashree. The focus of the training programme, launched in Chottanikkara, is on collection of non-biodegradable waste materials, segregation, and safe disposal, said an official on Saturday. The calendar says plastic materials will be collected every month. Footwear and bags will be collected in January, April, July, and October, and glass materials in February, May, August, and November. E-waste will be collected in March, June, and December; medicines and medicine strips in March, June, and December; and cloth in April and September.
20 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Highest daily tally in Kollam||In the highest single-day spike so far, Kollam reported 436 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. Among the patients are 389 local contact cases, four persons from abroad and 37 others who had travelled from other States. Six health workers, employed at both government and private facilities, also contracted the infection through contact. The district had recorded the highest number of patients till date on September 9 with 362 persons testing positive. The number of new patients had crossed 300 on two more days on September 6 and 11 while the tally was 300 on September 16. Of late, Kollam Corporation has been reporting a steady surge in caseload which went over 100 on Saturday while it was 86 on Friday. Among those who travelled from other States, 33 are labourers from West Bengal, now in Karunagappally. Alappad, Thalavur, and Thevalakkara too reported high number of contact cases. Kollam currently has 2,775 active cases. The number of recoveries on Saturday is 243. The Health Department has also confirmed that the recent deaths of a 77-year-old Thirumullavaram resident, an 89-year-old Chavara resident and a 78-year-old Prakkulam resident were due to COVID-19. The district administration has opened a safe facility for children below the age of 10 and elderly persons above 65 whose family members are infected or placed in quarantine. The centre attached to Azeezia Medical College Hospital will accommodate children and senior citizens who cannot stay at home without risking their safety.
20 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed and one seriously injured when a speeding car collided with a truck at Poovarani, near Pala, on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Sandeep, 31, of Upputhara in Idukki, and Vishnu Vijayan, 26, of Nariyampara, Idukki. Liju, 29, who too was travelling in the car, sustained serious injuries and was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. The deceased, employees of a car dealership, were on their way to Ettumanur when the car collided with the truck. The accident occurred around 8.30 a.m when the driver lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a curve and collided with the truck coming from the opposite direction.
20 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam logs 263 cases||As many as 263 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 260 contracted the virus through local transmission. Vazhappally panchayat led the tally with 34 cases followed by Kottayam with 26 cases. Ettumanur reported 20 cases while cases were also reported from Pambady-13, Panchikkad- 11, Kurichy-10 etc. 116 recoveries With 116 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,587 active cases. The Kottayam district panchayat has decided to set up kiosks for collecting swab samples in various government health centres so as to augment the number of daily tests. The kiosks will be set up primary health centres, family health centres, and community health centres.
20 September 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||534 cases in Malappuram||Malappuram saw the biggest spike ever of COVID-19 cases when 534 people tested positive on Saturday. While 483 of them were found to have been infected through direct local contacts, the source of infection could not be traced in 34 cases. Six people succumbed to the disease in the district since Friday. There were 329 recoveries in the district on Saturday. In Kozhikode Kozhikode Corporation, Vadakara, and Chorod reportedly have the highest COVID-19 caseload in Kozhikode even as another 412 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Three persons died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Friday and Saturday. While an 81-year-old woman from Olavanna, Kozhikode, and a 63-year-old man from Meendathur, Malappuram, died on Saturday, a 68-year-old man from Pilassery in Kozhikode died on Friday. With 344 people recovering from the infection, the number of active cases from the district is 3,573. The number of cases through local transmission from Kozhikode Corporation is 151. In Ernakulam Five health workers at private hospitals in Ernakulam were among the 351 people who tested positive on Saturday. As many as 189 people recovered from the disease. A total of 338 people acquired the infection through local contact. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 349 people tested positive on Saturday. Health officials said 248 of them had contracted the virus through direct contacts. There were 129 recoveries. In Thrissur As many as 351 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Saturday. Among the new cases, 346 contracted the disease through contact. There were 190 recoveries. In Wayanad As many as 95 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Saturday. Of the total cases, 90 were infected through contact.  (With inputs from Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Palakkad, Thrissur, and Wayanad bureaus)
20 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||221 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 221 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. Of the new cases, 176 contracted the virus through local contact while 10 persons had landed from abroad. The infection sources of 24 cases are yet to identified. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old Kotta native who died at his residence three days ago tested positive for the virus after death though it is yet to be included in the State-level figures. The person had been undergoing treatment for high blood pressure and chronic diabetics. With this, COVID-19 related fatalities in the district rose to 36. With 87 recoveries during the day, the number of active cases in the district was 1,182 while about 16,500 persons were under observation.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Charges against KU ex-officials dropped||The Crime Branch (CB) has counselled an anti-corruption court here to drop criminal charges against seven former officials of Kerala University (KU) accused of conspiracy, corruption and nepotism in appointment to the post of university assistants (UA) Grade-II in 2005. The court filing late August appeared in the public domain only on Saturday. The recommendation is potentially controversial given that several of the main accused in the case are office-bearers of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). 175 appointed As many as 45,538 university graduates had taken the examination for 350-odd vacancies. Around 175 of them got appointed. Hundreds of candidates later moved court, questioning the fairness of the selection process. The examination soon became a symbol of political patronage, corruption and preferential employment. Many candidates alleged that the officials had leaked question paper in the Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) format. They doubted the valuation and interview process. The case meandered through courts since 2006. Finally, in 2014 and under the United Democratic Front (UDF) government, the CB named former Vice Chancellor M.K. Ramachandran Nair; Pro Vice Chancellor V. Jayaprakash; Syndicate members B.S. Rajeev (late), A.A. Rasheed, K.A. Andrews and N.V. Russel; and registrar K.A. Hashim as main accused in the exam fraud. The agency indicted them for conspiracy, cheating, corruption, nepotism, falsification of records, criminal breach of trust by a public servant, forgery and destruction of evidence. In 2016, the High Court quashed the chargesheet. It said the CB should bring the beneficiaries of the racket under the ambit of its probe and seize the “doctored” answer sheets and other material. The KU spent Rs. 43 lakh on the examination process. The High Court ordered a further inquiry. In May 2020, under the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government, the CB reversed its earlier position that it had evidence to prosecute the accused. The then CB Director Tomin Thachankary told the court that the material collected by the CB was not sufficient to indict the accused. He found no point in continuing the investigation.  Many candidates alleged that the officials had leaked question paper in the OMR format
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||824 cases added to capital’s tally||The capital district added 824 cases to its COVID-19 tally on Saturday, taking the number of active cases to 6,721. Local transmission of the infection accounted for 637 while the source of infection was unknown in 147. While four cases were considered imported ones, 34 among the newly diagnosed COVID-19 patients were undergoing quarantine at their homes. The number of those affected among health workers also continued to surge with 36 testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 564 recoveries were reported on the day. The death toll also rose to 165 with four recent deaths — those of a 94-year-old Kanjirampara native and others hailing from Moozhi (87 years old), Vallichira (65) and Chempazhanthy (47) — being attributed to the disease. Among the fresh cases, 479 are men and 347, women. There are 104 people aged below 15 years and 141 aged above 60 years. The highest number of cases were recorded from Medical College (31), Venjaramoodu (26), Parassala (25), Neyyattinkara, Ottasekharamangalam (15 each), Karamana (13), Peyad, Nettayam (11 each), and Kalliyoor (10). Other localities that witnessed prevalence of COVID-19 include Manacaud (nine), Thirumala, Anayara, (eight each), Nellimood, Vattappara, Varkala, Thiruvallam (seven each), Vallakkadavu, Nemom, and Perumathura (six each), Poovar, Poojappura, Aroor, Pattom, Nedumangad, Vizhinjam (five each), and Muttathara (four).  25,541 in quarantine As many as 1,893 people were placed in quarantine on the day. With this, the number of people who were being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms in the district has gone up to 25,541. The district administration declared as containment zones Chala (UP School and Pazhayasala areas) and Manacaud (Puthen Road and Karimadom areas) wards of the Corporation; Mandapakkunnu ward in Nellanad grama panchayat; Kaivanvila ward in Kanjiramkulam grama panchayat; parts of Vavarambalam ward in Pothencode grama panchayat; Oorupoika ward in Mudakkal grama panchayat; and Velloorkonam ward in Navaikulam grama panchayat. Containment zone status has been withdrawn in Thirumala (Odankuzhi area), Kuriyathi (Kuriyathi residents’ association and K.M. Mani Road areas) in the Corporation; Kallyam and Plavuvila wards in Karakulam grama panchayat; and Cheenivala ward in Kanjiramkulam grama panchayat.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New trauma care wing at MCH||The government is committed to developing Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, as a modern public sector tertiary-care centre to offer the best care to people, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was inaugurating online a new trauma care division and the emergency medicine department at the MCH, modernised at a cost of Rs. 33 crore, here on Saturday. The modernised trauma management centre and emergency medicine division have been set up on the lines of the trauma care centre at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and would ensure prompt and efficient delivery of medical care, he said. Triaging system The triaging system at the casualty wing will ensure that patients reaching the hospital with various medical conditions will be prioritised according to the nature of their illness and medical condition, and given proper treatment. The new trauma management system has been so devised that all medial departments as well as neurological emergencies such as stroke, cardiological emergencies such as heart attacks, and burns will function in a coordinated manner under a single umbrella. All superspecialty services will also be available on call. The trauma care centre has been so laid out that all diagnostic modalities such as the CT scan, MRI, Ultrasound, and other diagnostic services will be attached to the same building so that patients requiring emergency treatments will not face any delay. The Level II trauma care centre will have 120 beds with oxygen and ventilator support. Five operation theatres, 10-bedded transit ICU, eight-bed Casualty ICU, 21 ventilators, and other multi-parameter monitors have been readied. The government has created a total of 106 posts, from doctors to ambulance staff.The government has also allowed Rs. 5 crore for the development of the stroke unit, including a stroke cath lab.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10-day Painkuni festival ends||The 10-day Painkuni festival at Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple concluded with the Arat to the Padmatheertham, the sacred pond in front of the iconic temple, for the ritualistic immersion of the idols on Saturday evening. In adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, the traditional Arat procession’ carrying the idols on ‘garuda vahanas’ to the Shanghumughom beach via the Arat road and the tarmac of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport was avoided for the first time. Instead, the idols of Sree Padmanabhaswamy, Thiruvambadi Krishna, and Narasimhamoorthy carried by priests were taken out through the eastern gate of the temple to Padmatheertham around 6 p.m. Moolam Tirunal Rama Varma, head of the ruling family of the erstwhile Travancore, led the procession wearing the traditional green cap and carrying the ceremonial sword. Other male members of the family accompanied him. Tantri Tharanallur Satheesan Namboodiripad led the priests in conducting the pujas and this was followed by immersion of the idols in the sacred pond, one of the oldest in the State capital. The idols of four temples under Travancore Devaswom Board also arrived at the Padmatheertham for the Arat and pujas were conducted on the other banks of the pond.  After five months The festival concluded after the idols were brought back to the temple through the eastern gate. After the idols were taken in procession to the temple, the festival flag was lowered and pujas held. The ‘palli vetta” was held on Friday night near the police control room on the Western gate of the temple. The festival was being held after five months following the advice by the temple priest Nedumpilli Tharanallur N.P. Parameswaran Namboodiripad to go ahead with the Painkuni festival with limited rituals.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Salary cut may be limited to five days instead of six||Amidst opposition from many quarters, the government has commenced the groundwork to deduct the salary of employees for six months to raise funds to overcome the financial crisis in the wake of COVID-19. To give relief to employees, the government is considering deducting salary for five days instead of six days every month till February 2021. Relief from the salary cut for those who have availed themselves of the refundable loan from the provident fund and those who have taken the Onam advance and to exempt those having salary up to Rs. 30,000 is also under consideration. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has already held talks with the recognised unions. Most of the union representatives have opposed the move. Dr. Isaac has asked the union leaders to give their views in writing. Prof-Left unions such as the Joint Council, Federation of State Employees and Teachers Organisation, NGO Union, and the Secretariat Employees Association came out with statements on Saturday opposing the salary cut. As per rule, the government has to issue a Government Order for all Cabinet decisions within 24 hours. The delay in issuing the salary cut order was reportedly due to the consultations with the recognised unions as announced by the Chief Minister. Following opposition from the Left unions, Dr. Isaac has convened a meeting of employees unions on Tuesday. With three consecutive holidays from Saturday, the department is trying to issue the Government Order on Tuesday itself. The proposed salary cut from September, to be known as COVID-19 Income Support Scheme, will also attract 9% annual interest till it is deposited in the PF on April 1, 2021.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Monsoon showers its bounty again||Kerala has already crossed the 2,000 mm rainfall mark during the current southwest monsoon season with the rainfall activity over the region continuing to be brisk. And there is still more than a week left before the season formally closes. This is the third consecutive year that the State is surpassing the 2,000 mm mark during the southwest monsoon, which accounts for 70% of the annual rainfall. In 2018 and 2019 also, Kerala recorded southwest monsoon rainfall in excess of 2,300 mm for the entire season. This year, the southwest monsoon officially set in over Kerala on June 1. India Meteorological Department (IMD) data show that by September 19, Kerala recorded 2,055.5 mm of rainfall as against the normal 1,947.5 mm for the June 1-September 19 period. During the same period in 2019, Kerala recorded 2,213.1 mm (14% excess) and in 2018, 2,349.1 mm (25% excess). In 2016 and 2017, the rainfall for the June 1-September 19 period stood at 1,767.5 mm (-5%) and 1,317.3 mm (-32%).  Excess rainfall So far during the 2020 southwest monsoon, Thiruvananthapuram district recorded 33% excess rainfall and Kozhikode 30%. Kottayam and Kannur each recorded 24% excess. All the other districts reported normal rainfall, except for Wayanad which reported deficiency. (Departure in rainfall between -19% and +19% is deemed normal in India Meteorological Department parlance). Kerala recorded intense spells during the southwest monsoon seasons in 2018 and 2019, which triggered devastating floods and landslips in many districts. Overall for the southwest monsoon season in 2018, Kerala recorded 2,515.73 mm — 23.34% in excess of the normal — between June 1 and September 30. In 2019, when the monsoon onset was on June 8, the State recorded 2,309.8 mm till September 30. In 2017, the monsoon was weak in Kerala.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU declares results of its second BTech batch||APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) on Saturday declared the results of its second BTech batch (2016-20) on Saturday, less than a month of completion of the final year examinations on August 20. Registering a pass percentage of 46.53, as many as 16,017 students cleared the exams among the 34,416 who had registered for the final exam. These included over 1,500 students of the 2015-19 batch who had appeared for supplementary exam, official sources said. KTU’s first batch had a pass percentage of 36.41. While 38,002 students were admitted in 23 engineering branches in 2016, as many as 5,357 students had dropped out midway. While 2,750 students (7.2%) discontinued the course, 2,607 students are continuing BTech in lower semesters. As many as 145 colleges, including 111 private and 22 government-controlled self-financing ones, are currently affiliated to the KTU. Top colleges Among the five preferred engineering streams, the highest pass percentage of 52.64 was achieved in Computer Science and Engineering. Muthoot Institute of Technology and Science, Ernakulam; College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram; and Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology, Ernakulam; ranked highest with pass percentages of 80.85, 76.86 and 75.26. TKM College of Engineering, Kollam, had the highest number of students who appeared for the final year exams (781). While boys registered a pass percentage of 36.2, the corresponding figure among girls is 62.18. A total of 275 Sheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students out of 1,225 (22.44%) qualified for BTech degree. Lateral entry students registered a pass percentage of 40.11 (901 out of 2,246 students). As many as 1,286 students were found eligible for BTech (Honours) degree. Highest scorers The students who scored the highest cumulative grade point average (CGPA) were Akhil P. Mohan, College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram (9.94); Alexander Joseph V. Paul (Mar Athanasius College of Engineering, Kothamangalam (9.85); and Aayisha S. Ahmed, TKM College of Engineering, Kollam (9.84). The university informed that the provisional certificates of all students who have passed will be issued for free before September 25. While the soft copies of the semester grade cards (mark lists) are already available, the consolidated grade card will be issued for free within three weeks. The registration for degree certificates will commence soon on the university portal.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rajan Gurukkal urges caution||Kerala State Higher Education Council (KSHEC) vice chairman Rajan Gurukkal P.M. has sounded a note of caution on the ‘new generation, multidisciplinary courses’ recommended by an expert panel. Terming the move inappropriate, the educationist says the government should ideally list priority areas among academic disciplines, rather than thrusting courses through orders. ‘Top-down approach’  A section of academicians warn against a 'top-down approach' that imperils universities’ autonomy. Even as the government maintains that the list is only suggestive, academics say new programmes and syllabi should ideally be evolved by statutory bodies, including the Board of Studies and the Academic Council after ascertaining facilities in colleges. Professor Gurukkal also cautions against instituting undergraduate (UG) programmes in specialised branches of basic sciences or interdisciplinary science and technology fields. UG programmes in sub-disciplines such as biochemistry, biotechnology, and microbiology should no longer be encouraged as they require strong knowledge base in basic sciences. “All new academic programmes in emerging areas of knowledge must be designed in a cross-disciplinary perspective. Nevertheless, programmes in basic sciences, including social sciences and humanities, are important, but all new UG programmes in them must be multidisciplinary,” he says.  Research-oriented According to him, university-level academic programmes in emerging fields of super-specialisation must be research-oriented and must be offered as PhD programmes rather than as postgraduate (PG) diploma programmes. Prof. Gurukkal says conventional UG programmes in physics, chemistry, and biological science must be turned into integrated science programmes with mathematics and fundamentals of earth and environmental sciences for BS/BSc Honours as combinations. He views anthropology as the most suitable elemental discipline that could be combined with a wide array of fields such as linguistics, arts, archaeology, history, economics, and political science at the UG and PG levels.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vital phase in murder probe||The District Crime Branch has entered a crucial phase in its probe instituted around a year ago into the deaths of seven members of a family in Karamana and the alleged illegality behind the transfer of their ancestral properties. The case pertains to the mysterious deaths in the Koodathil family in Kalady that was registered in October last. The police have claimed breakthrough after finding contradictions in the statement given by Raveendran Nair, who worked as the caretaker of their house. Collection of further evidence case could pave the way for his arrest. Seven members of the Koodathil family had died over a period of 26 years from 1991. The deceased included Gopinathan Nair, his wife Sumukhi Amma, their children Jayabalakrishnan, Jayaprakash, Jayasree and Gopinathan’s nephews Unnikrishnan Nair and Jayamadhavan, the last of who died in April 2017. Relative’s complaint The case had been registered on the basis of a complaint submitted by their relative Prasannakumari, who alleged that Jayaprakash and Jayamadhavan had died under mysterious circumstances, and that the family’s ancestral property was allegedly grabbed by the caretaker and a few others. While Mr. Nair had been accused of forging the will, he allegedly told the police that Jayamadhavan had authorised him to sell the property on the family’s behalf. He had also claimed that the will had been prepared in the house in the presence of an eyewitness. However, the eyewitness contradicted the version. The hospital angle Besides, Jayamadhavan’s death remained shrouded in mystery after the police found reasons to disprove Mr. Nair’s claim that he had taken the deceased to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) in an autorickshaw after he collapsed. While the autorickshaw driver denied having transported Jayamadhavan, questions were also raised as to why he was taken to the MCH while he used to generally seek treatment in another hospital nearby.  Seven members of a family died in 26 years at Karamana, property taken over by caretaker
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State TV awards announced||Side Effects directed by Sujith Sahadev was selected as the best telefilm (above 20 minutes duration) in the State Television Awards for the year 2019, announced by Minister for Cultural Affairs A.K. Balan here on Saturday. Mr. Sahadev also won the awards for the best director, writer, and editor for the same telefilm. Savannayile Mazhapakshikal directed by Noushad for KITE Victers was chosen as the best telefilm (under 20 minutes). The jury decided not to award the best teleserial this year as there were no deserving entries. Similar was the case in the awards for the best short film for children and the best article on television. Mazhavil Manorama’s Big Salute was chosen as the best TV show (entertainment). Maniramayam directed by C. Mithun for Mazhavil Manorama won the award for best comedy programme. In Thunder Lightning and Rain directed by Rajesh James for Kerala Vision was chosen as the best documentary (general category). Venalil Peytha Chattumazha directed by R.S. Pradeep and Ritwik Baiju Chandran’s Jeevanulla Swapnangal shared the best documentary (biography) award. Best actors Madhu Vibhakar won the best actor (male) award for the teleserial Kunjiraman , while Kavitha Nair Nandan won the best actor (female) for Thonniyaksharangal in Amritha TV. Nazeer Sankranthi was chosen as the best actor (comedy) for Thatteem Mutteem in Mazhavil Manorama and Comedy Masters in Amritha TV. Lesvin Ullas won the best child actor award .
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EICL staff union to stage protest march||The English Indian Clay Factory Employees Union will stage a march to the office of the Labour Commissioner on September 23 demanding action against the management of English Indian Clays Ltd. (EICL) which has ‘denied bonus and salary dues to the employees,’ N.K. Premachandran, MP, has said. The EICL has remained closed for the past 39 days. As many as 1,500 families have been pushed to the point of starvation due to the collusion of the management, certain Left unions, and the government. The management locked down the company on August 10 to deny bonus and salary dues to the employees. But the Labour Department is yet to take any action against the management,” he said.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A mangrove crustacean lifts the veil in Kasaragod||Researchers from the National University of Singapore and the Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala, have reported a new species of tree-spider crab from a mangrove forest in Kasaragod, highlighting the rich aquatic biodiversity in the mangrove ecosystem in Kerala. Peter Ng, Head of the Lee Kong Chian Natural History Museum, National University of Singapore, and Suvarna S. Devi, Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala, have published their research in the latest issue of the international journal Crustaceana . The discovery is the outcome of the collaborative research between the institutions. The new species is named Leptarma biju after A. Biju Kumar, Head, Department of Aquatic Biology and Fisheries, University of Kerala, for his support and contribution to research work on crustaceans in the State over the years. The discovery takes the number of mangrove-associated crabs in Kerala to 23. This is also the first report of the genus Leptarma from India. The researchers collected three specimens of the new species from mangrove patches in the Chithari river mouth less than 100 m from the Arabian sea. The characteristic features of the new crab are its long ambulatory legs and short and hook-like dactylus (the tip of the digits) that have adapted the crustacean for tree-climbing. The squarish external body cover (carapace) of the crab is light yellow with dark purplish patches, the ambulatory legs are light violet with reticulate patches, while the dactylus is light yellow. Another notable feature of the crab is its eye extending distinctly beyond the tip of the external orbital tooth. “It is a bit surprising that no species of Leptarma has been recorded from India until the present discovery of this new crab, but this is probably due to the more nocturnal habits of many of the taxa,” said Prof. Peter Ng. Noting that the mangrove forests in Kerala support extensive aquatic biodiversity, Prof. Biju Kumar said many regions remain poorly documented in terms of biodiversity and associated ecosystem services. He called for special efforts for conservation of the few remaining tracts of healthy mangrove forests in northern Kerala, particularly in the districts of Kannur and Kasaragod.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Around 25 people test positive at SCTIMST||A chunk of medical and non-medical staff at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) have gone out of action after a COVID-19 outbreak in the organisation has resulted in a small institutional cluster. Including some administrative staff, close to 25 people tested positive now.  Sources at SCTIMST said that four doctors each of the Neuro Surgery and Anaesthesiology departments, another in Radiology, and several nursing assistants in the hospital tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.  In-patients negative However, all in-patients at the hospital at present are negative and any new admissions are also tested prior to admission, sources said. A nursing assistant had tested positive earlier. Tracking back, authorities presume that it was one single exposure in one of the operation theatres that led to the neuro surgeons, anaesthesiologists, and another four nursing assistants getting infected. The entire hospital premises and theatres have been sanitised and all infected persons, are isolated in their own homes, while all primary high-risk contacts have been asked to go on quarantine. They are all doing well. Sources said that though a schunk of the staff has gone out of action, the hospital is still functional with skeletal staff. While elective surgery schedules will be affected, emergency surgeries will be taken up.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LIFE to build 29 more flat complexes||Work on 29 new flat complexes across the districts under the State government’s Livelihood, Inclusion, Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project is set to begin this month, even as 12 other flat projects are at various stages of completion. Out of 29 proposed complexes, four are in Kannur, three each in Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Kollam, two each in Thiruvananthapuram, Kottayam and Alappuzha, and one each in Wayanad, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad, and Thrissur. The tender process for all projects have been completed. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the construction of these complexes on September 24. Each flat complex will have 44 dwelling units. Since prefabricated technology is used, the work is expected to be completed in seven to eight months. The complexes will have livelihood-enabling training centres and other facilities. At its pilot flat project at Adimaly, the LIFE Mission has opened training centres for stitching and curry powder making. A primary health centre, anganwadi, and old age home are also part of the plot now. 101 complexes “We have identified around 300 plots for building the complexes. Work is being taken up at the most suitable of these plots. The plan now is to build 101 flat complexes at least, out of which 41 have taken off. Each plot will have four flat complexes each. In all these plots, three more will be added later, along with the other facilities,” said a LIFE Mission official. Out of 12 complexes, the one at Wadakkanchery, being executed by the UAE-based Red Crescent, is now in the middle of a controversy. This is the only one out of the 41 flat projects to be built through sponsorship and implemented by another agency. The rest are directly executed by LIFE Mission. “We do have an issue of shortage of land in the city Corporation areas. Most projects are coming up in municipalities or panchayats. Of the 29 projects to be inaugurated, the only project in a Corporation area is in Kollam,” said the official.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||8,500 study rooms to be built for SC/ST students||As many as 8,500 more study rooms will be launched for students from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes community in the State in 2021, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was announcing through videoconference the completion of study rooms built for SC and ST students here on Saturday. A total of 12,500 study rooms have been built for SC students and 250 community study rooms in tribal settlements for ST students. This was the first such project in the country, Mr. Vijayan said. In many houses, lack of space affected time dedicated for studies and concentration, leading to poor performance and ultimately, dropping out of school. The government decided to build dedicated study rooms attached to houses for SC students at a cost of Rs. 2 lakh each. Financial aid had been given for 16,000 study rooms till now. The remaining study rooms of the targeted 25,000 would be completed without delay. In the case of Scheduled Tribe students, community study rooms were more practical. Each study room would be able to accommodate 30 students. These could be arranged in community halls or other such facilities in the settlements. Computers, Internet, books, and snacks for students would be arranged. Moreover, educated tribal youth would be posted as facilitators, thereby benefiting both students and those looking for employment.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,13,337 get admission for Plus One courses||As many as 1,13,337 students secured permanent admission to Plus One courses across the State under the single window system following the first round of allotment. This comes to 50.95%. Allotment was held for 2,22,455 of the 2,80,212 merit seats available. The admission drew to a close on Saturday. Temporary admission was secured by 87,030 (39.12%) students who were pinning their hopes on getting higher options in the second allotment. A total of 18,473 students who received allotments did not take admission. As many as 1,293 who had entered wrong information in their applications were denied admission. Sports quota In the sports quota, 2,040 students took permanent admission (46.47%), while 1,320 took temporary admission. The maximum number of permanent admission was in Malappuram district, 15,540. The maximum number of temporary admission was also from this district, 12,878. Allotment was made to 30,919 seats here. The least number of permanent admission was from Wayanad, 3,261 and the least number of temporary admissions was from Idukki, 2,308. Allotment to seats vacant after the first allotment will be on September 28. Those who have taken temporary allotment should take permanent admission after the second allotment.
20 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Another wave imminent: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday that experts were of the view that another wave of COVID-19 is imminent in the country when the situation could become worse. He said in Kerala, SARS-CoV-2 viruses belonging to the A2a clade, marked by the D614G mutation, which was linked to higher infectivity, were in circulation, as per a genomic surveillance study conducted at the Kozhikode Government Medical College. However, increase in infectivity is a phenomenon noticed only in cell culture studies in labs and cannot be extrapolated to the population. The smallest of transgressions from precautions could have serious consequences.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pope’s message for Reunion Movement fete||The celebrations marking the 90th anniversary of the Reunion Movement in the Malankara Church will serve to further strengthen the apostolic foundation of ecclesial life and traditions, Pope Francis said in a letter to Cardinal Baselios Cleemis, head of the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church. The letter was sent through Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State, Vatican, on the occasion of the 90th anniversary celebrations of the reunion of the Church to the universal Catholic Church. The spiritual legacy will continue to sustain the faithful in joyful witness to the message of salvation and in bringing the compassionate love of Christ to the poorest and most vulnerable, especially those suffering the grave effects of the current pandemic, Pope Francis said. By maintaining truthful dialogue with other Christians and the followers of other religions, they will contribute to the building of a lasting culture of authentic solidarity and fraternal cooperation in service of the common good, the Pope said.  Established in 1930 The Syro-Malankara Catholic Church was established in 1930 under the leadership of Mar Geevarghese Ivanios as part of the reunion movement.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. draws up more austerity measures||The government will set up a task force to collect lease rent arrears of government land as part of the measures to mobilise resources to overcome the pandemic-induced financial crisis in the State. Henceforth, lease rent will be calculated based on the market value of the land. The government will recover and utilise unused land on the premises of government offices and public sector undertakings. It has been decided not to renovate government offices and purchase furniture and vehicles for the next one year. All details of government vehicles will have to be registered in Wheels, a web-based vehicle management system under the Finance Department. The purchase of a new vehicle, its maintenance, and posting of staff will be on the basis of the data provided in Wheels. Meetings to go online As part of the austerity measures suggested by two expert committees, the government has asked heads of departments to hold official meetings and training sessions online to the extent possible. A unified office will be set up for the functioning of non-statutory judicial commissions. Similarly, welfare boards, commissions, and societies functioning in the same sector will be brought under one administrative control. The Planning and Personnel and Administrative Affairs Department will work out a road map within one month.  A task force will be formed to collect lease rent arrears of government land
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Congress seeks CBI probe into murders||The Congress has reiterated its demand that the investigation into the August 29 murder of two Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) workers at Venjaramoodu should be handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). KPCC president Mullapally Ramachandran, inaugurating protests organised by the District Congress Committee (DCC), demanded that the investigation should look into the role of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the murders of two DYFI activists. The miscreants who attacked the offices of the Congress following the murders should be arrested, he said. Mr. Ramachandran alleged that the murders were being deliberately misrepresented as political killings. He also accused a senior police officer in the district of painting the incident as politically motivated. The protest was organised at 2,000 centres across the district.
20 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New Milma stall at KSRTC bus stand||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development K. Raju will inaugurate the first Milma stall in a modified KSRTC bus at the KSRTC bus depot at Pazhavangadi on Tuesday. All Milma products would be available in the ‘bus stalls’ that would be introduced across the State as a joint venture of Milma and KSRTC.
20 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Now, ‘Jeevani’ health drink from KAU||The Department of Post Harvest Technology, College of Horticulture, Kerala Agricultural University, has developed a health drink, Jeevani, with the intention of enhancing the immunity levels of people during the COVID-19 pandemic. The product has been formulated from horticultural crops with proven health benefits and immunity boosting properties such as aonla (Indian gooseberry), lemon, ginger, turmeric, and black pepper. Its active ingredients -- vitamin C and polyphenols in aonla, vitamin C and flavanoids in lemon, zingiberin in ginger, curcumin in turmeric, and piperine in black pepper -- are known to possess antioxidant and immuno-protective properties. Jeevani is 100% natural and devoid of any preservatives, synthetic food additives or artificial colourants.Jeevani is available in two flavours, namely sweet and salty. The calorific value of the product is also low. Under ambient room conditions, the product can be stored for one month without spoilage and six months under refrigerated conditions. It can be recommended as a health drink for people of all ages, the sources added.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||UDF used Koran for politicking, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday slammed the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) for ‘using’ the Koran as the centrepiece of their antagonistic politics against the Left Democratic Front government. He said trifling with the revered text for politicking had triggered a groundswell off opposition against the League and the Congress leadership. The public was indignant that the United Democratic Front (UDF) leadership had jested with an article of faith for unseemly politicking. He said IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, UDF convener Benny Behanan, and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had dragged the Koran into the centre of the gold smuggling controversy. They insensitively used the holy text as a political tool. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh had traditionally opposed the acceptance and distribution of the Koran. It was puzzling why the League and Congress had joined hands with the Sangh Parivar, he said. Minister for Minority Welfare and Waqf K.T. Jaleel had accepted Koran and food kits at the behest of the UAE and distributed them to needy families during Ramzan. Islam reckoned the gifting of the Koran and food as an act of faith and brotherhood. The Congress-League-BJP alliance had sought to disparage the transaction as a gold smuggling operation merely to spite the government and Dr. Jaleel, he said. Mr Vijayan said public outrage had prompted the UDF to backtrack. Ideally, they should apologise to the public. Mr Vijayan said Central agencies should bring UAE consulate officials under the ambit of their investigation. “The public has serious doubts about why the agencies have not recorded their statements so far or questioned them,” he said.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||PSC misleading people: forum||The Aikya Malayala Prasthanam, which is campaigning for inclusion of Malayalam as a subject in the syllabus for Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) exams for selection of lower and upper primary school teachers, has alleged that the PSC is misleading the people. The forum has said that Malayalam, which is a subject in Diploma in Elementary Education (D El. Ed.) that is the eligibility course for primary school teachers, has been excised from the PSC examination syllabus.
20 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second Kisan Rail to carry tomatoes, various fruits||The second Kisan Rail with 10 bogies for Delhi and two bogies for Nagpur is all set to leave Anantapur railway station at midnight carrying 240 metric tonnes of fruits and vegetables. Not many farmers were interested to send the produce, but the administration talked to a few traders and arranged over 214 tonnes of tomatoes, 24 tonnes of papaya, 3.5 tonnes of pomegranate, 2.5 tonnes of water melon and musk melon to be sent to the cities. While 40 tonnes of them will be unloaded at Nagpur, the train will proceed to Delhi to despatch the produce to traders in Azadpur Mandi. ‘Tricky business’ Officials who had taken the ride the first time said it was a tricky business for farmers as the rate is fixed on the basis of the quality of the goods on reaching the mandi and an auction takes place for the final fixing of price. With some tomatoes coming from Nasik also, which are of better quality and need lesser transport cost, the produce being sent in the current Kisan Rail would be required to be sold at a very competitive price. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, who inspected the loading operations at the Anantapur railway station, said farmers were encouraged to send their produce as there existed a large market in Delhi, and Anantapur produced very large quantum of fruits of which only 20% is consumed locally. However, the traders opined that the current season was not suitable for sending tomatoes as it was raining for the past 10 days and in the local market itself, the price was high due to poor grade of the produce. The District Collector, however, alleged that some persons with active support of influential people were bent on stopping the Kisan Rail from becoming a regular affair.
20 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 die, 3 hurt in accident||Three persons died and three others were injured when the car in which they were travelling hit a stationary lorry in Chandrabavi late on Friday night. The deceased were on their way to Pavagada in Karnataka, their native place, from Bengaluru via Madakasira. They had reportedly returning from Bengaluru after visiting an ailing relative. The deceased were identified as Narasiimha Murthy(22), driver, Duggappa(32) and Narsamma(35). Midigeshi Sub-Inspector said while Murthy and Duggappa died on the spot, Narsamma died at the Madakasira Hospital while being treated.
20 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP’s dual standards have been exposed, alleges Nani||Minister for Transport and I&PR Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani) on Saturday said the recent political developments in the State have exposed the double standards of the opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP). “It was former Chief Minister and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his men who challenged the government to go for an inquiry into the Amaravati land deals. However, when the investigation began, the same people are trying their best to stall it. This exposes their double standards,” the Minister told reporters at the YSR Congress Party’s Central Party Office here on Saturday. “All the bravado of the TDP went for a toss once the probe began and the TDP leaders petitioning the court to stall the investigation,” Mr. Nani said. While asserting that their government continues to hold the judiciary in the highest regard, Mr. Nani said that “some institutions” in the State seem to be arrogant and that there seemed to be an overreach of independent institutions. Reiterating that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had always spoken about the land scam in the State, Mr. Nani said the investigation has vindicated his stand. There is every need to take up the issue at the national-level and it was raised in Parliament, he said. “These investigations are not about individuals or political parties but it is about the wealth of the State that was plundered by the previous government. Hence, we are answerable to the people of the State,” he said. “These issues will not deter us from carrying out what we had promised to the people about the irregularities of the previous government,” the Minister added On the alleged attacks on temples in the State, Mr. Nani alleged that Mr. Naidu was working towards disturbing the communal harmony in the State. Meanwhile, at a separate press conference held on Saturday, Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu reiterated the need for a national-level debate on functions and overreach of the four pillars of democracy.
20 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cess is for development of roads: Perni||Minister for Transport and I&PR Perni Venkataramaiah brushed aside the criticism on the levy of road development cess of Rs. 1 per litre on petrol and diesel saying that the money thus collected will be used for the development of roads in the State. Mr. Venkataramaiah said that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had collected Rs. 2 per litre as Amaravati cess for capital development. The prices of fuel had been increased by Rs. 10 per litre since December last by the Central government, he added. “However, such stories remain unnoticed in a section of the media,” the Minister observed. Moreover, Mr. Naidu did not spend any money on maintenance of roads, he said. On the other hand, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given the nod to repair damaged roads, the Minister asserted.
20 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Making of new Antarvedi chariot begins in E. Godavari||Endowments Department officials led by priests of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple at Antarvedi on Saturday performed a special puja at Ravulapalem, commencing the exercise of building a new 41-feet tall chariot for the temple with teak wood from the Bastar forests of Chhattisgarh. The special puja was meant to consecrate the wood used in the making of the chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swami temple, Antarvedi, under the aegis of Endowment Department Additional Commissioner K. Ramachandra Mohan, Special Officer of the Chariot Committee. In the early hours of September 6, the century-old chariot was gutted in the fire accident, which is being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). “The officials and priests of the temple have performed the puja to the wood at 10.31 a.m. on Saturday, as it is said to be an auspicious moment to begin the exercise of building the new chariot. On Saturday, the wood logs have been cut into pieces, enabling the sculptor to build the chariot,” Temple Executive Officer Yeeramsetti Bhadraji told The Hindu . “Within a week, the entire 1,330 cubic feet of wood meant for the making of the chariot will be brought from the wood depot to the temple, where the sculptor will start the work. If everything goes planned, the making of the chariot will begin by the end of September,” Mr. Balaji said. According to officials, police would be deployed at the temple to guard the wood to be brought to the temple, apart from monitoring of the work by the new chariot committee on a regular basis. An amount of Rs. 95 lakh has been granted for the new chariot project, which is targeted to be completed by mid-January next year. Chariot Committee Convener D. Bhramaramba, Executive Engineer (Endowments) G.V.R. Sekhar, Assistant Stapathi G. Srinivasachari and others officials participated in the puja.
20 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virtual Lok Adalat on Sept. 30||East Godavari District Judge and Chairman of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) M. Babhitha on Saturday said that the Lok Adalat would be held online in all the courts in the district on September 30. The petitioners should confirm their participation and willingness to the DLSA, East Godavari authorities through email (dlsa.ap.rjy@yahoo.co.in) or mobile number 94409-01047.
20 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Exams to be held separately for COVID patients||The East Godavari district authorities will be conducting the village/ward secretariat examinations separately for those who have been infected with COVID-19 and those who are yet to receive their test results. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has said that special teams would be on the task of conducting the examinations for COVID patients.
20 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Storage in Somasila reaches full capacity||With an inflow of about 60,000 cusecs, the storage in the Somasila reservoir reached the full capacity of 78 tmcft, reservoir Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao said. The reservoir is the lifeline for Nellore district. As a precautionary measure, vehicular traffic from Somasila to Podalakur and Nellore was suspended as the water flowed above the danger mark. The inflow was expected to touch the 1,00,000 cusecs mark in the next 48 hours as Penna and its tributary Kundu were in spate. Meanwhile, the storage in the Kandaleru reservoir increased to 39.77 tmcft as the water level went up to 256.57 ft. The reservoir, which had an inflow of 10,775 cusecs, still had a flood cushion of 28.26 tmcft of water.
20 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dasha Sutras’ nominated for SKOCH award||The ‘Dasha Sutras’ (10 norms) evolved by Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal to conduct policing in a challenging environment amid the rapid spread of COVID-19, has been nominated for the prestigious SKOCH national award. The SP on Saturday made an online powerpoint presentation on the norms evolved to keep the virus at bay to a three-member jury of SKOCH Award led by its MD K. Gurusharan Dhanjal. The team won appreciation from Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang.
20 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll mounts to 832 as eight die in Nellore, Prakasam||Over 2,000 patients won the battle against coronavirus in south coastal Andhra pradesh, while the toll rose to 832 with eight more deaths in the region in the last 24 hours ending on Saturday morning. With four patients each succumbing to the viral disease in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts the toll went up to 420 and 412 in the two districts respectively, according to a health bulletin released on Saturday night. Continuing with the positive trend, the number of fresh admissions into hospitals was less by over 650 patients when compared to those getting cured of the disease during the period at a time when the hospitals were overburdened with symptomatic cases. Case tally The total number of positive cases inched closer to 90,000 in the two districts as 1,363 patients tested positive in the two districts for the disease during the period. With 693 fresh cases, the cumulative confirmed cases went up to 48,849 in SPSR Nellore district. The positive cases count rose to 40,826 with 670 persons testing positive for the disease in Prakasam district. The number of fresh cases, which had been above 1,000 each day during the last week, came down to less than 700 per day during this week. As many as 29,282 patients had been cured of the disease so far as 1,227 patients recovered from illness in Prakasam district in 24 hours. Another 804 patients got cured of the disease in SPSR Nellore district during the period, taking the total number of discharged patients to 44,099. With this the number of active cases dropped to 4,750 in SPSR Nellore district and 11,132 in Prakasam district.
20 September 2020||Special Correspondent KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two saved from car trapped in stream||Two persons hailing from a village in Roddam mandal of Anantapur district, who had come to Kurnool on a work, got trapped in the current of Alugu Vagu in Banganapalli mandal in the district in the early hours of Saturday. Soon after a distress call from Tejeswara Reddy, 24, and Bhaskar, 22, from inside their car, the Banganapalle Fire Officer Narsimhulu and his team rushed to the spot and rescued them.
20 September 2020||Special Correspondent TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kamisetty Srinivasulu no more||Kamisetty Srinivasulu (79), who served as the founder Director of the Annamacharya Project, one of the prestigious propagation arms of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), passed away while undergoing treatment for an illness at Hyderabad on Saturday. He was a renowned writer, orator, composer and commentator during his stint. Born in 1941 in Kadapa, he pursued postgraduation in Telugu at Sri Venkateswara University and also did a PG diploma in linguistics. As a direct disciple of scholar Rallapalli Anantakrishna Sarma, he got wide exposure in spiritual, religious and scholarly subjects and joined the TTD in 1964. When the TTD instituted the Annamacharya Project, he was made its Director in 1978. He was instrumental in instituting Annamacharya chair at SVU that helped young scholars take up research on the saint poet. Unique voice Mr. Srinivasulu became a household name in the eighties, as his unique voice, command over chaste Telugu, his art of modulation and diction were easily identifiable. When the project brought out audio cassettes on Annamacharya’s compositions, his commentary almost became indispensable at the beginning of every song. The then Chief Minister the late N.T. Rama Rao had even appreciated him for his ‘golden voice’ on the stage of a function. After getting formal training at the Pune Film Institute, Mr. Srinivasulu produced documentaries ‘Tirupati Theertha Yatra’ and ‘Madhava Sevae Manava Seva’ for the TTD and also launched Sri Venkateswara Recording Project to produce a number of audio and video cassettes on Vedas, Divya Prabhandam and Dasa Sahitya. Tirupati MLA Karunakar Reddy and his Chandragiri counterpart Ch. Bhaskar Reddy expressed their condolences to the bereaved family.
20 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Never called for scrapping of declaration system: YV||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Saturday denied having said anything against the declaration system at Tirumala. “I have never stated that the declaration system (under which individuals belonging to an alien faith sign a declaration form stating that he has faith in Lord Venkateswara) should be scrapped as reported in a section of the print and electronic media,” Mr. Subba Reddy told the media. Mr. Subba Reddy further said that neither Congress president Sonia Gandhi nor former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy signed any declaration form during their visits to the temple. “Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, as Leader of the Opposition, had visited the temple before embarking on the padayatra. He had visited the temple again after successfully completing it. He had sought the blessings of Lord Venkateswara ahead of taking oath as the Chief Minister. This speaks volumes about his reverence and devotion towards the presiding deity, and hence there is no need on his part to sign any declaration,” Mr. Subba Reddy said. Expressing displeasure over the unwanted controversy, the TTD Chairman said he had only denied the allegations made by former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu.
20 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TTD should not invest in govt. bonds’||The BJP Sate official spokesperson, G. Bhanuprakash Reddy, has demanded that the TTD refrain from investing its funds in government bonds. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Mr. Reddy wondered, “Investing funds in government bonds may fetch more interest but how far is it proper on the part of the management which solely thrives on the contributions made by the devotees to think on the lines of profit and loss?”
20 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to invite fresh tenders for NDB-aided road works||Principal Secretary (Transport and Roads and Buildings) M.T. Krishna Babu said that the State government has decided to invite fresh tenders for the road development works financially aided by the New Development Bank (NDB) to bring in more competent bidders and ensure maximum transparency in the tendering process, as per the instructions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Mr. Krishna Babu, in a press conference, said that tenders called for the construction of 3,000 km of highways under 13 packages evoked a response only from 14 companies that put 25 bids. Considering the nominal response and other factors, the Chief Minister, who reviewed the projects earlier in the day, ordered for fresh tenders so that more companies are given an opportunity to bid, he said. Mr. Krishna Babu said the poor response of only 14 companies coming forward to bid for 13 packages in 13 districts will be reviewed to start with. The entire process has been transparent and e-tendering method was used. Now, the focus would be on reaching out to more eligible companies so that more competent companies bid and quality work is delivered. He said that there would be no delay in payment of the bills as the projects are externally funded by the NDB and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had assured the same. He said government engineers would also reach out to eligible companies and encourage them to take part in the bidding. Mr. Krishna Babu further said that there was no issue with the tendering process of the cancelled bids and the NDB was also satisfied with the response. However, it was decided to call for fresh tenders to bring in more contractors and competition in the bidding and subsequently decrease project costs. With the amount saved, more road development works could be taken up, he said.
20 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tension at Minister’s house||Tension prevailed for some time at the residence of Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas on Saturday, when Jana Sena activists staged a dharna demanding the Minister’s resignation over the series of attacks on places of worship in the State. The protesters blamed the Minister over the theft of three silver lion idols attached on the Chariot (Ratham) of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvaarla Devastanam, Vijayawada. Police arrested the agitators when they tried to barge into the Minister’s residence and shifted them to different police stations in the district. Alleging that Mr. Srinivas is shielding Kanaka Durga temple Executive Officer (EO) M.V. Suresh Babu, the agitators raised slogans demanding suspension of the EO. “Though the attacks are continuing on shrines and miscreants were damaging the idols, the government has filed to respond properly. There even was a major theft at Durga temple, but nobody was arrested,” the Jana Sena leaders alleged. Police said the situation is under control at the Minister’s residence.
20 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hand over plots to ryots of Amaravati’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Saturday demanded that the State government hand over 64,000 plots to farmers who parted with their lands for the construction of the capital city in Amaravati, and fulfil other commitments instead of “hampering development by harping on the ill-advised three capitals proposal”. “If the State government fails, the Centre will show what it is capable of. It will create wonders,” Mr. Veerraju told reporters during his visit to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Mangalagiri (AIIMS-M) on Saturday. Mr. Veerraju said that the AIIMS building was an excellent facility on which the Centre spent Rs. 1,700 crore. “While the TDP government claims to have incurred an expenditure of Rs. 7,200 crore on the capital, there is not even a single building that can be compared to AIIMS-M,” he said. The BJP leader said the Centre had sanctioned 18 institutions for A.P. of which 15 were complete. Regarding AIIMS-M, Mr. Veerraju said that upon completion of the 950-bed super-speciality hospital, it would be at par with AIIMS-Delhi and the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences in Hyderabad.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||451 new cases take tally to 47,020||The district reported 451 fresh COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 47,020 on Saturday. The district has reported second least number of cases in a day after Kurnool, as per the State bulletin. But, what seems to be worrying the officials is that the district death toll is now 353, after four more persons succumbed to the coronavirus on Saturday. It may be noted that last 50 deaths were reported in a span of just 10 days. According to the COVID-19 bulletin, as many as 384 persons, who were undergoing treatment at various COVID-19 hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and in home quarantine, discharged/recovered. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal, Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, said that among the 718 clusters in the district, the number of very active clusters is 60 and active is 115. Already, 192 clusters were denotified in the district. Meanwhile, a number of YSRC Party leaders have been affected with the coronavirus in the district. Among them include, Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) Chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and a few others. It was learnt that Mr. Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao has been undergoing treatment in a private hospital for the last couple of days. YSRCP supporters have been organising prayer meetings at various temples and religious places for their leaders.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City buses back on roads after nearly six months||Nearly after six months, APSRTC resumed its city bus service here on Saturday, following the State government instructions. The bus services were stopped with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. On Saturday, APSRTC resumed its services partially by operating about 100 buses on the first day. “Out of 550 ordinary and Metro services, we have run 100 services on Saturday. Gradually, based on demand, we will increase the number of services,” said APSRTC Regional Manager M.Y. Danam. He said that buses were sanitised and the safety protocols will be followed without fail. Physical distance is being maintained and mask is mandatory to board the bus, he said. Many citizens expressed happiness over running of city buses. College students say that the move will help them as most of the colleges have started examinations. “Boarding a city bus is 100 times better than a packed auto-rickshaw. The buses are maintained clean and passengers are following basic norms. Apart from additional charges, many auto drivers are flouting social distancing norms,” said K. Kamaraju, a resident of Gajuwaka, who boarded a city bus to his home from Dwaraka Nagar. Keeping in the view the AP Grama/Ward Secretariat examinations scheduled from September 20 to 26, the APSRTC officials will be deploying around 200 buses from various parts of the district. About 1.50 lakh candidates are likely to appear for the examinations. The RTC officials appealed to the candidates to utilise these special buses.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division going green with solar power||The energy consumption of Indian Railways, which at present stands at 21 billion units annually, is set to rise to 33 billion units by 2030. Solar power is expected to play a significant role in meeting future energy requirements, say officials. Taking a step in that direction, a 350 KWp solar power plant, being installed at Visakhapatnam Railway Station, is on the verge of completion. Officials say that had this plant been commissioned a few months ago, the railway station would have won some more points in the ‘Energy Efficiency’ module of the Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) rankings released recently. Nonetheless, Visakhapatnam Railway Station bagged the ‘platinum’ rank in the IGBC rankings by securing 82 points out of 100. “Solar power plants, of 1 MWp each, had been commissioned at the Diesel Electric Shed (DLS), Electric Loco Shed (ELS), the Divisional Railway Manager’s (DRMs) Office and Divisional Railway Hospital buildings, in the first phase in 2018,” according to Senior Divisional Commercial Manager A.K. Tripathi. A solar plant of 24.38 KWp was commissioned at Araku Railway Station in March this year. Solar power plants of 574.95 KWp are also planned to be set up at Simhachalam, Viziangaram, Srikakulam, Rayagada, Koraput, at Multi Disciplinary Training Centre/Marripalem and New Coaching Complex besides a few other places over Waltair Division, and land-based solar plants are proposed on 71 acres of vacant land at Vadlapudi Railway Colony and at some other places over the Division. “Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) has already adopted Green Energy module with roof-top solar and land-based solar plants. Apart from making all its stations and colonies illuminated with 100% LED light fittings, various energy saving measures have been initiated in its jurisdiction,” Mr. Tripathi said. “The solar plant at the railway station was scheduled for commissioning by September 15, but is likely to be delayed by a couple of weeks in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Almost 80% of the work is completed and we expect the remaining work to be over by the month-end,” Station Director Rajgopal told The Hindu . Railway Minister Piyush Goyal’s vision is to achieve conversion of Indian Railways to ‘Net zero carbon emission Railways’. The Minister opines that Indian Railways is willing to extend all support to developers for installing solar power plants on Railway’s vacant unencroached land. The developers can construct and maintain boundary walls along the tracks. It would also prevent trespassing on tracks, he said.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ayyanna shows ‘evidence’ to nail Minister||Senior TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu on Saturday sought to substantiate the allegations he made against Labour Minister G. Jayaram with some pictures and video clips, which he claimed would prove that Kartik, one of the accused in the ESI scam, had presented a luxury car worth more than Rs. 1 crore to the Minister’s son Eswar. The Minister had on Friday termed Mr. Patrudu’s allegations as baseless, and said, “My son has many followers, and he would have been called for opening or inaugurating the car. I have no knowledge about the car or the incident.” Mr. Patrudu, however, showed the media a few pictures and video clips in which Eswar was purportedly seen receiving the car keys from Kartik (A14 in the ESI scam) and driving around his home town in it. “Mr. Jayaram should accept that the car was given by Kartik to his son in December 2019,” the TDP leader said, and demanded that the Minister resign to his post. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should initiate an impartial inquiry into it, he added. ‘No response’ “The Chief Minister, at the time of his swearing in, had spoken about corruption-free governance. He had set up a toll-free number to enable people to lodge complaints against corrupt people. It has been 24 hours since I lodged a complaint, and I have not received even an acknowledgement message,” Mr. Patrudu said. The TDP leader further alleged that the YSRCP government was targeting the BC leaders in the party. TDP deputy Floor leader in the Assembly K. Atchannaidu was in custody for over 75 days though charges against him were not proved, he said.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students stage protest against holding of diploma exams||A number of students with the support of the SFI staged a protest, demanding that the government stop conducting diploma examinations in the wake of increasing COVID-19 cases in the State, near Gandhi Statue at GVMC building here on Saturday. They also demanded that the government promote the students without examinations. Police detained some of them.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vasupalli quits TDP, to ‘support’ YSRCP||Two-time TDP MLA from Visakhapatnam-South constituency Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has quit the party to extend support to the YSRCP. Keeping in mind the anti-defection law, Mr. Ganesh Kumar submitted his resignation to TDP president on Friday night. Sons join YSRCP Mr. Ganesh Kumar was there with his two sons Saket and Surya when they joined the YSRCP in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in Amaravati on Saturday. Later, speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Ganesh Kumar said the main reason for quitting the TDP and extending support to the YSRCP was to ensure completion of pending works in his constituency. “There are many works pending, and they can be completed only if I quit the TDP and extend support to the YSRCP. The Chief Minister has promised to extend all support,” Mr. Ganesh Kumar said. Lauds Navaratnalu He also lauded the Chief Minister for implementing the Navaratnalu schemes effectively and transparently. Mr. Ganesh Kumar, who had served in the Indian Air Force, joined the TDP in 2007. He had contested in the 2009 elections and lost, but won in 2014 and 2019. “Technically, I will continue as MLA, but not under the TDP banner, until and unless they remove me by invoking the anti-defection law. But I am ready to quit and face re-election, and the Chief Minister has promised to field me as YSRCP candidate,” he said. With this development, the TDP’s last bastion and stronghold in Visakhapatnam has been breached. This is the only city that has given the TDP four MLAs in the 2019 elections.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Degree final semester exams from Sept. 28||Dean, U.G. Examinations, Andhra University, D.V.R. Murthy, announced that degree final semester examinations will be conducted from September 28 to October 9. More information can be had from AU official website, he said. AU Vice Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy will conduct webinars over the conduct of examinations with the principals of degree colleges, he added.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist posters surface||A bunch of posters allegedly of the banned CPI (Maoist) seeking support for their 16th Formation Day (September 21) from the tribals, surfaced at Maddigaruvu region in G Madugula mandal of Visakhapatnam district on Saturday morning. Meanwhile, a large number of tribals from Sirilimetta, Kenduguda, Pittagadda and Kimuduputtu allegedly organised a rally against the Maoists on Saturday.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth, boy drown in different incidents||Two persons, including an 11-year-old boy, allegedly drowned in separate incidents in the district. In the first incident, fascination for swimming turned tragic for a group of children at Sanghivalasa near Bheemili in the city. Four friends — Prasad, G Harish, Siddhu and Hari — had gone for swimming in Gosthani river near Sanghivalasa on Friday evening. While three of them reached shore safely, G Harish, a resident of Sanghivalasa and a Class IV student from a private school, reportedly drowned. According to the police, the three friends who were in a shock after the incident, returned home. But they did not inform their parents. However at around 9 p.m., they revealed about the incident when questioned about Harish. The search and rescue operations were started on Friday night. The body was fished out on Saturday morning. The body was shifted for post-mortem and a case was registered. In another incident, a 19-year-old youth allegedly drowned in a swimming pool in a resort at Kondakarla area under Atchutapuram police station limits in the early hours of Saturday. The incident occurred when the youth reportedly entered the pool in an inebriated condition, said the police. The deceased was identified as Pavan Sai (19), a resident of Gajuwaka. According to police, Pavan Sai attended a birthday party in a resort, where he allegedly had food and consumed alcohol. The body has been shifted to Anakapalle for post-mortem. A case was registered and investigation is on.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ENC undertakes coastal clean-up drive in city||The 35th International Coastal Clean-up Day was celebrated consecutively for the ninth year by the Indian Navy on Saturday. To commemorate the occasion, Eastern Naval Command (ENC) undertook coastal clean-up drive at Ramakrishna Beach, Yarada Beach, and all seafronts within the premises of naval units along the east coast. Naval personnel undertook the clean-up drive while adhering to the COVID-19 protocol.
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications sought for IPR Chair in AU||Andhra University is establishing Intellectual Property Rights Chair , said Dean, Research & Development, A. Bhujanga Rao. He said that the university is inviting applications for the posts of IPR Chair from eligible candidates on or before September 30. For further details, visit https://www.andhrauniversity.edu.in /img/news/IPR-RECRUITMENT.pdf
20 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online job mela from September 22||Online Digital Job mela will be conducted by District Employment Exchange (Technical), Visakhapatnam, from September 22 to 25 on NCS Portal -www.ncs.gov.infor various posts, said District Employment Officer (Tech.) K. Sudha. Interested candidates can attend interviews through national career services portalwww.ncs.gov.in. For more details, contact 7024241098, 9866108607
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fun and frolic||
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State sees over 8,000 COVID cases again||East and West Godavari districts again reported over 1,000 new cases with the former clocking the highest among the districts. Chittoor reported the highest number of new deaths and continued to top the districts with a toll of 580. The new cases and deaths in the districts are as follows: East Godavari (1,395 & 3), West Godavari (1,071 & 5), Chittoor (736 & 9), Nellore (693 & 4), Prakasam (670 & 4), Kadapa (520 & 5), Srikakulam (485 & 3), Anantapur (477 & 5), Guntur (471 & 5), Krishna (468 & 7), Vizianagaram (462 & 1), Visakhpatnam (451 & 4) and Kurnool (319 & 3). The district-wise infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (85,247), West Godavari (56,741), Chittoor (54,059), Kurnool (53,754), Anantapur (52,298), Guntur (48,864), Nellore (47,283), Visakhapatnam (46,508), Prakasam (40,826), Kadapa (39,264), Srikakulam (35,468), Vizianagaram (30,978) and Krishna (23,591).
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back on road||
20 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Police defuse three landmines||Three landmines allegedly planted by Maoists abutting the Kaliveru-Tegada main road in Charla mandal of Bhadrachalam division were unearthed by a joint squad of the local police and the CRPF personnel on Saturday. Police suspect that the landmines were planted by the rebels to trigger blasts targeting policemen during the ensuing Maoist Foundation Week, slated to begin on September 21. The bomb disposal squads detected three landmines, weighing between 2 kg. to 5 kg., found hidden in the dirt alongside the road surface within 500 metres stretch on the Kaliveru-Tegada road on Saturday afternoon, the police said. The squads subsequently defused the three landmines at a secluded place in adherence to safety precautions, sources added. The vehicular movement on the main road was halted for about half-an-hour during the landmine detection operation. Additional bomb disposal squads, aided by sniffer dogs, conducted intensive checking at roadside culverts along the main road later in the day. Earlier this month, the ultras blew up a small portion of the Pedamidisileru-Tippapuram road near Taliperu reservoir in the same mandal. However, no one was hurt in the incident. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Sunil Dutt said the Maoists are trying to resort to violence to make their presence felt in the tribal areas along the inter-State borders.  He alleged that the rebels planted the landmines posing grave danger to the lives of local tribal people, who use the road daily to eke out a living.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A ‘Doosra’ to fox spammers unveiled||It is a Doosra, but to keep a check on spam calls and messages. Unveiled by a Hyderabad firm, this Doosra is a tech solution, a virtual mobile number that can be shared, instead of your personal mobile number, to avoid spam, unknown callers as well as theft of personal information. Ten20 Infomedia, the company, says Doosra has devised in the backdrop of mobile users predicament of sharing their numbers at many places. “We simply have no choice but to share our mobile number at some point in time. The consequences of this seemingly insignificant process can be serious from spam calls and messages, continuous attempts of scam, phishing and fraud, non-stop harassment by strangers, constant violation of privacy by brands,” a release from the company said. SIM-free A subscription-based service, Doosra is a 10-digit, SIM-free mobile number, which the users can share at any place where they are compelled to share their personal mobile number, including on digital platforms. All incoming calls to the Doosra number are either automatically blocked or sent to voicemail or let through depending on the user’s settings and preferences on Doosra app. All incoming messages are silently placed in the messages folder on the Doosra app and can be reviewed at leisure. “Privacy is a fundamental right and Doosra aims to protect your identity in this digital era where we are exposed to threats both online and oﬄine,” founder and CEO Aditya Vuchi said. Industries and Information Technology Minister K.T.Rama Rao, launching Doosra recently, said its potential is huge. According to the release, he said he himself has been a victim of spamming.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS seeks immediate release of Rs. 1,433 crore pending dues||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman highlighting that non-release of statutorily mandated Finance Commission grants and the COVID-induced shortfall in State’s own revenues had handicapped Telangana. The State was also denied its rightful entitlement in the grants to urban local bodies recommended by the 14th Finance Commission (2015-20), Mr. Rao said. In this context, he made out a case for immediate release of all pending dues under Finance Commission, aggregating Rs. 1,433.95 crore, which include the overdue first instalment grant of Rs. 468 crore to million plus city (Hyderabad), the balance second instalment grant of Rs. 315.75 crore to non-million cities and the pending statutory grants of Rs. 650.20 crore recommended by the 14th Finance Commission. In the letter, Mr. Rama Rao recalled that the present 15th Finance Commission had recommended release of grants amounting to Rs. 468 crore to Hyderabad as a million plus city and Rs. 421 crore to non-million plus cities in the State in two equal instalments in June and October this year. ATR in Parliament This recommendation was already accepted by the Centre and an Action Taken Report was also placed in Parliament. While the grant to million plus cities was yet to be released, grant to non-million cities was split into four instalments in contravention of the recommendation of the Finance Commission. The first instalment of Rs. 105.25 crore was released on May 19 last. The State was also denied its rightful entitlement in the grants to urban local bodies, Mr. Rama Rao said in the letter. The commission recommended unconditional basic grant of Rs. 2,711.12 crore but the Centre released only Rs. 2,502.90 crore, a shortfall of Rs. 208.22 crore. Though the State had fulfilled all the conditions attached to performance grant of Rs. 677.79 crore, the amount released was only Rs. 235.81 crore, again a shortfall of Rs. 441.98 crore. Thus, the State was denied Rs. 650.20 crore of the statutory grant to urban local bodies. “The full amount was released to some other states”. He pleaded that states like Telangana are in the forefront of fighting the pandemic and trying to revive the economic activity. Telangana is surging ahead to improve the civic and social infrastructure and sanitation facilities in urban areas, he said. The additional budget provisions made in its budget for this year and matching the Central Finance Commission grants had clearly demonstrated the commitment of the State.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain cripples city, more in store||Several parts of the State and the capital city on Saturday experienced another bout of heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds and thunderstorm activity. In Hyderabad, the rain which started around 1.30 p.m. in Kukatpally and L.B. Nagar zones, soon spread to several parts, and lashed relentlessly for half an hour to an hour. Despite the short span, the intensity left the city crippled, inundating roads, and causing power outages at places. Severe thunderstorm activity, with repeated lightning bolts, left the citizens scurrying for cover. Kushaiguda received the highest rainfall at over seven centimetres, as per the data collected from the automatic weather stations. Several other locations in Kapra circle received over 4-5 centimetres of rain, while L.B. Nagar too received more than four centimetres. Alwal, Moulali, Bollarum, Saroornagar, Hayatnagar, Malkajgiri, Uppal, Secunderabad and other locations received considerable rainfall as well. GHMC has received a total of 40 complaints about water logging through various channels, besides 18 about tree falls and broken tree branches. Twenty complaints were about potholes on roads. Several locations in Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts experienced heavy downpour, with Keesara mandal recording over 10 centimetres of rainfall. A few locations in Nalgonda and Khammam too recorded heavy rain. So did districts such as Mahbubabad, Nagarkurnool, and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. Rain forecast Department of Meteorology has warned about heavy to very heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning activity at isolated places over Telangana on Sunday. Light to moderate rain or thundershowers are very likely at most places in the State including Sangareddy, Medak, Siddipet, Jangam, Vikarabad, Ranga Reddy, Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Nalgonda, Suryapet, Khammam, Mahabubnagar, Nagarkurnool and Gadwal districts, a release from the department said, predicting the same weather for the next two days. The department has attributed the rain to the east-west shear zone over peninsular India of 3.1-7.6 kilometres altitude, with a curve towards the Southern side, and an upper air circulation of 0.9 kilometres altitude. Predictions for Sunday included likelihood of low pressure in Bay of Bengal in north-east direction, and surroundings, which could gain strength towards the north-western direction and surroundings.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dog licensing to go online||Pet owners in the city have something to rejoice. Their annual trips to GHMC circle or zonal offices, and the tedious forms they have to fill up to get the licence to keep a pet dog, will soon be over. GHMC’s Veterinary wing is all set to launch an online registration process for pet dog owners in the city through the corporation’s website. The portal may be launched in less than a week’s time, senior officials from GHMC informed.  In addition, they must produce proof that the animal has been given anti-rabies vaccination, and also a NOC from at least two neighbours. Once approved, the owner will be given a metal token with the zone’s name, serial number and the year for which the licence is being issued inscribed on it. The tokens are changed every year with licence renewal. With the launch of online licensing system, each dog will be assigned a unique identification number instead of tokens. Every year, the licence will be renewed on the same ID, throughout the canine’s lifetime, officials informed. Owners can also get e-mails about fresh guidelines and orders pertaining to licensing as and when they are issued. As of now, only about 8,000 to 9,000 dog owners apply for licence every year. Owners will have to fill in a form online, and upload soft copies of the vaccination certificate and NOCs from two neighbours, besides paying Rs. 50 as fee. The application will be automatically forwarded to the Veterinary Assistant Director or Deputy Director of the zone concerned, who will verify the same and grant licence.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Govt. has power to give weightage’||The State government has power to give weightage marks in direct recruitment tests to contract employees for the service that the latter had rendered, the Telangana High Court announced. Pronouncing judgment in a series of writ petitions, the Full Bench of the Telangana State High Court said the weightage marks, however, should not be more than 20 marks out of total 100. If the total test marks were more than 100, the weightage marks should not be more than 20% of total marks, the High Court bench ruled. This judgment applied to posts of State governments and power utilities companies. The verdict was announced by the Full Bench comprising Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and P. Naveen Rao. Validity of Rule 31 In the case of State government service, the Full Bench upheld the constitutional validity of Rule 31 of the Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules-1996. The power of the State government to exercise Rule 31 was legally valid, the Full Bench of the High Court declared in the judgment. If the Service Rules did not contain provision of assigning weightage marks to contract employees in direct recruitment, it was for the employer to assign such weightage of marks. Temporary employees were not vested with any right to insist upon extension of weightage marks for the service rendered by them, the Full Bench said. In the case of power utilities companies, the contract employees were entitled to seek weightage marks for temporary service rendered. The employer, however, was permitted to restrict application of weightage to temporary service.
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR ignoring sacrifices of frontline warriors: Cong.||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao did not hold a single meeting to check the facilities being provided to frontline warriors, and their sacrifices at the call of duty was not being recognised by the government, alleged the Telangana Congress. “The State government is not maintaining any data of frontline warriors getting infected with COVID and those who succumbed due to the disease. This is nothing but an utter disrespect to people who are risking their lives to save others,” said TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy in a statement here. “Though both the Central and State governments are calling the frontline workers warriors against COVID, they are not willing to recognise them as martyrs. The government went on record in Parliament admitting that it does not have the data of doctors who died of COVID. It simply shifted the blame on State governments saying it was their duty to maintain the data as Health is a State-subject. This is completely inhuman,” Mr. Reddy said. He also alleged that the TRS government was tampering or manipulating data of coronavirus cases and deaths in Telangana State. “Medical professionals are not getting the required medical attention after getting infected. Even police personnel are not getting free treatment under the Aarogya Bhadra scheme due to the non-payment of dues by the State government to private hospitals,” he charged.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. planning to equip all hospital beds with oxygen facility: Chief Secretary||Union Minister of Commerce Piyush Goyal and Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba have complimented the Telangana government for keeping the COVID-19 mortality rate lower than the national rate and the measures being taken to prevent the spread of the pandemic. Mr. Goyal and Mr. Gauba held a video conference with the Chief Secretaries of 12 States, from New Delhi on Saturday and enquired about the steps being taken to contain the spread of virus. Ramping up COVID screening tests and making testing facilities available in several locations across the State including at several Primary Health Centres, Urban Health Centres and Basthi Dawakhanas were appreciated. Speaking at the virtual meet, Telangana Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar informed that the State government was fully geared up to handle the pandemic, although the number of positive cases had started declining. Explaining various measures taken, he said COVID testing had been ramped up considerably and RT-PCR testing was being conducted on every person found to be symptomatic in the rapid antigen test. The government had also formulated a strategy to equip all beds with oxygen facilities and special focus was being laid on managing the situation in the districts too, Mr Somesh Kumar added. Secretary Health and Family Welfare S.A.M. Rizvi and Director-Drugs Control Preeti Meena attended the e-meet.
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Think regionally too: AICC in-charge||The new in-charge of All India Congress Committee for the State Manickam Tagore feels that the party is not out of the game in Telangana and can win next Assembly elections in 2023 by adopting a constituency-centric approach and region-centric politics. In his second interaction with senior party leaders of the State, after being given the new assignment, Mr. Manickam said “we must fight the battle with the right perception. There should be continuous communication between all leaders. Winning each booth is important and it can be achieved through booth-centric work, cadre building and discipline. Although we are a national party, we must think regionally as well,” he said. He said that the Congress did not differentiate between seniors and juniors and it always valued seniors by involving them in all decision-making processes. The meeting on Zoom was attended by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, AICC secretaries N.S. Bose Raju and Sreenivasan Krishnan, TPCC working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and J. Kusum Kumar, former Union Minister Renuka Chowdhary, former ministers J. Geetha Reddy, R. Damodar Reddy, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, contested candidates in the last Assembly and Lok Sabha elections. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said a few more meetings, through video-conference, would be held in the coming days to complete the formal introduction of all leaders and take their views and suggestions on strengthening the party. He said that incharges for Dubbak town, mandals and all 146 villages would be finalised soon. Mr. Tagore would visit Hyderabad in the first week of October after the end of Parliament session. He said the agenda for the meeting was to discuss membership drive, Dubbak by-elections, GHMC elections, Warangal and Khammam Corporations and elections to two Graduates constituencies of Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam and Hyderabad- Ranga Reddy-Mahabubnagar. The meeting lasted for nearly three hours.
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Basith, key person behind ‘Voice of Hind’||The 26-year-old Islamic State sympathiser from Hyderabad, who is currently lodged in Tihar Jail, was the founder of an online magazine 'Voice of Hind', inciting Muslims against non-Muslims and exhorting them to rise against the government of India and join ISIS. Abdullah Basith alias Khattab Bhai, from Gulshan Iqbal Colony in Chandrayangutta of old city, was helping the Kashmiri couple, Jahanzaib Sami (36) and Hina Bashir Beigh (39), the operatives of Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), from inside the prison in preparing the magazine. Later, officials of the National Investigation Department, found soft copies of the magazine in a smart phone reportedly seized from Basith. The magazine eulogises ISIS/ISKP terrorists, including Huzaifa-al-Bakistani, a highly-trained Pakistani national, who was a key recruiter for IS and also the mastermind of the banned outfit's activities in Jammu and Kashmir. Huzaifa was killed in July 2019 in a drone strike in Afghanistan. Basith, who was arrested by the agency in August 2018 in connection with the 2016 Abu Dhabi module, used to be in touch with Huzaifa on the phone. Before his arrest, the engineering drop-out went to New Delhi in June 2018 to make a deal for two AK-47 assault rifles with a Kashmiri youth. Basith had hatched a conspiracy to kill a top Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader in Maharashtra, an official said. However, his plans failed after the Delhi Police Special Cell arrested the Kashmiri youth, which forced Basith to return to Hyderabad fearing arrest. He got attracted towards radical ideology during his engineering days and was further motivated to take up ‘Hijra’ (migration), a term used by the extremists to India from a foreign land for Jihad. The youngster tried to flee the country twice though Srinagar and West Bengal in 2014 and 2015, respectively. However, his attempts failed after he was apprehended by the SIT.
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH to work with MDS on deep tech. products||The University of Hyderabad, its Section 8 company ASPIRE and Manjeera Digital Systems (MDS) have signed a tripartite agreement that will enable them to partner in development of deep technology products in the electronics hardware sector. A release said that MDS is a fabless semiconductor company that has developed a patent-pending high-performance computing processor called Universal Multifunction Accelerator (UMA). It is also developing Indian satellite based navigation system ( NavIC) receiver modules using UMA processor. The MDS was started by a former student and faculty of the university, Venu Kandadai.
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Lies of govt. exposed’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader Bhatti Vikramarka said his two-day visit to the 2 BHK house sites had exposed the hollowness of the government’s claims of constructing one lakh 2 BHK unis as all they could show was 3,428 houses in GHMC limits. Speaking to reporters, he claimed that his purpose of exposing the government was fulfilled and now people understood how they were being hoodwinked with the same houses being shown in different elections. “The Ministers left midway after challenging me and that itself was an indication of their frustration over their lies being exposed,” he claimed. Mr. Vikramarka also showed the video clippings of the Ministers’ statements in the Assembly various times. He said the one lakh-2BHK promise was made in the last GHMC elections and it continued even after five years. He said as per the claims of the government GHMC should have 96,000 houses. But Animal Husbandry Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav had shown him 2,016 houses in Tukkuguda and 6,240 in Nagaram municipalities. These houses were promised to the locals during municipal elections. Even locals were objecting and opposing the allocation to outsiders, he said, questioning the point in showing them. Mr Bhatti claimed that this entire exercise of the ruling party was with GHMC elections in mind rather than fulfulling the promises. AICC spokesperson Sravan Dasoju claimed that the government had received 16 lakh applications for 2 BHK units in GHMC limits and all it could construct was 3,426 houses.
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Integration of Arts, Science pre-requisite of 21st century’||English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) Vice-Chancellor Suresh Kumar said that the integration of Humanities and Arts with Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) as a move towards holistic approach will result in cultivating higher-order thinking skills, problem-solving abilities, teamwork and communication skills — the pre-requisites of the 21st century. He was speaking at the online Visitor’s Conference on “The Implementation of National Education Policy 2020: Higher Education” on Saturday. It was inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind, who is also the Visitor for all central universities. Referring to the National Education Policy as reformative and visionary document, Prof. Suresh said that it is based on the guiding principles of “equity, quality, affordability, and accountability”, as espoused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Calling the multi-disciplinary education as a welcome approach, Prof. Suresh laid down the roadmap for its implementation for a logical division of credits to be achieved by students under ‘core’ and ‘non-core’ subjects. He evinced on the need to create clusters of institutions and protocols required to establish strong linkages between the institutes and the industry.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven of Health Minister’s personal staff test positive||Seven members of Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s personal staff have tested positive for COVID-19. The Minister, however, was found to be coronavirus-free. “The Health Minister does not have any symptoms. He has been taking precautions,” Mr Rajender’s office said. The seven who tested positive include two gunmen, two drivers, two personal attendants, and an assistant. The cases were detected Thursday onwards. It was learnt that none among the seven have severe infection and thus, are in home isolation. Mr Rajender is continuing to go about his business. On Saturday, he reviewed development works in Huzurabad, his constituency, with Panchayat Raj department officials.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pet dogs likely to be radio-tagged||GHMC is seriously considering introducing mandatory radio frequency identification (RFID) for pet dogs in the city, by which each dog may be identified. As per the proposal, an RFID chip will be surgically inserted under each canine’s skin once it is registered with the corporation. It will facilitate the Veterinary wing to monitor the anti-rabies vaccination schedule of the dog every year, and remind the owner about the same. Officials say that the RFIDs are already being embedded in some private clinics in the city upon owners’ insistence. The chips will make it easier to track the pets if they go missing or are stolen, say officials.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS records 2,123 more COVID cases||Telangana recorded 2,123 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total to 1,69,169. While 54,459 people underwent tests on September 18, results of 1,025 are awaited. With nine more deaths, the toll reached 1025. The new cases include 305 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 185 from Rangareddy, 149 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 135 from Nalgonda, 112 from Karimnagar, 93 from Khammam. From Monday, around 55,000 samples are being tested per day. At present, there are 30,636 active cases while 1,37,508 have recovered and 1,025 have died. The recovery rate in the State is 81.28%. As per the media bulletin issued by the Health department, around 24,070 were in home or institutional isolation. In the 41 government hospitals, 3,926 oxygen beds and 432 ICU beds were available on Friday. In 219 private hospitals, 2,891 oxygen beds and 1,382 ICU beds were vacant.
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Teachers to go to tribal homes||Minister for Tribal Welfare, Women and Child Development Satyavathi Rathod reviewed welfare schemes of the departments, which had been halted due to the outbreak of the pandemic, on Saturday. In a meeting with Integrated Tribal Development project, district tribal welfare and women and child development officials here on Saturday, she stated that the government had decided to send teachers to tribal habitations in Agency areas to cover the syllabus as they were not in a position to access the online and television classes.
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held with mephentermine sulphate injections||In a joint operation, the Hyderabad police along with Charminar zone drug inspector apprehended two youngsters who illegally supplied mephentermine sulphate 30mg/ml injections without any valid licence. They seized 150 mephentermine sulphate injections worth Rs. 1.5 lakh from their possession. The accused are Mohammed Shah Fahad (28), a private employee from Chandrayangutta, and Shaik Abdul Owais (20), another private employee from Chaderghat. Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (south zone) inspector S. Raghavendra, who led the operation, said prime accused Fahad, who earlier worked as medical representative, gained enough knowledge in medical field and diverted his attention towards selling of mephentermine sulphate injection, as it has a huge demand in the market. The injection is used by the youngsters to increase the growth of body muscle. Along with Owais, Fahad hatched a plan to purchase and sell the injections, for which they came in contact with one Vikram of Delhi though Akshay Enterprises medical agency, the inspector said. Subsequently, the duo purchased and sold the injections illegally to make a quick buck. The accused along with the seized injections were handed over to Chaderghat police for further investigation.
20 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Vidya volunteers urge govt. to come to their rescue||With physical classroom in schools remaining out of bounds for students due to the prevailing coronavirus crisis, hundreds of mid-day meal workers and Vidya Volunteers continue to reel under ripple-effects. More than 400 Vidya volunteers were appointed to handle classes in various State-run schools in an apparent move to overcome shortage of regular teachers in the previous academic year. The well-qualified Vidya volunteers had offered their services till the last working day of the previous academic year on a monthly honorarium of Rs. 12,000. The pandemic-induced closure of schools has triggered uncertainty over the continuation of the services of these Vidya volunteers in the new academic year, which began belatedly last month. ‘Bearing the brunt’ With the schools switching to the online teaching format, the hapless volunteers are now staring at an uncertain future. “We are bearing the brunt of the coronavirus crisis with alternative livelihood opportunities such as conducting private tuition classes being unavailable in the situation,” said an aggrieved Vidya volunteer of a Zilla Parishad School that was located in Nelakondapalli mandal of the district. “Some of our colleagues are working on the farm to eke out a living and support their families,” the Vidya volunteer said. "We make an appeal to the State government to renew our tenure to enable us to supplement the online teaching initiatives and surmount our financial crisis," he said. The mid-day meal workers and Vidya volunteers were among those hard hit by the coronavirus crisis, said TSUTF district president Nagamalleswara Rao. "They are in need of immediate succour to get through these hard times," he said. “The tenure of the Vidya volunteers ended in March in the previous academic year (2019-2020) and we have not received any fresh circular about Vidya volunteers in the current academic year,” the District Educational Officer, Mr. Madanmohan, said.
20 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Rains cause heavy crop loss in Sangareddy district||Though the incessant rains gave a sigh of relief for many with inflows to Singur reservoir and Manjira dam increasing, the farming community was severely impacted. Loss of paddy, cotton and some other crops was reported from several places in the district. Flooding continued at Zaheerabad, Nyakal, Jarasangam, Kalher, Kangti, Kohir, Pulkal and some mandals. The districts officials were touring villages and assessing the loss. The situation was so grim in some villages that officials were unable to visit some those villages due to stagnated water and it was expected to take some time before the exercise to assess crop loss was completed in all the villages, officials said. Crop loss was reported from more than 7,000 acres and the crops include paddy, cotton, red gram, sugarcane, soya bean and greengram in Sadashivpet, Zaheerabad, Kohir, Mogudampallyy, Sirgapur and Kalher mandals in the district. In Kalher mandal, crop was affected on more than 3,000 acres. In some villages, tanks were still overflowing, inundating different kinds of crops. Meanwhile, about 15 tmcft water got stored in the Singur reservoir, according to sources.
20 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two killed in factory accident||Two persons were killed while two others sustained injuries in an accident that took place in a factory at Nandikandi in Sadashivapet mandal on Saturday. According to the police, it was a gas burner blast. Two persons - Aravaind, 52, and Baswaraj, 53, fell from 15 feet and died on the spot. A case was registered and probe was on. .
20 September 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Mobile restroom for Suryapet police||The district police on Friday received its mobile restroom-cum-toilet van. It was flagged off by SP R. Bhaaskaran. The ‘mobile restrooms’ would be of help for women officers, particularly when they were on bandobust duty, the SP said.
20 September 2020||Vijayawada,TELANGANA||Green hydrogen production facility likely in Andhra||The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) is looking for an opportunity to set up a green hydrogen production facility in Andhra Pradesh, for which Industries and Commerce Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy held preliminary discussions with NTPC Chairman and Managing Director Gurdeep Singh during his recent visit to New Delhi. The public sector behemoth has already undertaken a pilot project of splitting seawater into green hydrogen using solar energy in Tamil Nadu. The demand for green hydrogen is growing as it helps in decarbonising transport and can be used as a clean fuel in industrial processes. NTPC is also contemplating to set up a 1,000 MW solar power plant. According to official sources, the NTPC CMD suggested that the 1,200 acres at Pudimadaka in Visakhapatnam district, which is under its possession for the establishment of a 2,000-MW super thermal power plant which failed to take off, can be bartered with additional land so that the 1,000 MW solar plant can be set up elsewhere. Besides, the NTPC has agreed in principle to establish a Centre of Excellence in its domain (power sector) at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam as an extension to its Noida Power Management Institute. Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited is another major central PSU examining the feasibility of setting up a solar panel manufacturing unit near Nellore.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||AAP sets sights on other States||On the day the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won the Delhi Assembly election by winning 62 of the 70 seats in February, the party also rekindled its hopes of growing beyond the Capital. There were huge flex boards at the party headquarters here with a message “join AAP to build the nation”, and addressing volunteers, senior AAP leader Gopal Rai said, “The fight has only begun. I want to tell you and volunteers across the country, you gear up, not just in Delhi, the whole country needs change.” Since then, the party has announced that they will fight in all seats in the Uttarakhand Assembly election in 2022 and has been working in Uttar Pradesh too. The party has also announced that they will be fighting all local body elections, wherever they have a unit. Political experts said that this will help AAP in building a national organisation, but they may not win seats immediately. AAP leaders told The Hindu that they have learnt their lessons from previous elections and are confident. Raising core issues AAP Uttar Pradesh in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh, who has been touring the State, said that they were raising core issues such as COVID-related corruption and rise in crime in Uttar Pradesh, which no other party is talking about. “Several incidents [of crime] happened against the Brahmin community in U.P. and we are raising it on a regular basis. In COVID-related corruption, 800% commission was taken. Oximeters which you get online for Rs. 800, was bought by the U.P. government for Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 5,000. Analyser is available on the government portal for Rs. 1.45 lakh, but was bought from Chinese company for Rs. 3.3 lakh. We are trying to make people aware of all these,” he said. AAP Delhi MLA and Uttarakhand in-charge Dinesh Mohaniya was precise about their activities in the State. “We are doing three things. One is organisation building. We are welcoming new volunteers and also focusing on booths. We are appointing at least one person per booth and have already done so at 4,500 of the over 10,000 booths. Secondly, we are roping in people from social organisations and other parties. Third is the oximeter campaign. We are visiting at least 10,000 houses in the State,” Mr. Mohaniya said. “Here, the fight is going to be between BJP and AAP,” the leader added. Failures in the past Since 2017, the Aam Aadmi Party has been contesting Assembly elections in at least 14 States outside Delhi, but has failed to win even a single seat in 13 States. The only State in which the AAP tasted some victory was in Punjab in 2017, where it won 20 seats and is the main Opposition. But AAP leaders said they have learnt from their mistakes and are focusing on organisation building. “In different States, the political atmosphere is different. So what works in Punjab won’t work in Uttar Pradesh. But our basic learning is that we need a strong organisation to fight and win elections,” Mr. Singh said. Party building “We are building the party in more States. Party building is not easy. We are a small party and have limited resources. But we are making plans and following it strictly,” Durgesh Pathak, party in-charge of AAP’s ‘National Organisation Building Team’ said. The AAP MP said that in Uttar Pradesh the party was strengthening their State, district organisations, and frontal organisation for women, students, farmers, minorities. Mr. Singh said that the party will be fighting the panchayat election in 2021 in the State, before the Assembly election in 2022. Mr. Pathak said that the party will be going forward with organisation, local faces, and party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s face to fight the election outside Delhi. “In U.P., we have Sanjay Singh looking after the whole campaign; in Goa, too, we have local faces,” he said. He said that the party will fight Punjab, Gujarat, and Goa Assembly elections in 2022. The AAP had fought elections in these three States in 2017. In August, Mr. Kejriwal had launched a nationwide oximeter campaign under which AAP volunteers will go from house to house and check people’s oxygen levels. Multiple AAP leaders said that due to COVID-19-related restrictions, this is the only outreach programme they have at this point. “It’s a door-to-door programme to check oxygen levels and through this, we make our presence felt in these areas and build inroads,” an AAP leader said. But the campaign ran into trouble in Punjab with the Chief Minister asking the AAP to stay out of the State with the programme. Political analyst Neerja Chowdhury said that the party’s aim is not exactly to win elections at this point. “They are aiming to build an organisation nationally, but incrementally. They know the importance of organisation now. If they win, well and good. But it is not that they are trying to capture a State,” she said. The Kanshi Ram approach “In the long term, they would eye the Congress votes. They would try to replace the Congress, but it is a long-term plan. At least 10-15 years or even more, depending on how things pan out, you can’t say exactly. Their approach is what Kanshi Ram of the BSP used to have: To use every election to build the organisation. Now, AAP will do exactly the same. They will fight local body and State elections. The idea is to build an organisation. Without an organisation you’re nowhere and the Congress is finding it the hard way now that they don’t have people to even man the booths,” she said. Ms. Chowdhury said that she doesn’t feel that the AAP is going to challenge the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, at least during the first time they fight the State election. “In Uttarakhand, they might mop up some seats. But in U.P., there is a vacuum and which they can come to occupy,” Ms. Chowdhury added. She also said that the AAP is shifting “Hindu ward”, towards right socially, and it was evident from the Delhi Assembly election. “Kejriwal understands that the country has turned that way. Also, he had made up with the Centre,” she said. “In States, the BJP might welcome them to undercut the Congress. In the long-term, the BJP will be worried about the AAP, but for now they might welcome them,” she added.
20 September 2020||new delhi,||#MeToo: Priya Ramani seeks acquittal in defamation case||Journalist Priya Ramani on Saturday sought acquittal in a criminal defamation complaint filed against her by former Union Minister M.J. Akbar, saying freedom of speech and expression is intrinsic to a democratic society and her accusations of sexual harassment against him were “her truth”. In the wake of the #MeToo campaign, Ms. Ramani in 2018 accused Mr. Akbar of sexual misconduct with her around 20 years ago, when he was a journalist. Mr. Akbar resigned as a Union Minister on October 17, 2018. Freedom of speech Mr. Ramani, who concluded her arguments on Saturday in the complaint filed against her by Mr. Akbar, told the court through her lawyer that the #MeToo campaign was started to correct the structural wrong, which was continuing for long. “The #MeToo movement gave a platform to thousands of women all across the world to come forward and share their stories of sexual harassment. Freedom of speech and expression is critical and intrinsic to democracy. I [Ms. Ramani] was a small part of a large movement. I have proved my case and I deserve to be acquitted,” senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing on behalf of Ms. Ramani, told Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja. What Ms. Ramani had said against Mr. Akbar was ‘her truth’, said in public good,” the lawyer added. The court will hear the matter again on October 13. Ms. Ramani had earlier told the court that she was “targeted selectively” through a criminal defamation complaint by Mr. Akbar “to halt the avalanche of allegations of sexual misconduct that came out against him” in the wake of the #MeToo movement. Mr. Akbar had told the court that Ms. Ramani had defamed him by using adjectives such as “media’s biggest predator” to describe him, which harmed his reputation. The BJP leader has denied all allegations of sexual harassment against him.  What Ms. Ramani had said against Mr. Akbar was ‘her truth’, said in public good Rebecca John Lawyer of Priya Ramani
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DMRC sells over 80K smart cards||With the discontinuation of tokens in the Delhi Metro as part of precautionary measures to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has sold around 8,500 smart cards per day between September 7 and 16. Under Unlock 4 guidelines issued by the Centre, metro services got the nod to resume operations from September 7 after a five-month hiatus. The DMRC had said that tokens had been discontinued to curb chances of virus transmission and had made the use of smart cards mandatory. The public transporter had also launched a new version of smart cards having an auto top-up feature, while existing smart card users can get the feature activated. According to DMRC data, around 10,000 registrations have taken place on the Autope app, through which smart cards get recharged automatically at the Automatic Fare Collection gates. DMRC officials said that 4,000 Autope cards have been issued so far. “The smart cards issued by Autope will offer auto top-up functionality whenever the value of the smart card goes below Rs. 100 and will automatically recharge the card with Rs. 200 at the AFC gate. Autope will auto-debit the value from the customer’s linked card or bank account,” officials said.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for cheating||A 55-year-old man has been arrested by Delhi Police Economic Offences Wing for allegedly cheating people of crores by luring them to invest for higher returns. DCP (EOW) O.P. Mishra said that the accused has been identified as Bhairu Lal Verma. The police said that they received a complaint from Ajay Gujral and many others that Verma and his accomplices are running a company by the name Power Real Developers (India) Pvt Ltd at Pusa Road and publicised an investment scheme wherein general the public were lured by assured returns of 20% per month. “It was mispresented by accused persons that their company is engaged in investing in power sector. The complainant and 63 other victims invested crores in the scheme,” Mr. Mishra said. The accused, however, fled after taking the money and shut his office, the police said. The police said, it was confirmed that the company had no business as projected by the accused persons at the time of investment. The police said that the accused is involved in several criminal cases registered against him.
20 September 2020||Noida,||Noida police chase down mobile phone snatchers||Two alleged mobile phone snatchers were arrested here following an encounter with the police on Saturday, officials said. The two bike-borne men were fleeing after snatching a man’s mobile phone near D Park and were chased down by the local police in the morning, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said. “The accused had done a similar act on Friday evening in Sector 58 police station area, after which an FIR was lodged for mobile snatching and the police teams were asked to be alert. This morning they targeted another man but the patrol teams were alert and the miscreants were chased down,” Mr. Singh said. Two countrymade pistols, ammunition and two mobile phones were seized.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Sporting spirit||
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||KKM artistes remanded in judicial custody till Oct. 3||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Saturday remanded three Kabir Kala Manch (KKM) artistes in judicial custody till October 3 in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case. While the NIA arrested Sagar Gorkhe (32) and Ramesh Gaichor (38) on September 7, Jyoti Jagtap (32) was picked up from Kondhwa in Pune the next day. The NIA, however, allowed the trio to carry some books to read and write. With the arrest of the members of the Pune-based cultural group, the number of accused in the case has gone up to 15. Earlier, the trio was remanded in NIA custody till September 19. Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty, who appeared for the NIA, had sought Ms. Jagtap’s custody on the ground that her name figured in the original FIR registered in the case on January 8, 2018. Mr. Shetty said Ms. Jagtap, along with the other arrested accused, hatched a “deep-rooted conspiracy” and committed serious offences that had a “severe social impact”. While remanding Ms. Jagtap in police custody, Special judge R.R. Bhosale had recorded that after the FIR was lodged, several accused were arrested and a probe was launched. He said, “As noticed, serious offences having severe impact on society are under investigation since a long period. In this situation, she requires to be interrogated in the line of the earlier progress of investigation. Prima facie, there is sufficient material against her for grant of custody.” KKM comprises Dalit and working class musicians and poets who came together after the 2002 communal riots in Gujarat. Their songs question the impunity enjoyed by the perpetrators of anti-Dalit atrocities that occurred in Ramabai Nagar in 1997 and Khairlanji in 2006. Some of their songs and performances feature in the National Award-winning documentary Jai Bhim Comrade . The group is alleged to have links with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). The trio organised the Elgaar Parishad under the auspices of the Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerana Abhiyan on December 31, 2017, which allegedly triggered the violence at Bhima-Koregoan the next day. They have been charged under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘SC mute spectator as students, academics charged under UAPA’||Justice A.P Shah, retired Chief Justice of Delhi and Madras high courts, said the Supreme Court was a mute spectator while the police charged protesters, students, academics and poets with sedition and booked them under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the Delhi riots case this year. He said protesters were labelled anti-national and accused of “destabilising the government”, but the apex court found reasons not to address the case. Justice Shah made the comments while delivering the Justice Hosbet Suresh Memorial Lecture on the topic, ‘The Supreme Court in Decline: Forgotten Freedoms and Eroded Rights’, through videoconferencing. “The start of the Supreme Court’s decline coincided with the coming to power of the BJP-led NDA government in 2014. Every institution, mechanism or tool that is designed to hold the executive accountable is being systematically destroyed since 2014,” he said. A former chairperson of the Law Commission, Justice Shah spoke about the role of the Supreme Court in different times. He said the apex court is tilting more towards the executive than making it accountable through constitutional mechanisms and institutions. The court has failed to protect rights and counter majoritarianism, he said. Justice Shah cited the Sabarimala and Ayodhya judgments, where the apex court compromised the principle of rule of law to rule in the favour of the government. “In the Ayodhya judgment, the court despite acknowledging the illegalities committed by the Hindus in 1949 and 1992, effectively rewarded the wrongdoer,” he said. Justice Shah said the Supreme Court instead of dealing with the issue of fundamental rights over the internet and communication shutdown in Jammu & Kashmir, handed over the issue to the executive-led Special Review Committee. He said, “This has added to the sufferings of the population of Jammu & Kashmir on the fronts of health, education, business and economy.” He said the opaque system of “master of the roster” was central in the allocation of cases to Benches favourable to the executive. “This system has eroded the principle of independence of the judiciary enshrined in the Constitution,” he said.
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||Missing teenager from U.P. traced to Mumbai||A 16-year-old boy who went missing from Uttar Pradesh has been traced to Mumbai and is now lodged at a shelter home here, the police said on Saturday. Dhruv, was found in Wadala area with the help of volunteers of an organisation working in child protection, a policeman at the Wadala police station said. The process to send Dhruv back to Varanasi is on, the policeman said. He was reported missing by his mother and aunt last month. Sunita, a volunteer who first located Dhruv, said she saw him sitting near a trash can in Wadala and he told her he had run away from his home. “The success in tracing Dhruv shows what could happen if community safety networks existed in India,” said Rahi Suryawanshi, senior associate in Communication and Advocacy at Aangan Trust, of which Sunita is a volunteer. “The next time a child goes missing, a community safety volunteer can immediately alert peer networks and locate and repatriate the child to safety,” Rahi’s colleague Mizan Tejani said. The boy is at the David Sassoon shelter home and will join his parents as soon as possible, the officer said.
20 September 2020||Mumbai,||Modi govt. has brought two anti-farmer bills: Sena||The Shiv Sena on Saturday questioned the Narendra Modi government’s policies on economy, trade and agriculture, and alleged that the Centre was moving towards privatisation of airports, the Air India and the Railways and giving the control of farmers’ lives to traders and private players. The party alleged that the Centre introduced Bills on agriculture “without consulting” its allies, farmers’ organisations or opposition parties, and said the resignation of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has brought the issue to the fore. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana , the Sena said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) during the time of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee was “different” as they used to “treat the NDA constituents with respect and consult with them”. “Shiromani Akali Dal [SAD] member Harsimrat Kaur Badal has resigned from the Union Cabinet. The Modi government brought two anti-farmer bills [in Parliament] and she resigned in protest. The Shiv Sena has already walked out of the NDA and now comes the SAD’s move,” it said. “During the time of Vajpayee, the NDA allies used to be treated with respect, affection and trust. There used to be consultations on policy decisions and BJP leaders would hear out the views of the allies. In those times, spoken word had value,” the Sena said in the editorial.
20 September 2020||Nagpur,||Tiger kills woman in Yavatmal||A 60-year-old woman was killed by a tiger at a village in Pandharkawda forest division in Yavatmal district on Saturday. The woman was attacked while she was working in a field at Mouza Andharwadi village at 12 p.m., an official from Pandharkawda forest department said. The tiger from Tipeshwar reserve has been on the move in farms of Andharwadi, Kopamandhvi, Vasri and Kobai villages for the last two months and has preyed on cattle. Personnel from the Special Tiger Protection Force from Melghat and forest staff of Pandhakawda have been tracking and monitoring the tiger, he said.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The rise, retreat and resurgence of jihadists||In the spring of 1996, the Taliban, who had taken southern Afghanistan under their control, organised a conference of their fighters, commanders and mullahs in downtown Kandahar. The city hosts one of the holiest shrines in the country —The Shrine of the Cloak of the Prophet Mohammed, which keeps a robe that Afghans believe was worn by the Prophet. Very rarely has it been shown to the public. Those who had assembled before an old mosque in central Kandahar were clueless what they were going to see. Then Mullah Mohammed Omar appeared on its roof, with the cloak in his hands. He held it aloft before the cheering crowd, who named him ‘Amir ul-Momineen’, the commander of the faithful. Omar appeared with the relic at a critical juncture of the Taliban’s history. The militants had not reached Kabul yet. The rank and file were divided on whether the Taliban, consisting of mainly madrassa students, should take the war to the capital. But what happened in Kandahar, as Steve Coll wrote in his profile of the Taliban leader in The New Yorker , was Omar’s “coronation” as the leader of the most powerful insurgency in the country. The Taliban would capture Kabul within a few months and establish the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan. Omar would rule most of the country for the next five years. Overthrown by the U.S. in 2001 following the September 11 terrorist attacks, the Taliban would retreat to the mountainous hinterlands of Afghanistan, while their leadership crossed the border to Pakistan. The war continued, killing hundreds of thousands of people, and wounding and displacing many more. Almost 20 years after they lost Kabul, the Taliban are now controlling almost half of the country. Earlier this year, they reached an agreement with the U.S. as part of which American and other international troops would withdraw from Afghanistan in return for the Taliban’s assurance that they won’t let foreign terrorists use Afghan soil. As part of the broader peace process, Taliban representatives and the Afghan government opened formal talks earlier this month in the Qatari capital Doha where both sides would be seeking to build a consensus on how a post-American Afghanistan should be. Civil war The roots of the Taliban go back to the Mujahideen movement against the Soviet troops in Afghanistan in the 1980s. Many of the Taliban’s early leadership, including Omar, fought the Soviets with various Mujahideen factions, which were supported by the Central Intelligence Agency, Pakistan’s Inter Service Intelligence and Saudi Arabia. After the Soviets pulled back in 1989, the Mujahideen groups started fighting each other, plunging the country into a civil war. The post-communist Afghanistan was divided along the ethnic lines. There was no central authority. Life was chaotic. Crimes were rampant. Afghanistan, which the poet Mohammed Iqbal called “the heart of Asia”, was falling apart. It was against this background a group of madrassa students (Talibs), with roots in Deobandi seminaries and support from different Deobandi factions in Pakistan, came together to launch a new “reform” movement. Predominantly Pashtun, their declared goals were: establish order, restore peace, disarm the militias, enforce the Sharia code and unite people under (their version of) Islam. They chose Omar, a young, locally influential preacher who lost one eye in the battle against the Red Army, as their leader. There are lots of stories about how Omar mobilised the Talibs under his command. “The most credible story”, writes Ahmed Rashid in his book, Taliban , “is that in the spring of 1994, Singesar neighbours came to tell him that a commander had abducted two teenage girls.” They were taken to a military camp and repeatedly raped. Omar attacked the base with some 30 Talibs, freed the girls and hanged the commander from the barrel of a tank. From the base, they captured arms and ammunition, beginning a long journey of bloody militancy. The Taliban swept up military victories with the help of the ISI. Pakistan found the Taliban the most reassuring proxy in an otherwise fractured Afghanistan. After capturing Kabul, the Taliban enforced their version of strict Islamist code. It destroyed movie theatres, banned women from working in public offices, kept girls out of schools and banned public music, the sale of CDs and even kite flying. Kabul’s sports stadium was turned into a public execution ground. In March 2001, the Taliban blew up the two giant stone statues of the Buddha in Bamiyan. After the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the U.S., Omar faced a difficult choice. Osama bin Laden, the al-Qaeda leader, planned and executed the attack from Afghanistan. The U.S. asked the Taliban to hand over bin Laden. Omar refused, which was followed by the U.S. invasion and the ouster of the Taliban from power. Since then, the Taliban have been fighting to recapture what they lost — ‘the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’. Fight and talk In 2015, the Taliban announced that Mullah Omar died two years earlier in Pakistan. Mullah Mansour, who succeeded Omar, was killed in a U.S. air strike in 2015. Since 2016, the less-known Mawlawi Hibatullah Akhundzada has been the group’s leader. Under Akhundzada, the Taliban have taken a ‘fight and talk’ approach. In 2018, U.S. officials and Taliban representatives held their first meeting in Doha, where the insurgents had opened a political office. Throughout talks with the U.S., the Taliban refused to agree to a lasting ceasefire. Pakistan played a key role in the Taliban’s resurgence. Rattled by India’s growing influence in post-Taliban Afghanistan, Pakistan played a double game — it joined the U.S.-led war on terror, while at the same time secretly helping the Taliban. As Steve Coll writes in his book Directorate S , the ISI set up a secret unit called ‘Directorate S’ to handle its Taliban operations and worked from an Army camp in Ojhri, near Rawalpindi. Now, the war has entered into a stalemate. The Afghan government cannot defeat the Taliban and the Taliban seem unable, for now, to seize the major population centres, including Kabul. This, coupled with the U.S.’s desire to get out of the war, prompted the peace talks. But hard questions remain. With the U.S. agreeing to pull back, the Taliban have met one of their key goals. But they haven’t recognised the Afghan Constitution. There is no truce yet. It’s not clear what would their eventual goal be. “There are some differences between the Taliban of the 1990s and today’s Taliban. We now have the second generation Taliban. Their links with the military and religious establishment in Pakistan are different. Their working relationship with terrorist outfits like Al-Qaeda are limited today,” said D. Suba Chandran, a Professor of strategic and security studies at the National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bangalore. “But their core ideology hasn’t changed. If they were not ready to share power then, they won’t do it now. I don't think their approach towards liberal institutions, minorities, women and other groups has changed either.”  In Focus The roots of the Taliban go back to the Mujahideen movement against the Soviet troops in Afghanistan in the 1980s Many of the Taliban’s early leadership, including Mullah Omar, fought the Soviets with various Mujahideen factions Once in power, the Taliban enforced their version of strict Islamist code, which included banning women working in public offices, keeping girls out of schools and proscribing public music   Pakistan, rattled by India’s growing influence in post-Taliban Afghanistan, played a double game — it joined the U.S.-led war on terror, while at the same time helping the Taliban
20 September 2020||Washington,||U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ginsburg dies||U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a liberal and legal icon, died on Friday at the age of 87 from complications caused by metastatic pancreatic cancer. Democrats and Republicans reacted to news of her death with grief even as they drew battle lines over the possibility of finding a replacement justice before the elections. At just over 5 feet tall, Ginsburg was considered a giant in the legal world. As a lawyer, she argued cases before the Supreme Court to expand, in stages, the ambit of the U.S. Constitution’s 14th Amendment on equal protection to cover gender discrimination. Born in 1933 to a Jewish family in Brooklyn, she faced numerous challenges as she worked her way to the highest court in the land. She lost her mother at 17, entered an almost exclusively male world of lawyers and judges, helped her husband Martin (’Marty’) Ginsburg through cancer while they both attended Harvard Law School and raised children. Her marriage to Martin Ginsburg — who campaigned for his wife’s supreme court nomination and took on work at home traditionally expected of women — would become one of the defining partnerships of her life. Oldest SC Justice In 1993, then President Bill Clinton appointed her to the Supreme Court — the second woman in that position. At the time of her death, she would become the oldest Supreme Court justice and the most senior of the liberal justices. In her 27 years on the court, in writing majority opinions and dissents she became a liberal icon through her support for gender equality, women’s rights, same sex marriage, strengthening the Voting Rights Act and so forth. Ginsburg’s reputation for toughness extended outside the court. She had fought off cancer twice in her life. Treatment for a fall that broke three of her ribs in 2018 led doctors to discover that she had cancer, for the third time. She had repeatedly said she would work as long as she could physically manage: the 5-4 conservative-liberal split in the court, with Chief Justice John Roberts sometimes voting with liberals, would become even more conservative had Ginsburg retired. Just days before her death, Ginsburg said she hoped a replacement would not be found before the presidential elections. “My most fervent wish is that I will not be replaced until a new President is installed,” she had said in a dictated statement to her grand-daughter Clara Spera. Popular icon In recent years, Justice Ginsburg’s reputation extended beyond feminism and the law, as she became an icon in popular culture. Known colloquially as the ‘Notorious RBG’ ( named after the late rapper Notorious BIG) mugs, action figures, stickers, T-shirts and books, including one by her personal trainer on the ‘RBG Workout’ featuring Ginsburg started emerging. The Justice was known to have a tough workout regimen even in her 80s that included lifting weights and doing push-ups. In the hours after news of her death broke, mourners gathered outside the Supreme Court here in Washington, bringing candles and flowers to mark Justice Ginsburg’s life and passing. President Donald Trump appeared to be taken aback when he was told of the news by reporters after a campaign event in Minnesota. “She just died? Wow,” he said. “She led an amazing life... what else can you say. She was an amazing woman... whether you agreed or not, she was amazing woman who led an amazing life. I’m actually sad to hear that.” He later issued a statement praising her. In 2016, Justice Ginsburg had called Mr. Trump “a faker”, words she later apologised for, saying judges should refrain from commenting on candidates running for office. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden called Ginsburg “not only a giant in the legal profession but a beloved figure”. Mr. Biden said the short-term focus was on the loss of the justice and her legacy but “there is no doubt, let me be clear that the voters should pick the President and the President should pick the justice for the Senate to consider.”
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A giant killer in the dock||It’s ironic that copies of the Koran should give K.T. Jaleel, Kerala’s Minister of Higher Education and Welfare of Minorities who swears by the holy text, the biggest test of his political life. The Customs Department suspects an unholy nexus between the Minister and some officials of the Consulate of the UAE in Kerala’s capital, Thiruvananthapuram, in “fraudulently importing goods, including a recent consignment of 250 cartons of the sacred text weighing about 4.5 tonnes into the State” using the diplomatic route claiming duty exemption. The Customs probe is just the latest in the trail of disquieting developments for Mr. Jaleel in the past fortnight, on the heels of his questioning by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in a related case of gold smuggling using the Consulate as cover. A key accused in that case had worked with the Consulate, maintained high-level connections in the government and interacted with the Minister, who is also in charge of the Wakf Department. Following his questioning by the ED, the Minister maintained that accepting the Koran from the UAE during the month of Ramzan was part of a ‘cultural and religious’ custom. The Opposition, especially the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), has launched protests, calling for his resignation. However, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), which heads the ruling coalition, threw its weight behind the Minister, reading the whole episode as one against the Koran. Break with League Mr. Jaleel is not a member of the CPI(M). But he has enjoyed the confidence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan from the time he was fielded by the Left as an Independent candidate in the Kuttippuram constituency in Malappuram in 2006. It was a year after his ouster, following differences with the leadership, from the youth wing of the IUML in which he had functioned as state general secretary. He emerged as a giant killer by trouncing the League strongman, P.K. Kunhalikutty, in what used to be a League bastion until then. A native of Tirur in Malappuram, he was drawn to the Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) in the late 1980s. After severing ties with SIMI, he joined the Muslim Students Federation, the students’ wing of the IUML, while studying history at PSMO College in Tirurangadi, Malappuram. He went on to become a lecturer in the same college and his clout within the Youth League grew under the patronage of Korambayil Ahammed Haji, known for his progressive stances. An abiding interest in history earned him a Ph.D. from the University of Kerala and his work, a rereading of the role of Variamkunnath Kunhamed Haji and Ali Musliyar in what came to be known as the Malabar Rebellion of 1921, was later published as a book, the second authored by him, with a forward by Pinarayi Vijayan. The book, which captures the contours of the agrarian uprising in the context of the anti-colonial strife, is in its seventh edition now. When Mr. Vijayan, then State secretary of the CPI(M), took out a pre-election march along the length of Kerala in 2009, Mr. Jaleel marched alongside as the only non-party member of its core team of senior CPI(M) leaders. In the elections of 2011 and 2016, he kept the faith reposed in him by winning the Thavanur constituency as a Left-backed Independent. It, therefore, surprised no one when he was selected to the Cabinet led by Mr. Vijayan in 2016 as Minister in charge of Local Self-governments. However, in 2018, he came under a cloud following allegations of nepotism after his kin, K.T. Adeeb, was appointed general manager in the Kerala State Minorities Development Corporation. Mr. Adeeb eventually quit the post. Mr. Jaleel put up a brave face when his name cropped up in connection with a well-networked accused in the gold scam in August this year, saying he was ready to face any inquiry. But he soon became restive in the face of adverse media coverage and as Central agencies began to call him for questioning, turned selective in talking to the media, his assertion of “truth alone will prevail” notwithstanding. The Assembly elections are less than a year away, and the Left, viewing the developments as political, is unlikely to isolate him. But the heat, for the moment, is definitely on Mr. Jaleel.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The self-made Prime Minister||Among the few definitive things that can be said about Japan’s new Prime Minister, Yoshihide Suga, is that he does not wear his heart on his sleeve. As the right-hand man of his predecessor, Shinzo Abe, Mr. Suga has fielded questions from the press on an almost-daily basis for years. And yet, despite his public role, he has revealed little about himself other than gnomic nuggets like his penchant for pancakes and fishing. But although his inner world remains enigmatic, his skill at deflection, capacity for hard work and unwavering loyalty towards Mr. Abe have proved enough to propel him to the helm of the nation. Mr. Suga’s journey to the political summit has been up a very different road to that of his mentor’s. While Mr. Abe’s lineage was so robust as to endow his rise almost with a sense of inevitability (both his maternal grandfather and great uncle were former PMs), the 71-year-old Mr. Suga is a self-made man. The son of a strawberry farmer, he was born in the snow-covered hardscrabble of rural Akita province, in Japan’s north. To put himself through university in Tokyo, he worked a series of odd jobs — including at a cardboard factory and a fish market. Hiroshi Kawai, a high school classmate told the New York Times : “We have such proverbs as ‘great talents are slow to mature’ and ‘a wise falcon hides its talons.’ Now, I realized that those words were created for Mr. Suga.” Entry into politics After graduating, Mr. Suga joined an electrical maintenance company, but soon quit the life of a salaryman to become the secretary to a Parliamentarian. More than a decade on, he won a seat on the port of Yokohama’s city assembly, but it was only in 1996 that he made a breakthrough into national politics, getting elected to the House of Representatives on a Liberal Democratic Party ticket. His most astute move was to hitch his lot to the destined star of the political firmament Shinzo Abe. During both Mr. Abe’s terms as Prime Minister Mr. Suga was at his side, manoeuvring behind the scenes, executing policy, and helping to bring unwieldy bureaucrats into line. He emerged as the yin to his boss’s yang. Where Mr. Abe was charismatic, Mr. Suga was self-effacing, even dour. Mr. Abe operated in the spotlight; Mr. Suga was comfortable in the shadows. Mr. Abe had a clear, (if unachieved) vision for his country. Mr. Suga eschewed grand visions for practical goals. But what he lacked in oomph, he made up for in steely resolve. His daily regimen for the last eight years is a window into this tenacity. Mr. Suga is known to have woken every morning at 5:00 am to take a 40-minute walk, followed by a 100 sit-ups. He was at the office by 9:00 am and took up two dozen meetings a day, in addition to addressing press conferences. He preferred to eat soba noodles for lunch, which are easily slurped, to cut down on the time spent eating. For a nightcap, (Mr. Suga is a teetotaler), he completed another 100 sit-ups. His achievements as Mr. Abe’s chief Cabinet Secretary included getting telecommunication companies to drop expensive mobile phone fees and opening the borders to greater numbers of foreign workers. But as Prime Minister, Mr. Suga will need to lead rather than implement, his career specialty thus far. He has promised continuity and stability, and most analysts do not expect him to significantly break with Mr. Abe’s policies. But the formidable challenges facing Japan need fresh ideas. Mr. Suga takes over at a time when the administration’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic is widely seen as confused and the Japanese economy is in serious trouble; all this against the backdrop of an ageing demographic and unpredictable geo-strategic environment given an assertive China, bellicose North Korea and unpredictable U.S. It is unclear whether Mr. Suga will choose to ride out the rest of what would have been Mr. Abe’s term until next year, or go to the polls sooner to win a popular mandate. In the absence of an election, it is unlikely that he will rock the boat with any bold policy departures. What is less predictable is Mr. Suga’s ultimate fate in the history books: will he join the blur of forgettable short-lived Prime Ministers that have been a standard feature of the Japanese political landscape, or will he emerge as a falcon whose talons prove sharp enough to leave their mark?
20 September 2020||Washington DC,||Battle begins for Ginsburg’s replacement||Within hours of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s death, Washington found itself preparing for an expected and fierce battle on Friday over the timing of a replacement justice for the court, weeks away from the presidential election. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell issued a condolence message on Friday night praising Justice Ginsburg’s life but also saying, “President Trump’s nominee will receive a vote on the floor of the U.S. Senate.” In 2016, he had blocked a (GOP controlled) Senate confirmation vote on former U.S. President Barack Obama’s justice nominee Merrick Garland eleven months before the election. Referring to the 2016 confirmation issue following conservative justice Antonin Scalia’s death, Mr. McConnell’s statement said that since the 1880s, no Senate has confirmed the nominee of an opposite-party President. Mr. McConnell’s statement came despite Justice Ginsburg’s final public wish that a new justice not be found till after the election. By Saturday morning, President Donald Trump had signalled his intent to nominate a new justice. The President, who has already filled two SC seats with conservative justices, tweeted to the GOP on the importance of selection of SC justices: “We have this obligation, without delay!” he wrote. His opponent, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden stated on Friday night that the newly elected President should nominate the next justice. Chuck Schumer, the top Democratic Senator, echoed this sentiment. A number of Senators face re-election in tightly contested States and how they vote will be an important factor in determining whether a Trump nominee is confirmed.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Minister climbs tree to address media||In a move apparently aimed at showing a greater connect with his portfolio, a Sri Lankan Minister chose an unconventional venue to make a media statement — he was climbing a coconut tree. Arundika Fernando, ‘State Minister of Coconut, Kithul [palm treacle], Palmyrah and Rubber Cultivation Promotion and Related Industrial Product Manufacturing & Export Diversification’, on Friday tried climbing a coconut tree, as locals and camera persons watched and filmed his slow ascent with a gadget made of large metal clips and bands around the tree’s bark. Local media said the video clip, which subsequently went viral online, was filmed at Dankotuwa town in Puttalam district, the Minister’s constituency, located 140 km north of Colombo, in Sri Lanka’s North Western Province. “We hope to utilise every available plot of land for the cultivation of coconuts and boost the industry to one which would generate foreign exchange to the country,” the Minister was quoting as saying. He also pointed to a shortage of “700 million coconuts” due to high demand and consumption locally. As Sri Lanka faces a huge economic challenge in the wake of the global pandemic, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has vowed to boost local production, while restricting import of several products. Following the August general election, his government created separate covering a range of local products such as batik, vegetables, cane and brass. Minister Fernando is the second to make headlines with his Ministry-related move, following State Minister of Batik, Handloom, and Local Apparel Products Dayasiri Jayasekara wore a batik shirt to Parliament for the inaugural session last month.
20 September 2020||Shanghai,||China unveils sanctions regime after U.S. ban on TikTok, WeChat||China on Saturday launched a mechanism that would allow it to sanction foreign companies, upping the ante in a tech war with the U.S. a day after Washington moved to curb popular Chinese apps TikTok and WeChat. China’s long-expected “unreliable entities list” is seen as a weapon for Beijing to retaliate against the U.S., which has used its own “entity list” to shut Chinese telecom giant Huawei out of the US market, while also moving against TikTok and WeChat. Its implementation comes just a day after the U.S. Commerce Department stepped up the pressure by ordering a ban on downloads of video app TikTok and effectively blocking use of WeChat, the Chinese super-app. An announcement by China’s Ministry of Commerce did not mention any specific foreign entities that could be targeted. Tough tone But it said the new system would consider sanctions on entities whose activities “harm China’s national sovereignty, security, and development interests” or violate “internationally accepted economic and trade rules”. That language closely tracks wording that Beijing has used to repeatedly denounce U.S. actions against Chinese companies. Punitive measures may include fines against the foreign entity, banning it from conducting trade and investment in China, and restrictions on the entry of personnel or equipment into the country. It covers “foreign enterprises, other organisations and individuals”, the Ministry said. Under Friday’s U.S. order against the Chinese apps, Tencent-owned WeChat would lose functionality in the United States from Sunday. TikTok users will be banned from installing updates but could keep accessing the service through November 12. That timeframe potentially allows for a tie-up between TikTok, owned by China’s ByteDance, and a U.S. company to safeguard data for the wildly popular app to allay Washington’s security concerns.
20 September 2020||TEHRAN,||Iran vows retaliation for Soleimani’s killing||The chief of Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard threatened on Saturday to go after everyone who had a role in a top General’s January killing during a U.S. drone strike in Iraq. The guard’s website quoted General Hossein Salami as saying, “Mr. Trump! Our revenge for martyrdom of our great general is obvious, serious and real.” U.S. President Donald Trump warned this week that Washington would harshly respond to any Iranian attempts to take revenge for the death of General Qassem Soleimani, tweeting that “if they hit us in any way, any form, written instructions already done we’re going to hit them 1,000 times harder.” Gen. Salami rejected the report of an Iranian plot to assassinate U.S. Ambassador to South Africa Lana Marks. “Do you think we hit a female ambassador in return to our martyred brother?’ the General said. “We will hit those who had direct and indirect roles. You should know that everybody who had role in the event will be hit, and this is a serious message. We do prove everything in practice.” In January, Iran launched a ballistic missile attack targeting U.S. soldiers in Iraq.
20 September 2020||Washington,||U.S. sending more troops to Syria||The U.S. has deployed additional troops and armoured vehicles into eastern Syria after a number of clashes with Russian forces, including a recent vehicle collision that injured four U.S. service members. Navy Captain Bill Urban, spokesman for U.S. Central Command, said the U.S. has also sent in radar systems and increased fighter jet patrols to better protect U.S. and coalition forces. “The U.S. does not seek conflict with any other nation in Syria, but will defend Coalition forces if necessary,” said Capt. Urban. A senior U.S. official said a half-dozen Bradley fighting vehicles and fewer than 100 additional troops were sent in to eastern Syria. It seems meant to be a clear signal to Russia to avoid ‘provocative actions’ against the U.S. and its allies there.
20 September 2020||Dhaka,||Bangladesh mourns Islamist leader’s death||Tens of thousands of people gathered to mourn the controversial leader of Bangladesh's largest Islamist group as his funeral was held on Saturday in a rural southeastern town, police said. Allama Shah Ahmad Shafi, who led the hardline Hefazat-e-Islam group since it was formed in 2010, died of age-related complications on Friday in Dhaka. He was believed to be over 100 years old. His death came just a day after an unprecedented revolt involving thousands of students at his madrasa, forcing him to resign after three decades as its helm.
20 September 2020||Lima,||Lima, Sept 19, 2020 (AFP) -||Peru’s President Martin Vizcarra survived an impeachment vote in Congress on Friday. Congress had voted last week to open impeachment proceedings against the 57-year-old president for “moral incapacity” over accusations he incited aides to lie to anti-graft investigators.AFP
20 September 2020||Washington,||Washington, Sept 19, 2020 (AFP) -||Two people were killed and 14 wounded early on Saturday in a shooting at a backyard party in Rochester, New York state, police said. Officers responding to reports of gunfire in the area found a “chaotic scene” with about 100 people running in various directions, interim police chief Mark Simmons told reporters.AFP
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||External debt increases almost 3% to $559 billion at March-end||India’s total external debt increased by 2.8% to $558.5 billion at the end of March mainly on account of a rise in commercial borrowings, a Finance Ministry report showed. External debt was $543 billion a year earlier. The ratio of foreign currency reserves to external debt stood at 85.5% as at end-March, compared to 76% in 2019 March. External debt as a ratio to GDP rose marginally to 20.6%, from 19.8 %, ‘India’s External Debt: A Status Report: 2019-2020’ showed. Sovereign debt shrank 3% to $100.9 billion, the ministry said, adding, this decrease was primarily due to a fall in FII investment in G-Secs — the second-largest constituent — by 23.3% to $21.6 billion, from $28.3 billion in 2019. Loans from multilateral and bilateral sources under external assistance — the largest constituent of sovereign debt — grew 4.9% to $87.2 billion. Non-sovereign debt, on the other hand, rose 4.2% to $457.7 billion mainly due to an increase in commercial borrowings — the largest constituent — by 6.7% to $220.3 billion. Outstanding NRI deposits — the second-largest constituent — at $130.6 billion was almost equal to the level a year earlier. Non-financial corporations accounted for 42% of total debt. Valuation gains Noting that the U.S. dollar is the predominant currency for denomination of India’s external debt with a share of 53.7%, it said, the dollar’s appreciation as on March 31 resulted in a valuation gain of $16.6 billion. Excluding valuation gains, increase in external debt would have been $32 billion.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Cabinet note ready for vehicle scrappage policy||The government on Saturday said a Cabinet note has been formulated for the vehicle scrappage policy. “Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) has formulated a note for Cabinet on creation of an ecosystem for voluntary and environment friendly phasing out of unfit and old polluting vehicles,” Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V.K. Singh told the Rajya Sabha in reply to a query. The proposed policy, once approved, will be applicable on all vehicles, the government had said earlier. The policy was sent for a fresh round of consultation with stakeholders on the direction of the PMO. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadakri had said earlier this year that once the policy was approved, India could emerge as a hub for automobile manufacturing as key raw material available from scrapping steel, aluminium and plastic were bound to be recycled, bringing down automobile prices by “20-30%.” On July 26, 2019, the government had proposed amendments to motor vehicle rules to allow scrapping of vehicles older than 15 years to spur adoption of electric vehicles.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Aim to regain traders’ bank tag’||The 104-year-old private sector lender Karur Vysya Bank Ltd., popularly known as a trader’s bank, plans to regain its right to the appellation by foraying aggressively into metal loans and co-lending. Current account and savings bank accounts will be major focus areas, the bank’s MD and CEO, B. Ramesh Babu, said in an interview. Excerpts:  What was the impact of COVID-19 on operations? Currently, transactions at the branch level remain low. Customers have started using other channels, as also KVB Dlite, a mobile banking app. Current account and savings account (CASA) contribution has gone up from 31% to 35%. People who don’t want to spend are retaining money in their savings accounts. Account openings during the pandemic outnumbered closures. What are your plans for the current year? Going forward, CASA will be the top-most focus area on the liability side. So, all the branches will focus on opening mid-segment current and savings bank accounts. On the advances side, we consider loans up to Rs. 25 crore as corporate loans. Earlier, we were taking exposure up to Rs. 200-300 crore. Now, we have taken a call to limit exposure to Rs. 125 crore per corporate account. Our higher exposures have been brought down to Rs. 125 crore. Even today, we have about 10 accounts that are of government-owned firms and have good track record. The way forward for these accounts is, we will grow, but it will be below Rs. 125 crore or Rs. 100-75 crore. Our main focus would be on the commercial segment which is below Rs. 25 crore. We have 800 branches [catering to such accounts], and we want to leverage the connect. KVB was actually a traders’ bank and had a lot of relationship banking. We want to go back to basics. Any special focus areas? We are looking at four verticals: commercial banking, retail and non-brand channel and metal gold loans and with a lower focus on corporates. Commercial banking, retail and agriculture will constitute 75% of the loan book and corporate, 25%. The bank will aggressively look at precious metals, that is, providing gold loans to jewellers and manufacturers. Earlier, our customers used to take metal gold loans from other banks by using letters of credit issued by us. What we want to do is to give our own customers metal gold loan, 5 kg, 10 kg or 20 kg, whichever way they want and later extend it to others. We will import gold and give it to them, for which we have arrangement with players. On an average, we have given Rs. 1,500 crore worth of non-fund base limits to our own customers. It is readily on our platter. We expect to grow by Rs. 600 crore on this account alone this year. What about consortium lending? Earlier we were a member of many consortiums. We were taking some 5% and if something happened, we had no say. That is the only reason we are seriously reconsidering; if we do not have a bigger share in the consortium, let us say 20% or 25%, then there is no point being a part of [a consortium]. But, if it is an excellent company and the concession rate is also pretty good, we can [participate] to the extent possible. But, we may not go for smaller exposures in a consortium. Your take on co-lending? We have started co-lending with a few of the systematically important non-banking, non-deposit taking financial institutions. People can enter into an arrangement wherein, they can source the loan and pass it through our own system. The loans will be sanctioned and disbursed digitally with no manual intervention. We have tied up with seven NBFCs to take advantage of their wherewithal and footprint. This particular route may help us to get more business.  The bank will aggressively look at gold loans to jewellers and manufacturers
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Fuel demand to shrink in 2020 by wider 11.5%: Fitch Solutions||Fitch Solutions has revised downward its forecast for fuel demand contraction in India to 11.5% in 2020 in line with the further deterioration in the country’s economic outlook. “Demand weakness is spread across the board, with both consumer and industrial fuels set for steep decline,” Fitch Solutions said in a note. “We have made a further downward revision to our India refined fuels demand forecast for 2020, from -9.4% to -11.5%, in line with further deterioration in the country’s economic outlook.” It forecast a 5% year-on-year growth in 2021 and 2022, as the outbreak is brought under control and economic activity normalises. In the first quarter of FY21, the GDP shrank by 23.9%. The domestic COVID-19 outbreak shows no signs of abating, with daily cases continuing to accelerate.  The transport sectors have suffered the heaviest losses, as social distancing measures cut off traffic and travel and curbed demand for road, air and shipping freight.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Net direct tax collection dips 31% in April-August||The net direct tax collection during April-August declined 31% to Rs. 1.92 lakh crore compared with the same period of the last fiscal. The net indirect tax collection during the five-month period till August fell 11% year-on-year to Rs. 3.42 lakh crore. In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said net direct tax collection was Rs. 2,79,711 crore in April-August 2019, compared with Rs. 1,92,718 crore in April-August 2020. The net indirect tax collection in April-August 2019 was Rs. 3,85,949 crore, as against Rs. 3,42,591 crore in April-August 2020. ‘Wide gap’ In the period under review, the Centre’s Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection stood at more than Rs. 1.81 lakh crore. The Budget had estimated Centre’s GST collection for the full fiscal year at Rs. 6,90,500 crore. In 2019-20, the Centre’s actual GST revenue stood at Rs. 5,98,825 crore, against the revised estimate of Rs. 6,12,327 crore.  In FY20, actual GST revenue stood at Rs. 5,98,825 crore, against the revised estimate of Rs. 6,12,327 crore
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘No decision to stop printing Rs. 2,000 notes’||The Finance Ministry on Saturday informed the Lok Sabha that no decision had been taken to discontinue the printing of Rs. 2,000 denomination currency notes. In a written reply, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said printing of bank notes of a particular denomination was decided by the government in consultation with the RBI to maintain desired denomination mix for facilitating transactional demand of public. During the year 2019-20 and 2020-21, no indent was placed with the presses for printing of Rs. 2,000 denomination notes.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||MTNL lists some Mumbai assets for sale||State-run MTNL has submitted a set of assets, including land, staff quarters and telephone exchange in Mumbai, for monetisation, Parliament was informed on Saturday. Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said that international property consultants had been appointed for end-to-end transaction advice on monetisation of these properties. Mr. Thakur said since the asset monetisation process was complex involving multiple stakeholders and agencies, a specific timeframe for completion of these transactions could not be defined at present.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CAMS IPO raises Rs. 666 cr. in anchor leg||Warburg Pincus-backed CAMS has raised a little over Rs. 666 crore from anchor investors ahead of its initial share sale that opens for public subscription on Monday. The company has finalised the allocation of 54,19,230 shares at Rs. 1,230 apiece to 35 anchor investors, CAMS — which acts as a registrar and transfer agent for mutual funds — said in a filing with the stock exchanges. At this price, the company garnered Rs. 666.56 crore.  Names of investors include SmallCap World Fund, HSBC, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Goldman Sachs, Government of Singapore, and Nomura Funds Ireland Public Ltd.
20 September 2020||Kolkata,||HC bars Harsh Lodha from MP Birla firms||The Calcutta High Court has restrained Harsh Vardhan Lodha from holding any office in any of the entities of MP Birla Group during the pendency of a suit over succession of the MP Birla Estate. The high court, in a judgment over the administering of the estate by a court-appointed committee by majority decision, has also restrained the Lodhas from drawing any benefit personally from the assets of the estate of Priyamvada Devi, the deceased wife of MP Birla, during the pendency of the testamentary suit over the assets of the MP Birla Group.
20 September 2020||NEW YORK,||Reed gets his nose in front||Masters winner Patrick Reed closed with a birdie to grab a one-stroke lead over Bryson DeChambeau after Friday's second round of the US Open. Tenth-ranked Reed hit only five fairways but relied on an impressive short game to shoot a level par 70 and stand on four-under 136 after 36 holes. Day’s best Ninth-ranked DeChambeau sweated out a two-under 68, the day's low round thanks to a closing eagle at nine, to stand on 137. Spain's Rafael Cabrera Bello and American Harris English, each chasing a first Major title, shot 70 to share third on 138 with American Justin Thomas, the 2017 PGA Championship winner who followed a 65, the lowest US Open round ever at Winged Foot, with a 73. American Jason Kokrak was sixth on 139, the only other player under par overall after a 71. Fourth-ranked Rory McIlroy, a four-time Major champion, and England's Lee Westwood each followed 67s on Thursday with 76s to share 22nd on 143. World No. 1 Dustin Johnson fired a 70 to join them on 143. South Africa's Louis Oosthuizen, the 2010 British Open champion, finished bogey-bogey-double bogey to shoot 74 and stand on one-over 141. Going out together Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson both missed the cut for only the second time in the same event after last year's British Open. Woods fired a 77 to finish on 150 while Mickelson shot a 74 to finish on 153. “It's frustrating that I'm not going to be here for the weekend,” Woods said.  The scores:   136: Patrick Reed (66, 70); 137: Bryson DeChambeau (69, 68)/   138: Rafa Cabrera Bello (68, 70), Harris English (68, 70), Justin Thomas (65, 73)/   139: Jason Kokrak (68, 71).
20 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Rayudu and du Plessis orchestrate Super Kings’ victory||Mahendra Singh Dhoni hasn’t lost an ounce of his leadership acumen even after a 437-day hiatus as Chennai Super Kings defeated Mumbai Indians in the opening match of the 13th edition of the IPL on Saturday. Ambati Rayudu blazed his way to 71 off 48 balls, which included six fours and three sixes, and Faf du Plessis (55 not out off 44 balls, six fours) more than made up for Suresh Raina’s absence at No. 3 to help CSK chase down a tricky 163-run target in 19.2 overs with five wickets to spare. It wasn’t a jam-packed Wankhede rooting for the Mumbai Indians nor was it the passionate Chepauk stands with its Yellow Army in full fervour. It was a near empty Sheikh Zayed Stadium in the Arabian desert where Bryan Adams’ Summer of 69 or Rocky’s theme music Eye of the Tiger blared from the sound systems along with artificial crowd cheers. In this eerie set-up, Captain Cool’s brain kept ticking as the new recruits — leg-spinner Piyush Chawla (one for 21 in four overs) and left-arm seamer Sam Curran (one for 28) — made fantastic first impressions while pacer Lungi Ngidi (three for 38) and seamer Deepak Chahar (two for 32) came back well in the death overs. The skipper also sent the match-fit Curran at No. 6 and the left-hander’s blistering 18 off six balls ended any hopes that Rohit Sharma and his men would have harboured. Trent Boult, with an in-dipper, and James Pattinson, with a slightly dodgy decision going his way, removed Shane Watson and M. Vijay, making it six for two. Rayudu and du Plessis then launched a counterattack, adding 115 runs for the third wicket. The former was the more dominant partner while the South Africa played second fiddle. One of the major aspects was how clueless Jasprit Bumrah (one for 43 in four overs) looked during the day and his spell cost the team dear. Earlier, when Mumbai Indians batted, Quinton de Kock (33, 20b, 5x4) and Saurabh Tiwary (42 off 31 balls, 3x4, 1x6) played well but couldn’t convert their starts. de Kock launched into Deepak and Ngidi as 45 came off the first four overs. Dhoni then introduced Chawla into the attack and he right away dismissed Rohit Sharma (12), chipping a delivery straight to Curran at mid-off. Curran then got rid of de Kock with a well-disguised off-cutter. Suryakumar Yadav (17) and Saurabh Tiwary added 44 to steady the ship, but some outstanding catching and fielding, particularly by du Plessis who took two brilliant catches to send back Tiwary and Hardik Pandya, saw MI slip to 124 for five from 92 for two. Though MI finished with 162, it wasn’t enough to stop a spirited CSK.  With this win, CSK snapped a five-match losing streak against MI which includes four in the previous edition
20 September 2020||Dubai,||A battle of wits, both on and off the field||Two greats, Ricky Ponting and Anil Kumble, will match wits as Shreyas Iyer and K.L. Rahul marshal their resources on field in the clash between Delhi Capitals and Kings XI Punjab here on Sunday. Delhi Capitals has a slight edge, more so in the spin department, with the trio of R. Ashwin, Amit Mishra and Axar Patel, better than their counterparts from the Mohali-based side. Spin is expected to play a big role on the pitches in the UAE. On the batting front, the Capitals have India internationals Prithvi Shaw, Shreyas, Rishabh Pant, Shikhar Dhawan, besides West Indian Shimron Hetmyer. Clean hitters The KXIP also boasts of some of the cleanest hitters in the form of Chris Gayle, Glenn Maxwell and Rahul himself. The Punjab outfit has a dangerous opening pair in Gayle and Rahul, with Mayank Agarwal to follow. Maxwell's form will be a shot in the arm. The Aussie, who didn't have a great World Cup last year and subsequently took a break from cricket, roared back with a superb series-clinching ODI century against England four days ago. The Capitals may come up with a surprise by picking Big Bash League’s highest wicket-taker Daniel Sams along with Kagiso Rabada, leaving out senior India pacer Ishant Sharma, who doesn't have a glowing IPL record. For KXIP, India strike bowler Mohammed Shami will spearhead the pace department. It is in slow bowling that KXIP could face problems. It doesn’t have any big names following the departure of Ashwin. Afghanistan's Mujeeb Ur Rahman and offie K. Gowtham have to carry the burden. History favours KXIP which has won four out of its last five matches against DC.
20 September 2020||London,||Calvert-Lewin does the star turn||Dominic Calvert-Lewin hit a hat-trick and James Rodriguez bagged his first Premier League goal as Everton crushed 10-man West Bromwich Albion 5-2 to extend its perfect start to the season on Saturday. Carlo Ancelotti’s side fell behind to Grady Diangana’s early goal but Calvert-Lewin equalised and James put it ahead before West Brom imploded. Kieran Gibbs was dismissed for pushing James in the face in first half stoppage-time. Matheus Pereira equalised for Albion after the interval, but Michael Keane restored Everton’s lead and Calvert-Lewin sealed the points with his second and third goals. Serge Gnabry also hit a hat-trick as holder Bayern Munich romped to an historic 8-0 rout of Schalke on Friday in the opening game of the 2020/21 Bundesliga season behind closed doors. The jaw-dropping result is the highest win in an opening game of a new Bundesliga season — five weeks to the day after its 8-2 thrashing of Barcelona in the Champions League. Germany winger Leroy Sane marked his Bayern debut by creating two goals for Gnabry, then added one of his own. Leon Goretzka, Thomas Muller and Robert Lewandowksi also netted before Jamal Musiala, 17, became the youngest Bayern goal-scorer in the Bundesliga when he came on late.   The results:   Premier League: Everton 5 (Calvert-Lewin 31, 62, 66, James 45, Keane 54) bt West Brom 2 (Diangana 10, Pereira 47); Leeds 4 (Costa 5, 57, Klich 41-pen, Bamford 50) bt Fulham 3 (Mitrovic 35-pen, 67, Decordova-Reid 62).   Bundesliga: Eintracht Frankfurt 1 (Silva 62) drew with Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Soukou 51); Union Berlin 1 (Buelter 75) lost to Augsburg 3 (Vargas 41, Gregoritsch 82, Hahn 89); Cologne 2 (Andersson 22, Drexler 86) lost to Hoffenheim 3 (Kramaric 4, 45+3-pen, 90+2).   Werder Bremen 1 (Selke 69) lost to Hertha Berlin 4 (Pekarik 42, Lukebakio 45+2, Cunha 63, Cordoba 90); Stuttgart 2 (Kalajdzic 71, Wamangituka 81) lost to Freiburg 3 (Petersen 8, Sallai 26, Grifo 48).   LaLiga : Villarreal 2 (Moreno 63, Alcacer 71) bt Eibar 1 (Kike 50).   Friday: Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 8 (Gnabry 4, 47, 59, Goretzka 19, Lewandowski 31-pen, Muller 69, Sane 71, Musiala 81) bt Schalke 0.
20 September 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Shubman key to KKR’s campaign’||Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) head coach Brendon McCullum hopes the freshness of pitches will suit his team’s pace attack in the early stages of the IPL. Even in the changed scenario with the tournament being held in the UAE, McCullum said the KKR pacers could ‘shock’ opponents. “I think the pitches are going to surprise a lot of people early on in the tournament. They're going to be quite fresh. They could be quite helpful for seam bowling, in which case we've got Shivam Mavi, Prasidh Krishna, Pat Cummins, Ali Khan and Lockie Ferguson. “We’ve got a lot of quick bowlers who bowl in excess of 140kmph. We’ve also got Andre Russell,” said McCullum during an interaction. Happy with spin options McCullum was happy with KKR’s spin options. “Later on, spin will come to the fore. We're fortunate with our spin bowling lineup too. We’ve got Sunil Narine, who can bowl on any surface, Kuldeep Yadav and Varun Chakravarthy. And also we've got this 20-year old (Manimaran) Siddharth, who could surprise a few people,” McCullum said. According to McCullum, Pat Cummins will play a vital role. “Cummins is the key when it comes to overseas bowlers. He has pace, experience and the ability to take early wickets.” Since Eoin Morgan’s presence provides strength to the middle-order, Russell, who hit 54 sixes last season, could be used according to the match situation. “His game is definitely suited to the last 10 overs where you can really control it, but there may be times where we can send Andre a little bit up the order.” Short on experience McCullum said KKR might be short on experience but “the talent, desire and the hunger make up for the lack of experience.” He said he would provide confidence to the squad and work with the leaders. “One of those guys who I think is critical to this campaign is Shubman Gill, because even at such a young age I feel he’s a leader,” said McCullum.
20 September 2020||Kochi,||ISL: Seityasen extends Kerala Blasters stay||India international Seityasen Singh has extended his contract with Kerala Blasters FC for two more years. The 28-year-old winger, who joined Blasters from NorthEast United FC, was an integral part of the Kochi team during the last season. “I am really happy to extend my stay at KBFC. The club gave me an opportunity to prove myself last season. “I'm confident of my abilities and can contribute to the success of the team. I have always loved and admired the passion of the fans. I always feel at home while playing in front of them,'' he said. “Seityasen is one of the finest wingers in the ISL. His creativity helped the team last season. “He is definitely going to make the team stronger,” said assistant coach Ishfaq Ahmed.
20 September 2020||KOLKATA,||BFI office-bearers’ tenure extended||The Boxing Federation of India (BFI), on Saturday, extended the tenure of its present set of office-bearers by three months. The four-year tenure of the BFI office-bearers was supposed to get over on September 25. However, the conduct of the election was impeded by the pandemic. At a Special General Meeting (SGM), the BFI members were informed that the election would be held within the next three months. Besides, the BFI unanimously amended its constitution to comply with the National Sports Code 2011, an essential requirement to get Government recognition. The BFI expressed its intention of starting the training of youth and junior pugilists at the National Boxing Academy, Rohtak.
20 September 2020||ROME,||Djokovic in semifinals||Top-seeded Novak Djokovic dropped a set before fighting off German qualifier Dominik Koepfer 6-3, 4-6, 6-3 to reach the semifinals of the Rome Masters on Saturday. The Serbian next plays Norway’s Casper Ruud, who earlier battled past Italian fourth seed Matteo Berrettini 4-6, 6-3, 7-6(5). Meanwhile on Friday, Rafael Nadal swept aside Dusan Lajovic 6-1, 6-3 to reach the quarterfinals as he warms up for the final Grand Slam of the season at Roland Garros. In the women’s section, top seed Simona Halep took the first quarterfinal 6-2, 2-0 when Kazakh rival Yulia Putintseva retired during their match on Saturday.  The results: Men: Quarterfinals: Casper Ruud bt Matteo Berrettini 4-6, 6-3, 7-6(5); Novak Djokovic bt Dominik Koepfer 6-3, 4-6, 6-3; Third round: Dominik Koepfer bt Lorenzo Musetti 6-4, 6-0; Diego Schwartzman bt Hubert Hurkacz 3-6, 6-2, 6-4; Rafael Nadal bt Dusan Lajovic 6-1, 6-3.   Women: Quarterfinals: Simona Halep bt Yulia Putintseva 6-2, 2-0 retd; Garbine Muguruza bt Victoria Azarenka 3-6, 6-3, 6-4; Third round: Putintseva bt Elena Rybakina 4-6, 7-6(3), 6-2; Elina Svitolina bt Svetlana Kuznetsova 7-6(6), 6-4 .
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||This will be the most open IPL ever: Kirsten||Gary Kirsten believes the current edition of the IPL, which opened at Abu Dhabi on Saturday, could be the most open one ever. “The difference in this year’s IPL is that there are no crowds and no home games and I think that is a massive neutraliser,” said the former South African opener who was the coach when India when the World Cup in 2011. He was speaking in a webinar organised by Hyderabad Runners, a not-for-profit society that promotes running. “A team like Chennai is built around very slow wickets,” Kirsten said. “It would be interesting to watch how they perform in different conditions.” Obvious favourites He reckons Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings are the obvious favourites. “But I think it is going to be a really interesting tournament to watch,” he said. He said it was difficult to predict how the tournament would pan out. “You might find that this year’s IPL might have a new winner. It would be fun to have a winner other than Mumbai or Chennai.” Kirsten recalled that it was a tough IPL for Royal Challengers Bangalore last year. “I have always had a good relationship with (captain) Virat Kohli. Last year we lost a lot of games initially but then were able to pull it back.”
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capitals have done their homework: Ponting||"With only three venues, like 24 games in each stadium and only four pitches to be used — five or more matches will be played on one pitch — so I think we can expect the conditions to change quite a bit," said Ricky Ponting at Saturday’s virtual media conference, ahead of Delhi Capitals’ campaign-opener against Kings XI Punjab in Dubai on Sunday. Bigger roles Seamers would have an impact in the early stages and spinners as the season progresses, said the Capitals coach. Delhi will, hence, eye a better second half, with leg-spinner Amit Mishra — the most successful spinner in the IPL — and off-spinner R. Ashwin playing bigger roles. Ponting said his team would be hard to beat. "It’s been a long lead-up to this first game, but I’m looking forward to the challenge, as I’m sure all the players also are. I expect that we will start the tournament strong." "We have done most of our planning and research on Kings XI. One thing I say about IPL is that every squad is really strong. We can talk about how strong our team is, but I can guarantee that you can say the same about every other team." Talking about the new additions — Ashwin and Ajinkya Rahane — skipper Shreyas Iyer said, “they definitely bring a lot of strength and experience, and if you see the practice sessions we've had over the last few days, they've been amazing. They help everyone in the team, especially the younger guys." Saliva ban On the saliva ban, Ponting said, "use of saliva is a habit. We are still a bit unsure on certain things. For example, if sweat is allowed? I’m sure once games start, players will be aware of what they can do and what they can’t.”
20 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Warner looking to get SRH off to a good start||Sunrisers Hyderabad captain David Warner wants his team to hit the ground running in the IPL. “Back-to-back wins is important. That is the way forward,” Warner said at a virtual media interaction from Dubai on Saturday. On Monday’s game against Royal Challengers Bangalore, the SRH captain felt it was important to get early momentum. “Every team has a perfect mix of world-class overseas players and quality Indians. Ours is a pretty well-balanced side in all departments,” he said. He had a message for the team’s middle-order: back yourself, play freely, and if a couple of wickets fall, put the pressure back on the bowlers. Right attitude Warner said that in the last edition, the middle-order did not get too many opportunities as the top three scored heavily. “It is good to have a lot of youngsters in the middle-order. They bring enthusiasm and have the right attitude,” Warner said. On being captain again, Warner said it was a good feeling, but for his team it did not matter who was leading. “We have plenty of experience with the likes of Kane (Williamson), (Jonny) Bairstow and Vijay Shankar, to name a few. We got a job on our hands for sure,” he said. On opening with England’s Bairstow, Warner said the two knew when to take calculated risks and it was time to do it again this year. The role of spinners would depend on the pitch, he added. Despite the absence of spectators, all teams would be in a competitive frame of mind once the tournament gets going, Warner said.
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Harikrishna stuns Carlsen||P. Harikrishna stunned Magnus Carlsen and Jeffery Xiong to share the sixth spot with Levon Aronian after 18 rounds of St. Louis rapid and blitz online chess tournament on Friday.  With nine rounds of blitz games left, Carlsen (18.5 points) nosed ahead of overnight leader So (18) in the title-race.  Standings (after nine rounds each of rapid and blitz games):   1. Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 18.5), 2. Wesley So (USA, 18), 3. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 15), 4-5. Hikaru Nakamura (USA), Alexander Grischuk (Rus) (14.5 each); 6-7. P. Harikrishna, Levon Aronian (Arm. 12.5 each), 8. Jeffery Xiong (USA, 11.5); 9. Leinier Dominguez Perez (USA, 9.5); 10. Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 8.5).
20 September 2020||Hyderabad,||HFC signs up Onaindia||Hyderabad FC has signed 30-year-old Spanish defender Odei Onaindia for one year to be the fifth foreign signing for the 2020-21 season. “I am very happy to sign for Hyderabad and I’m looking forward to training under coach Manolo,” Onaindia said in a statement on Saturday. “It is going to be an exciting season. I have heard a lot of positive things about the Indian Super League. I know it is a league that is in constant growth and I cannot wait to be a part of it,” he said. Coach Manolo Marquez believes Onaindia will bring character and personality into the squad given his experience. “Odei is a tough central defender. He has been consistent. A good header, very strong and fast, and very good in marking,” Marquez said.
20 September 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Neymar to lead Brazil in WC qualifying||Brazil coach Tite kept faith with a troubled Neymar on Friday, choosing him to lead the Selecao as it launches its 2022 football World Cup qualifying campaign next month. The five-time World champion Brazil plays Bolivia in Sao Paulo on October 9, then it will travel to Lima to face Peru four days later.
20 September 2020||ABU DHABI,||Dhoni more popular than Tendulkar: Gavaskar||The great Sunil Gavaskar on Saturday said Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s popularity in India has exceeded the level of fandom even the great Sachin Tendulkar and Virat Kohli enjoy in the cricket-crazy nation. Speaking about Dhoni before the IPL opener, Gavaskar said, “Since MSD comes from Ranchi, which doesn’t have a cricket culture as such, the whole India loves him. Tendulkar has Mumbai and Kolkata, Kohli has Delhi and Bengaluru but when you talk of Dhoni it’s whole India.” Staying in self isolation for the first six days after spending five months with family was the hardest phase, according to Dhoni, who spoke for the first time in months.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Tennis tournament||Academia Sports Village will conduct a day-long tennis tournament at Hyderabad Polo and Riding Club at Aziz Nagar, Hyderabad, on October 2 after the conclusion of the special Independence Day training camp. Call 9963145592.
20 September 2020||DUBAI,||BCCI, Emirates board sign MoU||The BCCI and Emirates Cricket Board (ECB), on Saturday, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) and hosting agreement to boost cricketing ties between the two countries. BCCI secretary Jay Shah tweeted about it along with BCCI president Sourav Ganguly and treasurer Arun Dhumal.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The diversity fix||April Reign is irritated. It’s early 2015, and the Oscar nominees for the year have just been announced. The Washington, D.C.-based lawyer, appalled at the stunning lack of diversity in one of the most prestigious entertainment industry awards, tweets: ‘#OscarsSoWhite they asked to touch my hair.’ It sets off a cultural firestorm, perhaps the largest in the decade, with actors, audiences and activists everywhere calling for fair representation and greater inclusion. Five years later, September 2020. The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has just released a set of diversity guidelines that films must follow to compete in the Oscar Best Picture category from 2024 onwards.  The new rules address the issue of adequate representation of gender, race, sexual orientation and disability, asking films to meet the criteria in at least two of four areas: on screen; behind the camera; studio/ distribution level; and audience development. With this move, the merit vs. tokenism argument re-surfaces.   For Reign too, diversification is the solution: “In 2015, the Academy membership was 92% white and 75% male... now, its membership is 84% white and 68% male,” she writes. “It is about operating outside of the same networks that have been used for years.” Cherry Ng, a writer, adds: “The Oscars is a reflection of the entertainment industry; the entertainment industry a reflection of our popular culture; our popular culture a reflection of humanity.”  Untold stories But other questions arise. Is including author J.K. Rowling and rapper Kendrick Lamar in Academy membership the solution? When I questioned the standing of actor-influencer Issa Rae, a friend retorted: “There are tons of atrocious white actors. Why do people of colour have to be excellent at everything we do? It’s exhausting and unfair.” But if we are aspiring for institutional change, shouldn’t we raise the bar?  Perhaps #OscarsSoWhite’s largest outspoken constituency has been the African-American community. Prior to 2015, there was a sparse number of commercially and critically successful Black-centric films — The Help , Hustle & Flow , 12 Years A Slave , The Butler . The post-2015 period saw a dramatic rise in such films, with the theme recurring in political documentaries ( 13th , I Am Not Your Negro ) and historically-influenced films ( Mudbound , Marshall , Detroit , The Banker , Harriet ). Complicated hope Recently, there have been  new films that share untold stories in the U.S. ( Hidden Figures , Dolemite Is My Name , Just Mercy ) and in Africa ( Queen of Katwe , The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind , Beasts of No Nation ). This re-drew the boundaries of the ‘black experience,’ featuring a mix of sensual cinematography and complex characters meant to defy stereotypes: families in crisis ( Waves , Fences , Native Son ), romance ( Loving , The Photograph , Southside with You , If Beale Street Could Talk ), black comedy ( Sorry to Bother You , BlacKkKlansman ) and the unconventional ( The Last Black Man in San Francisco , Monsters and Men , Minding the Gap ). “In blackness, hope is often complicated by the intrusion of death, bloodshed, depression, incarceration, grief, brutality,” writes Carvell Wallace in The New York Times Magazine , evoking memories of George Floyd’s death and the corresponding protests. “It is first and foremost about loving black people... when we are angry, when we are frightened, when we are kind and when we are hurting. It is easy to love us when we are dead, our emotions suspended in history like a bug trapped in amber.” Familiar but foreign Two stalwarts for diversity in films have been Brad Pitt’s Plan B Productions, and indie film producer A24. A24’s Moonlight (co-produced by Plan B) is widely considered the best film of the past decade, with IndieWire saying it “broadens the potential for black artistry to permeate popular culture in fresh ways”. The success of Parasite , Roma and Crazy Rich Asians broke a “psychological barrier,” as one producer said, echoing reports from UCLA and Creative Artists Agency, that diversity sells. India is making a nascent global mark: Anurag Kashyap’s Sacred Games for Netflix, with its Scorsese-like grittiness, outperformed in the Philippines, Singapore and Korea, feeding an “audience that wants to see something familiar but foreign at the same time,” said the Hollywood Reporter . Mighty Little Bheem was viewed by “27 million households outside of India,” said Netflix CEO Reed Hastings, while the search for an Irrfan Khan-like crossover star — whose untimely demise was mourned internationally — continues.  Despite a shift in the industry, larger questions remain about the line between meritocracy and tokenism in awards. “You can’t vote for an actor because he’s black,” said Oscar winner Michael Caine. Even as less than 25% of Americans supported #OscarsSoWhite, The Economist noted that Black Americans are 12.6% of the population but make up 10% of the Academy’s acting nominations, a small discrepancy.  Just as organisations develop mission statements, Reign and the #OscarsSoWhite movement must set an objective. Do they want to make the industry more accessible to outsiders? Or attain more Oscar nominees and winners? Or share different stories beyond Hollywood? Perhaps colour-blind casting could help too. In The Personal History of David Copperfield (2019), producer Kevin Loader trusted audiences’ openness, and chose Dev Patel, of Indian descent. Loader told The Guardian about his choice that he looked for actors “embodying the character as perfectly as possible, regardless of their ethnicity.” Actor Steve Martin, a frequent Oscar host, when asked how he made it in show business, famously said: “Be so good they can’t ignore you.” Will these new guidelines finally offer people of colour that chance? The writer is an HR and strategy consultant based in Mumbai.  It is first and foremost about loving black people… when we are angry, when we are frightened... It is easy to love us when we are dead, wrote Carvell Wallace
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||To swipe or not to swipe||You can perhaps ignore the irony of intelligent people tweeting away, “Everyone, watch The Social Dilemma on Netflix right now!” These tweets each have at least 500 likes and retweets. You can ignore that too. But it does get to you when people start messaging you directly. So, I hereby inform the global non-bot community that I’ve already watched the documentary, and request the aforementioned community to stop spamming me with exhortations to drop everything and watch it. Having seen the documentary, my first response is that it does nothing for my dopamine deficit. Yes, there were some memorable quotes. But the funny thing is I only remember that the quotes were memorable. I can’t remember the quotes themselves. Sure, there is value in stitching together a series of interviews with people who’ve made tons of money by helping entities like Facebook and Twitter make tons of money by turning you into a screen-pawed zombie. For instance, it enables another round of monetisation of the dwindling attention span of the swiping dead — this time for Netflix, the latest entrant to the elite club of Silicon Valley’s apex predators. But there’s little else on offer. Apocalypse menu It made much of what is already known: social media platforms are addictive by design, and not by accident; they are vile entities that exploit an evolutionary vulnerability in human psychology; spreading lies and dividing nations are a profitable pathway to dystopia that the global elite has embraced, just as it has embraced fossil fuels, a profitable pathway to climate disaster. So, in addition to climate doom and nuclear holocaust, we have one more option on the apocalypse menu. All this we know. And thanks to this film, now we also know that no one has any idea how to get rid of the Matrix. There is no Neo. Or rather, every Neo turns out to be a Trump or a tadipaar . As of today, there are just two kinds of activities available to humans: screen-based and non-screen-based. The Social Dilemma tells us we should minimise the former and maximise the latter. Can we? Screen-based activities include work, study, socialising, leisure, entertainment, food-gathering, travelling, sports, exercise, meditation, prayer, etc. As for non-screen-based activities, there is only one that is completely immune to screen infiltration: being in coma. Some people think sleep is also screen-proof but it isn’t. I know people — my wife, for example — who can’t sleep without a mobile. Her sleep comes tethered to an app, a ‘personal sleep assistant’ that monitors her sleep for quality control and gives her a report the next morning, with graphs and pie charts based on her sleep data. She says it makes a lot of sense even philosophically. If the purpose of life is to generate data for amoral algorithms and evil corporations, then why should you stop emitting data just because you are sleeping? In other words, we should officially re-classify sleep as a screen-based activity, which brings us back to coma. What if you’re not into coma, which, let’s be honest, is not everyone’s cup of tea? Are there other ways to stay off the algorithmic grid? Actually there are, and I’m mystified why the makers of The Social Dilemma are silent about them. Lockdown of consciousness Here’s a partial list of safe, non-screen activities that anyone can undertake with zero risk of being dragooned into data-extracting, zombifying social networks: for starters, you could give yourself an eye massage, gently pressing your eyeballs in clockwise and anti-clockwise direction to check if they are still there; you can use your reserves of bile to self-digest your food; you can circulate your blood, first in your arteries, then in your veins; you can play synaptic Chinese whispers, wherein you directly transport electrical impulses from one neuron to the next; you can participate in mitosis and/or meiosis, depending on your mood; you can lead your own paramilitary force of armed antibodies into battle against foreign armies of viruses that dare to cross the Line of Immunity Control (LIC) and intrude into your body; and last but not the least, you can grow organic fingernails. The options are many. But sadly, most people have been brainwashed into finding them insufficiently stimulating, which then opens the door to the screen, taking us back to the social dilemma: to swipe or not to swipe. Perhaps I’m being over-optimistic here, but I think as a species we must seriously explore the coma option. Tell me honestly. What would you rather have: seven billion humans aggregated into fiercely antagonistic camps and fed daily on a diet of hateful misinformation that could lead to massive strife and destruction, or seven billion humans in a peaceful coma (a collective lockdown of consciousness, as it were) that could potentially not just avert climate catastrophe but also save humanity from extinction? Call it the anti-social dilemma if you like. But to my mind, this is the real dilemma.  Some people think sleep is also screen-proof but it isn’t. I know people — my wife, for example — who can’t sleep without a mobile
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A temple so perfect||One of the true indicators of secular democratic behaviour is how a country and its people treat its minorities. After the tragedy of 9/11, a mosque on the periphery of the old World Trade Center was damaged. To make the point that Muslims were equal citizens, and not to be made potential targets of racism, the New York authorities were quick to provide relief to the damaged mosque and restore it for prayers, despite strong opposition from local right-wing groups. It was an important civic statement, and a just settlement of an issue that could have become contentious and overblown. Compare this to the Chinese government’s approach to its Muslim minority. With the Han Chinese in a majority, the government has incarcerated more than a million Uyghur Muslims from the country’s northwestern Xinjiang region in vast concentration camp-like facilities set up to convert them to a Han mindset. India’s muddled secularism falls somewhere between these extremes; it is often jolted out of its stagnant slumber to be pushed in the Chinese direction by the government, and then put on a corrective course by journalists and NGOs who cry foul. The Ram temple saga carried on for so long that the tale went sour long ago. Its recent inaugural stone-laying was the jaded conclusion of a resigned storyline, where everything had already been said by everyone. However, as widely reported, thousands celebrated the temple’s bhumi pujan on August 5 like Diwali. The Prime Minister added his endorsement by actively participating in the ceremony. As with many recent construction projects, size matters. The Rs. 300 crore mandir will be twice the size of the original 1988 design, and will involve thousands of masons and other craftspeople over a three-and-a-half-year period. Sprawling structure Designed by the Ahmedabad-based Sampura family and built of Bansi sandstone from Rajasthan, the structure will sprawl across 10 acres of the 57-acre site. The vast additional acreage around it that has been acquired from the Sunni Waqf Board will remain a public garden. Is this exclusionary design a reasonable proposal for a place of such contentious history? Would a more deliberate inclusionary project, and one with multiple identities and functions, have been more effective in a situation exhausted by the heightened religious polarities it has seen? It would have been so much better if we had learnt the values of religious engagement from the inclusive ideas of architectural history. The Alhambra in Spain went through numerous historic interventions. It was built on top of Roman foundations in 889 as a Muslim palace; 600 years later, it was converted into a Christian royal court for King Ferdinand II of Aragon, and later, in the 16th century, a Renaissance palace was added to the grounds. Now a world heritage site, the complex is an Islamic original, with a Christian palace and a Moorish garden, all sitting on Roman foundations. Such intrusions enlarge and engage with human history and give spaces — whether religious or secular — the feel of real life. Narrow vision Sadly, a narrow religious view seems to be on the rise everywhere today, especially in places where the majority rules. In Turkey, the Hagia Sophia was built in 537 AD under Roman emperor Justinian I as a Christian church. The building remained a cathedral for a thousand years, till the Ottomans converted it into a mosque. Early in the 20th century, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk — eager to build a secular nation — turned the mosque into a museum, open to everyone. Barely a few weeks ago, Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan reopened it as a mosque. In India, we remain partial to a sanitised view of history, where architectural symbols are cleansed and made visible in immodest and monumental perfection. The Ram Mandir begins and ends on a clean slate, on ground scrupulously prepared for a glittering new structure with a permanent future. Reviews have described the temple blueprint as ‘truly unique’, yet the architecture is so guarded, so traditionally conventional in design, it could be anywhere. It could be a model, it could be a plaster cast or a replica, built in the 18th century or the 21st. A temple so perfect, without the scars of time or any evidence of its tumultuous past, with no reflection of the site’s bloody battles, in court and on site, the demolitions, the intrusions or acquisitions. What would have happened if the ruins of the mosque had been allowed to remain in the undergrowth of the proposed garden near the new temple? What would it take to make a museum display on site attesting to the shifting physical record of the place, documenting its pained history? Only when we learn to accept history as a changing process — and not a perfect product — can we reveal who we really are. The writer is a Delhi-based architect and sculptor.  Now a world heritage site, the Alhambra complex is an Islamic original, with a Christian palace and a Moorish garden, all sitting on Roman foundations
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The great wage heist||Haneesh Kumar P.B., an Indian migrant supervisor in an automobile company in Oman, was told to resign on April 30, along with some 400 colleagues. In all, the company asked around 1,400 workers to resign in phases, citing as reason the COVID-19-induced economic crisis. Haneesh, who was among the first to go, refused to sign the ‘voluntary’ resignation form and insisted on being terminated so that he could get the attendant benefits. As per his contract, if the company terminated him, it would have to give him either a 30-day notice period or a 30-day salary. As the company couldn’t serve him the 30-day notice period, he was eligible to a month’s basic salary, around $570. But he was not only not paid this amount, he was forced to work until May 11, for which the company did not pay him either. Even more shocking, he didn’t get the $181 food allowance for the 35 days either, which he was assured of when he was terminated. In all, Haneesh was denied $960 of dues by the company. In other words, he was a victim of wage theft, a trend that often goes unreported and unnoticed. Wage theft is the non-payment for overtime; denying workers their last pay check after he or she leaves a job; not paying for all of the hours worked; not paying minimum wages; not paying a worker at all; and not adhering to the terms of the contract. Empty-handed In Haneesh’s case, the company failed to pay him for the 10 days he worked, the 30-day salary for being terminated, and the food allowance clearly stated in the contract. “I realised the wage theft only after they credited the amount into my bank account just two days before I travelled out. So I didn’t have time to complain either to my office nor to the Indian Embassy. I had to just give up that money and fly back,” says Haneesh. Even if Haneesh indeed had enough time to approach the Indian Embassy in Oman, there is little it could have done, with no process in place to help Indian migrants subjected to wage theft. All 1,400 employees who were dismissed from the company faced similar issues. If we assume the lowest monthly salary to be $250, and calculate the unpaid amount for 10 days as well as the denied food allowance for each of the 1,400 workers, Haneesh’s company would have saved — or stolen — $369,000 from its workers. This is not an isolated case: it is happening in several companies across the Gulf countries during the pandemic. R. George, an engineer with a petroleum company in the U.A.E., had to return after giving up two months’ salary. “I had to return empty-handed. I was owed at least $2,500. I have a pending bank loan here and I am clueless about what to do,” says George.  Six million jobs Beginning from the first week of March, all six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries locked down their borders to contain the coronavirus. As sea, land, and air borders were shut, the market came to a halt forcing businesses to pull down shutters and send workers back to camps or to their home countries. The World Bank’s June Global Economic Prospects predicted that economic activity in West Asia and North Africa, which includes GCC countries, is expected to contract by more than 4% in 2020, as consumption, exports, and tourism are severely disrupted by the pandemic.  Parallel to the pandemic As of September 9, there were 3,22,237 COVID-19 positive cases with 4,137 deaths in Saudi Arabia. In the U.A.E., the number of cases was 75,098; in Bahrain, 56,778; in Kuwait, 91,244; in Oman, 87,950; and in Qatar, the number of positive cases was 1,20,579. And by March-end, the benchmark Brent crude oil price was $22 per barrel — less than half the price at the beginning of the month. Because of the dual shock, the growth downgrade for the GCC as a whole is 2.6 percentage points in 2020. In U.S. dollars, this amounts to about $41 billion.  In the Arab region, an estimated six million jobs will be lost, the International Labour Organisation said in its May report; and the majority of jobs in the Arab region are held by migrant workers. Media reports reveal that since the start of the pandemic, millions of migrant workers have been repatriated to Asia, many of them hurriedly and without proper protocols in place. And taking advantage of these mass repatriation moves are employers who terminate workers without paying them their legitimate wages, compensation and benefits. Unfortunately, the Indian repatriation form, an online Google document, shows that of the nine boxes listed here asking for the reason for repatriation to India, there is only one box that asks if the migrant worker was laid off . And even this gives no space for workers to elaborate on their grievances if any. As for Indian embassies, they have not been encouraging in-person visits by workers because of COVID-19 protocols. The in-person visits are restricted to a token system. “We are recording only the reasons for Indians leaving the country. We are neither addressing the workers’ rights violations nor taking any power of attorney,” says a senior Indian Embassy official in Kuwait. Meanwhile, courts in the migrants’ home countries are not running at full strength due to the pandemic, and neither are labour ministries addressing wage theft issues or other grievances that migrant workers may have before repatriating them. Shashi Tharoor, Member of Parliament, has suggested that an escrow fund be set up where the employer deposits wages for six months once the worker’s visa is approved. Such a fund, says Tharoor, can help pay the worker during a crisis such as the present one.  Extraordinary measures William Gois, Regional Coordinator of the Migrant Forum in Asia (MFA), a regional network that looks into the rights of migrant workers, says extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures. “There is a need to set up a transitional justice mechanism to address grievances, claims and labour disputes of repatriated workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the pandemic,” he says.  “For migrant workers in particular, the pandemic has heightened pre-existing problems of wage theft. Some businesses have taken advantage of the pandemic to unlawfully dismiss and withhold the wages of the migrant workers. Many workers return home empty-handed, having been coerced into forgoing their wages and benefits, while others continue to work under exploitative conditions and reduced wages for fear of losing their livelihood in this climate of global economic recession,” says Gois.  In June, the MFA along with a few other civil society organisations and trade unions called on governments to set up an international claims commission and a compensation fund, and to reform national justice systems to address wage theft. However, says the MFA, even such commissions and funds are no substitutes for fair and functioning justice systems at the national level. And so far, national justice systems have largely failed migrant workers. This failure should no longer be accepted or normalised. The current pandemic provides an opportunity to ensure that such systemic and structural barriers are forever removed, says Mandha Bheem Reddy from the Emigrants Welfare Forum. “I am seeing hundreds of Indian workers returning empty-handed. I know cases of people who lost six months’ salary, and end-of-service benefits when they were repatriated in a hurry. Unfortunately, the Indian mission houses in the Gulf are not recording these worker grievances. And there is no platform to claim the lost wages,” says Reddy . Quoting a World Bank report that says there would be a 20% dip in remittance, Rafeek Ravuther, a migrant rights activist, said this decrease would hit India’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) too. “Remittances contribute to reaching the SDGs in a variety of ways. At the family level, remittances eradicate poverty and hunger, grant access to healthcare and quality education, and ensure gender equality. If remittances go down, then it is going to have a negative impact on all of this,” he says. . According to the World Bank, remittances could fall by $100 billion because of the pandemic. In 2019, the global remittance was $714 billion, and India received some $80 billion, the largest share in the world. “A 20% dip is going to have a huge impact on India, especially on Kerala, as the State depends heavily on remittances,” says Ravuther. Some 90 lakh migrant Indians work in West Asia. And the majority of them are low-paid workers. They cannot afford to be robbed of their rightful wages. The writer is a researcher and writer on migrant rights.  I returned empty-handed. I was owed at least $2,500. I have a pending bank loan here and I am clueless about what to do, said R. George, an engineer with a petroleum company in the U.A.E.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The interpreter of loneliness||In a letter dated December 6, 1918, written to an unidentified recipient, D.H. Lawrence talks of his deep anxiety about pandemic-ridden London. He describes the city under the grasp of the “accursed Flu” as a “veritable death-trap”. The sickness has spread to the countryside too: “The weather is very nasty and damp, and the Midlands stricken with the fear of death: this Flu.” Though recurrently suffering from bouts of bronchial infections, Lawrence survived the Spanish Flu, which claimed millions of lives in 1918-19 — dwarfing even the casualty count at the Western Front. While he viewed his own vulnerability with exasperation, he was disdainful of the general attitude towards the pandemic. In his letter, he writes, “They are horribly frightened, all of them: but it is not fear of the Lord, merely selfish fear of death, petty and selfish — when will one get the spark of a new spirit out of these people?” What does Lawrence imply here by the “spark of a new spirit”, which might come out of the death and destruction wreaked by the pandemic? An examination of Lawrence’s canon may yield the answer.  Pure ugliness In her landmark book, Illness as Metaphor , Susan Sontag argues that a widespread disease tends to become emblematic of its era. Lawrence would have agreed: the depictions of a diseased society in his novels suggest that he was thinking of illnesses not so much as an individual ailment as a sickness afflicting the masses — in other words, an epidemic. This is what Birkin means when he says in Women in Love: “One is ill because one doesn’t live properly — can’t .” Writing at a time when the maladies of modern living — rampant industrialisation, consumerism, pollution, exploitation of natural resources, urban-centric economies and destruction of suburban and rural landscapes — had just began to make themselves felt, Lawrence proved to be prophetic in his vision of the wasteland these afflictions would eventually create. His works resound in these times of profound isolation, when we are cooped up with the monsters we have let loose. Lawrence had foreseen it all, it seems, raising alarm bells more than a century ago. In his fiction, non-fiction, poems and paintings, Lawrence bitterly criticised industrialisation and its impact on human lives and relationships. In his 1929 essay, ‘Nottingham and the mining countryside,’ he stares horrified at the “nasty red-brick, flat faced dwellings with dark slate roofs” that have come up in the once picturesque landscape — not only are they unaesthetic but they are also against nature. This stance is further elucidated in his fiction, which repeatedly examines the result of industrialisation in the mining areas of provincial towns. In Sons and Lovers, Paul’s search for employment opportunities in the Co-operative Society reading room suddenly triggers thoughts of claustrophobic entrapment, as he imagines himself as a “prisoner of industrialism”. In The Rainbow , Wiggiston, a “hamlet of eleven houses” is transformed into a vision of “pure ugliness” as mechanical monotony takes over: “Everything was amorphous, yet everything repeated itself endlessly.” Along similar lines, in Lady Chatterley’s Lover , as Connie drives through the “long squalid straggle of Tevershall”, the bleakness of the desultory surroundings is underlined: “the blackened brick dwellings, the black slate roofs glistening their sharp edges, the mud black with coal dust, the pavements wet and black.” The author’s disgust is palpable: “It was as if dismalness had soaked through and through everything. The utter negation of natural beauty, the utter negation of the gladness of life, the utter absence of the instinct for shapely beauty which every bird and beast has, the utter death of the human intuitive faculty was appalling.” Dignity of labour Later in the story, repugnance gives way to a genuine concern about human destiny: “What could possibly become of such a people, a people in whom the living intuitive faculty was dead as nails, and only queer mechanical yells and uncanny will-power remained?” In Lawrence’s scheme of things, the people with the dead intuitive faculty are the educated urban elite, who have moved farthest away from the life of nature, losing touch with their innermost self in the process.  In the tenth chapter of Sons and Lovers, there’s a long conversation between Paul and his mother on various issues of life, where Paul says: “I don’t want to belong to the well-to-do middle class. I like my common people best. I belong to the common people.” He goes on: “The difference between people isn’t in their class, but in themselves. Only from the middle classes one gets ideas, and from the common people — life itself, warmth. You feel their hates and loves.” Lawrence’s advocacy of the working class was not merely fashionable — he was one of them. What would he have made of the present crisis in India, where the lockdown rendered thousands of labourers jobless, leaving them to trundle home to their villages amidst overwhelming uncertainty? Life itself In a recent piece, veteran journalist Mark Tully talks of his indebtedness to Lawrence while trying to seek explanations for the faint response to the plight of migrant workers: “Why has the outcry against this suffering inflicted on men and women who are more than 90% of India’s workforce been so muted? It is, I believe, in part at least, because those in a position to raise their voices have not identified themselves with those who are suffering. This idea came to me from re-reading D.H. Lawrence’s once-controversial novel Lady Chatterley’s Lover during the lockdown.” Lawrence’s observations on social gaps and friction ring true even after a century. In fact, class tension fuels the plot of many of his novels, most notably that of Lady Chatterley’s Lover, centred on the unorthodox relationship between the upper-class Constance (Connie) Chatterley and her gamekeeper, Oliver Mellors. The air around the lovers sizzles with tension, as Sir Clifford Chatterley, the mine-owner, freely expresses his disdain for the working class and the resentment of the exploited colliers threatens to boil over. Oliver vents his anger before Connie: “But what I want to know, do they feel any sympathy with workin’ men as has nothing but work before them, till they drop. Do they sympathise — ” Clifford’s dismissive attitude towards the miners (they “are not men” but “animals you don’t understand, and never could”) is equally typical. Yet Lawrence is remembered less for his humanism than for his depiction of sex in Lady Chatterley’s Lover. The sexual content of the novel is read and reread by the thrill-seeker without understanding the context, which gives it meaning. For Lawrence, the deracination that modernism brought could be cured only by a return to the primal, the basic, at the level of both the individual and society. His advocacy of working-class life is tied up with his celebration of passionate, sexual human relationships: as Paul says in the aforementioned quote, both amount to “life itself, warmth”. Lawrence was a later-day Romantic foregrounding the holiness of the heart’s affections when consumerism and greed had blackened the heart almost beyond repair. As he said in his last book, Apocalypse , written in 1929-30, when he was dying: “What we want is to destroy our false, inorganic connections, especially those related to money, and re-establish the living organic connections, with the cosmos, the sun and earth, with mankind and nation and family.” In The Rainbow , on his return journey from London, Brangwen wonders, “How had helpless savages, running with their spears on the riverside, after fish, how had they come to rear up this great London, the ponderous, massive, ugly superstructure of a world of man upon a world of nature!” Brangwen’s realisation of human folly in creating a civilisation deaf to the intrinsic rhythms of nature frightens and awes him. Yet, at the end of the novel, Lawrence offers hope, through the symbolic rainbow as envisioned by Ursula. Overcome with nausea at the blackness of her life and surroundings, she spots the rainbow in the sky and “saw in the rainbow the earth’s new architecture, the old, brittle corruption of houses and factories swept away, the world built up in a living fabric of Truth, fitting to the over-arching heaven.”  The writer is Dean of Arts at St. Xavier’s College, Kolkata.  The depictions of a diseased society in Lawrence’s novels suggest that he was thinking of illnesses not so much as an individual ailment as a sickness afflicting the masses — in other words, an epidemic
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Origins of Nehru’s ‘Asianism’||Writing in The Atlantic monthly in April 1940, Jawaharlal Nehru, by that time one of the most influential leaders of India’s national movement, wrote: “India is far from America but more and more our thoughts go to this great democratic country, which seems almost alone, to keep the torch of democratic freedom alight...” Nehru, with strong views against imperialism and fascism, saw the democratic U.S. as an ally of freedom loving peoples in the colonies. “There was a real possibility that India would emerge as a friendly power to the U.S.,” writes Francine Frankel in her latest book, When Nehru Looked East: Origins of India-US Suspicion and India-China Rivalry.  But history turned out to be different. Frankel, a professor of Political Science at the University of Pennsylvania, explores the roots of India-China-U.S. ties in the book. Having got access to the Nehru papers, Frankel has built a solid account of Nehru’s ideas on diplomacy, which continue to define India’s foreign policy. Neutral position Well before India gained independence, Nehru was particular that India should remain neutral in the great power contest between the Soviet Union and the U.S. This was partly because Nehru considered India as a great Asian power and he wanted to avoid India being sucked into a military conflict. He had positive views on the U.S., but he later concluded that American policies towards India had always been “subservient” to that of the British Empire. Heavily influenced by his anti-colonial views and struggles, Nehru turned to Asia, considered China a civilisational partner, and kept India out of any alliance system. But his ‘Asianism’ backfired. He was humiliated by the Chinese in 1962.  Frankel blames Nehru’s ‘Asianism’ and non-alignment for India’s China debacle. It’s true that Nehru miscalculated on China. He never expected China, a country which he defended in international fora, would attack India. Frankel’s indirect counter-factual argument is that had Nehru chosen to be an ally of the U.S., he could have taken on China better. She writes: “The outstanding question on this study ends in this: Will India be able to set aside its post-Independence suspicion of American motives to join the U.S. in establishing a new natural balance in Asia?” The title of her book also refers to “suspicion” between India and the U.S. But it was more than a suspicion, which Frankel’s own account testifies. The strategic dilemma Nehru faced was real. Nehru was wrong on China; but he was right on Pakistan, the U.K. and the U.S. Nehru had trusted the West when he agreed to take the Kashmir issue to the UN, but he saw India’s cause being betrayed at the UN and he needed the Soviet Union to bail India out. He saw that Pakistan was being used by the U.S. and he was right. By the time the Cold War set in, Pakistan had joined the U.S.-sponsored alliance systems, and the U.S., which Nehru once saw as a torchbearer of democracy, had turned out to be an aggressor in Southeast Asia. Frankel appears to have overlooked these factors while exploring the origins of Nehru’s Asianism. While reviewing British historian Perry Anderson's The Indian Ideology , Prabhat Patnaik called his account “modern India sans the impact of capitalism”. If one paraphrases Prof. Patnaik, the key problem with Frankel’s account is that it’s modern India’s foreign policy sans the impact of imperialism. India’s fight Frankel’s insinuation that an alliance with the U.S. would have allowed India to resist China’s expansionist policies better also holds weak when it’s tested on the altar of history. Pakistan had submitted itself as a client state of the U.S. It joined American-led alliance systems in West Asia and South East Asia. It had signed a bilateral treaty with the U.S. Still, the U.S. could do little to help Pakistan in the 1971 war with India. New Delhi checkmated Pakistan and the U.S. with its outreach to the Soviet Union, which had despatched a task force to the Indian Ocean to prevent a U.S. intervention and vetoed an American-sponsored resolution at the UN Security Council calling for a ceasefire, allowing India to fight till the Pakistanis surrendered unconditionally. India managed to achieve this without joining any Soviet-led alliance system. No deterrence Unlike Nehru, Prime Minister Narendra Modi doesn’t have any ideological commitment to ‘Asianism’. He didn’t turn towards China at the expense of India’s ties with the U.S. On the contrary, India’s ties with the U.S. deepened under his leadership. Could it deter China? The Doklam standoff of 2017 and the violent clashes in eastern Ladakh earlier this year, which have effectively altered the status quo on the Line of Actual Control, are comparable to the border clashes of 1959. Nehru realised by the late 1950s that India had a serious problem on the border. “On one hand, India must not surrender to Chinese claims. On the other, India had to remember that ‘China is our permanent neighbour and to invite trouble from China is wisdom neither in the present nor in the future’,” Frankel writes, quoting Nehru. Almost six decades later, the dilemma stays real for the Indian leadership.  When Nehru Looked East: Origins of India-US Suspicion and India-China Rivalry  Francine R. Frankel  Oxford University Press  Rs. 995    The strategic dilemma Nehru faced was real. Nehru was wrong on China; but he was right on Pakistan, the U.K. and the U.S.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The writer’s gaze||On August 13, in the ICU ward of Synergy Hospital, Dehradun, writer and activist Trepan Singh Chauhan passed away at the age of 48. But what ended that day was not only his body — wracked by motor neurone disease (MND) — but a life that had touched lakhs of people, one rooted in the best of Uttarakhand’s and India’s traditions. I had the privilege of knowing Trepan as a colleague, comrade and friend. He was born in the village of Kepars in Tehri Garhwal district, Uttarakhand, and had a colourful childhood, running away briefly and working as a child labourer in a temple and a hotel in Meerut. But by the time he was 14, he had also started organising young people as part of the Chipko movement. After joining and leaving other groups, he and a handful of comrades founded a new organisation, Chetna Andolan, in 1994. The organisation fought first for the right to information — holding mass public hearings — and went on to take up a whole range of issues. These included movements for forest rights and natural resource rights, including one major struggle against a destructive project in a village called Falinda, which culminated in the only agreement in Uttarakhand between a village community and dam developers that was actually implemented. During these movements, Trepan faced numerous false cases and was jailed briefly, but neither he nor the Andolan backed down. From 2009 onwards, he began organising daily wage workers in Dehradun, which led to a struggle for welfare benefits through which thousands of workers have received their rights. Alongside all this, Trepan campaigned against communal hate politics and mob violence, contested caste discrimination and untouchability, and opposed patriarchal norms in his own home area. Beyond boundaries In fact, it’s difficult to even summarise all the different initiatives that Trepan began, led or joined over the years. He went beyond the boundaries of what might be considered ‘traditional’ activism, becoming an accomplished writer who published poems, short stories and novels, including Yamuna , the best-known novel on the Uttarakhand movement. He started an alternative school that has now been running for 15 years. He helped found a producer company, a kind of cooperative, which will hopefully soon set up a wholly village-owned and democratically run hydel project. In 2016, he persuaded the rest of us in Chetna Andolan to go along with what we regarded as a slightly oddball plan — holding a competition for ghasiyaris (women who cut grass), both to honour their contribution to the State’s struggles, and as a way to reach rural women on the issues that mattered to them. The competitions, two of which were held, resoundingly disproved our scepticism. Over 5,000 women spread over more than 200 villages participated, and the events were front-page news across the State. Those competitions were only one particularly striking example of Trepan’s exceptional creativity, his ability to find methods that could break through cynicism and apathy. In the process, he blew apart the lazy generalisations so often made about Indian society — about ‘traditional’ communities versus secular elites, local rootedness versus ivory-tower liberals, social activists versus mass politics. Trepan belonged to all those worlds and more. When he passed away, every Hindi media outlet in Uttarakhand carried the news, and everyone from senior police officers to reporters to writers poured out their grief on social media. It was not for nothing that Rajiv Lochan Sah, himself one of the State’s foremost intellectuals, once described Trepan as the “brain of Uttarakhand”. For Trepan himself, though, his work was just a reflection of a way of thinking. He called it his lekhak ki nazar , his writer’s gaze. It took me years to understand what he meant by that phrase. Trepan’s genius went beyond his expressed political views and rested on his deep, abiding understanding of people, his empathy for what drives us to fight, to love and to sacrifice. He built his life around that understanding. Final struggle He also brought it into his last, terrible struggle, his fight against MND. MND (better known as ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder that damages the nerves that control muscles, affecting and often over time destroying the ability to move, speak, eat or even breathe. Trepan showed the same creativity and courage in this struggle as in every other. He was aware of the overwhelming odds and he felt the terror and pain, but he always found a basis for hope. He threw himself into every medical option we could find and celebrated every tiny gain. His doctors were moved to remark, repeatedly, that they had never seen a patient fight like this. In 2017, both his hands now hanging limply by his sides, Trepan walked 18 kilometres to a mountain village for a discussion. As long as he could move, even when he later needed someone to hold him up, he would come to every meeting and every protest. When we obtained an eye-tracking device that made it possible for him to use a computer, within five minutes he started writing his next novel. In his final weeks, lying plugged into a ventilator in the ICU, unable to move or communicate except through his eye tracker, he still had his lekhak ki nazar . On one of my daily visits, he instantly noted the signs of despair on my face. He wrote, “ Niraash mat hona, Shankar, hameisha lad kar jeete hain, is baar bhi lad kar jeetenge ” (‘Don’t lose hope, Shankar, we’ve always fought and won, and we will this time too’). He was wrong about that. Now it seems almost a betrayal to try to reduce that life of struggle and inspiration to a few hundred words. But Trepan believed in the power of words, in the power of writing and song, in the soaring heights people can reach if they can only see themselves. So I can only hope that these words give you a tiny glimpse of this man’s extraordinary love for humanity, and the gaping hole his passing leaves in this world. The writer and activist is with Chetna Andolan, a people’s organisation in Uttarakhand.  Wrote the well-known novelYamunaon the Uttarakhand movement Was a social activist from the age of 14, involved in almost all of Uttarakhand’s major movements Was nominated for but declined the Reebok Human Rights Award Once described as the “brain of Uttarakhand”   Trepan campaigned against communal hate politics and mob violence, contested caste discrimination and untouchability, and opposed patriarchal norms in his own home area
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||And no birds sing||Crippling self-doubt, fits of rage, an alcohol overdose and an escape through art — Goner is a fictional first-person account of a young woman’s struggle with mental health and depressive disorders. It is said to be inspired by real-life events. The protagonist, whose name we never get to know, is a failing artist going through a mid-20s crisis. She is trying to cope with several issues at the same time — remnants of a broken family, memories of an abusive ex-boyfriend, and constant insecurities about her failing job and capacity as an artist. What happens when it gets too much?  Goner takes us through the few highs and several lows of a depression that ultimately leaves the protagonist in the middle of a blackout. It explores the triggers for a breakdown — right from doorbells to unfinished dishes. The author is able to effectively convey the darkness, the selfishness and the mental clutter that come with depression. Passages are deliberately fractured with random song and rap lyrics, echoing an unstable mind. A particularly evocative passage of Goner describes how depression and anxiety can be very physical: “You can rub the discomfort between your fingers, feel it pulsating in the side of your neck, going all the way through your head, throbbing in your temples, flowing and flushing down bitterly and hotly from your eyes.” But such passages seem like fleeting shadows. Building a novel around a character who is suffering from depression puts immense pressure on the author: she has to write about repetitive, bleak episodes and yet evoke something to hold the reader’s attention. In several parts, Goner reads like an entitled, privileged rant. If you’re looking for literary pleasure, Goner may disappoint. The prose is formulaic young adult fiction. That said, Goner offers consolation and an encouraging note for those battling their own darknesses. Such works break the silence around an illness that is still stigmatised.  Goner Tazmeen Amna  Penguin eBury Press  Rs. 299
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||God save the thief||Imagine that you could open a lock simply by looking at it. Moreover, imagine that this little trick was the hallmark of a discipline practised and honed over the centuries by ancient masters, who distilled their wisdom onto palm-leaf texts in Sanskrit and Tamil with scientific precision, leaving them to be discovered by an eccentric modern-day professor who could transmit these teachings to his chosen disciple, a hitherto undistinguished member of the thieving fraternity. That’s the conceit of V.J. James’s Chorashastra — ‘the science of thievery’ — a Malayalam novel published in 2002 and freshly translated into English by Morley J. Nair. But it’s not a straightforward romp by any means. Certainly there is humour and even lewdness, especially in the earlier parts, and plenty of adventure, but this is leavened throughout by a thread of spirituality that thickens over the course of the story as we worry about the state of our thief’s — he is unnamed, like most characters in this book — soul. Our concerns are reflected in the thoughts of the Dravidian king, a powerful yet almost helpless figure whose own story is imbued with a certain amount of pathos. Philosophical interludes and quotations from ancient texts are found interspersed, while deities — particularly Subrahmanya (Skanda), who is constantly invoked as the patron god of thieves — are frequently called upon, at first to provide moral justification, but finally as a refuge in desperation. It ends as a morality tale, with a very traditional Indian lesson on the dangers of attachment. And as a tale rooted in tradition, it is important to realise that this book is sincere. James fully leans into the trope of magic-adjacent ancient Indian super-science, which was perhaps not so worn out in 2002 as it is today. Despite the early humour, this isn’t the place to look for satire or subversion, at least in that regard. The translation is serviceable. Certain choices, like how the thief’s family consists of his “she-thief” and their “child-thieves” can elicit a chuckle. It could have been more consistent in how certain names are rendered — is it Skandan or Skanda? There is the odd typo, and the tendency to leave certain Malayalam terms untranslated is another peeve.  Chorashastra V.J. James, trs. Morley J. Nair Eka  Rs. 299
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Strike a pose and click to see the family wedding album||If you are an Instagram user you would know how important a fad pre-wedding photoshoot has become today. Social media is flooded with ‘candid’ photos of couples-to-be, inviting awe, vitriol and jealousy among their ‘consumers’ on digital platforms. In a few cases, intimate (“steamy”, in the parlance of clickbait media) portraits of a few prospective partners went viral, triggering heated debates around such emerging sociocultural practices. ‘An episode of history’ Pre-wedding photoshoots are relatively new, unlike the practice of wedding photos which dates back to the early 19th century. The first wedding photographs emerged in the 1840s, not too long after photography itself was established in Europe, notes cultural anthropologist Sasanka Perera in his The Fear of the Visual? Photography, Anthropology, and Anxieties of Seeing . One of the first couples to be properly photographed was Queen Victoria and Prince Albert of England in 1840. Evidently, the social practice of wedding photography was meant for social elites, courtesy factors such as cost and access to technology. But in the late 19th century and early 20th century, as access to technologies improved and “posing time” for each session reduced, wedding photographers started experimenting with multiple shots of the couples. This plurality of photographs paved the way for the advent of the wedding album, observes Perera in the illuminating chapter, ‘Framing and Performing Intimacy: An Incomplete Social History of Wedding Photographs’. For Perera, photography is not something technical, which one engages in by manipulating and impersonal apparatus, but it is a social document. In Camera Lucida , Roland Barthes writes essentially every photograph delivers just one message: “That has been.” Barthes found ‘death’ in the photographic image. On that cue, each photograph represents an episode of history. Inarguably, it is the most trustworthy representation of the moment it captures. Further, if you can take the example of the wedding portrait as an example, photographs reveal intricate and curious details about the society and people they represent. Still, social anthropologists do not take photography seriously enough, observes Perera. The book is his attempt to answer the question of why photography has not become a more conscious way of seeing the world in disciplines such as social anthropology and sociology.  That said, Perera is not a run of the mill academic probing the anthropological possibilities of the photograph. His approach is personal. He is a photographer himself and belongs to a family that has taken the art of photography seriously. Perera turns his lens onto the evolution of photography in South Asia, the impacts of colonialism, imperial power on image-making and a clutch, to build a strong case for photography’s importance as a sociological tool. In this journey, he introduces a bevy of characters, including his family members, scholars such as Susan Sontag ( On Photography ) and John Berger ( About Looking ), studio owners, lensmen and businessmen who influenced the growth of photography in South Asia and beyond. He also looks into curious trends such as the selfies (and the meaning of Self, which is a must-read for millennials), and the need to have disciplines such as visual anthropology and visual sociology. Perera’s language is terse and his tone reassuring. With sharp insights and broad research, Perera has created a pioneering and deeply engaging work in the field of social anthropology that even lesser mortals can enjoy. The only blemish is that the photos could have been printed on better-quality paper.  The Fear of the Visual? Photography, Anthropology, and Anxieties of Seeing  Sasanka Perera  Orient BlackSwan  Rs. 850    Perera is a photographer himself and belongs to a family that has taken the art of photography seriously
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1This gentleman, born on September 20, 1948, used to write stories as a kid and sell them in the neighbourhood for a penny. He had to stop when one of his stories induced nightmares in a young customer. He started writing his epic seven-part series in 1991 and is currently writing the sixth book. An adaptation of this series was made into a TV show that had an award-winning run of eight seasons, but had a somewhat disappointing conclusion. Who is this author and which TV show did his books inspire? 2This show is about a Voice Input Child Identicant, who is an android built by Ted, an engineer, in an effort to assist handicapped children. To study human-android interaction, he takes it home and tries to keep it a secret. But their disagreeable neighbours, the Brindles, keep on popping up at the most unexpected moments — especially nosy next-door neighbour Harriet. How better do we know Voice Input Child Identicant and in which show would you have seen it? 3Michael Crichton went to Steven Spielberg with a script for a movie based on events that happened in a hospital. They got talking about another book he was writing, and eventually that became the movie Jurassic Park . The first script was later picked up by another company and made into a TV show that ran for 15 seasons. Which show is this whose name is made of two letters denoting the part of a hospital where anything can happen at any time? 4This American drama series follows the adventures of a teenage girl who is one of the ‘chosen ones’ and has to battle mythical beings and forces of darkness while trying to live a normal life of a schoolgirl. This show also showed the first usage of the word ‘google’ as a verb in media. Which show was this that launched the career of Sarah Michelle Gellar? 5This show was originally titled House of Comics and was about three comedians living together in a house. When writer Jeff Franklin pitched it to ABC, they told him they were looking for something more family-oriented. So he turned it into a scenario where only one of the three was a comedian and the other two were a musician and a widower whose three daughters the others help raise. Which show was this that had a catchy theme tune that started with the words ‘What ever happened to predictability?’? 6Lyndsy Fonseca and David Henrie, who played the narrator’s kids, had to shoot all of their scenes during Season 1 to work around the fact that Henrie was going through puberty. Therefore, they had to keep the secret about the show’s ending, around which the entire premise was built, for nine years. Which show was this that gave us the iconic phrase ‘legen-wait for it-dary’? 7This show was initially titled Insomnia Café or Six of One and eventually got the single-word title we are familiar with now. It was usually shot in front of a live audience, except the cliffhanger episodes. When the series started, each cast member had a different salary, but in 1997 they became the first to negotiate as a group so that everyone got an equal salary, eventually earning a million dollars per episode. Which TV show was this that is almost always playing on some channel? 8This show was produced by music production legend Quincy Jones, and he even cameos as a cab driver in the title sequence. The lead character and Quincy also composed most of the music for the show, which laid the foundation for the actor to become an award-winning musician in his own right. Which show was this that followed the exploits of a street-smart teenager from west Philadelphia as he is sent to live with his wealthy uncle ? 9This TV show follows the life of the title character as she faces the regular personal and social issues of being a teenager. One of the stand-out parts of the show was her animated alter-ego, who would translate her inner monologue at all times. The show won many awards for portraying how she and her best friends Miranda and Gordo dealt with multiple issues such as bullying and peer pressure. Which show was this that was led by the amazingly talented Hillary Duff? 10The creator of this spooky show came up with the idea when he read a report that more than three million people claim to have been abducted by aliens. The show became a cornerstone of the Women in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) movement, thanks to one of the lead characters who is a skeptical detective. Which era-defining show was this that had the tagline ‘The Truth is Out There’? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Scrolling through the leaves of history||“It feels like we’re policing ourselves and our neighbours these days. Our governments are certainly tracking us. States keep opening and closing borders.... We stay at home, waiting for permission to leave.... Our lives feel a bit dystopian, and the question is, how did we get here?” The journey toward an answer takes up the next 35 minutes or so, as Mary-Rose Abraham and Gayathri Vaidyanathan explore archives, speak to experts, bring up old stories, and puzzle through the mists of time in Pandemics and Borders , the opening episode of the new podcast Scrolls & Leaves . The series emerged as a collaborative effort between the two longtime journalists and the Bengaluru-based National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS) Archives. Natural process The podcast came up “almost as a very natural process”, explains Abraham, when she and Vaidyanathan were talking to Venkat Srinivasan, an archivist at NCBS, about the need for a research-based narrative podcast that brought together elements of science, health, history and culture, especially one that went beyond dominant Western perspectives. Access to the NCBS Archives helped them find an array of stories that could be brought to life with the added heft of historical record. “We really wanted to prioritise the voices from the margins,” says Vaidyanathan. The first episode has four segments that explore how disease prompts the construction of borders and walls—from the masks we wear to the doors we shut to the passport control at aiports. While the opening scene is set in the present time, drawing on our experience of the COVID-19 lockdown, the documentary quickly tunnels into the past to recreate the context of the first global pandemic—cholera—and the ways in which it was understood by science, interpreted by colonial power, baked into policy and draconian law by exclusionist administrators and, ultimately, experienced as tragedy and hardship by an entire people. Atmospheric storytelling From a hut in Jessore in early 19th century Bengal to a Haj pilgrimage, the episode, in the manner of an audio documentary, moves between narration, expert interviews and atmospheric storytelling. “We were very conscious of the fact that the podcast had to go beyond the usual interview format... we wanted to bring more of an auditory experience... in a way that makes the past come alive,” says Vaidyanathan, speaking on Skype from Canada. Nikhil Nagaraj, a Bangalore-based sound designer adds this element, helping create what they call a bi-aural “3-D immersive sound experience”. The podcast’s storyteller, Sumit Kumar, voices a series of roles that fill out the human side of these complex histories. Trade Winds The first season, called Trade Winds has six episodes that span the first two millennia with a focus on stories that pursue the question, how did global trade over two millennia shape our lives? The first two episodes use the lens of the current pandemic to understand the historical forces that govern our response to disease (the second, Healing Plants , is scheduled to drop next week). The podcast also includes a series of “Chatroom episodes” with extended interviews with experts featured in the main episodes—in one, historian of medicine Alison Bashford traces the complicated backstory of quarantines and border regulations as a response to contagion: “...that’s when you get... a link between keeping disease out, and keeping out people.” In terms of technical sophistication, storytelling techniques and depth of research, Scrolls & Leaves has much to recommend it. But listeners have a long wait between episodes; the rest of Season 1 comes out only next year! The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Is the first impression the last?||“You never get a second chance to make the first impression,” Andrew Grant, a British writer, said. On your first day in the new workplace, your car broke down, which made you late for office, and then in the evening, you spill coffee on your supervisor’s desk during the first interaction with him. Your new supervisor and executives get the impression that you are unprofessional. It can be challenging to recover from a bad first impression. Research in social psychology suggests that people are quick to form a lasting impression of others, just by inferring a person’s character traits from his or her single behaviour. We do make a judgment about that person’s trustworthiness and competence in a few seconds. Based on initial inference, we tend to predict the future behaviour of that person. Therefore, if any person behaved absurdly with us, we expect him or her to behave similarly in the next meeting. We don’t change our impression that easily. Behavioural researchers have found that our brain has certain patterns to process information and update their impression. Learning highly negative and immoral information about some person has a higher impact on our brain than learning highly positive and moral information about any person. Therefore, the employee who came late on the first day may get less weightage for his talent and skills. But still, there is hope to recover from a bad first impression. When it comes to making up for a bad first impression, the preferred action is to take the right turn and show your other side of the personality, which will be easier to like. Compensate for coming late in the morning with overtime in the evening. Demonstrate sincerity in work. Studies have shown that people tend to change their opinion about others after eight positive interactions. Therefore, allow people to reinterpret their opinion about us positively. Frequent positive interaction and demonstrating compassion and competence can help form a positive opinion about yourself in others’ minds. Second, we should explain the context of our previous wrong actions. A study found that it was possible to change your first impression on someone by giving them information that gives your actions in a new context. Therefore, if we explain the real and honest reason for unprofessional behaviour on the first day to the supervisor, it will be useful to change their perception. Do not apologise profusely because it can make the person you apologise to feel they constantly need to reassure you. Be self-aware of when to take action and when to let go. A second chance might occur naturally sometimes, and sometimes you need to work to get them. In any situation, put in honest efforts. anuj.2@iitj.ac.in
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A city of hidden abundance||Pashto writer Sher Zaman Taizi explained Afghanistan in three sentences in his very short story, The Field : Sultan Bacha was killed. Mir Bacha was sentenced to transportation for life. And that field for which the two brothers were fighting was taken by others. Afghanistan has a long oral and written literary tradition in both Pashto and Dari, its two major languages. Writers have explored its history of war and conflict, the ‘Great Game’ involving other powers, themes of home and exile, religious and ethnic tensions, the rise and fall and return of the Taliban. From Rabindranath Tagore who wove his beautiful short story Kabuliwala around the friendship of Mini, a little girl in Calcutta, with a man from the distant land of Kabul selling dry fruits, to Khaled Hosseini’s The Kite Runner , a coming-of-age tale of two boys caught up in violence, and Ahmed Rashid’s Descent into Chaos , readers have connected with Afghanistan through fiction and non-fiction. What lies behind To this rich heritage of story-telling, add Taran N. Khan’s Shadow City which maps Kabul’s hidden spaces. One of the things she was told when she arrived in 2006 was never to walk. But it was five years since the overthrow of the Taliban and as spring arrived, Khan headed to Mandayi Bazaar south of the Kabul river. Winds of change would blow over Afghanistan again, but in her wanderings from 2006 to 2013, she unravels a city of abundance: “...what is seen is often simply one aspect of the truth. What lies behind — the shadow city — is where layers are revealed.” On her first walk, Khan notices the mountains that encircle Kabul, Koh-e-Sher Darwaza and Koh-e-Asmai, and the new suburbs of Shahr-e-Nau, extending from the old city of Shahr-e-Kohna. “In the bluster and immensity of war… it is easy to forget that Kabul existed 3,000 years ago,” Khan writes, as she begins to “exhume history” and excavate the present in an ‘amnesiac’ city. There is a lot that wants to be forgotten – the debris of war is everywhere, walls are riddled with bullet marks, graves dot the land, addiction is rife, the divide between rich and poor immense, and in a heavily-mined city only stones marked in white are safe, red stones mean danger. Growing up in Aligarh in a family descended from Pashtuns, Khan encountered Tagore’s story in her maternal grandfather’s library who also gave her a copy of Baburnama , the memoirs of the young emperor Babur who had conquered Kabul at 21, to help her discover Kabul. She found Baburnama in one of the city’s iconic bookshops, Shah M. Book Co., which has “remained open through each of Kabul’s shifting eras: Communist, Mujahideen, Taliban, ISAF [International Security Assistance Force].” The owner, Shah Muhammad Rais, had contested the portrayal of him and his family in Norwegian journalist Asne Seierstad’s best-selling tome The Bookseller of Kabul . It is not surprising that in a land where Rumi is popular, poetry flows in the streets. Among the many people she meets is an old employee of Kabul Public Library, Haideri Wojodi, who believes “that words are important through the darkest times.” With her book, Khan has ensured that a part of Kabul will be kept alive.  Shadow City Taran N. Khan Vintage/Penguin Random House  Rs. 599
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Think on your feet||It’s unusual for the weak twobidder to have as strong a hand as the over-caller, but both bids were reasonable. South won the opening spade lead with dummy’s ace and drew trumps in three rounds. He then led a spade to dummy’s queen and East’s king. East shifted to a low club, South played his 10, and West won with his jack. West cashed the ace of clubs and the ace of hearts, but that was it for the defence. Dummy’s jack of spades provided a parking place for declarer’s third club. We don’t know how often the final contract would be three diamonds in a duplicate contest, but we would expect to see the same defence at many of those tables. It is a lazy defence, however, and we think West should have done better. East made a good play when he shifted to a low club. The defence would have had no chance had he shifted to a high club. From West’s point of view, it was certainly possible for South to have the queen of clubs rather than the queen of hearts, but how could the defence prevail after West wins the jack of clubs? West should see that the only chance for the defence was to win the club shift with the ace and return the jack. That would have led to down one. Always be on the lookout for an unusual play that can’t cost and might be very successful.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Shopping shopping||Respected Madam/Sir,  Mr. Mathrubootham wants only one single thing in whole world. Only one thing. What is that thing? Peace of mind. But what is world saying? World is saying all other items are available Mr. Mathruboootham but peace of mind is out of stock. More stock is coming in two weeks shall I put booking? This is the problem. Thursday morning what is happening? Nothing. 7 a.m. onwards I am waiting for tension. Some tension will come from somewhere like black cat commando. But by 10 a.m. no tension commandos are coming. So I am thinking let me enjoy day without any chicaneries. At that moment doorbell is going ting tong and I thought welcome chicanery. Outside who is standing? Mrs. Pramila from 11th floor. Previously she was air hostess in Vayudoot and Indian Airlines and all. Nowadays she is predicting future with playing cards and aromatherapy type things. Two-three years ago she said, Mathrubootham you are tension party. You please take hibiscus oil put it into water and spread the aromas in the house. All tensions will go away. I said, ok why not. If you are giving free oils means I will do. Madam/ Sir, what happened? I put hibiscus oil in hot water. Then as I am picking up bowl, oil bottle fell on the floor. Next moment I stepped on oil bottle. Next moment I fell on the floor. And hibiscus water fell on me. From 2017 to 2019 I am smelling of hibiscus nonstop. This year only smell is gone. When I saw Mrs. Pramila I said, hello hello how are you, I have hibiscus oil no need for more supply. She said, very good Mr. Mathrubootham you are feeling totally tension free no? I said, yes, since 2017 no tension. She said, ok can you do me one favour? My one nephew is here. Nephew said, hello uncle. I said, hello to one young boy 100% ruffian. Mrs. Pramila said, can you please teach him some manners. Every day he is saying purchase this, purchase that. I am asking whether money grows on trees? No value for money. Will you tell him stories from your childhood with nothing but poverty and monthly shopping? Madam/ Sir, why such things happen only to me? Other people are enjoying like anything. Eating, reading, feeding peacock and all. But Mr. Mathrubootham? Non-stop irritation morning to night. At that moment Mrs. Mathrubootham came. No problem whatsoever, she said. You please leave the boy for two hours. Pramila said, thank you and left like snake. Then Mrs. M said, you please give education to this young man immediately. Then she also left like second snake. Whether this is flat or Tirunageswaram Naganathaswamy Temple? I said, boy sit down. I did not wear chappals till 11 years of age. He said, why not? I said, because no money. He said, when money came, you bought chappals or no? I said, yes, immediately my father purchased. He said, I am also saying same thing uncle. If money is there let us do shopping. I said, young man what shopping-shopping you are talking? No other activities are there? When I was your age shopping was maximum once a month. He said, what about these days? You are still shopping once a month? I was thinking of one punch dialogue when Mrs. M came and said, old man yesterday you purchased wrong type Marie biscuit. Today when you go shopping please get better brand. I said, thanks Kamalam, very useful input at this moment. Young boy is sitting and smiling. Then he is saying, Uncle, you are shopping every day no? Why you are wasting so much money in old age? Madam/ Sir, I told him, young man, when you become Prime Minister, please give autograph. Then we proceeded for lunch.  Yours in exasperation, J. Mathrubootham
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Purging prejudices||All of us want to lead a happy life, but blemishes of our character come in the way. One of them is prejudice, which closes our minds to the truth. Voltaire called prejudice the reason of fools. Our thinking is stymied by prejudices. We have many preconceived notions. We assume they are correct. The fact is, universally accepted principles do not emerge from a single man’s experience. We have to respect the views of others. It is not that our own judgments are wrong. Socrates had said: “I am extremely desirous to be persuaded by you, but not against my own better judgment.” Thomas Carlyle said: “It is useful, nay essential, to see his good qualities before pronouncing on his bad.” In the words of Ambrose Bierce, “It is a vagrant opinion without visible means of support.” Very often, man’s social behaviour is guided by worn-out customs and sustained by age-old prejudices. Most people are unwilling to give up their prejudices. They are not even aware of the need for jettisoning them. Our habits are fixed firmly. Sometimes, prejudices emerge from the generation gap. The youngsters think that the aged are conservative and lack progressive thinking. The elders believe the youth lack values and spend money carelessly. Experts say it is not easy to eliminate prejudices. According to an American historian, George Bancroft, “The prejudices of ignorance are more easily removed than the prejudices of interest, the first are all blindly adopted, the second wilfully preferred.” It is also said that our prejudices do not hurt others as much as they hurt us physically, mentally and spiritually. We should be aware of the deleterious dimensions of dangerous prejudices. These crucified Jesus Christ, poisoned Socrates, and assassinated Martin Luther King. Under their influence, some people have axed moral values. The prejudices strengthen sectionalism, communalism, regionalism and parochialism. Let us pulverise prejudices; otherwise, they will pulverise us. satyasundaram@yahoo.com
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The Pheonix||Bilal Siddiqui  Penguin eBury Press Rs. 299 In this dystopian tale of espionage and global terror, ex-intelligence officer, Intelligence and Research Wing, Aryaman Khanna, is on a mission to foil the bioweapon strike an international terror group has been planning to carry out in Mumbai. A story of his love for his family and country.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The Geometry of Holding Hands||Alexander McCall Smith  Little, Brown Rs. 699 Isabel Dalhousie yet again applies her philosopher’s mind to wrongdoings in Edinburgh. There are whispers of mysterious goings-on — only Isabel can be trusted to get to the bottom of this while she deals with her merciless children, husband and her tempestuous niece, Cat.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The Silence of the Hyena||Syed Muhammad Ashraf, trs   M. Asaduddin and Musharraf Ali Farooqi  Aleph Book Company Rs. 599 Award-winning writer Syed Muhammad Ashraf’s Urdu stories usually revolve round animals and are characterised by a sense of foreboding. The translated short stories, interlinked tales, and novella in this collection attest to the power of his writing.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Inheritance||Balli Kaur Jaswal  HarperCollins India Rs. 499 Fifteen-year-old Amrit disappears from her house at night and returns a different person. Over the next two decades, her actions haunt the lives of her Sikh family in Singapore. A story of mental illness as well as a portrait of a family struggling to preserve tradition in a changing nation.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||No Rules Rules: Netflix and the Culture of Reinvention||Reed Hastings, Erin Meyer  Penguin Random House  Rs. 799 Netflix is in a unique position as a leader in both the worlds of entertainment and technology. Founder Reed Hastings explains the radical business culture that makes Netflix one of the most inventive companies in the world.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The Brass Notebook: A Memoir||Devaki Jain  Speaking Tiger  Rs. 599 In a no-holds-barred memoir, a noted feminist economist and academic recalls her own story and also that of an entire generation. She writes candidly of her personal and professional life and about how she became deeply involved with the cause of ‘poor’ women.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Rage||Bob Woodward  Simon & Schuster    Rs. 899 A veteranWashington Post journalist goes behind the scenes of the Trump presidency and finds new details about early national security decisions and the President’s moves as he faces a global pandemic, economic disaster and racial unrest. Woodward shows Trump up close.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Rebels with a Cause||T.T. Ram Mohan  Penguin Random House  Rs. 599 Through an exploration of the lives and ideas of well-known dissenters like Arundhati Roy, Oliver Stone, Kancha Ilaiah, David Irving, Yanis Varoufakis, U.G. Krishnamurti and John Pilger, Prof Ram Mohan argues that, while one may not agree with them always, their views merit discussion and debate.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3117||Across  1 Fluttering leaf? As if! Sure! (4-4) 5 Subject is suppressing resistance ring (6) 10 Conman not about to get left in prison (7) 11 Pensioner disrespectfully told ‘not to start reckless dare’ (3,4) 12 Rishi’s reconstruction – people allegedly lucky (5) 13 We’re told, alternatively, a conservative has debts or works (9) 14 Actor in Shakespeare’s Trouble and Strife (4,8) 18 Unlikely apricot-lover? (12) 21 Furore with turkey as practical joke (5,4) 23 Everyman, rank and fuming (5) 24 Performing male’s accepted by Everyman formally (2-5) 25 Frightful migraine, head splitting somewhere in Africa (7) 26 South American congress assembled ancient kingdom (6) 27 Primarily, style Yazoo notably tried, having plenty of pep? (5-3)  Down  1 Geological evidence from UFOs? Silly (6) 2 Regularly seen in mist, tall birch tilting (6) 3 University rejected movement of ‘phony music’ like Beethoven’s 5th (9) 4 Move one lorry of bananas at any cost(3,4,2,5) 6 Auntie’s known for this: some flipping rheumatoid arthritis (5) 7 Quiet about struggles to include Western trailers (8) 8 Brief agreement written up, son’s respectful gestures (8) 9 Like Bugs when bugged? (3,1,5,5) 15 Walking in fog, lost, going after love, wearing belt (7,2) 16 Excuses given by European missing in attacks (8) 17 Spies ill prepared ... (8) 19 Dog holding tune, Come Together (4,2) 20 Vicar gets electronic kit to modernize (6) 22 Somewhere in church, reported villainous character (5)
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Wildfire||As many as 28 major wildfires in California, exacerbated by high temperatures, high winds and lack of rain, killed 24 people and destroyed 4,200 structures. Since the beginning of the year, wildfires have burned over 3.2 million acres of land — larger than the State of Connecticut. So intense is the fire that smoke reached the skies of New York city and even Europe.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Conspiracy theory||After arresting former JNU student leader Umar Khalid under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act for his alleged role in the Delhi riots, Delhi Police said it would confront him with 40 GB of data — 11 lakh pages — extracted from his phone. Khalid’s arrest came a day after the police named several politicians and intellectuals as ‘conspirators’, including CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||No questions||In an unprecedented move that was sharply criticised, the Lok Sabha did away with Question Hour and private members’ business for the current parliamentary session, citing extraordinary circumstances and curtailed sittings. Opposition MPs called it a violation of norms and an erosion of legislative oversight of the executive. Defence minister Rajnath Singh claimed it had already been discussed with opposition leaders.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Trials resume||Days after the Serum Institute of India stopped trials for the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University following a notice from the DCGI, the institute resumed them after it got a go-ahead. Phase 3 trials by AstraZeneca and Oxford University were suspended briefly after a volunteer in the U.K. developed transverse myelitis, an inflammation of the spinal cord.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Continuity cabinet||Yoshihide Suga was formally elected Prime Minister of Japan after winning the race to become leader of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party following Shinzo Abe’s exit. The 71-year-old, Abe’s former chief cabinet secretary and long regarded as his right-hand man, indicated that he would pursue many of his predecessor’s policies, as he put together a ‘continuity cabinet’, keeping roughly half the ministers in place.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Kapila Vatsyayan no more||Arts scholar, institution builder, and founder of Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, Padma Vibhushan Kapila Vatsyayan passed away in New Delhi aged 91. Mentored by Kamala Devi Chattopadhyay and Rukmini Devi Arundale, Vatsyayan authored classics such asClassical Indian Dance in Literature and the Arts,The Square and the Circle of Indian Arts, andBharata: The Natya Sastra.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Invisible deaths||The Labour Ministry told Parliament that there was no data on the migrant workers who had lost jobs and lives during the lockdown, so the question of compensation “does not arise”. This invited scathing attacks from the opposition. A database of migrant workers is supposed to be maintained under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, and activists have raised concerns over this.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Protection against SARS-CoV-2 may be short-lived||While it is generally known that protective immunity against the four species of common cold coronaviruses does not last for more than year, a study that monitored 10 healthy individuals for more than 35 years revealed that reinfection with the same seasonal coronavirus occurred frequently at 12 months after infection. This observation suggests that the duration of protection against SARS-CoV-2 reinfection, too, may not be for long, and reinfection, which is a common feature of all human coronaviruses, might take place for SARS-CoV-2, too. The four common cold coronaviruses belong to two different genera and use different receptors found on different host cells that allow the virus to gain entry and infect the cells. Key question With over a dozen cases of reinfection with SARS-CoV-2, first reported from Hong Kong and then from the U.S and recently from India and other countries, as confirmed through genetic sequences, the key question centres around the duration of protection following an infection by SARS-CoV-2 virus. Insights gained from the longitudinal study published in Nature Medicine suggest reinfection with the same seasonal coronavirus occurred frequently around one year after previous infection. The short duration of protection against seasonal coronaviruses reinfection might be applicable for SARS-CoV-2 virus too. Caution needed “We hypothesise that characteristics shared by these four seasonal coronaviruses, such as the duration of protective immunity, are representative of all human coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2,” the authors write. The findings of the study suggest that “caution may be needed” when coming up with policies by relying on long-term immunity either through natural infection or vaccination aimed at attaining herd immunity. “I would not be at all surprised to see more reinfection cases [from SARS-CoV-2] to be reported in the future,” Prof. Akiko Iwasaki, an immunologist at Yale University, says in an email to The Hindu. “Since reinfection can occur, herd immunity by natural infection is unlikely to eliminate SARS-CoV-2. The only safe and effective way to achieve herd immunity is through vaccination,” Prof. Iwasaki tweeted.  For the study, the researchers used serum samples of adult males who were monitored at regular intervals since the 1980s to investigate how often seasonal coronavirus infections occurred during follow-up. The authors chose 10 healthy individuals from the cohort, and serum samples collected from them every three months before 1989 and every six months afterwards were used for the current study; no samples were collected between 1997 and 2003. Role of antibodies The researchers measured the antibodies to the nucleocapsid protein — an abundant coronavirus protein — for each seasonal coronavirus. An increase in antibodies was considered a new infection. While reinfections were seen in a few cases within six and nine months, they were more frequent at 12 months. No intermediate reduction in antibodies between infections were seen in the case of reinfections occurring as early as six months, but they did observe intermediate reductions between infections in the case of reinfections occurring more than six months. Since antibodies induced by coronavirus infections might have broad coronavirus-recognising characteristics, they studied the complete nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV-2 to enable detection of broadly recognising antibodies. While two adults showed broadly recognising antibodies, and antibodies in one person remained present in the following years, no evidence of induction and maintenance of these antibodies were seen. “These sustained broadly recognising antibodies did not provide broad protection from subsequent infections,” they write. Strain variation The researchers were not able to identify strain variation among seasonal coronaviruses that could play a role in susceptibility to reinfection. Since there is only slightly varying circulating SARS-CoV-2 strains, increased susceptibility to reinfection by divergent virus strains of SARS-CoV-2 is most likely not the case, they note.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Lack of sleep can affect body, brain||The coronavirus pandemic–induced lockdown has taken a toll on the sleep cycle of people across the globe. Several online surveys have shown that social media and unstructured work-time have altered millennial’s sleep-wake timings. Various behavioural and physiological consequences of sleep restriction have been studied and well-documented. A new study shows a direct link between sleep deprivation and brain and body temperature in rats. Role of sleep The experiments conducted in the lab revealed that not sleeping for 24 hours can increase the temperatures of the cortical and hypothalamus brain regions The cerebral cortex plays a key role in attention, awareness and memory; while the hypothalamus has various roles: regulating body temperature, sleep-wake cycle, food intake, sexual behaviour, releasing hormones and regulating emotional responses. Special temperature sensors were implanted into the brain and abdomen region of 10 adult male rats to monitor all the temperatures simultaneously at 15-second intervals. “We gently rocked the cage when we saw that the rat was falling asleep. This gentle handling method doesn’t induce much stress in the rats. Taking shifts, my team and I were able to keep the rats awake for 24 hours. The rats had adequate food and water in the cage, just that we didn't let them sleep,” explains Lal Chandra Vishwakarma, Research Associate at the Baldev Singh Laboratory for Sleep Research, Department of Physiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. He is the first author of the paper recently published in the Journal of Sleep Research . After 24 hours, they were given a recovery sleep of 12 hours. Body and brain temperatures recorded during baseline conditions, sleep deprivation period and recovery sleep were then analysed. During the sleep deprivation period the temperature of the body, hypothalamic and cortical region was found to increase significantly. The recovery sleep was able to bring down the body and cortical temperature to the near-baseline value in about four hours. However, the hypothalamic temperature remained higher than the baseline values throughout the 12 hours of recovery sleep. This may be due to the fact that hypothalamus is the temperature regulating area of the brain. “We propose that this rise in temperature may have an effect on cognitive ability. Acute sleep deprivation has also been reported to affect the mood, memory skills and attention in humans. Many times, we catch ourselves making an error in judgement when we don’t get proper sleep,” adds Hruda Nanda Mallick from the Department of Physiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. He is the corresponding author of the work. Neuromuscular changes The team is currently studying the impact of sleep deprivation on neuromuscular changes to prove the point that muscles are also a beneficiary of sleep. Dr Mallick adds: “Sleep is as important as nutrition and exercise. Although the core function of sleep is yet to be discovered, it serves many important functions which include, growth and repair, memory consolidation, energy conservation and boost immunity. I urge people to follow a strict sleep routine and to immediately consult a doctor if they have a problem falling asleep.”
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Another look at groundbreaking inventions in ICT||Professor V. Rajaraman, the doyen of computer science education and research in India, has recently written a book titled: “Groundbreaking Inventions in Information and Communication Technology”, where he discusses 15 life-altering recent inventions. I discussed seven of these in my last article in The Hindu (dated September 13). Here, we discuss the other eight. Replete with detail Recall the seventh innovation, Computer Graphics. It has led to the generation and display of digital data as pictures and movies on a computer’s display. The Graphical User Interface allows us to point and click icons on the display, and for instance, start a Power Point presentation. It started with the computer “mouse” which moves a cursor on the display of a computer screen. In today’s hand-held computers, the mouse is replaced by an arrow on the touch screen. The book is replete with details of the lives and achievements of the inventors behind these advances, and the technical details of these which are covered as “Box Items” (and there are 52 Box Items). Reading these will clearly inspire students and future innovators. The next breakthrough is the development of the Internet, which, clearly, is one of the greatest inventions of the 20th century. It has allowed us to communicate through email, watch YouTube presentations and many other applications that we take for granted today. Two important inventions led to the development of the Internet. The first was breaking up of a long data stream into smaller packets before they are transmitted, invented by Paul Baran and Donald Davies. The second was the standardisation of a protocol called TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol/ Internet Protocol) that allowed inter-connecting a variety of computer networks spread throughout the world using the existing telephone infrastructure, invented by Vinton Cerf and Robert Kahn. Reaching places The ninth invention is Global Positioning System (GPS). The GPS now can guide us in finding the best way to reach from place A to place B. Earlier, sailors looked at the position of stars in the sky to detect their own locations and routes. The discovery of the magnetic compass was helpful, and so was the invention of the wireless radio by Marconi (or JC Bose if you will). Prof. Rajaraman points out that when satellites were launched, it became clear that signals transmitted from a set of satellites could determine the latitude, longitude, and altitude of an object anywhere in the world accurately within a few metres. It was an expensive project spearheaded by Roger Easton, Bradford Parkinson and Ivan Getting and supported by the U.S. Department of Defense. The tenth Innovation is the World Wide Web (or WWW), which has made the Internet infrastructure available for free. A user can access any of the billions of documents stored in computers spread across the world. This was made possible primarily due to the work of Tim Berners-Lee who designed a protocol called HyperText Transfer Protocol or HTTP to connect documents written using a language called HyperText Markup Language or HTML. Prof. Rajaraman points out: “WWW is thus defined as content formatted using HTML stored in computers connected to the internet that is accessed using HTTP”. In order to retrieve documents from the World Wide Web using a ‘phrase’ such as the: capitals of the States in India we need a software. This is known as a Search Engine which is the eleventh Innovation. Google is one such search engine that captured the market due to an innovative search algorithm invented by Larry Page and Sergy Brin. Compressing data The 12th innovation is Digitisation and Compression of Multimedia. Digitisation is essential for processing text, pictures, audio and video. When they are digitised they have enormous number of bits. This can be compressed without loss of fidelity in order to be transmitted economically. There are many innovative algorithms to do this, and these are described lucidly in the book. The next innovation is Mobile Computing. Wireless bands reserved for Industrial, Scientific, and Medical uses were de-licensed in 1985 by governments and allowed to be used for communication of data. This permitted portable laptops to be connected wirelessly to a LAN. The protocol for wireless communication was standardised and led to WiFi. The ensuing Internet access leads us to applications such as WhatsApp. The emergence of 3G and 4G mobile infrastructure resulted in smart phones. In the Cloud The 14th innovation is Cloud Computing. Excess computing power available with companies such as Amazon and Google that maintain huge computing infrastructure for running their businesses was offered to any one “on demand” and charged based on use. This became feasible with the advent of Internet and decreasing cost of communication. The fifteenth innovation is Deep Learning. McCulloch, a neurologist and Pitts a mathematical genius modelled the human brain as a collection of interconnected neurons. This was simulated as a multi-layered neural network by Geoffrey Hinton and David Rumelhart on a computer. This model could be made to learn to recognise faces and speech by extensive training using enormous data. This is an aspect of AI that will be used in many future systems such as driverless cars.  (I am grateful to Prof. Rajaraman for his advice and corrections.)  dbala@lvpei.org
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Tracking cases through sewage analysis||Analysis of sewage sludge for a period of 10 weeks in the New Haven, Connecticut, metropolitan area in the U.S., during the COVID-19 outbreak period March 19 to June 1 once again demonstrates the utility of viral RNA monitoring of municipal wastewater for SARS-CoV-2 infection surveillance at a population-wide level. In this case, the sewage samples collected and analysed helped monitor about 200,000 residents in the metropolitan area. Pre-empting records Analysis of the sludge samples allowed researchers to track the rise and fall of positive cases and hospital admissions days before they were officially known or recorded. Based on the RNA concentrations in the sludge, the researchers were able to know the swing in cases up to two days before samples could be collected, one–four days before hospital admissions and six–eight days before positive results were reported. The results were published in the journal Nature Biotechnology.  While the researchers collected and analysed primary sewage sludge that form when raw wastewater discharges into treatment facilities, in places that lack primary wastewater treatment, monitoring of raw wastewater streams would be necessary, they write. Infection dynamics Based on the results, a team of researchers led by Dr Jordan Peccia and Dr Saad Omer from Yale University, New Haven, write: “In communities facing a delay between specimen collection and the reporting of test results, immediate wastewater results can provide considerable advance notice of infection dynamics.” Utility of wastewater The results come in the wake of uncertainty and poor understanding of the utility of wastewater SARS-CoV-2 concentrations for tracking the progression of COVID-19 infections. This despite the evidence that SARS-CoV-2 RNA is present in the stools of COVID-19 patients and hence in sewage, and of increased RNA concentrations in sewage being correlated with increased number of cases reported days later. Besides delay in seeking a test and reporting of test results, symptoms may take a few days to present once infection sets in. Samples were collected every day and the concentration of viral RNA in the sewage samples were compared with publicly available infection data. They analysed the numbers and percentages of positive SARS-CoV-2 tests by specimen collection date, the numbers of positive SARS-CoV-2 tests by reporting date, and COVID-19 hospital admissions. “Sludge results were not a leading indicator compared to positive test results or percentage of positive tests by date of specimen collection. However, they led hospitalizations by one–four days and test results by report date by about one week. Thus, in communities where test reporting is delayed, sludge results, if analysed and reported on the same day as sampling, can provide substantial advance notice of infection dynamics,” they write. Primary sludge handling approaches can be different in treatment plants and this could affect the levels of detectable virus. “Given the uncertainties in sludge data and epidemiological data, we did not attempt to correlate absolute numbers of sludge SARS-CoV-2 RNA concentrations and COVID-19 cases,” they note.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Rusty Moon||Is the Moon rusting? On September 6, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said that images sent by Chandrayaan-1 suggest that the moon may be rusting along the poles. He was referring to a recently published study that found an oxidised iron mineral called hematite (Fe2O3) at high latitudes on the Moon. The researchers say that this lunar hematite is formed through oxidation of the iron on the Moon's surface by the oxygen from Earth's upper atmosphere. The team analysed the data acquired by the Moon Mineralogy Mapper onboard Chandrayaan-1. “More hematite on the lunar nearside suggested that it may be related to Earth,” said lead author Dr Shuai Li at the Hawaii’s Institute of Geophysics and Planetology (HIGP) in the UH Mānoa School of Ocean and Earth Science and Technology (SOEST) in a release. Along with the oxygen, water on the lunar surface and heat from interplanetary dust also helped in the oxidation process. The paper in Science Advances notes that the hematite is not absolutely absent on the lunar farside. There, a small amount of iron oxides “might be formed under the presence of water and energies induced by interplanetary dust impacts and then be decomposed to hematite.” They write that the hematite formed at lunar craters of different ages may help understand the oxygen of Earth’s atmosphere in the past 2.4 billion years and reveal facts about the evolution of Earth’s atmosphere in the past billions of years. The team hopes that NASA's ARTEMIS missions can bring some hematite samples, and detailed chemical studies can confirm if the lunar hematite was indeed oxidised by Earth’s oxygen.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding patterns with Saria||One of the two lead characters in director Sudhanshu Saria’s film, Knock Knock Knock , is a creature of habit. He sits at a particular table in the café he visits on his vacations; he sits with his elbows perfectly aligned; and there’s also a curious pattern to his morning walks. This is something that Saria, who has also written and edited the film, is very familiar with. “I can’t write at home. I need to be in public spaces with my back to the wall. I believe every café has a certain energy and, when I end up having a good day of writing, I go back to the same café,” explains the 36-year-old filmmaker, whose film launched on Mubi India this week. Slice of life A psychological thriller set in Darjeeling, Knock Knock Knock revolves around Dada (Shantilal Mukherjee), an older man who makes crossword puzzles as a hobby, and Keta (Phuden Sherpa), a young Nepali tattoo artist, who finds patterns in everything. The film premièred as one of five shorts in the Shorts Showcase at the Busan International Film Festival last year and was screened at the Tallinn Black Nights Film Festival in their Homecoming section in 2019, along with new films by Peter Strickland and Yorgos Lanthimos. “Dada and Keta are like yin and yang. Keta finds patterns in art and design, while Dada does so in numbers and alphabets,” says Saria. Much like his début feature in 2015, the tender gay love story Loev (on Netflix), this film was also triggered by personal experiences. “I always had this image of my father, who lives in Darjeeling, as a very social person. He is an extrovert who gets along with everyone. But when I spent about 10 days at home with him in the spring of 2018, without my mom present as a buffer, I felt like I really discovered him. I realised he was really lonely. He can chat with anyone but he’s not willing to be intimate and vulnerable with anyone,” he says, adding that the film, which started as a meditation on loneliness and heartbreak, goes on to explore more complex themes of human psychology. Stories from the fringes With a run-time of 40 minutes, Knock Knock Knock rests on the shoulders of its lead cast — one a veteran of Bengali theatre and cinema, and the other a young boy plucked from the streets of Darjeeling, who had never acted before. “It took a lot for me to convince Phuden to do this film. He didn’t believe that someone had cast him in a movie or that it’ll ever get made. He wouldn’t come on time for rehearsals or learn his lines, but something changed about four days before we were supposed to start shooting,” says Saria. “Shantida, on the flip side, was harder to direct. I like to rehearse a lot before shooting stars but every time I broached the subject, he would shut down. He was coming from a space of ‘this is my job, don’t tell me how to do it’. So I had to back off.” As for the chemistry between the veteran and the amateur, Saria says, “I was a bit of a wreck trying to be a good match-maker, while being equally possessive and protective and worried for each of them.” A huge believer in Mira Nair’s words — ‘if we don’t tell our stories, no one else will’ — Saria has come to realise the value and power of his perspective and the ability to immerse himself in the subject and yet stay detached. He says, “Since I’ve constantly shifted cities, somewhere in the back of my mind, there is this understanding that I might have to move tomorrow. I think it helps you detach and have an outsider’s perspective.” Saria adds, “There are some stories like Loev that only I can tell. These are stories from disenfranchised communities or those that aren’t often told. I wanted Knock Knock Knock to be a film shot in Darjeeling because we don’t tell enough stories from that part of the country.” Journey to cinema A self-confessed ‘tea-estate baby’, the filmmaker grew up on a steady diet of masala Hindi films likeMr IndiaandLamhe. “I didn’t know anyone in the movies or how films were made. In my mind, films were made by fairies, with angel dust.” A chance encounter with film students at Ithaca College, in upstate New York, led him to studying filmmaking and subsequently working with film companies in the U.S. He returned to India only so he could tell the kind of stories that felt personal to him. “If I had continued to work in Los Angeles, I would have to write characters called John and Paul,” concludes the director, who is now working on a drama series for Amazon Prime Video. Knock Knock Knock is now streaming on Mubi India
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Girl power in Kodai||In early 2020, the only tailor Smriti Lamech could find near her cottage in Kodaikanal was a grocer who also had a sewing machine in one corner of his shop. She wanted to convert some unused fabric into cushion covers for the house she had temporarily moved into, to be closer to her pre-teen children in boarding school. Then Lamech, 41, chanced upon Prowess, a women’s self-help group (SHG) with 16 seamstresses, and gave them her order. By the time she returned to collect it a couple of months later, the SHG was reopening after the nationwide lockdown. The women mentioned how they had barely received any new orders since the pandemic struck. On their website’s homepage, Prowess introduces their team with a photograph of the women in shiny pattu saris who ‘produce a wide array of toys, puppets, furnishings and accessories, most of which are made with 100% cotton or silk fabrics’. That’s when it struck Lamech. This was as good an opportunity as any to do one of the things she had been meaning to try out — rag dolls, but of feminist icons. Her first set (out now) includes Indian-origin astronaut Kalpana Chawla, American poet and activist Maya Angelou, Indian educationist and social reformer Savitribai Phule, and Mexican painter Frida Kahlo. Nifty with fabric Of the memories she has of her childhood with an eclectic, fabric-collecting mother, Lamech has one that stands out. The family was travelling by road from Delhi to then-Madras, when they spotted a group of Lambani women on the highway. They pulled over and her mother went to speak to them. A few minutes later, the Lambanis were pulling out spare cholis (blouses) and other embroidered materials from their bags, as her mother took out cotton kurtas from her suitcase. They swapped the clothes and, a few moments later, cash was exchanged for a few pieces of their iconic silver jewellery. Her mother also ran one of the only boutiques in the 1990s in Allahabad, where they were based. So Lamech has always had an eye for spotting fabric of aesthetic value. (Though a journalist by training, she has been making outfits for her children, upcycled décor for her house in Gurugram, and knick knacks for friends.) Using this experience, and her working knowledge of Tamil, she began spending time with the women at Prowess in early May to come up with a set of four long-limbed rag dolls, under the initiative: The Smritsonian. They have no detailed faces — no eyes or nose — but each carries one distinguishing feature of these women. Chawla comes in her NASA-orange spacesuit with a helmet and boots by a different crochet artist known to Lamech; Angelou has thick dark locks of hair and a removable turban; Phule has her trademark horizontal bindi ; and for Kahlo, it is her unibrow. Feminism for children Owing to Tamil Nadu’s State-wide ban on plastic, the dolls come snuggled in seersucker sleeping bags, along with a letter addressed to the receiver, introducing themselves in first person. “I always wanted feminist dolls for my daughter and son, not battery or plastic dolls,” says Lamech over a call from Kodaikanal, where she remains during the pandemic. “I did buy them a lot of Channapatna toys when they were growing up, but I also want my child to recognise a Kalpana Chawla or a Frida Kahlo at this age. My generation didn’t hear about them till we were in our teens — things are, of course, different now with the Internet — but these are women who deserved to be introduced to our lives much earlier,” she concludes.  The collection featuring masks, buntings   and dolls is priced between Rs. 300 and Rs. 1,800. To order, call9873344651
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Composed amidst chaos||Composer Salil Bhayani, 31, established in Los Angeles’s crowded music composing space for nearly a decade, sees a sort of humour in the description he fits in the eyes of the American government. An O1 visa holder, he falls under the category of “aliens with extraordinary abilities and achievements”. “You either have to be able to levitate or know how to operate the (timeship) Tardis to somehow remain in character,” he says. But with the pandemic halting cogs in the music and film industries, one wonders if there are other skills he might have to pick up. Fortunately, Bhayani has been busy scoring for movies as well as video games. The alumnus of Berklee College of Music draws from Neil Gaiman’s 2012 commencement speech at University of the Arts, London, where the author talked about making good art regardless of circumstances. “With a medium like film, at least half of the story is conveyed through sound and music,” says the composer, explaining why his work is essential. Bhayani, who is currently working with American director Carson Einarsen’s adventure/drama film The Silent Beat , has produced for singer-songwriter Andrea Stankevitch’s song ‘Last Thing I Do’ and is lead composer on the video game, Under a Porcelain Sun, created by Gujarat-based game developer Studio Oleomingus. Each year, several Indians, like Bhayani, go to the U.S. in pursuit of a music degree at prestigious schools. Last academic year, Berklee — across campuses in Boston and Valencia — had a total of 70 Indians enrolling. This is the fourth highest amongst non-U.S. countries, behind China, South Korea and Canada. These students are hustling and doing what most musicians have taken to in the pandemic — teaching, conducting workshops, assisting other singers with songwriting. Clint Valladares, senior managing director in global engagement for the Middle East and India at Berklee, points out that by virtue of what they do, musicians improvise a lot. “In the current situation, this helps them to be nimble; one needs to take leadership, be entrepreneurial and think about music innovatively,” he says. Prateek Rajagopal, a new graduate from the Thornton School of Music at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, lost the final three months of his screen scoring course, critical for networking. While he did recently provide the score for a short film called Just a Father , OTT platforms have provided succour. He assisted on a score for a Netflix show slated for 2021, but admits that times are “extremely difficult”, adding, “Most of my friends here are doing whatever they can get their hands on, but it is not at all smooth for any of us”. Rajagopal says he is luckier, because he holds Omani citizenship, which makes gaining work permits slightly easier than it is for Indian nationals.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Chalk out a plan to reduce virus cases in containment zones: L-G||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal directed authorities to chalk out a strategy to reduce COVID-19 cases to non-existent levels in containment zones across the Capital. By next week Sources said expert groups and the Delhi Health Department have been tasked with preparing reports to this end over the weekend. They are scheduled to meet early next week to figure out strategies to reduce the number of cases being reported from containment zones, which account for roughly around 40% of the total daily COVID-19 cases in the city, to ‘zero’. This will be followed by a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), sources added. Over 80 containment zones were created across the city every day between September 7 and 17 as enhanced testing for COVID-19 led to the detection of more cases, according to government records. Till Saturday, there were as many as 1,820 active containment zones in the city with a majority of these located in the South-West and West districts. Containment policy Mr. Baijal, at a meeting of the DDMA on Friday, had observed that the administration’s attention should be on containing transmission as well as improving recovery rate and reducing deaths due to COVID, said sources. Mr. Baijal also directed expert groups to prepare a blueprint on re-strategising the containment policy.  Out of the total 3,044 containment zones created in the city so far, 2,710 were created after June 21 and 825 between September 7 and 17. A total of 1,293 zones have been decontained so far. According to government records, between September 7 and 17, the maximum number of containment zones existed in the South-West district (299), followed by 219 in the West district, 195 in the North district, 166 in the North-West district, 165 in the South district and 162 in the Central district. The least number of containment zones, 57, are located in the North-East district.  Cases reported from containment zones account for roughly 40% of the total daily COVID-19 cases seen in the city
20 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Oppn. picking Congress manifestos selectively’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday accused the Aam Aadmi Party of misleading the people by picking selective portions of Congress manifestos “which did not even remotely propose” any of the anti-farmer moves that the BJP-led Centre government was trying to push. Instead of flashing the manifesto copies, AAP should have made the effort to read the relevant parts first, said the Chief Minister in a statement. Referring to Congress manifestos for the Lok Sabha as well as the last Punjab Assembly elections, Capt. Amarinder pointed out that nowhere had the party spoken about bringing any of the changes that the Centre was trying to impose on the nation with its legislations. “In fact, the manifestos had clearly talked about strengthening the APMC (Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee) system to make it even more beneficial for the farmers,” he said. He said the State Congress manifesto of 2017 had stated that the updation of the APMC Act would be done to ensure direct access of farmers to the national and international markets through digital technology without tinkering with the existing Minimum Support Price system, while the Lok Sabha manifesto had gone a step forward to talk of further strengthening the marketing system by repealing the existing Act and bringing in new provisions that would provide for establishment of thousands of Kisan markets to provide easy access to farmers within a range of two-three kilometres. “When and where did the Congress ever talk of replacing APMC with contract farming and private procurement,” the Chief Minister asked, lashing out at the AAP for blatantly misleading the people on the issue. Officer shifted Separately on Saturday, a Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BPDO) was shifted for issuing a letter claiming that a farmers’ protest would be organised by the Punjab government over the issue of the farm ordinances on September 21. Taking serious cognisance of the matter, the Chief Minister ordered shifting of the Sardulgarh BDPO to the headquarters, and immediate withdrawal of the letter issued by him regarding some farm protests which he incorrectly claimed to have been organised by the Punjab government, a government statement said here. The directions came a day after Shiromani Akali Dal leader Daljit Singh Cheema had uploaded the BDPO letter on his Twitter handle accusing the ruling Congress of outsourcing its programmes to the Panchayati Raj department. The Punjab government has not organised any such protest, as claimed by the BDPO, according to the statement issued on Saturday. Far from organising any protests, the government has in fact been appealing to all political organisations to refrain from organising any public gatherings in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, it said. The Chief Minister has asked the officials concerned to inquire into the whole affair and pin down the responsibility for this incorrect communication, it said.  (With inputs from PTI)
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||What are the long-term effects of COVID-19?||The story so far: Surviving COVID-19 has been only part of the triumph for some patients. While doctors were well aware of the impact of lasting viral infections, the first few months of the pandemic were devoted to preventing transmission and figuring out how to take care of those in hospitals, and not much attention was paid to the after-effects. But over eight months into the epidemic, these can no longer be ignored. Though SARS-CoV-2 is essentially a virus that hits the lungs, in a smaller subset, it also seems to have an impact on the lungs, heart and brain, increasing the risk of long-term health issues, and life-threatening complications. What kinds of complications may occur? Gregory Poland, of the Vaccine Research Group, Mayo Clinic, U.S., says: “This is a disease that has a number of mysteries involved, compared to the usual respiratory virus... there is diminution of immunity, long-term fatigue, headaches, vertigo, difficulty with cognition, and cardio-respiratory fitness. But a large portion of that is likely to relate to the significant cellular level damage this disease can cause... This can be a really wicked virus in some people.” Among the more common lingering symptoms are fatigue, cough, shortness of breath, headache, muscle and joint pain. In Chennai, doctors who had recovered from COVID-19 to return to work complained of chronic fatigue, besides myalgia (muscle pain) and weakness. The Mayo Clinic lists organs that may be affected by COVID-19: Heart: imaging tests taken months after recovery show lasting damage to the heart muscle, even in those with only mild symptoms, increasing the risk of heart failure or other heart complications; Lungs: long-standing damage to the air sacs inside the lungs, leading to long-term breathing problems; Brain: strokes, seizures and Guillain-Barre syndrome that causes temporary paralysis. An increased risk of developing Parkinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease is possible; Blood: blood cells are more likely to clump up and form clots. While large clots can cause heart attacks and strokes, much of the heart damage caused by COVID-19 is believed to stem from very small clots that block capillaries in the heart muscle. Blood throwing such clots can affect other organs as well — the lungs, legs, liver, kidneys; Mood disorders: simply surviving this experience can make a person more likely to later develop post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. Does everyone face these side effects? The good news, according to the Mayo Clinic, is that most people who have the novel coronavirus disease recover completely within a few weeks. Only some people, including even those who had mild versions of the disease, continue to experience symptoms after their initial recovery. Even people who tested positive but were asymptomatic during the course of their disease are not immune either from long-term effects. In a letter published in Nature Medicine in June, researchers from China explained that CT scans done in asymptomatic people revealed abnormal radiological findings in one lung in 66.7% of the asymptomatic people and abnormalities in both lungs in 33.3% of them. While it is said that senior citizens and people with co-morbidities are more likely to suffer long-term effects, even children and the young who had milder versions of the disease are reporting persistent symptoms. The WHO mentions a telephone survey of symptomatic adults who had a positive outpatient test result for SARS-CoV-2: 35% had not returned to their usual state of health when interviewed 2–3 weeks after testing. Among those 18-34 years in good health, 20% reported that some symptoms were prolonged. What are the solutions? Countries across the world are beginning to realise the importance of assessing the long-term impact, and exploring solutions to rectify damage. The U.K.’s PHOSP(post-hospitalisation)-COVID project is one of several such projects globally to study patients who have been hospitalised with COVID-19. Over the course of a year, clinical assessments will track 10,000 patients to gain a comprehensive picture of the impact COVID-19 has had on longer-term health outcomes. The team will then develop trials of new strategies for clinical care to improve long-term health.  The Mayo Clinic, U.S., listed organs that may be affected by COVID-19 including the heart, lungs and brain. In Chennai, doctors who had recovered complained of chronic fatigue, besides myalgia and weakness
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Total cases in Delhi near 2.5 lakh mark||As many as 4,071 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,42,899, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. Also, 38 fatalities have been reported in a single day, taking the death toll to 4,945. Of the total cases, 2,05,890 people have recovered and there are 32,064 active cases. Out of the total 14,652 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 53.03% were vacant, as per government data on Saturday. But 61.3% of the ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and 72.42% of the ICU beds without ventilators are occupied. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) came down to 6.5% on Saturday. Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the rate is less compared to last week. “The positivity rate yesterday [Friday] was 6.76%. Positivity rate has been less than 7% for the past couple of days. Last week it was more than 8%. Also, the total cumulative rate now is less than 10% for the first time. It is 9.83%. Earlier it was 11-11.5%. The positivity rate has come down a little,” Mr. Jain said. He said the average death rate for the last 10 days is 0.69% and the case fatality rate is 2.05%. “In the past few days we have increased more than 500 ICU beds in private hospitals and more than 50% beds are vacant in hospitals,” he added. The Minister said that the government was keeping a strict watch and will increase the beds if needed. “When the number of cases is this high in Delhi and rest of the country, community spread should have been accepted. But only ICMR and the Centre can say this,” he said.
20 September 2020||Bhopal,||Two forest officials suspended in M.P.||More than 1,000 villagers suspended their sit-in on the fourth day on Saturday in Burhanpur district after two forest guards were suspended for allegedly thrashing two rights activists in custody last month. The agitation outside the Nepanagar police station, led by the Jagrit Adivasi Dalit Sangathan (JADS), started on September 16 after its complaints calling for action against the forest officials responsible went unheard. Police probe Meanwhile, the police has started an inquiry into the alleged illegal arrest of JADS activists Kailash Jamre (38) and Pyar Singh Waskale (42) from the Burhanpur district court complex on August 30, where they had gone to secure bail for two other activists, and their alleged thrashing at the Khaknar range office. “The inquiry is based on the complaint filed by the organisation. Further action will be taken after its completion,” said Additional Superintendent of Police Mahendra Tarnekar. JADS demanded an FIR against the Range Officer under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, and his arrest, said Nitin Varghese of the organisation. Rubbishing the allegation, Khandwa Chief Conservator of Forests Mahendra Singh Sisodia told The Hindu , “Anyone can make any allegation... we have launched no internal inquiry.” However, orders issued by the Forest Department confirmed forest guards Rajiv Solanki and Rupa Mudiya were suspended owing to negligence. Claiming he was handcuffed and beaten with batons at the range office, Mr. Jamre said forest officials were visibly irked at him for spreading awareness on forest laws. “They told us — ‘let’s see who comes to rescue you’.” He claimed foresters were upset over his having complained to the district officials about illegal felling of trees recently.
20 September 2020||Lucknow,||AAP MP to appear before U.P. police today||Aam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh is scheduled to appear before the Uttar Pradesh police on Sunday in connection with a sedition case filed against him, a party spokesman said. The Uttar Pradesh police had lodged an FIR against the Rajya Sabha MP under various IPC sections on September 2 at the Hazratganj police station here for undertaking a survey, a senior State government official said. A sedition charge under 124(A) was also included in the notice sent to Mr. Singh by the police on Thursday, sources said.  ‘May be arrested’ “Sanjay Singh will appear before the Hazratganj police on Sunday morning and give arrest,” AAP State spokesman Vaibhav Maheshwari said here on Saturday. The notice, sent to Mr. Singh at his New Delhi address, besides other charges also mentions charges under IPC 124 A, 153 A (promoting enmity between classes), and 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration). “The charges are serious and non-bailable. You are requested to reach on September 20 at 11 a.m. for presenting facts and evidence. If you fail to remain present, action will be taken against you,” the notice, sent by Hazratganj police station Investigation Officer A.K. Singh, read. Besides Mr. Singh, the company which conducted the survey has also been slapped with sedition and other charges, the IO said. On Friday, Mr. Singh had said that a case of sedition was filed against him in Uttar Pradesh after he exposed in Parliament the alleged corruption and scams taking place under the Yogi Adityanath government. “I know I will be sent to jail soon because I exposed the Yogi government. Why, just because I raised the issue of killings and scams in U.P.,” he had said.
20 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Akalis feared loss of ‘farmer’ vote bank||After flip-flops on the Centre’s agriculture sector legislations, the Shiromani Akali Dal’s decision to quit the government is being seen as a last-ditch effort of the party to save its core “farmer” vote bank, said political analysts. They feel that the entire episode shows the disconnect of the Akali Dal with the masses, and for the party, it would be a Herculean task to win back the trust of its core vote bank. ‘Not an easy task’ “The SAD extended support to the ordinances, and it was only after watching farmers’ anguish over the ordinances that it took a U-turn on the issue. Resignation of Ms. Harsimrat Kaur Badal seems to be a damage-control exercise to appease farmers, who had been their core vote bank. But it may not be an easy task. Farmers realise that it was after their protests and agitations that the Akali Dal took a decision to back them, until then, the party was supporting the ordinances,” said Ronki Ram, Shaheed Bhaghat Singh Chair professor of political science at Panjab University. “In the backdrop of this episode, the farmers would now be apprehensive of expectations from the Akali Dal. What is the guarantee that in future the party will take up and address their concerns on its own? The Akali Dal will find it difficult to convince farmers on this question. It won’t be an easy task for the Akali Dal to regain trust,” he said. Another possible reason behind the resignation has been the pressure from within the party. “Many leaders, including seniors P.S. Chandumajra and former Minister Sikander Singh Maluka, had cautioned the party leadership on the issue. This pressure had also worked it seems,” Mr. Ram added. Ashutosh Kumar, professor of political science at Panjab University, said the episode showed the disconnect of the Akali Dal with the masses. “The leadership finally realised that they are in trouble of losing their vote bank. They claim themselves to be saviours of farmers, but after seeing farmers’ protests surrounding the Bills, the Akali Dal had to change their stance,” he noted. “It’s nothing but a face-saving act of the party,” he added. Harsimrat’s letter Ms. Harsimrat Badal in her resignation letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wrote, “In view of the decision of the Government of India to go ahead with the Bill on the issue of marketing of agricultural produce without addressing and removing the apprehensions of the farmers and the decision of my party, Shiromani Akali Dal, not to be a part of anything that goes against the interests of the farmers, I find it impossible to continue to perform my duties as a Minister in the Union Council of Ministers.”
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Bill will affect welfare measures’||The market fee and farmers’ welfare cess will come down sharply in the coming years, adversely affecting mandis and various welfare measures as a result of the Farmers’ Produce Trade & Commerce Bill, says Lalchand Kataria in an interview  . Excerpts:  How is the Farmers’ Produce Trade & Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, going to affect the functioning of mandis? What is the Rajasthan government’s plan for utilisation of 2% farmers’ welfare cess? The Bill will restrict the application of the Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961, to the physical boundaries of mandis and sub-yards managed and run by the market committees formed under the law. The warehouses, silos, cold storages or other structures notified as deemed markets will also feel the impact in addition to the direct collection centres and farmer-consumer yards managed by persons holding licences. The market fee and cess will come down sharply in the coming years, adversely affecting mandis and various welfare measures for agriculturalists. The 2% cess was imposed to facilitate ease of doing farming and boost financial resources. It will be utilised for activities such as post-harvest management, market intervention and pledge loan scheme. How did the COVID-19 lockdown affect the agriculture sector in Rajasthan? The lockdown made a negligible impact on the agriculture sector though there were difficulties in smooth movement of harvesting machinery initially. Agriculture input shops and machine part shops were allowed to remain open and mandis were also exempted from the lockdown. Farmers were able to sell their produce close to their fields with new mandis being opened and direct purchase licences being issued. What steps is the government taking to strengthen the rural economy? The gradual opening of lockdown has helped in getting agricultural labourers and reviving the market, especially for perishable farm commodities like fruits, vegetables and flowers. The State government has provided 8.1 lakh maize and 8.2 lakh pearl millet mini-kits to farmers free during the kharif season. Through a tie-up with Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited, rent-free equipment was provided to small and marginal farmers. The time limit for repayment of short-term cooperative loans has been extended. Was the procurement of wheat, gram and mustard up to the expected levels? A record procurement of wheat and black gram at MSP has been achieved this year. Against the Central government’s target of 21.24 lakh tonnes wheat, 22.25 lakh tonnes were procured from 2.19 lakh farmers, who were paid Rs. 4,282 crore. Similarly, 6.16 lakh tonnes gram was procured from 2.38 lakh farmers and Rs. 3,001 crore were paid. The procurement of rapeseed and mustard at 3.47 lakh tonnes was less because the market price was higher than the MSP. Have schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana benefited the farmers? More than 1 crore farmers in the State have benefited from the PMFBY since 2016, with claims worth Rs. 10,700 crore paid to them. In the revamped scheme, the Central government has capped its previous share of premium subsidy in the ratio of 50:50 to only 25% in irrigated areas and 30% in unirrigated areas. Because of this, the State government has to pay Rs. 138 crore more than the Centre for insurance of kharif crops in 2020. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has laid emphasis on connecting the farmers with the industry and increasing their income. How will you help the farmers in this respect and promote value addition in agriculture? The Rajasthan Agro-Processing, Agri-Business and Agri-Export Promotion Policy, 2019, has been formulated keeping in mind the development of supply and value chains with special emphasis on a cluster-based approach. The 50% subsidy provision for aggregation and collection centres, packhouse, warehouse, cold storage, reefer van, etc., will strengthen the supply chain.  Rajasthan policy was formulated keeping in mind the development of supply and value chains with emphasis on a cluster-based approach
20 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Rename museum after Surajmal, demand Jats||The renaming of the Mughal Museum in Agra by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath after Maratha warrior Shivaji has opened a Pandora’s box. Even as the officials of the Tourism department were scratching their heads to find a cogent link of Shivaji with Agra, the Jat Mahasabha on Friday presented a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister to the district administration demanding that the museum be named after Jat ruler Surajmal as he ruled parts of the Braj area for a significant period of time and he and his son Jawahar Singh emerged as strong counter forces to the Mughals in the region. Kaptan Singh Chahar, the district president of the Mahasabha, said that though they had great respect for Chhatrapati Shivaji, he didn’t do much for the region. “In fact, when he was imprisoned by the Mughals during Aurangzeb’s reign, Raja Surajamal’s forefather Rajaram Jat helped him escape from Agra when he was imprisoned in the haveli of Ram Singh,” he claimed.  ‘Getting bizarre’ Ali Nadeem Rezavi, eminent historian and former chairperson of the history department at Aligarh Muslim University, said it is getting bizarre by the day. “Having burned the bones of Akbar by digging up his grave (in Sikandra), they (Jats) have a better claim for the museum!” he wondered. Mr. Chahar said it was a reaction to the brutal killing of farmer rebel Gokula during Aurangzeb’s reign. U.P. Tourism department Deputy Director Amit Shrivastava said the government had roped in a private architectural firm, Archohm, to chalk out a business plan for the museum. Sanctioned during the Samajwadi Party government, the museum is located on the eastern gate of the Taj Mahal. “It is a Rs. 194-crore project out of which Rs. 72 crore has been sanctioned so far. It will take at least a year for it to be completed.” On what will be displayed in the museum, Mr. Shrivastava said it was still early days but confirmed a part of it would be dedicated to Braj culture. Manvendra Kumar Pundhir, professor of history at AMU, said Braj culture had no links with Shivaji. “And if it is about Braj culture, how far will you go back? Will the Kushana artefacts also be included?” he said. For Braj culture, he said, it would be better to create a research centre in Mathura or surrounding areas of archaeological importance. Lamenting that we are living in times when ignorance and hate reigns supreme, Prof. Rezavi said, “To date, records of Mughal grants to Vrindavan temples survive.” He felt as per well-laid-out traditions, the site of museum dictated the theme. ‘Continuous history’ Asking what’s in a name, Sugam Anand, head and professor of history at Dr. Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Agra, said the city’s history was not limited to one period. “It is almost a continuous history. So, if a museum is built, I believe it should showcase as many facets of its past as possible,” he said. Remains of Buddhist, Jain, Shakya and Vaishnav temples have been found in the region, said Prof. Anand. Naming an institution, he said, was often a political tool used by the government of the day. “If it was named Mughal Museum, I would have still liked it to reflect a comprehensive study of Agra’s past and not just a part of medieval history.”
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT seeks environment plan for Najafgarh Jheel||While hearing a plea on declaration of the Najafgarh Jheel as a water body, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Delhi and Haryana governments to prepare an environment plan within three months to prevent encroachment and construction in the area. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) to oversee the proceedings for preparation of the Environment Management Plan along with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). “In view of the fact that there is a large trans-boundary water body which partly falls in Delhi and partly in Haryana, it will be appropriate that an Environment Management Plan is prepared jointly by the States of Haryana and NCT Delhi,” the Bench said, adding that the CPCB may coordinate as a nodal agency. The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, which sought execution of a 2017 NGT order. The plea had contended that authorities had failed to take appropriate steps to curb encroachment.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Life markers on Venus||The story so far: An international team of astronomers led by Jane S. Greaves of Cardiff University and University of Cambridge, U.K., has announced the discovery of traces of a molecule known as phosphine on Venus. This has caused great excitement because, given the chemical and geological composition of Venus, this can imply the existence of life forms that release this substance through bio-chemical pathways. The researchers say in the paper, “[Phosphine] could originate from unknown photochemistry or geochemistry, or, by analogy with biological production of [phosphine] on Earth, from the presence of life.” The paper, published on September 14 in Nature Astronomy , is a careful exposition of the work done over many years. Professor Greaves first observed phosphine on Venus using the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope in the Mauna Kea observatory in Hawaii in 2017. Pursuing the search further with the 45-telescope array ALMA (Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array) in Chile led to a confirmation of their observations by this extremely sensitive instrument in 2019. Have astronomers found definite signs of life? The detected presence of phosphine on Venus does convey the possibility of life there. After detecting the phosphine and estimating the amount in Venus’s atmosphere — 20 parts per billion — researchers have calculated whether this amount of phosphine can be produced by natural chemical processes, such as sunlight, volcanoes erupting and lightning. The other mechanisms could at most produce only ten-thousandth of the amount of phosphine they have detected. However, they do not rule out the possibility that there could be unknown natural processes (photochemistry or geochemistry) that can produce this amount of the biomarker. Therefore, more work is needed to prove that it is indeed because of bacteria, or some sort of life, that there is so much phosphine on Venus. Why is phosphine gas considered a biomarker of life? A molecule of phosphine gas consists of a phosphorus atom surrounded by three hydrogen atoms, just like ammonia consists of a nitrogen atom surrounded by three hydrogen atoms. On Earth, this molecule is produced by industrial processes. It is also produced by some anaerobic bacteria, which live in oxygen-sparse environments such as sewers, landfills, or even animal guts. If you can rule out the production of the gas through chemistry, it is the biochemical processes that form a source of the gas — the anaerobic bacteria — hence it is considered a biomarker in astronomy. Has phosphine been found on other planets? Yes, it has been seen on Jupiter and Saturn. As early as the 1970s, when the first exoplanets were not even discovered experimentally, phosphine was seen on Jupiter. But there it is said to form deep in the interiors of the gas giant and rise to the top, in a purely chemical process. But now, on Venus there is a doubt. Venus is considered to be a hostile planet. How can life survive there? The surface temperature of Venus, at about 470 degrees Celsius, is too hot to harbour life as we know it. It is hot enough to melt lead. It is hotter than Mercury which is closest to the sun. According to a senior astronomer who is a member of the Astronomical Society of India, this is because Venus has experienced a runaway greenhouse effect which traps all heat that falls on it. But high up in its atmosphere, there are clouds which can provide a cooler home for microbial life. Even there, the atmosphere is teeming with sulphuric acid vapour which makes it extremely hostile, thereby reducing the chance of finding life forms. According to the expert, the phosphine signature could be the sign of some extraordinary chemistry, as it could be of life forms. The next logical step is to actually do in situ measurements from Venus’s atmosphere by sending space probes there. Have space missions been sent to Venus? There have been several space missions to study Venus, and some of the recent dedicated missions are the European Space Agency’s Venus Express and JAXA’s Akatsuki. Many space missions have flown by Venus: for example, NASA’s Parker Solar Probe used the gravity of Venus to achieve gravity-assisted boosts to its velocity on its journey to the Sun. NASA is planning a mission to Venus to be launched next year. The Indian Venus mission is being developed. Though formally unnamed, it is referred to as Shukrayaan-1.  The temperature of Venus, at about 470 degrees Celsius, is too hot to harbour life as we know it. The phosphine signature could be the sign of some extraordinary chemistry, according to experts   The temperature of Venus, at about 470 degrees Celsius, is too hot to harbour life as we know it. The phosphine signature could be the sign of some extraordinary chemistry, according to experts
20 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Revisit exemptions for poultry farms’||Observing that operation of poultry farms has the potential to damage the environment, the National Green Tribunal has directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to revisit existing guidelines that place such units under the green category, which exempts them from various regulations. “Sustainable development is part of right to life. Leaving out poultry farms below 1 lakh birds unregulated by State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) and merely requiring registration with local bodies or treating them at par with agricultural farms, is against the mandate of sustainable development,” the NGT Bench said, adding that only small poultry farms with less than 5,000 birds should be placed in the green category.  Fresh orders Directing the CPCB to issue fresh orders within three months, the NGT Bench said: “Till then, SPCBs can strictly enforce environmental norms and take remedial action against any violation of water, air and soil standards.”
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Campaign against dengue seeks to engage residents||The Delhi government’s campaign against vector-borne diseases — 10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute Har Ravivar Dengue Par Vaar — will enter its third week on Sunday. The campaign now seeks to engage Delhi residents to pick up the phone and call 10 of their friends/relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue. Launching the campaign on September 6, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal inspected his residence for signs of stagnant clean water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes at 10 a.m. on Sunday for 10 minutes. He had tweeted: “Today on the second Sunday of the campaign against dengue, I inspected my house again and replaced the accumulated water. It only took me 10 minutes, you must also check your house. Dengue will loseagain.” Some preventive measures for dengue include draining stagnant water from home, surroundings, and vases, changing the water stored in coolers, or adding a small layer of oil or petrol in the accumulated water, and always covering the water tanks with a lid.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Minister distributes food, sweets to slum dwellers||Union Minister Parshottam Rupala on Saturday distributed food and sweets to the residents of the Bilaspur slum cluster in Badarpur Assembly Constituency. Mr. Rupala, along with Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, also distributed face masks, on the sixth day of the ‘Sewa-Saptah’ to commemorate the birthday of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Meanwhile, BJP national vice-president and Delhi in-charge Shyam Jaju inaugurated a blood donation camp in Laxmi Nagar.
20 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha forms narco coordination centre||The Odisha government has reconstituted the State-level committee of Narco Coordination Centre. The body will be chaired by the Chief Secretary while the secretaries of the department will work as its members. Additional Director General (Crime Branch) and Deputy Narcotics Commissioner, Central Bureau of Narcotics, will be part of the reconstituted committee. It will take stock of enforcement of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and operational matters at regular intervals. Meanwhile, the Odisha police seized one ton ganja in Koraput on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off, the Koraput police stopped a van at Kokriguda junction under Semiliguda police station limit of Koraput and seized the drug. “We have arrested five persons. One ton ganja, with market value Rs. 1 crore, was seized. We are investigating to unravel the smuggling network in the State,” said Semiliguda Inspector in-charge Dhiren Kumar Behera. Going by the frequent seizures by the police, the excise department and the Special Task Force of the Crime Branch, alleged smugglers are getting desperate to shift ganja which is grown and harvested in hinterlands of Odisha, the police said. Mr. Behera said the Semiliguda police had confiscated 30 quintals ganja being smuggled out of the State in recent times. Big seizures The State Crime Branch STF had seized 10.46 quintals (1,046 kg) ganja at Jeypore-Baipariguda road and arrested two alleged drug peddlers on August 21. The STF claimed two big seizures — 474 kg ganja on August 19 and 850 kg weed on July 28 in Koraput.
20 September 2020||September 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Warriors without wages||
20 September 2020||Noida,||G.B. Nagar records 83.16% recovery rate||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Saturday recorded 174 new COVID-19 cases, pushing the district’s tally to 11,217. The number of active cases has, however, come down to 1,840 — from 1,868 on Friday and 2,004 on Thursday, according to data released by the U.P. Health Department. As many as 202 patients were discharged and recoveries in the district have reached 9,329. The recovery rate, which saw a steady rise over the week, stood at 83.16% on Saturday. This is higher than the State’s average recovery rate of 79.39%. Low mortality rate The district has so far recorded 48 deaths linked to the pandemic and has one of the lowest mortality rates in the State at 0.42%. The State’s average is 1.42%. Gautam Buddha Nagar now ranks ninth among U.P.’s 75 districts in terms of active cases, seventh in recoveries and 29th in death toll. The number of active COVID-19 cases in U.P. stood at 66,874 on Saturday. The death toll has reached 4,953.
20 September 2020||Dehradun,||‘Take action for wrong test reports’||The Uttarakhand government on Saturday ordered stern action against Dehradun private labs in giving wrong COVID-19 test reports. Chief Secretary Om Prakash asked Dehradun DM Ashish Kumar Shrivastava to take stringent action against such labs. Theorder came following complaints that some people who tested positive for COVID-19 at private labs tested negative at government hospitals, an official said.
20 September 2020||Chandigarh,||BKU to hold protest today||The Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Haryana unit will hold a State-wide protest against the Centre’s farm Bills on Sunday and block roads for three hours, even as Chief Minister Manohar Lal appealed for deferring the stir and invited them for talks. Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh said the Centre did not withdraw the three ordinances and presented them as Bills which have been passed in the Lok Sabha. “Tomorrow, we will be holding a protest and block roads for three hours. However, the GT Road will not be blocked,” he said on Saturday. He said farmers from Haryana and Punjab will start a movement against the anti-farmer measures.
20 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Minorities Commission member dies due to COVID-19||A member of the DMC has died due to COVID-19, said its chairman Zakir Khan on Saturday. AAP leader Dilip Pandey condoled the death of Kawaljeet Singh in a tweet.
