20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No outsiders on Indian territory: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told an all- party meet called by him that no outsider was inside Indian territory in Ladakh nor had any border post of the Indian Army been captured by outside forces. Mr. Modi said the 20 Indian soldiers who had died in the violent face-off between Indian and Chinese troops had “taught a lesson to those who had cast an eye on our Motherland before laying down their life”. He said this in his closing remarks in a meeting attended by presidents of over 15 political parties, who while expressing support to the country, the armed forces and Prime Minister Modi’s government on tackling the situation at the east Ladakh border said status quo ante on the borders must be restored. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman were also present at the meeting as well as Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla. Sources told The Hindu that while Dr. Jaishankar made a presentation over the diplomatic issues surrounding the event, Mr. Singh responded to direct questions by party leaders and denied that any intelligence failure had taken place. “The meeting was to take party leaders through the sequence of events and what has been done to deal with the issue, but apart from the Foreign Minister’s presentation it was not a hugely detailed briefing,” said one Opposition leader. “Rajnath Singh answered some questions, especially the ones put by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, but denied that any intelligence failure had taken place,” said the source. In fact, Mr. Modi’s closing remarks at the meeting (telecast on Doordarshan) made the point that intensive patrolling due to improved infrastructure and supply lines had raised the frequency of such clashes. Better infrastructure “For the last few years we have prioritised developing infrastructure, easing supply lines and equipment. Because of the new infrastructure especially at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) our capacity for patrolling has increased and because of that we are able to monitor and respond to things. Till now, the movement of those which used to take place without disruption, is now checked by our jawans,” Mr. Modi said. “The national interest is our highest priority, whether it is trade or connectivity or counter terrorism, India has never accepted outside pressure and done whatever is necessary for the benefit of the country and will be done in future,” he said, adding that the armed forces are capable of defending the borders, and have been given a free hand.
20 June 2020||HUBBALLI,||‘CEZ soon for development of U.K.’||Minister for Large and Medium Industries Jagadish Shettar has said that the State government will soon take steps to form a coastal economic zone (CEZ), to facilitate industrial development, in Uttara Kannada district. Speaking to presspersons in Karwar on Friday, after interaction with industrialists of Uttara Kannada and officials of the Department of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Shettar said that along with the zone, there will be a regional planning authority to ensure industrial development in the region. “The State government has taken a keen interest in this regard and shortly after following the due procedure, the coastal economic zone will be declared. The zone will cover Murdeshwar and Karwar and there will be no land acquisition for the purpose. Tourism development will also be ensured,” he said. The Minister said that the infrastructure scenario in Uttara Kannada will undergo a drastic change in the coming days, with an upgrade of the port and the construction of an airport. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had shown an interest in the development of Belikeri port, in Ankola taluk of the district, which had already been announced in the Union budget. “With regard to the Belikeri port and the airport, a spot inspection has already been done. Shortly, the issue will be taken up and discussed at the government level,” he said. The Minister said that there was a need to focus on the industrial development in Uttara Kannada. He said that the objective was to give preference to backward taluks in the district for setting up the industries. “It will not only help Uttara Kannada district, but also the other districts of North Karnataka.”
20 June 2020||Srinagar,||8 militants killed in two gunfights in J&K||Six militants, including two holed up inside a mosque, were killed in twin operations in south Kashmir on Friday, taking the number of militants killed in the past two days to eight. “The security forces exhibited the highest level of patience and professionalism. Tear gas shells were used. The hiding terrorists were repeatedly told to surrender but they didn’t and were ultimately neutralised. Security forces ensured there was zero damage to the mosque, besides maintaining its sanctity,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said. In the gunfight that erupted in Pampore’s Meej area on Thursday morning after a tip-off, one militant was killed; two others hid inside a mosque. The security forces continued the operation throughout the day and night, he said. An Army spokesman said, “One AK-47 and one pistol were recovered from the Pampore gunfight site.” In the operation at Shopian’s Bandpawa, which also began on Thursday and was carried out jointly by the Army, the police and the CRPF, four militants were killed on Friday. One militant was killed on Thursday. The police said the bodies of the slain militants were sent to Baramulla for conducting medico-legal formalities, including collection of their DNA, followed by their last rites. “In case, any family claims the killed terrorists to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for the identification and participation in the last rites at Baramulla,” the police said.According to the villagers, most of the slain militants were locals. Around 27 militants have been killed in security operations in south Kashmir this month, including 22 in Shopian district.At least 102 militants, including top commanders, were killed in Kashmir this year. Of them, 72 were killed since March 20. An official said 50 of the slain militants belonged to the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen alone. Normalcy soon: Army  General officer Commanding (GoC) 15 Corps Lieutenant General B.S. Raju said the Army would try to ensure that normalcy was restored across the Valley in the next few months so that people resumed all kinds of activities in a peaceful manner. “With every operation, we are moving on the path of peace”. The Army said 49 youth joined various militant ranks this year. “Twenty-seven were killed. It doesn’t give us pleasure to kill young boys. But if anybody picks up arms, we will do what we are doing,” the GOC said. The Army was able to prevent new recruitment and identify those behind the process, he said. J&K Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbagh Singh said, “The mission of the police is to stabilise peace in J&K and they are continuously working towards that. During this year, there were a number of successful operations. A number of youth, who were on the brink of joining militancy, were also brought back in time.”
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||In a big spurt, State reports 118 new cases||Kerala reported 118 new cases of COVID-19 and 96 recoveries on Friday, taking the number of active cases in the State to 1,380. All except six cases are imported cases of infection, with 67 cases detected on people who had come from abroad and 45 cases in people who had come from various parts of the country. Local transmission Six cases were acquired through local transmission by people who had come into contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Three of these cases were reported in Thiruvananthapuram, while one case each was reported in Kannur, Kottayam and Wayanad. A total of 2,912 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State since the outbreak began, of whom 1,509 persons have recovered from their illness. Till date, 21 deaths have been reported. With a chunk of the cases currently testing positive for COVID-19 being reported amongst expatriates, northern districts in the State which have a significant percentage of its population working in Gulf nations are also bearing the brunt of the outbreak. Malappuram tops Malappuram has the maximum number of COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment at present at 226, Kannur has 123 and Kozhikode, 120, and Kasaragod, 93 cases. Among other districts, the current cases are as follows: Palakkad 122, Thrissur 120, Ernakulam 115, Pathanamthitta 115, Kollam 103, Alappuzha 92, Kottayam 68, Thiruvananthapuram 44, Idukki 35 and Wayanad 22. In various districts, 1,32,569 persons are under surveillance and in quarantine, of whom 1,914 persons who reported mild symptoms have been isolated in hospitals.  Hotspots  Seven new regions in Kannur district entered the hotspot list, while three regions, also in Kannur, were cleared from the list. The number of hotspots in the State as of Friday is 112.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||TrueNat results can be the final word||TrueNat Beta CoV, a fully indigenous diagnostic platform, which is being engaged by the State government in public sector hospitals as a first-level screening test for COVID-19, can now be used as the final confirmatory test, according to the latest advisory issued by the Health Department. This has become possible with the State newly acquiring the facilities for performing the confirmatory assay also. TrueNat is a chip-based platform which uses a two-step assay to detect SARS-CoV-2 virus. Step one is an E-gene screening assay. Step two identifies the RdRp gene in the viral RNA, which can confirm the presence of the virus. Kerala has been utilising 20 TrueNat machines to test for COVID-19 at its 18 public sector hospitals. However, till now the machines were capable of doing only the step one assay because of which the Indian Council of Medical Research had directed that all samples tested using TrueNat and found to be E-gene positive be reconfirmed using an RT-PCR or Gene Xpert test. The chips for performing the step two confirmatory assay, which detects the RdRp gene from viral RNA, have now arrived in the State. Hence, all samples found E-gene positive can be confirmed in the same lab using the step two assay.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Davinder gets bail as police miss deadline||Suspended Jammu & Kashmir Deputy Superintendent of Police Davinder Singh, who was arrested allegedly with two Hizbul Mujahideen militants earlier this year, was granted bail by a city court on Friday as Delhi Police failed to file a chargesheet within the stipulated time period. Observing that the Special Cell of Delhi Police had failed to file the chargesheet in a case relating to planning terror attacks within 90 days, the court granted Davinder and co-accused Irfan Shafi Mir bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs. 1 lakh and two sureties of like amount. The court proceedings took place through videoconferencing. The investigating officer submitted the status report, according to which Davinder and Mir were arrested by the police on March 14 and March 19 respectively. However, the accused will continue to remain in judicial custody in connection with the case registered by the National Investigation Agency in January. “Accused Davinder Singh continues to be in judicial custody in the NIA case. We have adequate evidence against him and he will be chargesheeted in due course,” said an NIA statement on Friday. Davinder was arrested first on January 11 while allegedly travelling with two Hizbul militants on the Srinagar-Jammu highway.
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya gives call to expand Sena beyond State||Yuva Sena chief and State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Friday exhorted leaders of the Shiv Sena to expand the party’s presence beyond Maharashtra and work towards setting up units in all States. He was addressing leaders and elected representatives of the party on the 54th Foundation Day of the party. Mr. Thackeray said, “Since the Sena’s birth, it has followed the principle of 80% social service and 20% politics. Since taking on the reins of the State, we are doing 100% social service by fulfilling our promises. The Sena’s shakhas should be opened beyond Maharashtra, in every State. Our efforts must be concentrated on making each shakha powerful.” Earlier, party president Uddhav Thackeray said he chose to take up the Chief Minister’s post just to quell attempts by the Bharatiya Janata Party to embroil it in party politics. He said, “I decided to challenge and stop the politics played on us. That is the reason I chose to become Chief Minister. I am carrying forward the legacy of my father Balasaheb Thackeray. The Sena was born to challenge injustice and to fight it.” The Chief Minister said neither he nor his party will be dependent on anyone in future. He said, “We trust someone not out of weakness but because of our culture. We never break our word. The Shiv Sena is not helpless. You all are with me and Shiv sainiks stand strong in any difficulty.” ‘Ideology intact’ The Sena chief said the party had not compromised on its ideology by joining hands with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party. “I took the soil of Shivneri [birthplace of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj] to Ram Janmabhoomi and the court verdict was announced. I also became Chief Minister. It is the magic of the soil.”
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Scindia, Digvijaya post easy RS poll victories||Former Congress MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the BJP earlier this year, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh and former Jharkhand Chief Minister Shibu Soren were among those elected to 19 Rajya Sabha seats on Friday. These included 18 seats for which elections were due in March but were deferred due the lockdown. Of the three seats that went to the polls in Madhya Pradesh, Mr. Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki, both of the BJP, won with 56 and 55 votes, respectively, according to an official of the Vidhan Sabha. Mr. Singh was re-elected to the Upper House with 57 votes. The second preference candidate of the Congress, Phool Singh Baraiya, secured 36 votes, falling short of the 52-mark to be elected. Two votes were declared invalid. All four seats up for grabs in Andhra Pradesh were won by the ruling YSRCP, taking the party’s strength in the Upper House from two to six. Legislature Secretary and Returning Officer P. Balakrishnamacharyulu said the four victorious candidates, Ayodhya Rami Reddy Alla, Nathwani Parimal, Pilli Subhaschandra Bose and Venkataramana Rao Mopidevi polled 38 votes each. The Opposition Telugu Desam Party candidate, Varla Ramaiah, secured 17 votes, he said.
20 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi villagers attack corona warriors||Corona warriors, including police personnel and civil officers, were attacked by villagers at Kolakunda tanda in Sedam taluk of Kalaburagi district on Friday when they went to the village to bring a COVID-19 patient to a designated hospital. As per information collected from different sources, the health staff accompanied by the police landed in the village to bring a 17-year-old girl who tested positive. But the villagers refused to send the patient considering her age. This led to a heated debate between the officials and villagers. The situation turned worse when a man, allegedly under the influence of alcohol, intervened and the police beat him up. The villagers retaliated with cudgels and stones, injuring a couple of officers who were later admitted to a local health facility. An ambulance was damaged in the incident. Superintendent of Police Ida Martin Marbaniang said that the patient was brought to the designated COVID-19 hospital after convincing her parents. Anand Rao, Circle Inspector attached to Mudhol Circle, told The Hindu that an FIR would be filed against the attackers.
20 June 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records highest single-day surge||Maharashtra recorded its highest single-day surge yet on Friday, with 3,827 new cases being reported, taking its tally to 1,24,331. The State also reported 142 new fatalities, pushing the death toll to 5,893. Of the total cases, 55,651 are active ones. As many as 1,935 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 62,773, according to State Health Department authorities. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate now stands at 50.49%, while its case fatality rate is 4.74%. With 1,264 new cases, Mumbai city’s total case load has reached 64,139. Of these, only 28,442 are active cases. As many as 114 new fatalities were reported from Mumbai, pushing its death toll to 3,425. Eight deaths from Aurangabad district in Marathwada took the district’s death count to 176. Deaths were also reported from Thane, Vasai-Virar and Raigad. Pune district’s total tally, as per State Health department figures, has reached 14,704, with the district reporting a staggering surge of more than 600 cases. Of these, 6,074 were active cases, while as many as 8,020 people have been discharged so far. The district’s death toll, as per State health officials, has surged to 610.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Editor’s note||For 50 years, The Hindu has had the privilege of bringing out the Bengaluru edition, and much like the City, we have evolved and adapted over the years. Bengaluru edition was born on March 28, 1970, when page images that reached the City by facsimile transmission were printed here. We have come a long way since then, with multiple editions — each with a stamp of its own. Our association with Karnataka is even longer, as the newspaper used to reach the then Mysore State by chartered flights, and was acknowledged as playing a key role in the people of Mysore State being influenced by the wider national awakening. But how do we celebrate this milestone when we are in the midst of a pandemic that is threatening lives and livelihoods? By doing what we do best – presenting thought-provoking articles to our readers. With the edition today we have a special supplement with articles that reflect on issues ranging from Karnataka’s political economy to the growth of Bengaluru as a City over the decades. As we navigate these uncertain times, we draw strength from you, our readers. Your quiet resilience, compassion and dedication to making Bengaluru the best version of itself are lessons we learn every day and incorporate in our journalism.
20 June 2020||Belagavi,||Maharashtra releases water into State||Maharashtra released around 50,000 cusecs of water from Rajapur barrage into Karnataka, following heavy rains in the Konkan region. This has led to rise in the water levels in the Krishna and its tributaries. District officials said that there was no cause for panic as flooding of the banks will not happen till the release crosses one lakh cusecs per day. Friday’s release led to submergence of six bridge-cum-barrages at Kallol, Mallikwad, Dattawad, Karadaga, Mallikawad, and Akkol villages. People had to use alternative routes.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Chennai stops, again||
20 June 2020||Srinagar,||8 militants killed in J&K||Six militants, including two holed up inside a mosque, were killed in twin operations in south Kashmir on Friday, taking the number of militants killed in the past two days to eight. “The security forces exhibited the highest level of patience and professionalism. Tear gas shells were used. The hiding terrorists were repeatedly told to surrender but they didn’t and were ultimately neutralised. Security forces ensured there was zero damage to the mosque, besides maintaining its sanctity,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said. In the gunfight that erupted in Pampore on Thursday morning after a tip-off, one militant was killed; two others hid inside a mosque.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||China lays claim to entire Galwan Valley||China’s government on Friday said it claimed the entire Galwan Valley, the site of the June 15 clash on the border, including areas that are currently on India’s side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). In a statement, the Foreign Ministry accused India of “unilaterally building roads, bridges and other facilities in the Galwan Valley region” and said “the Galwan Valley is located on the Chinese side of the LAC in the western section of the Sino-Indian border”. The statement suggests Beijing is making a new claim to the LAC in this area, in the view of Indian officials. This area was the site of a clash on June 15 that claimed the lives of at least 20 Indian soldiers in the worst violence on the border since 1967. In the valley, the LAC runs east of the confluence of the Galwan and Shyok rivers.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,||24 PU students to be in home quarantine||As many as 24 II PU students who wrote the English examination on Thursday in Bengaluru will be asked to go into home quarantine. This is after the father of a student tested positive on Friday. She had written the examination in south Bengaluru. Over five lakh students wrote the examination amidst a slew of precautionary measures on Thursday. However, there were complaints of social distancing norms being breached. Meanwhile, the State on Friday recorded 10 more COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 124, seven from Bengaluru alone. Two deaths were in Bidar, and one in Vijayapura.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Fuel price hike hits finances of RTCs||Road Transport Corporations in the State that are already reeling under huge revenue loss due to the COVID-19 pandemic are facing another financial hurdle — the consistent increase in fuel prices.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Only 35 of 8,281 patients needed ventilator so far||Although the number of patients being shifted to the ICU at various designated COVID-19 hospitals is on the rise, not many of them seem to require ventilator support. Ever since the first COVID-19 case was reported in the State on March 9, only 35 of the 8,281 positive patients have required ventilator support.
20 June 2020||SALEM,||COVID-19: ACP, accused test positive in Salem||An Assistant Commissioner of Police here has tested positive for COVID-19. Four persons accused in various cases also tested positive for the disease on Friday.
20 June 2020||Chennai,||‘All class 10 students will be promoted’||The Directorate of Government Examinations has clarified that all students of Class 10 will be promoted this year, irrespective of their marks in the half-yearly and quarterly examinations.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Health Minister shifted to pvt. hospital||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, who tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week, was shifted to a private hospital here after his condition worsened, an AAP source said on Friday.He had tested COVID-19 positive on Wednesday.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||SC refuses to stay work on Central Vista||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the groundwork for the Central Vista project even as the Union government said there was no overreaching of the court process in the pursuit of the Rs. 20,000-crore redevelopment plan of the nation’s power corridor clearances.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Lack of vigilance will prove costly: SC to Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday cautioned the Arvind Kejriwal government that lack of vigilance and turning a blind eye to shortcomings in COVID-19 management will lead to a point of no return.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,||State records 10 more deaths||As many as 24 II PU students who wrote the English examination on Thursday in Bengaluru will be asked to go into home quarantine. This is after the father of a student tested positive on Friday. She had written the examination in south Bengaluru. Meanwhile, Karnataka on Friday recorded 10 more COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 124.
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||Appeal by MPs over Varavara Rao’s health||Fourteen MPs wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray requesting urgent attention to poet Varavara Rao's health and transfer him from jail to a hospital.
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM calls for doctors’ task force in every district||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked the administration to set up doctors’ task forces in every district and division on the lines of those in Mumbai, to control the growing number of COVID-19 cases.
20 June 2020||Chennai,||DMK says it stands firmly with PM on China||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday said his party stands firmly with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on any steps he takes against China to protect the integrity and sovereignty of India.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Centre in favour of quota for OBCs in medical seats||The Centre told the Madras High Court that it was in favour of providing reser- vation to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the seats surrendered by the States to all-India quota medical seats in non-Central institutions subject to the condition that overall reservations should not exceed 50% of the total seats available every year.
20 June 2020||Chennai,||Playback singer A.L. Raghavan dead||Noted playback singer A.L. Raghavan died here on Friday. He was 87. Born in Ayyampettai near Thanjavur to Lakshmana Bhagavathar, Raghavan entered the film world as a child artiste in the film Krishna Vijayam . He is survived by his actress wife M.N. Rajam, a son and a daughter.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Tamil Nadu reports 2,115 new cases in a day||Thirty five districts in Tamil Nadu reported new cases of COVID-19 on Friday, with the State’s overall tally exceeding 54,000. The State recorded 2,115 cases and 41 deaths, while 1,630 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged to over 30,000. The State now had a total of 54,449 cases of COVID-19: 23,509 active cases, 30,271 discharged and 666 deaths. While Chennai accounted for the major chunk of fresh cases with 1,322, Vellore district saw a rise at 103 followed by 95 in Chengalpattu and 85 in Tiruvallur. Kancheepuram, with 39 new cases, became the fourth district to have more than 1,000-plus cases. Karnataka on Friday recorded 10 more COVID-19 deaths, taking the toll to 124, seven of them from Bengaluru. Two of the four new deaths in Andhra Pradesh were reported from Krishna district, which has the highest COVID-19 mortality rate in the State. In a massive rise, Telangana recorded 499 cases in 24 hours. For comparison, 352 cases were recorded on Thursday. The total number of cases till date stood at 6,526. Kerala reported 118 new COVID-19 cases and 96 recoveries on Friday, taking the number of active cases in the State to 1,380. All except six were imported cases, with 67 cases detected in people who came from abroad and 45 in people from other States.  Biggest spike As Andhra Pradesh entered the 100th day since the first COVID-19 case surfaced, it detected 465 new positive cases and four more deaths on Friday. It was the biggest single day spike so far. The Health Department said the tally had inched close to 8,000-mark at 7,961 cases. Of them, 3,905 patients had recovered and 3,960 were being treated. More than half of the cases were reported in the past 18 days and the other were reported in 82 days since March 12, the day the first case was reported. Besides two deaths in Krishna district, the other two were in Prakasam and Srikakulam districts. It was the first COVID-19 death in Srikakulam, a district with few cases. Meanwhile, 131 more patients recovered. Among the 10 deaths in Karnataka, two were reported from Bidar and one from Vijayapura. Bengaluru’s toll stood at 58. While the State’s average Case Fatality Rate (CFR) stood at 1.5% on Friday, Bengaluru’s CFR was 5.9%. With 337 new cases, positive cases rose to 8,281. Of these, 138 were from Bengaluru Urban, representing a new high.  Surge in Chennai Chennai’s tally surged to 38,327 of which 21,098 persons had been discharged. The city accounted for 529 deaths. Tallying of fatalities showed that 41 deaths - 26 in government and 15 in private hospitals - had occurred in the last four days in the State. Of these, nine were aged 38 to 50 years. There was an increase in cases in many districts. On Friday, only Namakkal and Perambalur did not report new infections. The number of samples tested was steadily rising. A total of 27,537 samples were tested during the last 24-hour period, taking the total number of samples tested till now to 8,27,980. A total of 7,89,408 individuals had been tested so far.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Karnataka bureaus)
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Russia begins discreet moves to defuse India-China tension||Russia has launched an energetic behind-the-scenes effort to defuse military tensions between India and China, ahead of hosting a trilateral RIC video conference, which includes External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, and Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi, on Tuesday. Russia’s diplomatic activism began on June 17, when Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov discussed regional security, “including developments on the Line of Actual Control on the border between India and China in the Himalayas,” with Indian ambassador to Russia, D. Bala Venkatesh Varma. The meeting took place in the backdrop of the clash in the Galwan Valley, in which 20 Indian and an undeclared number of Chinese troops were killed. The Russian foreign ministry did not give any further details about the conversation, but Russian diplomatic sources told The Hindu that Moscow has “high stakes” at a global level, in the early resolution of tensions between the two Himalayan neighbours. “Good relations between India and China are central to the rise of Eurasia and the emergence of a multipolar world order, which is not dominated by a single pole,” the diplomat said. He pointed to the “centrality” of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), which includes India, Pakistan, Russia and China as well as most of the Central Asian Republics as the anchor of a “post-west” global system. “The persistence of tensions between India and China will not only have a huge negative impact on the SCO but also on the rise of the emerging economies under the Brazil Russia India China South Africa (BRICS) grouping,” the source said. But the diplomat pointed out that Russia would only like to play a constructive behind-the-scenes role, as both India and China were fully capable of resolving their differences. On Wednesday, Dmitry Peskov, press secretary of Russian President Vladimir Putin said reports from the China-India border were “very alarming”. “But we consider that the two countries are capable of taking necessary steps to prevent such situations in the future..,” Mr. Peskov said.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses to stay work on Central Vista||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the groundwork for the Central Vista project even as the Union government said there was no overreaching of the court process in the pursuit of the Rs. 20,000-crore redevelopment plan of the nation’s power corridor clearances. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, advocate Shikhil Suri, for petitioner Rajiv Suri, said the government was “churning out approvals” for the project regardless of pendency of challenge in the top court. “Can we restrain authorities from acting as per law?” Justice Khanwilkar, flanked by Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, asked Mr. Suri. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for another petitioner, said clearances were being sought and obtained continuously. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said a consolidated reply to the allegations would be filed. The court asked the government to file it by July 3. It posted the case for hearing after July 6, when the court reopens post vacations. The court is closing for a two-week vacation on June 19. The petitions have primarily challenged a notification issued by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs on March 20 authorising the change of land use. On March 6, the top court transferred the issue from the Delhi High Court and ordered that “any steps taken by the authorities, in the meantime, will be subject to the outcome of the proceedings”. Land use change Mr. Mehta countered why the petitioner has a problem as the project envisaged only Parliament construction . Mr. Suri argued that the proposed change in land usage of the Central Vista, the historical boulevard of approximately 3.5 km from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate, and further to the National Stadium, was a symbol of India’s historic past, nationhood and vibrant democracy. “In the ‘redevelopment’ of the Central Vista, the entire matter has been clothed in secrecy and opacity. More sinister are the murky, dubious and suspicious events, leading up to the present day events. Foremost is the malevolent and malicious manner in which Central Government decided in May 2015 to withdraw India’s nomination to attain a World Heritage City tag for Delhi’s Imperial Capital Cities from UNESCO; a quest it had been pursuing over the last decade or so,” the petition stated.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre bats for contact tracing||Contact tracing continues to be a critical component to contain the COVID-19 epidemic and ensure that the health infrastructure is not overwhelmed, said the Health Ministry on Friday. It has advised State governments to adapt the best practices to suit the local context and replicate them for better management of the pandemic. It said the lockdown provided breathing space for the government to ramp up testing facilities and the health infrastructure, which ensured improved recovery rate through timely detection and clinical management of cases. “Our rising case recovery rate is the result of the timely, graded, pre-emptive approach of the government to contain COVID19 and its implementation by countless frontline workers,” said the Health Ministry. In the last 24 hours, 1,76,959 samples were tested. The total number of samples tested thus far was 64,26,627 according to the Indian Council of Medical Research on Friday. Karnataka’s approach Meanwhile, the Ministry has lauded Karnataka’s best practice for COVID-19 management, which it says includes comprehensive contact tracing of positive cases and physical/phone-based survey that has covered more than 1.5 crore households. “The two initiatives taken by the State Government are developed as part of the ‘Whole of Government’ approach, with the involvement of multi-sectoral agencies and supported by technology-based solutions and interventions. They effectively trace and track each case, thereby successfully containing the spread of the epidemic,” the Ministry said.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Notice to government over pension, salaries Ordinance||Telangana High Court on Friday issued notices to the State government in a writ petition filed by a retired forest officer challenging an Ordinance empowering government to defer payment of pension and salaries of retired and serving employees respectively. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to file counter affidavit in the petition in three weeks. Petitioner G. Raman Goud stated that the Ordinance No. 2 dated June 16 was against all constitutional norms. Senior lawyer S. Satyam Reddy, appearing for the petitioner, said the Ordinance was against the provisions of the Disaster Management Act-2005. It also contravened fundamental rights of pensioners and serving employees by depriving them of their legitimate pension and salaries, the counsel contended. While the Ordinance was promulgated by the Governor on June 16, it was given retrospective effect from March 24. In the guise of an Ordinance, the government had deferred pension and salaries of employees which was unconstitutional, he argued. In fact, the Disaster Management Act mandates that government come to the rescue of people on all fronts during pandemics. But the government had come out with the Ordinance deferring pensions and salaries of employees, the senior lawyer said. Observing that government has power to impose reasonable restrictions on fundamental rights in the larger interest of public, the CJ asked Mr. Satyam Reddy to establish how the Ordinance was against the Constitution. The bench said the Governor derived power under Article 213 to promulgate an Ordinance. “This can be challenged on very limited grounds,” the CJ said. Mr. Satyam Reddy contended that unless there was a financial emergency, the government cannot indulge in deferment of pension amounts and salaries.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lack of vigilance will prove costly, SC warns Delhi govt.||The Supreme Court on Friday cautioned the Arvind Kejriwal government that lack of vigilance and turning a blind eye to shortcomings in COVID-19 management will lead to a point of no-return. The court said the Delhi government’s affidavits suggest “all is well.” This is despite the fact that videos have surfaced in the media about the deplorable conditions in COVID-dedicated hospitals of the Delhi government. They showed patients lying on the floor and bodies piled up. The court had taken suo motu cognisance of the media reports. “When the government does not endeavour to know any shortcomings or lapses in its hospitals and patient care, the chances of remedial action and improvement become dim.... ,” a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan told the Delhi government. The court urged the Delhi government to be “more vigilant.” Surprise visits In a series of directions to redress the surge in COVID-19 infection in the capital and to improve transparency in hospitals, the court ordered weekly and surprise visits to hospitals by officials of the Union Ministry of Health and teams of senior doctors constituted by the Ministry from Central and Delhi government services and All-India Institute of Medical Sciences. The court said there should be continuous supervision of the hospitals in Delhi.  The Bench found the Delhi government-managed LNJP Hospital’s move to install CCTV cameras a “welcome step”. The hospital was in the thick of a controversy over its treatment of patients and bodies. The court said the footage should be made available to the doctors’ teams and authorities. It directed hospitals to get CCTVs installed in a week.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE likely to decide on Board exams by Monday||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is likely to take a final call on its pending Board examinations by Monday, following consultations with the Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry, National Testing Agency, University Grants Commission (UGC) and All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) on Thursday and Friday. According to a Ministry official, several options are on the table, including giving students a choice on whether to write the examinations or not, universal cancellation, and further postponement to September. A section of parents and students are demanding cancellation of the examinations scheduled to be held in July in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the Supreme Court has given the Board a deadline of June 23 to communicate a final decision. Pending papers Class XII students across the country still have to write pending papers after the examination schedule was suspended in mid-March. Both Class X and Class XII students in parts of north-east Delhi affected by violence in February have pending papers as well. Several States, including Maharashtra and Delhi, have expressed reservations against conducting the exams in July. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has been holding regular consultations on the issue, as well as demands for postponement or cancellation of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and JEE (Joint Entrance Exam). If the examinations are cancelled or made optional, internal assessment scores may be considered, along with the student’s performance in the examinations already completed, said an official.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Gains from coal mine auction uncertain||The benefits of the Coal Ministry’s proposal to auction 41 coal mines are uncertain as energy production and environmental compliance costs outweigh that of renewable power, said an expert associated with the Union Environment Ministry. On Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that coal would be brought out “after decades of lockdown” and private sector involvement would help realise Rs. 33,000 crore of capital investment in the next five years. Analysts and environmentalists have said that this would involve opening up pristine forests to environmental degradation. Former environment minister and Chairman, Parliament Standing Committee on Environment Jairam Ramesh wrote to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar that opening up coal blocks in dense forests would be a “triple disaster” as mining and transportation of coal would involve a heavy environmental cost; valuable forest cover would be lost and public health would suffer. The technical expert associated with the Environment Ministry told The Hindu that while companies seeking blocks would have to comply with existing environmental provisions and, given diminishing demand for fossil fuel, climate commitments and the cost of fly-ash processing — managing the residue from burning coal — it was not a certainty that companies would come flocking to mine coal. “It’s a matter of changing ownership. Areas with very dense forest will not be opened up so easily and it might be profitable for some companies to export if market conditions are right. But that’s not so easy now,” the expert said  . India has committed to ensuring that fossil fuels contribute no more than 60% of its energy production by 2030 as per the 2015 Paris Agreement.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||KCR announces Rs. 5 crore aid, job to kin of Santosh Babu||The Telangana government has announced a relief of Rs. 5 crore, a residential plot and a job in its Group I services to the wife of Col. Santosh Babu who was killed in the face-off with Chinese forces. The announcement was made by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who also promised to visit the bereaved family’s house in Suryapet to hand over the assistance, an official release said. The government would give Rs. 10 lakh each to 19 soldiers who were killed along with Col. Santosh Babu in the Galwan Valley. Meanwhile, in his remarks at the virtual conference organised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with leaders of all political parties, Mr. Rao said it was time for the Central and State governments to lend a hand to the families of the martyrs to instil confidence in the defence forces that the nation stood by them in the conflict with China. He termed the Chinese aggression an act of provocation to weaken India’s position as an economic force and destabilise a strong government at the Centre. China and Pakistan were in the habit of creating trouble and an atmosphere of conflict when they were faced with internal problems, he said. Mr. Rao attributed China’s confrontationist attitude towards India to the efforts at finding a permanent solution to the Kashmir issue. India enacted new legislation on Kashmir and spoke decisively on Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. The Centre declared in Parliament that Aksai Chin was part of Indian territory. India improved infrastructure in the Galwan Valley. All this did not go down well with China.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress wins two Rajya Sabha seats in Rajasthan||The ruling Congress party won two of the three Rajya Sabha seats for which elections were held on Friday, while the opposition BJP got one. All-India Congress Committee general secretary K.C. Venugopal and former Youth Congress State president Neeraj Dangi were declared winners as Congress candidates, as was the BJP State vice-president Rajendra Gehlot. For two Rajya Sabha seats in Jharkhand, the Opposition BJP candidate Deepak Prakash and ruling party Jharkhand Mukti Morcha candidate Shibu Soren were elected comfortably while, the Congress candidate Shahzada Anwar lost. For Meghalaya’s lone seat, W.R. Kharlukhi of the National People’s Party, with 39 out of 58 valid votes, defeated K.C. Khyriem of the Congress. In Mizoram, K. Vanlalvena of the Mizo National Front won the single seat up for grabs with 27 out of 40 seats, beating Lallianchhunga of the Congress and B. Lalchhanzova of the Zoram People’s Movement. In Manipur, the State’s titular king Leisemba Sanajaoba, the BJP candidate, was declared the winner. Four seats in Karnataka and one in Arunachal Pradesh were also supposed to go to polls on Friday, but the candidates were declared elected unopposed.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Tone down nationalist rhetoric: Gowda||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has argued for toning down the “nationalist rhetoric” and cautioned against calls for economic boycott in the backdrop of Galwan Valley clashes. In his letter on Friday, Mr. Gowda, while stating that he fully appreciated the Prime Minister’s decision to call for a meeting of Opposition leaders to discuss the India-China situation, urged that the “nationalist rhetoric should be toned down” in order to ensure that the matter did not escalate. Mr. Gowda also warned the government against encouraging the “reactionary language of economic boycott” which could have deep implications. Speaking of media outlets “spreading fake information and cheap rhetoric”, he said it could end up endangering the lives of soldiers and diplomatic staff. “This is not the time for a language of provocation and revenge,” he said, warning particularly about social media. He suggested that a senior serving military officer and a senior serving diplomat make a detailed presentation to Opposition leaders on the ground situation, and the progress of talks. Mr. Gowda also urged Opposition leaders not to use intemperate language. “This is an hour for cooperation. Domestic politics and national security interests cannot be equated.” Mr. Gowda said that it is the duty of political leadership to quell anxiety that “we are engulfed by hostile nations” with proper information.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Was there any intelligence failure, Sonia asks govt.||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the Opposition was willing to make any sacrifice to ensure that Indian troops were “battle-ready”. In her remarks at an all-party meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), she asked the government to assure the nation that status quo ante would be restored and the Chinese would return to their original position. Ms. Gandhi posed a series of questions, including the one on the possibility of an “intelligence failure”, and said 20 Indian soldiers had to die because of a delay in taking up the issue of intrusion at the highest political and diplomatic level of the Chinese leadership. “On which date did the Chinese troops intrude into our territory in Ladakh? When did the government find out the Chinese transgressions into our territory? Was it on May 5, as reported, or earlier? Does the government not receive, on a regular basis, satellite pictures of the borders of our country,” she asked. “The question is, what next? What is the way forward? The entire country would like an assurance that the status quo ante would be restored and China will revert to the original position on the Line of Actual Control,” she said. Promises support She lamented that the government had convened the all-party meeting late and assured it of cooperation from the Opposition in taking on China. “We would also like to be briefed on the preparedness of our defence forces to meet any threat. We, in the Indian National Congress and the entire Opposition, unitedly stand by our defence forces and are prepared to make any sacrifice to ensure they are battle-ready.” India should present “a picture of unity and solidarity to the entire world”, she said. D
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||Poet Varavara Rao seeks bail||Poet Varavara Rao, 81, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, sought interim bail on medical grounds before a special court on Friday. Mr. Rao has been lodged at Taloja jail since his arrest on August 31, 2018. Advocate R. Satyanarayan, who represented Mr. Rao, said his client had underlying health conditions such as piles, prostate enlargement, coronary artery disease, oedema, hypertension, acidity, and migraine. He said granting bail to elderly inmates and those with co-morbidities was recommended by the high-powered committee constituted to come up with criteria to release prisoners from jails in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty will be making his arguments on June 26. Appeal by MPs Fourteen MPs, most of them from Tamil Nadu, wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister ashtra Uddhav Thackeray requesting urgent attention to poet Varavara Rao's health and transfer him from a jail to a hospital. Meanwhile, advocate Sharif Sharif sought the court’s permission to speak to professor Shoma Sen (61), another accused in the case, who is lodged at Byculla jail. The two are among 11 rights activists to have been jailed in the case.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC refuses plea to ‘clarify’ who should pay migrants’ train fare||The Supreme Court on Friday refused a plea to “clarify” that the Centre should bear 85% of the train travel costs of migrant workers and not leave it to cash-strapped States to foot the bill amid the pandemic. A three-judge Bench led by Ashok Bhushan said, “Our concern here was only that migrant workers should not pay. Whether the Centre pays or the States pay is not the issue”, Justices Bhushan and Justice M.R. Shah told senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan. Mr. Sankaranarayanan, appearing for National Law University alumni, who have been aiding migrant workers’ travel, submitted that “the Centre should clarify that it will take 85% of the costs”.  The issue dates back to May 4, when it was announced that the Railways would subsidise 85% of the ticket fare of migrant workers. However, the very next day, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta refrained from making any commitment in the Court on behalf of the centre. On May 28, the court ordered that the departure and destination States of the worker’s journey should pool the expenses. On June 9, the court ordered the States to complete their transportation within 15 days. But on Friday, the court realised that the transportation of workers was far from complete, and asked the Centre and the States to ensure compliance and file their reports in July.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks its Registry to explain delay in listing Mallya’s petition||In an unexpected twist in the Vijay Mallya case, the Supreme Court court has asked its own Registry to explain a three-year delay in listing the fugitive businessman’s review petition against a verdict of contempt against him. The Supreme Court had on May 9, 2017 found the fugitive businessman guilty of contempt for wilful disobedience of its order to come clean about his assets, and not disclosing $40 million (Rs. 600 crore) he received from British liquor major Diageo Plc following his resignation as chairman of United Spirits Limited in February 2016.  Prolonged delay Taking up Mr. Mallya’s review petition in their chambers on June 16, a Bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ashok Bhushan said it would get to the bottom of the prolonged delay in listing the case before going into its merits. “Review petition was not listed before the court for last three years. Before we deal with the submission raised in the review petition, we direct the Registry to explain why the review petition was not listed before the court concerned for last three years,” the Bench said in an order via circulation. The court also directed the Registry to reveal the names of the officials who had dealt with the case file in the past three years. It sought the explanation in two weeks.  Mallya’s stand In his original arguments before the top court in 2017, Mr. Mallya told the Supreme Court that the $40 million was one of “thousands of transactions” he did and could not be counted as an asset. He said he had no control over that money now as he had already disbursed it among his three adult children, who are U.S. citizens. Countering allegations made by a banking consortium led by the State Bank of India, which had filed the contempt of court petition against him, Mr. Mallya said he had already given a complete list of assets as of March 31, 2016. The court had ordered Mr. Mallya to provide the banks with a list of his assets so that they could recover Rs. 9,200 crore due to them.
20 June 2020||IDUKKI,||NGT inspects football ground in Kerala||A committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday inspected an area in the Periyar Tiger Reserve (PTR), where a playground was allegedly built without permission. The NGT, Southern Zone, Chennai, ordered the inspection on a complaint filed by a private individual that the football ground was built in December last at Vanchivayal in the forest to organise a contest by the Forest Department. This was in addition to the filling of a marshy area to construct a parking ground at Anavachal, the point of entry to the Thekkady boat-landing station. The inspection was ordered by the NGT under the Forest Conservation Rules, 1980. District Collector H. Dinesan, a member of the committee, said the visit was in compliance with the direction of the NGT. The committee members conducted an inquiry after visiting the area where the football ground was built, and a report would be given to the NGT, he said. The committee members spent nearly half-an-hour at the spot where the ground was constructed before proceeding to the parking area that had already been opened for tourist vehicles. The parking area was constructed without the consent of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board, said the complaint filed by activist Sajimon Salim.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,||COVID tests: HC seeks Centre’s response||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday sought the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation’s response to a submission of the State government that it was insisting on COVID-19 test for those returning by chartered flights from the Gulf counties on the basis of a standard operating procedure issued by the Ministry. The Bench, led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar, sought the response while hearing a public interest litigation petition challenging the government order requiring those travelling back on chartered flights to have COVID-19-negative certificates. The government argued that it had issued the directive because there was every possibility of transmission of the disease during the flight. There would be heightened chances of transmission when COVID-19-free and COVID-19-afflicted persons travelled together, it said. The segregation of persons could be best done by the conduct of tests. In fact, the government did not insist on the PCR test, but the passenger could take inexpensive TrueNat or antibody tests.
20 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Puri Shankaracharya wants review of SC order on Rath Yatra||Puri Shankaracharya Swami Nischalananda Saraswati and several traditional priests of Shree Jagannath Temple, Puri, said on Friday that the decision to not hold this year’s Rath Yatra should be reviewed. A day after the Supreme Court stayed this year’s Rath Yatra and the State Cabinet decided to abide by the court’s order, political leaders and devotees have demanded that the centuries-long tradition should not be disrupted. “The Supreme Court order cancelling Rath Yatra is welcome in view of the pandemic. But it can be held with just a few servitors. People can watch Lord Jagannath on chariot through live telecast,” said Puri Shankaracharya. Chattisa Nijog, the apex body of priests of the Shree Jagannath Temple, urged the State government to take the view of legal experts, preparatory to approaching the Supreme Court again. “It is prayed that you approach the Supreme Court immediately to modify its June 18 order to allow the conduct of Rath Yatra by imposing strict curfew in Puri and ensure absolute non-congregation of crowd,” said Janardan Pattajoshi Mohapatra of Chhattisa Nijoga. Earlier, the managing committee of Shree Jagannath Temple Administration had agreed with the Supreme Court and the State Cabinet.  This will be the first time in the last 285 years that the Rath Yatra will not be held.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||8 militants killed in Jammu and Kashmir||An Army spokesman said, “One AK-47 and one pistol were recovered from the Pampore gunfight site.” In the operation at Shopian’s Bandpawa, which also began on Thursday and was carried out jointly by the Army, the police and the CRPF, four militants were killed on Friday. One militant was killed on Thursday. The police said the bodies of the slain militants were sent to Baramulla for conducting medico-legal formalities, including collection of their DNA, followed by their last rites. “In case, any family claims the killed terrorists to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for the identification and participation in the last rites at Baramulla,” the police said. According to the villagers, most of the slain militants were locals. Around 27 militants have been killed in security operations in south Kashmir this month.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||China lays claim to entire Galwan Valley||Monday’s clash was reported to have taken place on India’s side of the LAC. India’s constructions, including a bridge across the river that was completed on Friday and is thought to be one of the triggers for the recent clash, are on India’s side of the LAC, in an area in between the Galwan-Shyok confluence and the line. While most Chinese maps show almost all of the Galwan river within Chinese territory, the western edge of the river where it meets the Shyok River has not previously been shown as Chinese territory previously in most maps. By now staking a claim to the entire valley and up to the confluence of the rivers — including on land where India has carried out construction work — Indian officials said China had expanded its claims and was seeking to alter the LAC. While the LAC has not been demarcated and there are differing perceptions in more than a dozen locations along the LAC, this has not been a point of contention previously in the Galwan area, they said. The Chinese Foreign Ministry’s statement said: “For many years, Chinese border guards have been patrolling and performing their duties here. Since April this year, the Indian border defence forces have unilaterally continued to build roads, bridges and other facilities in the Galwan Valley region. China has repeatedly made representations and protests on this, but the Indian side has intensified cross-border troubles.” The statement revealed China sought a commitment from India to “not cross the Galwan estuary to patrol and build facilities”, underlining its claims up to the confluence. The statement claimed that in the early hours of May 6, Indian border guards “crossed the line into the Chinese territory in the Galwan Valley area by night, constructing construction barriers, blocking the normal patrol of the Chinese border guards, deliberately provoking incidents, and attempting to unilaterally change the status of border control.” It said that “at the strong request of the Chinese side” India had “agreed and evacuated the personnel and facilities beyond the line”. The statement claimed that at the June 6 Corps Commander-level talks, India “promised not to cross the Galewan Estuary to patrol and build facilities, and the two sides agreed to withdraw the troops in batches through a meeting of local commanders.” It repeated China’s statement from earlier this week that blamed India for the June 15 violence. On Friday, a Chinese strategic expert cited “historical rights” going back to the Qing Dynasty to claim the entire valley. “Multiple accounts from the Qing Dynasty [1644-1911] and Western literature have recorded that the Galwan Valley was China's territory. Based on the principle of ‘historic rights,’ China has jurisdiction over the valley area,” Zhang Yongpan, a research fellow of the Institute of Chinese Borderland Studies at CASS, told the Global Times . He referred to India’s construction activity near the Shyok river as reflecting an attempt “to break into Chinese land”. “In nearby Shyok River in west Galwan River, India built an airport, constructed bridges, roads and villages. For years, the country has been seeking to break into Chinese land,” he said. “Chinese maps that I have seen show almost all of the Galwan River as lying within the territory China claims in the area,” M. Taylor Fravel, an expert on the Chinese military at MIT, told The Hindu earlier. “The one discrepancy would be the western tip of the Galwan River as it meets the Shyok River. Here, the last few kilometres of the Galwan River are often depicted as lying beyond China’s border. How one defines the parameters of the valley itself might be different than the river, however.” While there was some ambiguity on where the extremities of the valley may be defined, the new statements from China suggest their claim goes up to the confluence of the rivers. China’s new claims, observers said, may have been triggered by last year’s opening of the vital Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldie (DSDBO) road, that runs parallel to the LAC providing key all-weather access to the post at Daulet Beg Oldie, one of the northernmost points in Ladakh. China may also be seeking access to areas closer to the confluence, from where it could neutralise the strategically important DSDBO road.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||No outsiders on Indian territory, says Modi||Among the first political leaders to speak was Congress president Sonia Gandhi who adopted a hard line, saying that the Indian government must assure that status quo ante is restored. She also asked if the violent face off was the result of an intelligence failure. She said the “entire Opposition was willing to make any sacrifice to ensure that Indian troops are battle ready”. Noting that the first reports of Chinese intrusion came on May 5, Ms. Gandhi said “crucial time” was lost by the government in starting diplomatic level talks with China. “Did our external intelligence agencies not report any unusual activity along the LAC? Did the Military Intelligence not alert the government about the intrusion and the build-up of massive forces along the LAC, whether on the Chinese side or on the Indian side? In the government’s considered view, was there a failure of intelligence?” Ms. Gandhi asked. Most political parties said they supported whatever action the government was prepared to take for restoration of status quo ante. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati also emphasised that India’s trade deficit with China must be addressed and the Indian economy should not be so closely allied to Chinese supply chains. Former Defence Minister and Nationalist Congress chief Sharad Pawar maintained that whether soldiers carry arms in particular situations are a subject of international treaties and similar sensitivity has to be maintained. ‘Strong action needed’ Pinaki Mishra of the Biju Janata Dal, said strong action was needed after the death of 20 soldiers, two of whom were from Odisha, and added that now was not the time for division but speaking with one voice. The five MP-cut off required for a table at the video conference left the Aam Aadmi Party, the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and Rashtriya Janata Dal out in the cold, the latter protesting their exclusion before the Gandhi statue in Parliament in New Delhi.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Now, China embraces Bangladesh in trade||In a significant show of economic diplomacy in South Asia, China has announced tariff exemption for 97 per cent of exports from Bangladesh. And diplomatic sources of Bangladesh have described the Chinese move as a “major success” in Dhaka-Beijing relationship The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh announced on Friday that 97 percent of items covering fisheries and leather products would be exempted of Chinese tariffs. Beijing's decision came a month after Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and President Xi Jinping discussed enhancing bilateral relation in the background of the economic hardship triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. “As part of our economic diplomacy, Bangladesh had written to China to exempt our export items from tariffs. In response to this China’s State Council Tariff Commission has issued a notification recently. Bangladesh is among the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) and that is why this decision was taken by China”, announced Mohammed Touhidul Islam, Senior Information Officer of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Friday’s announcement is expected to help Bangladesh cushion the economic impact of the pandemic and also emerge as a possible beneficiary alongside Vietnam and Chile of the U.S.-China trade war. Bangladesh imports around $ 15 billion in Chinese goods but its China-bound exports had been very low in comparison.. “Bangladesh already receives tariff-exemption for 3,095 items under the Asia Pacific Trade Agreement (APTA). As a result of the latest announcement, a total of 8,256 goods from Bangladesh will be exempted of Chinese tariffs,” Mr. Islam said.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Charge of favouritism in listing reckless, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday termed a lawyer’s allegation of favouritism against the Supreme Court Registry in listing cases before virtual courts “reckless.” Advocate Reepak Kansal, who appeared in person before a virtual court Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra, referred to the case of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami being listed overnight. Mr. Kansal accused the Registry of showing partiality towards senior advocates and big law firms. “Why make reckless allegations against the Registry?” Justice S. Abdul Nazeer, on the Bench, asked. Justice Mishra orally remarked that it was “very fashionable” to make allegations. The court reserved the petition for orders.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC adjourns hearing of NIA plea in Navlakha case||The Supreme Court on Friday adjourned the hearing of an appeal filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging a Delhi High Court order questioning the “frantic hurry” with which civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha was shifted out of the national capital to Mumbai in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. The adjournment by a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra was after Mr. Navlakha’s lawyer, advocate Shadan Farasat, submitted that he had still not got a copy of the agency’s appeal. The court asked the NIA to provide him with a copy to prepare a response and listed the case for hearing after the court reopens post vacations on July 6. The NIA, represented by Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, maintained that it had acted quickly in the background of the uncertainty surrounding the lockdown and availability of inter-State flights.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Individual contributions to NDRF get green light from Finance Ministry||The Finance Ministry has given approval to a proposal to allow individuals and institutions to contribute directly to the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF). In an office memo issued on Friday, the Expenditure Department said it had no objection to the proposal made by the Union Home Secretary on May 4. This is a significant development at a time when many have expressed concerns about donations sent to the PM CARES Fund or the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund, as both claim they are not public authorities subject to questions under the Right to Information Act. On Wednesday, the Supreme Court sought a response from the Centre to a plea that contributions made to the PM CARES Fund to fight COVID-19 should be transferred entirely to the NDRF. The NDRF was set up in accordance with Section 46 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. It is meant to “meet the expenses for emergency response, relief and rehabilitation” for any disaster situation. Although Section 46 includes a clause for grants made by any person or institution, provisions for such donations had not been made.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Concepts of Vedanta||Thirumoolar’s Thirumantiram is full of the concepts of Vedanta. In the first forty verses, he gives us a summary of what he is going to talk about in his work. Saint Thirumoolar uses numerals from one to eight to highlight the principal qualities of Lord Siva, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. He is One, because if you look at the Universe, it becomes clear that He pervades it. Thirumoolar goes on explaining how each numeral can be used to describe Siva. Four serves as a meaningful description, because He gave the world the four Purusharthas. He is the head of all seven lokas. Thirumoolar then says he salutes the One who is present in everyone, the One who is wedded to Parvati and the One who kicked Yama, the god of death. The last is a reference to the story where Siva kicked Yama away and saved Markandeya. Thirumoolar says that even those who have the privilege of being close to Lord Siva cannot fully grasp His qualities. He is Lord of the devas and of humans. He made Thirumoolar discard his original body, and made it possible for him to worship the Lord night and day. In a world where everyone is subject to temptations, He is without desires. Thirumoolar says Lord Siva took him (Thirumoolar) close to Him. Thirumoolar is acknowledging that whatever he says comes from Siva. All the philosophy that is found in Thirumoolar’s work comes directly from Siva himself, for He is the One who has enabled Thirumoolar to elucidate these ideas. Thirumoolar says the One, who holds a deer and an axe in His hands, put His feet on his head and imparted jnana to him. It was the Lord who taught him the Vedas and the Agamas. He is the One who controls the sentient and non-sentient. Thirumoolar uses the word Nandi to refer to Lord Siva.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Institutional quarantine must in Delhi||A five-day institutional quarantine is now mandatory for COVID-19 patients in the Capital, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal ordered here on Friday. Such cases, after institutional quarantine, will be sent back to home isolation except in cases where symptoms require further hospitalisation, according to the order issued by Mr. Baijal in his capacity as chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. ‘Reconsider decision’ With 77.8% of the active cases till June 11 in the city recuperating in home isolation, the Delhi government called the decision “arbitrary” and asked for it to be reconsidered. “Today’s order of the Central government stopping home isolation will discourage people from testing and further spread corona as asymptomatic and mild symptom patients will resist testing and will not be quarantined,” the Aam Aadmi Party government said in a statement. The statement said strict isolation protocol following Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines and daily monitoring and counselling has resulted in thousands of mild and asymptomatic cases recovering at home. Sources in the Delhi government said the L-G’s directive would strain the city’s already stretched medical infrastructure, with the need to house “thousands of asymptomatic people” necessitating “thousands of beds” in quarantine centres. Mr. Baijal cited a Ministry of Home Affairs observation that home isolation may be a reason for increasing spread of infections in Delhi to issue the new order. “Mandatory physical verification of each case is to be carried out by the surveillance teams under supervision of the District Magistrate,” the order stated.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Labourers board the wrong train||Around 70 people, most of them labourers who hail from Madhya Pradesh, who boarded a Shramik special train to return to their hometowns on June 16 arrived at Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh instead. Ram Lal, who hails from Madhya Pradesh, said he thought the train would reach Gorakhpur via Madhya Pradesh. “But it travelled through Odisha and Bihar. Now, we are heading back by road,” he said. A South Western Railway official said the train to Gorakhpur was operated on the request of the Karnataka government. “They had specified that the train service should be arranged via Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar. Of the four special trains operated that day, none were asked to run via Madhya Pradesh,” he said.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||No Indian troops with us, says China||China has not seized any Indian personnel presently, its Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson said on Friday when asked about the detention and release of 10 Indian soldiers by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley. “As far as I know, China hasn’t seized any Indian personnel presently,” spokesperson Zhao Lijian said in Beijing. Editor-in-Chief of the Chinese state media Global Times Hu Xijin said on Twitter, “These 10 Indian soldiers must have been treated well in China, more fortunate than those 17 Indians who died in freezing temperatures. In fact, most of the Indian soldiers died due to the backward logistical support of the Indian army. China shouldn’t be blamed.” As reported by The Hindu on Thursday, China released 10 Indian Army personnel held in its custody following the clash on Monday night in the Galwan Valley that resulted in the death of 20 Indian Army men. Asked about the situation in the Galwan Valley and the demonstrations in India against China, Mr. Zhao said, “The right and wrong is very clear and the responsibility entirely lies with the Indian side.” IAF chief Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria made a quiet visit to Leh and Srinagar in the last two days to review the operational preparedness, a defence source said.
20 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam CM orders arrest of Bengal man||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday ordered the State police to arrest a Kolkata-based ideologue for “hurting Assamese sentiments” by calling the founder of the medieval Ahom dynasty “a Chinese invader”. Mr. Sonowal instructed Guwahati’s Commissioner of Police Munna Prasad Gupta to leave for the West Bengal capital immediately to arrest and bring Garga Chatterjee, who calls himself a Bengali nationalist, for questioning. Alluding to the Chinese attack on Indian soldiers in Ladakh, Mr. Chatterjee tweeted on Wednesday: “There is a State in India where the ‘State Day’ is celebrated to commemorate a Chinese invader who brutally attacked India with Chinese troops.” He added: “This invader is considered a hero by #China-funded anti-Indian separatist group ULFA (United Liberation Front of Asom).” December 2 is observed as Assam Day or Sukaphaa Divas. The day marks the arrival of Chaolung Sukaphaa from Mong Mao, now in China’s Yunnan province. Sukaphaa is revered in Assam as the founder of the Ahom dynasty in the early 13th century and is credited with unifying various ethnic groups to form Bor Asom, which is much of present-day northeast.  A police complaint was filed against Mr. Chatterjee by one Bhaskarjyoti Gogoi on Thursday.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Row over Nepal Army chief’s visit||A day after the chief of the Nepalese Army visited the Nepal-India border near Kalapani, a controversy has broken out with media reports suggesting that the Nepal Defence Minister pressured General Purna Chandra Thapa to visit the region. Online news portalNepalmaghas reported citing senior Nepal military sources that General Thapa was under pressure from the leading figures of Prime Minister K. P. Sharma Oli’s government, who wanted him to display Nepal’s territorial claims over the Kalapani region. “According to a highly placed military source, it was the pressure from Deputy PM and Defence Minister Ishwor Pokhrel that made Thapa visit Darchula near the Indian areas,” the online publication said, adding “initially, the chief was reluctant to go” owing to the India-China tension.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. was asleep: Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday alleged that the government was “sleeping” while Chinese troops carried out a “pre-planned” attack in the Galwan Valley and Indian soldiers had to pay the price. His attack came hours before the all-party meeting by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Gandhi, who turned 50 on Friday, also decided to not celebrate his birthday in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the death of 20 soldiers.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India attends FATF group meet online||Indian officials, including representatives from enforcement agencies, on Friday attended the 32nd special Eurasian Group on Combating Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (EAG) plenary meeting, under the aegis of the Financial Action Task Force. The meeting was held online. The EAG is a regional body comprising nine countries: India, Russia, China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Belarus. It is an associate member of the FATF. The FATF’s virtual plenary meet will be held on June 24.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Street vendors to start getting loans by July||Street vendors are likely to start getting small loans starting July under a special micro-credit scheme launched by the government as part of the COVID-19-related economic relief package, the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said on Friday. The Ministry signed a memorandum of understanding with the Small Industries Development Bank of India to be the implementing agency for the PM Street Vendors AtmaNirbhar Nidhi scheme, said the Ministry statement. Under the scheme, vendors can apply for working capital loans of up to Rs. 10,000 to restart work after the lockdown. The loans will have to be repaid in a year in monthly installments.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Panel suggests fixing cost of beds||A high-powered committee, set up by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, has recommended fixing the cost of COVID-19 isolation beds and ICU beds with ventilator in private hospitals in Delhi, the Home Ministry said on Friday. The committee was set up under the chairmanship of NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul. “The committee has recommended Rs. 8,000-Rs. 10,000, Rs. 13,000-Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 15,000-Rs. 18,000 including PPE costs for isolation bed, ICUs without & with ventilator respectively to all hospitals as compared to the current charges of Rs. 24,000-Rs. 25,000, Rs. 34,000-Rs. 43,000 & Rs. 44,000-Rs. 54,000 (excluding PPE cost),” a Ministry spokesperson said in a tweet
20 June 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s tally close to 1.25 lakh||Maharashtra’s surge in COVID-19 cases continued unabated with the State reporting 3,827 new cases on Friday, taking its total tally to 1,24,331. The total death toll was pushed to 5,893 with 142 new deaths. Of the total cases, 55,651 are active. As many as 1,935 patients were discharged today, taking the total number of recoveries till date to 62,773, said State Health Department authorities. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said that the State’s recovery rate currently stood at 50.49%. The State’s case fatality stands at 4.74%. With 1,264 new cases, Mumbai’s total case tally has reached 64,139. Of these, only 28,442 are active cases. As many as 114 of the new deaths reported today were from Mumbai city, taking its total death toll to 3,425. Eight deaths from Aurangabad district in Marathwada took the district’s death count to 176. Deaths were also reported from Thane, Vasai-Virar and Raigad. Pune district’s total tally, as per State Health department figures, has reached 14,704 with the district reporting a staggering surge of more than 600 new cases today. The district’s death tally, as per State Health officials, has surged to 610. The surge in new cases continued relentlessly in Thane, with the district reporting a consecutive surge of more than 350 new COVID-19 cases to take the district’s total tally to 9,337. Navi Mumbai reported a similar surge of 135 new cases as its total case tally reached 5,423. “A total of 103 laboratories — 60 government and 43 private — are currently functional for testing samples. Till date, of a total 7,35,674 laboratory samples, 1,24,331 (16.9%) have been tested positive with around 16,000 samples across the State tested today,” Dr. Awate said.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,||COMEDK-UGET on August 1||COMEDK-UGET 2020, scheduled to be held on July 25, has been postponed to August 1. The entrance test is a gateway for admission to undergraduate engineering courses in private colleges in Karnataka. The examination will be held in two shifts — the first from 9 a.m. to noon and the second from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m., said a release. COMEDK received many requests asking for the exam to be postponed. Students said they would not be able to travel to sit for NEET, slated to be held on July 26. “It is felt that a few COMEDK applicants may also appear for the Kannada Language Test being conducted by the KEA on the same day of the COMEDK test. A separate window will be provided for such candidates in the first week of July to capture their details,” the release stated.
20 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||245 stranded Indians return from Bangladesh||More than 275 stranded Indians and Bangladeshi nationals returned to their countries  through border checkpoints in Assam and Tripura in two batches on Thursday and Friday. A total of 245 of them were Indians and 32 Bangladeshis. Officials in southern Assam’s Karimganj district said the Bangladeshi nationals had been stranded since the lockdown on March 25.
20 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala temple closed after monthly rituals in Midhunom||The Ayyappa Temple at Sabarimala was closed after the five-day monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Midhunom on Friday. No pilgrim turned up for undertaking pilgrimage to the forest shrine all these five days as pilgrimage has been prohibited owing to the lockdown norms as a preventive measure against COVID-19.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Women’s Commission registers case against actor Sreenivasan||The Kerala State Women’s Commission (SWC) on Friday registered a case against actor Sreenivasan on the charge of having made public comments allegedly demeaning to Anganwadi teachers. SWC member Shahida Kamal told The Hindu that she had registered a case and opened an inquiry against Mr. Sreenivasan based on a petition filed by a set of Anganwadi teachers. Viral on social media The remarks had gone viral on social media and cast Anganwadi teachers in poor light, the complainants alleged. As per the Anganwadi Recruitment Notice, 2020, women with Class 10 or 12 pass or diploma from a recognised university were eligible to apply for the post of teachers in the rural child care centres. When contacted, Mr. Sreenivasan said he had not meant to be insensitive to women or Anganwadi teachers. According to him, he had said at a literary festival organised by a publishing house that the best minds initiated children in Japan and other developed nations to the universe of learning. Kindergarten teachers were among the most qualified educators in such advanced societies. In contrast, rural children in Kerala did not have access to such enlightened mentoring. The actor said he had not seen the social media version of his talk. It was likely that anonymous persons could have distorted his words or quoted him out of context. Mr. Sreenivasan said he was not aware of the case against him and hoped to defend himself against the accusation.
20 June 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab police arrest two Khalistani operatives||The Punjab police on Friday claimed to have busted a terror module, arresting two alleged Khalistani operatives preparing to carry out terror attacks. Director-General of Police Dinkar Gupta said that acting on a tip-off from the public on Thursday night, a team of the Amritsar Rural Police raided a spot near an eatery on GT Road at Jandiala and arrested Gurmeet Singh and Vikram Singh. They also seized two guns.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Suspended J&K police officer gets bail in terror case||Suspended Jammu and Kashmir police officer Davinder Singh, who was arrested, allegedly with two Hizb-ul-Mujahideen terrorists earlier this year, was granted bail by a court on Friday as the Delhi police failed to file a chargesheet within the stipulated time period. However, he will continue to remain in judicial custody in connection with the case registered by the National Investigation Agency.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||SC seeks 3 States’ response to Imam’s plea challenging FIRs||The Supreme Court on Friday gave Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh time to respond to a plea by activist Sharjeel Imam challenging FIRs registered against him in five States under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Mr. Imam, represented by senior advocate Siddharth Dave, said the FIRs were the products of a politically coloured ruse to silence his right to dissent.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||in brief||
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 2,115 fresh cases||Thirty-five districts of Tamil Nadu reported fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the State’s overall tally beyond the 54,000-mark. The State recorded 2,115 COVID-19 cases and 41 deaths. As many as 1,630 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total figure past 30,000. Currently, the State has a total of 54,449* cases of COVID-19 — 23,509 active cases, 30,271 discharged and 666 deaths. While Chennai accounted for a major chunk of fresh cases with 1,322 infections, Vellore district saw a rise in cases, at 103. There were 95 cases in Chengalpattu and 85 in Tiruvallur. Kancheepuram, with 39 new cases, became the fourth district in the State with 1,000-plus cases. Chennai’s case tally surged to 38,327, of which 21,098 persons had been discharged. The city accounts for 529 deaths. The 41 fatalities — 26 in government hospitals and 15 in private hospitals — had occurred over the last four days. Nine of the deceased were aged between 38 and 50. One of them — a 40-year-old man from Hosur — was brought dead to the Government Hospital in Hosur on June 16. He was referred from ESI Hospital, Hosur, and was said to have had difficulty in breathing for two hours. His swab was lifted and returned positive for COVID-19, and he died due to factors including acute respiratory distress syndrome, according to the Health Department’s bulletin. Among the deceased was a 38-year-old woman with hypothyroidism, who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. She had been involved in a road accident, and her sample returned positive for COVID-19. She died on June 18 due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest, brain dysfunction, head injury, moderate pneumothorax and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 47-year-old man and a 48-year-old woman with no co-morbidities died at private hospitals in Chennai. Cases have been increasing in many districts over the past few days. On Friday, Namakkal and Perambalur were the only districts that didn’t report new infections. Madurai reported 58 cases, while Tiruvannamalai recorded 37. There were 31 cases in Villupuram, 29 cases in Coimbatore, 26 in Thoothukudi, 22 in Dindigul and 21 in Ramanathapuram. Ten districts — Krishnagiri, Salem, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Theni, Tiruvarur, Tirunelveli, Tiruchi and Virudhunagar — had 10 to 20 cases each. The remaining districts reported cases in single digits. Forty persons who had returned from abroad and from other States tested positive. They included 15 returnees from Delhi and 13 from Maharashtra. The number of samples tested has been steadily rising over the last few days. A total of 27,537 samples were tested during the last 24-hour period, taking the total figure to 8,27,980. A total of 7,89,408 individuals have been tested so far. The Health Department has released details on the number of tests carried out in districts. As per entries made by approved RT-PCR testing laboratories on the ICMR portal, 7,11,678 samples had been tested in the State, with the entries of remaining records under way. The largest number of samples were tested in Chennai (1,65,609). The figures for Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts, which account for the second and third highest number of cases in the State, remained relatively low when compared to other districts. A total of 19,355 samples were tested in Chengalpattu, while 13,645 samples were tested in Tiruvallur. At 32,094, Coimbatore accounted for the second highest number of samples tested, followed by Salem, with 30,125. In terms of tests per million population, Chennai came out on top, with 22,954. Two more private labs — PrimeGen Healthcare Laboratories Private Limited, Nanganallur, and Suriyaa Diagnostics — have been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are a total of 45 testing facilities in the government sector and 38 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals in city see steady flow of pregnant women with COVID-19||Government hospitals in Chennai are witnessing a steady flow of pregnant women who test positive for the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19). Two of the major government maternity hospitals — the Institute of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (IOG) and the Government Hospital for Women and Children, Egmore, and Kasturba Gandhi Hospital (KGH) for Women and Children, Triplicane — have so far recorded 523 COVID-19 positive pregnant women. After treating COVID-19 pregnant women since April-end, IOG has taken up a study to check on mother-to-child transmission of SARS CoV-2, officials said. While details of patients at north Chennai’s largest maternity centre — Government RSRM Lying-in Hospital, Royapuram — could not be obtained, doctors of both IOG and KGH said there remains a constant flow of COVID-19 positive pregnant women. Their cumulative number was 294 at IOG and 229 at KGH. Doctors said of these, 252 women in IOG and 187 in KGH had been discharged. “Most of the women at IOG were from Pulianthope while we also had patients from Saidapet. At least 20% of our patients had co-morbidity conditions such as diabetes, hypertension and anaemia, as well as high-risk pregnancies such as cases of in vitro fertilisation but all have recovered. We have had no maternal deaths due to COVID-19, and have earmarked separate wards with 100 beds and separate teams of doctors, nurses and hospital workers for COVID-19 patients,” a senior doctor said. IOG that received its first COVID-19 positive pregnant woman on April 28, has 38 women in admission now. Study taken up Doctors said out of 100 deliveries, at least 10 babies tested positive for COVID-19 but remained asymptomatic. “We have had no zero-day transmission in newborns. In most cases, the baby tested positive on the second or third day. So we are now studying the transmission, including by screening the cord blood,” an official said. Doctors said they advised mothers to wear masks during breastfeeding and stay in isolation for 14 days at home. “At IOG, we are now using non-removable sutures that are absorbed so that the women need not go out to hospitals to check the sutures. They can visit the nearest Primary Health Centre for check up after two weeks,” the doctor said. KGH has 37 active cases, and a majority of the patients were from Adyar, Teynampet, Perungudi and Sholinganallur. Doctors said that in most cases, pregnant women were reluctant to wear masks as it made breathing difficult. “As a result, they face a chance of infection from asymptomatic family members,” another doctor added. The Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital has 30 COVID-19 positive pregnant women. “As per the guidelines, symptomatic women should be tested. Universal precautions should be taken during deliveries and caesarean sections. We do screen women who are nearing full term and admit them to COVID-19 ward if they test positive,” an official said. Though many remained asymptomatic, doctors advised that pregnant women should seek medical help in case of fever and cough.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘All class 10 students will be promoted irrespective of marks’||The Directorate of Government Examinations (DGE) has clarified that all students of Class 10 will be promoted this year, irrespective of their marks in the half-yearly and quarterly examinations. The clarification came amid concerns over the government’s earlier order announcing the cancellation of Class 10 public exams due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The order had said that marks would instead be calculated by giving 80% weightage to marks from quarterly and half-yearly examinations and 20% to attendance. In a letter to all chief educational officers on Friday, the DGE said while the earlier order had explained how marks would be calculated, it had also made clear that students would be considered promoted, no matter the marks they had scored in the quarterly and half-yearly examinations. The letter added that the same would be applicable to Class 11 students for subjects for which exams could not be conducted. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation (TNGTF) expressed concerns over allegations that several private schools did not maintain proper records of half-yearly and quarterly examinations and were instead manipulating them . P. Patrick Raymond, general secretary of TNGTF, said calculating marks based on marks of half-yearly and quarterly exams and attendance was not a good idea. “The syllabus was changed last year. Students were bound to score less in the mid-term examinations,” he said. The association said that the government must consider doing away with marks and instead consider awarding grades this year. The Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association too has appealed to the State government to award grades to students of Class 10, instead of marks. Some students might not have done well in the quarterly exams, but might have done better in half-yearly and revision tests, held closer to the end of the academic year, it pointed out. The School Education Department must consider half-yearly evaluation and the three revision tests to arrive at their performance levels, said P.K. Ilamaran, president of the association.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||To get home, no journey’s too long||Hundreds of people, stranded in the country in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, have been making their way to Chennai to take a flight to their homes abroad. After the Vande Bharat Mission — which involves the repatriation of those living abroad to their destinations, and Indians stuck in foreign countries back home — began sometime back, many people flew in from cities across the country to Chennai to take flights to destinations abroad, especially Singapore. Officials of Airports Authority of India said that they had witnessed many passengers flying in from places like Varanasi, Rajahmundry, Mumbai and Delhi, staying as transit passengers, only to head to their respective international destinations. All for a seat “We have been receiving numerous queries from these passengers about various issues. One senior citizen flew down all the way from Varanasi and then waited for several hours to take the Vande Bharat flight. Similarly, there was another request from a passenger who arrived from Rajahmundry and then took an international flight. Most of these passengers are headed for Singapore. They have doubts about e-passes and quarantine,” an official said. Officials said that since there were a limited number of seats on Vande Bharat flights, passengers who have been waiting here for months were willing to book a ticket from any airport. Sometimes, there have been cases where a passenger has flown in from Mumbai, via Bengaluru, just because there is no direct flight from Mumbai to Chennai, and then take a Vande Bharat flight. This apart, many people from other districts in the State have driven several hours to get to the city, so that they can take a Vande Bharat flight. The Vande Bharat flights have also brought in thousands of people to the city. In the last one month alone, over 9,000 international passengers have arrived in Chennai.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Civic staff yet to be reimbursed for treatment||Greater Chennai Corporation employees who have tested positive for COVID-19 have not been able get reimbursement of bills in private hospitals. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash on Friday said 315 civic workers, who had participated in pandemic containment in the city, have tested positive for SARS CoV-2. At least 50,000 employees from various departments have been deployed in the city for containment work. Most of them are working in 7,500 localities, where positive cases have been reported. The civic workers, who were admitted to private hospitals, have not been able to pay bills for want of clarity among civic officials. The workers said they were discouraged from visiting private hospitals. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the workers were eligible for Chief Minister’s Insurance Scheme for government employees in private hospitals. “But many workers are admitted to government hospitals. We will study the issues reported in private hospitals,” he said. Senior officials said the workers were eligible for Rs. 2 lakh insurance for four years, which was insufficient for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals. The civic workers demanded better treatment for those who opt for private hospitals. “The government should study all aspects and facilitate the best treatment during this pandemic. They should not force us to get treatment in government hospitals,” said a Corporation employee.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre says it is in favour of OBC quota in medical seats||The Centre on Friday told the Madras High Court that it was in favour of providing State specific reservations to Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the seats surrendered by State governments to All India quota medical seats in non-central institutions subject to a condition that overall reservations should not exceed 50% of the total seats available every year. In a counter affidavit filed before a Division Bench of Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy, the Centre has also said such reservations could be provided depending upon the orders to be passed by the Supreme Court in Saloni Kumar’s case pending since 2015. That case was expected to be heard next by the apex court on July 8, it added. The counter was filed in response to a batch of writ petitions filed by the DK, DMK, AIADMK, PMK, MDMK and the State government too seeking 50% reservations for the OBCs. Criticising the parties for having chosen to file the case only now, the Centre claimed that OBCs were not given reservations in All India quota seats in non-central institutions since 1986. “While so, the petitioners have filed these writ petitions at this distance of time challenging the results published by Directorate General of Health Services on April 11 for postgraduate medical seats. “The present method of selection has been followed even when most of the petitioners (political parties) were in power through their alliances in the past,” it said and stated that Saloni Kumar’s case had actually been filed seeking 27% reservations for OBCs in All India quota seats in non-central institutions too as it was being provided in central institutions. Since the matter was still sub judice, the present petitioners before the High Court could be directed to get themselves impleaded in the case before the Supreme Court. It said the Centre was willing to provide reservations to OBCs too without disturbing the present reservation for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. The Bench led by Justice Subbiah is expected to take up the batch of cases on Monday.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police seize over 400 vehicles in Chennai’s neighbouring districts||Over 400 vehicles have been seized in Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts since Friday morning for violation of lockdown norms. The State government had announced a complete lockdown in these districts, along with Chennai, from June 19 to 30. People had been advised to avoid venturing out, and told to walk to the nearest market for buying essentials. Seventeen check-posts had been set up along the border of Chennai and the three districts. “We have deployed 4,000 personnel in all the districts to ensure that no one from Chennai enters the districts without a valid e-pass. The checks are monitored by the Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSP),” a senior police officer said. Apart from this, the police have set up 61 check-posts within the districts to monitor the movement of people. “Ninety-three two-wheeler patrol and 32 four-wheeler patrol vehicles are keeping a close watch to ensure that no one other than those rendering essential services ventures out unnecessarily,” the officer added. Strict surveillance He said that drones and CCTV cameras were being used to monitor the markets and other places in the districts. “Compared to the city, there is not much movement in the districts,” said a police inspector from Tiruvallur district. Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police P. Aravindhan posted a message on social media asking people to stay home. He said a meeting was held with traders’ associations to ensure that essentials were available to people. “Hence there is no need to engage in panic buying,” he said. Meanwhile, local administration authorities in Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram have been creating awareness, asking people not to venture out during the lockdown. “We use autorickshaws to go around villages and use a public address system to ask people not to come out [of their houses],” said an official from Tirumazhisai.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five police officers get gallantry medal||Five police officers, including Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Internal Security) N. Kannan, were awarded the Chief Minister’s Police Medal for Gallantry in recognition of their efforts and detective work in the collection on the activities of fundamentalist elements who were preparing to wage a jihad across the country. As part of ‘Operation Quanto’, the other four officers, J. Mahesh, Superintendent of Police ‘Q’ Branch CID; S. Aravind, SP, Special Division; B. Pandarinathan, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Special Intelligence Unit, Coimbatore and inspector M. Damodaran, Special Division, Chennai, led by Dr. Kannan, worked on the vanishing of some Muslim fundamentalists after they were released on bail in a murder case. While tracking their movement based on human intelligence, the team stumbled upon a terror plot. They planned to carry out a series of attackson high-value and sensitive installations and individuals across the country, police sources said on Friday. Dr. Kannan coordinated with Central and State intelligence agencies and shared crucial inputs that led to the busting of the Al-Hind Muslim fundamentalist module that had active cadres operating in Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Several suspects were arrested in Delhi, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu when they were preparing to carry out their plan.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Braving disability to lend a helping hand||S. Kumar, 35, a differently-abled resident of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements at Perumbakkam, used to run a mobile tea shop to feed his family and fund his children’s education. But the COVID-19 pandemic had deprived him of his source of income. In spite of his hardships, he teamed up with Sujatha Kandan, another person with a disability, to form an association to help fellow persons with disabilities in the tenements. There are 300 such persons residing in what is now a containment zone. “Most of them are daily-wage earners. All of them are dependent on the Rs. 1,000 maintenance allowance provided by the government,” said Mr. Kumar, also known as ‘Maan’ Kumar, who resides in Block 128 at Perumbakkam. Among the differently-abled persons facing a precarious plight is Kalaimani, 34, who has been struggling to make ends meet as her husband is currently unemployed. “From October last year, I haven’t been receiving the maintenance allowance. It is very hard to manage,” she said. Ms. Sujatha and Mr. Kumar have been distributing groceries and other essentials to persons with disabilities in the tenements. “We have been doing it with the help of sponsors. The relief materials include 20 kg rice too,” Ms. Sujatha said. She has also helped several differently-abled persons get a disability ID card. “They will get the maintenance allowance only if they have the card. Around 50 of them did not have it,” she added.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Noted playback singer A.L. Raghavan no more||Noted playback singer A.L. Raghavan died here on Friday. He was 87 and is survived by his actress wife M.N. Rajam, a son and a daughter. Born in Ayyampettai near Thanjavur to Lakshmana Bhagavathar, Raghavan entered the film world as a child artiste in the film Krishna Vijayam . “His father was a musician and acted in plays. Raghavan also learnt music and acted as Krishna in Krishna Vijayam . Music director K.V. Mahadevan and M.S. Viswanathan gave him opportunities to sing in films,” said Vamanan, historian of the Tamil film world, who has published a few volumes on film musicians and singers. The song ‘Engirunthalum Vaazhga’ , which he sang for Kalyankumar in Nenjil Or Aalyam is unforgettable and equally popular is the song ‘Antru Oomai Pennallao’ in the film Parthal Pasi Theerum. In an interview he had recalled that it was late playback singer C.S. Jayaraman who gave him an opportunity to render a song in the film Vijayakumari . He also worked as a playback singer for the theatre group of actor Sivaji Ganesan. “He was good at producing peculiar sounds and western music notes. His talent can be explained by his contribution to the song Unnai Arinthal Nee Unnai Arinthal rendered by T.M. Soundararajan,” said Mr.Vamanan. He was a close friend of T.M. Soundararajan and together they produced the film Kallum Kaniyaagum. “Both acted in the film. But the film was a flop,” said Mr.Vamanan. Raghavan also produced Kannil Theriyum Kathaikal.  “He has rendered many songs for comedian Nagesh. He was good at spoofs. ‘Cheetukattu Raja Raja’ is one such song and he had performed it with J.P. Chandrbabu,” said Mr.Vamanan.
20 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK extends ‘full support’ to PM on China||AIADMK coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam on Friday extended his party’s full support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on any measures taken to deal with China. At the virtual all-party meeting convened by Mr. Modi, the AIADMK leader, referring to the killing of havildar Palani, who hailed from Ramanathapuram, said it “fittingly demonstrates” that every Indian, from Jammu & Kashmir to Kanniyakumari, would defend the country. The people of the State and his party stood “firmly behind” the Prime Minister and the armed forces. As our leader Puratchi Thalaivi Amma repeatedly emphasised, the territorial integrity of the country must be preserved at any cost, he said.
20 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin dubs AIADMK regime ‘U-turn govt.’||DMK president M.K. Stalin has dubbed the AIADMK dispensation a ‘U-turn government’ after itwithdrew a Government Orderon name changes to 1,018 cities and towns. He questioned why experts were not consulted earlier before the names were changed. In a tweet late on Thursday night, Mr. Stalin asked if the rulers had started believing that they alone were geniuses. “Shouldn’t they have consulted with experts earlier itself,” Mr. Stalin asked. He said the AIADMK government led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had become a U-turn government. On Thursday night, the government withdrew the G.O. after widespread criticism on the inconsistencies in the name changes. Tamil Culture Minister Ma Foi K. Pandiarajan told The Hindu that three different transliteration protocols were used that led to these inconsistencies, and the government would identify one standardised protocol to ensure consistency. A new G.O would be issued in the next three days, he had said.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin enquires about Minister’s health||DMK president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin on Friday spoke to Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbazhagan to enquire about his health. “After coming to know that Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbazhagan had contracted COVID-19, I spoke to him over the phone and enquired about his health. He should recover soon and be back to providing public service. All those engaged in public service should be extra careful,” Mr. Stalin tweeted. Recent cases A couple of days ago, an under-secretary-rank official working for Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamidied after testing positive for COVID-19. Four more officials, who used to frequently visited the Chief Minister’s camp office and his chamber at the Secretariat, have also tested positive for the disease and have been advised to remain in home quarantine.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pandemic triggers debate on changes to functioning of govt. departments||With a few officials at the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) becoming the latest set of COVID-19 patients among government staff, the question of whether the concept of work from home (WFH) could be tried out in an aggressive manner has become a subject of debate. On Wednesday, a senior member of the CMO, who had earlier tested positive for COVID-19, died at a government hospital. According to one school of thought among the officials, since there are options like e-filing and videoconferencing, there is no need for every senior officer working at the Secretariat to come to Fort St. George — the seat of power —every day. With a handful of reliable officers who could be put on rotation, the situation can be managed, even as the conventional system of the approval process is adhered to. The compelling reason for floating this suggestion is the need for maintaining physical distance. S. Peter Anthonysamy, president, Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association (Tansa), said there was “enormous fear” among the employees in general, as the virus had affected the entire range of staff, from IAS officers to middle-level officials and drivers. Pointing out that even now, only a third of the staff are required to report for work on a given day, another group of officials said that videoconferencing was fast becoming a “well-established practice” within the government system. Most of the instructions were passed on through WhatsApp and phone, they said. However, the kind of issues that are cropping up before policymakers is such that the idea of putting officers on rotation to handle matters will not work. Also, unlike in the private sector, where seamless migration to WFH is possible, the traditional style of functioning, at times, becomes inevitable in the government set-up, a senior official noted. For example, not every officer could be entrusted with the task of drafting press releases at this point in time, as the political executive’s advice had to be translated into words properly, the official added. Supporting this view, a secretary-level officer in the Union government, who is from the Tamil Nadu cadre, said, “It can’t be 100% virtual because of the way government is structured,” despite the fact that at the Centre, most of the ministries were on e-office, and electronic file disposal was possible from home. “You may have to dig out old files, for which you will have to come to office,” the officer observed. But, M.G. Devasahayam, a Nagercoil-based former IAS officer of the Haryana cadre, said that given the level of digitisation in the State, and with certain amount of fine-tuning of the system, e-filing or any new method of governance can be adopted in a big way.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal questions rationale behind total lockdown||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday criticised the State government for imposing a complete lockdown in Chennai and parts of Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts just weeks after relaxing restrictions. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said that the State government’s failure to test international travellers arriving in Chennai had resulted in a situation where people were having to face extended lockdowns. “The State government is attempting to create a narrative that the spread of COVID-19 is severe only in Chennai, without even testing properly in other districts. When will this government realise that this will only make people in other districts get a false sense of security?” Mr. Haasan asked, urging the government to carry out widespread testing in Tamil Nadu. Criticising the Chief Minister and his Cabinet colleagues, Mr. Haasan said they had imposed yet another lockdown without any thought. “They had already created panic by imposing a lockdown within a lockdown, and this had resulted in the Koyambedu market cluster a month ago. Even one month on, they are making the same mistakes. Though they have said that essentials will be available, don’t they understand that the people will panic?” he asked. Mr. Haasan said the State government didn’t listen to experts when they said that testing should be increased, and continued to test only 300-400 people in the initial stages of the pandemic. “That is the reason for the general lockdown and economic crisis,” he said. He said a lack of transparency in the sharing of information had resulted in the State government imposing lockdowns within lockdowns. “The State government should explain the precautionary measures that are going to be taken to the people and underscore the importance of cooperation from the public,” the MNM leader said.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jamabandhi to go online this fasli year||In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, the Tamil Nadu government, earlier this week, decided to receive petitions for jamabandhi online through e-seva centres for perhaps the first time this fasli year. A revenue fasli year is the period between July 1 and June 30. A Government Order said the State government had decided to dispense with petitions for jamabandhi at the village-level for the fasli year 1429 (2019-2020). The government has instructed District Collectors to settle/close revenue accounts only, which are being maintained, and issue orders accordingly. “However, the District Collectors are directed to receive petitions from the public through the 10,436 e-seva Centres across the State during the third or fourth week of June 2020, and to give suitable replies to all jamabandhi petitions without fail,” it stated. The Commissioner of Revenue Administration informed Collectors that petitioners can file jamabandhi petitions through e-seva centres between June 29 and July 15. Limited or nil public transport in some districts, prohibition of gatherings or congregations of five and more persons in a particular place and restrictions on the movement of persons above 65 years of age were cited as the reasons behind the decision. A senior official said this was “probably the first time” the jamabandhi was being held online.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown 2 keeps Chennai residents indoors, roads free of traffic||On day one of the total lockdown 2 in Chennai and neighbouring districts, the police intensified measures to assist the health and civic authorities in their effort to contain the spread of COVID-19. With the novel coronavirus cases continuing to cross 1,000 cases every day and the city “exporting” cases to other parts of the State, the government decided to aggressively impose another total lockdown from Friday. After being criticised for being lenient during the first lockdown, the police ramped up security around the city. Barricades were installed on arterial roads restricting the movement of vehicles. A section of Anna Salai and a few other arterial roads and bridges were closed. GST Road, GNT Road, Sardar Patel Road, EVR Road, Kamarajar Salai, Rajiv Gandhi Salai, Velachery- Tambaram High Road and other arterial roads were almost deserted. Commercial hubs such as T.Nagar, Pondi Bazaar, Ritchie Street, Kothawal Chavadi and Purasawalkam remained completely shut. Vehicle checkposts were set up in 280 places across the city and border areas. Police personnel manned almost every junction, checking motorists, especially the bikers. They arrested violators along with their vehicles and kept them in wedding halls till cases were booked. Only medical staff, vehicles transporting essential goods and Corporation staff were permitted . After reviewing the security measures, Police Commissioner A.K.Viswanathan said, “It's going to be an intensive lockdown in Chennai for next 12 days. As many as 2,436 cases were booked against people who roamed the streets without reason in violation of prohibitory orders and over 1997 vehicles seized in the city limits.” ‘Better public response’ Top police officers said the response from the public this time was better. However, no leniency will be shown to violators, they cautioned. T.Pandiarajan, an office-bearer of Tamilnadu Vanigar Sankangalin Peravai, said though many shops selling vegetables or groceries were open, not many residents stepped out to make purchases. In Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts, over 400 vehicles were seized on Friday for violation of lockdown norms.  It's going to be an intensive lockdown in Chennai for next 12 days  A.K. ViswanathanCommissioner of Police
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body found in house, tenants summoned||The Sankar Nagar police are investigating the mystery behind the death of a person whose body was found in a rented house at Pozhichalur. The police said Kumar, 60, rented out a portion of his house located in Venkateshwara Nagar, Pozhichalur to two youth — Sethupathi, 28, and Madhan, 28, of Sivaganga district. Following the lockdown, they left for their native places after locking the house. Mr. Madhan returned 10 days ago. After paying the rent, Mr. Madhan left the house. On Thursday, Mr. Kumar opened the house when a foul smell from the place and found a decomposed body. The police conducted an investigation and have summoned Mr. Sethupathi and Mr. Madhan for questioning.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two more COVID-19 deaths not reported, claims NGO||Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO, has raised two more cases of alleged “unreporting” of COVID-19 deaths in the State as well as “discrepancies” in the positive cases data in four districts. Earlier this month, the NGO had said three deaths due to COVID-19 were not reported by the health department. Of these, two deaths — one in Government Stanley Medical College Hospital and another at Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital — were subsequently reported in the bulletin issued by the health department, while one more death is yet to be reported. In a representation to J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, Jayaraman Venkatesan, convener of Arappor Iyakkam, indicated two more COVID-19 deaths that were unreported till date — a 38-year-old woman who died at Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate on June 6 and a 57-year-old man who died at Rajah Muthiah Medical College Hospital on June 8. He said there had been some improvement in reporting, the department continued to “cover up” many deaths. Raising issues related to transparency in data, the NGO said there was “discrepancy” in the closing and opening count of positive cases published in the district-wise abstract tabulation on a daily basis. Analysis of sample data of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore and Coimbatore districts showed discrepancies as the closing number of cases on the previous day did not match with the opening number of the next day. For instance, on May 28, the closing data of positive cases in Chennai was 12,762, while the opening data as per the May 29 bulletin had the tally as 12,744, throwing a difference of 18 cases. Similarly, there were 13 more cases between closing and opening data of the city on May 30 and 31.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK stands firmly with PM on any action against China||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday said his party stands firmly with the Prime Minister on any steps he takes against China to protect the integrity and sovereignty of India. Speaking during the virtual all-party meeting called by the Prime Minister to brief on the Galwan stand-off, Mr. Stalin welcomed Narendra Modi’s statement that India would protect its self-respect and every inch of its territory from any external aggression. “The DMK, and the people of Tamil Nadu, are always at the forefront, when it comes to defending our country. We will not retreat, when the battle cry is sounded. Let us go forth, as a country together, and restore the pride of India,” Mr. Stalin said. Paying his respects to the soldiers killed during the stand-off, Mr. Stalin said these sacrifices would further unite our country and give strength to the citizens. National interests “As far as the DMK is concerned, we have always stood in support of the national interests, on all such occasions. There are different parties here with different ideologies. Nevertheless, we are all united when it comes to patriotism, and in our hope that our fellow citizens have a better future. All of us here share the belief that our borders must be protected. There can be no differences about that,” he said. The DMK president recalled that the party had extended its support during the 1962 India-China war, 1971 India-Pakistan war and the 1999 Kargil war. “We have always worked to strengthen the hands of the Prime Ministers, be it Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru or Indira Gandhi or Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Today, we have no hesitation in supporting the Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that during the 1962 India-China War, the DMK was the first political party to condemn China, collect money and donate it to the India’s Defence Fund.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vedanthangal denotification plan flayed||Environmentalists on Friday slammed the Tamil Nadu Forest Department for proposing to reduce the boundary of the Vedanthangal bird sanctuary to just 3 km and called for an inquiry to be initiated against officials who approved such a change and sent it to the National Board for WildLife (NBWL) for approval. In a virtual press conference, Prerna Singh Bindra, Former Member, NBWL, Dr. Asad Rahmani, former Director of Bombay Natural History Society, Dr. Ritesh Kumar, Director, Wetlands International South Asia, M. Yuvan of Madras Naturalists Society, and Nityanand Jayaraman, Chennai Solidarity Group, called for the proposal to be dropped and an inquiry initiated against officials.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railway Ministry concerned over delay in clearing MSMEs’ dues||The Ministry of Railways has expressed serious concerns over delayed payments to suppliers, particularly micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), and directed the zonal railways, production units and others to expedite the disbursal of dues. The Railway Board, in an order, said that as part of the stimulus package rolled out by the Union government last month, MSME receivables from Government and Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) would have to be released within 45 days. “Delayed payments to suppliers, especially MSMEs, have been a matter of grave concern…timely clearance of dues to MSMEs is essential to ensure financial viability of this sector, which is essential for employment generation and economic development of India,” the order said. Pointing out that several representations had been received from the Ministry of MSME and the Department of Expenditure, urging the Ministry of Railways to take steps to ensure that dues to suppliers were not held up by railway units and CPSEs under the control of the Railways, the Board said that an exclusive portal — MSME Samadhaan — had been created, where members of the MSME sector could register their grievances or file applications on delayed payments. Drawing the attention of general managers and heads of major Railways establishments to the MSMED Act, 2006, which made it obligatory for the paying authority to clear dues to micro and small enterprises within a strict timeline, failing which penal interest was liable to be paid, the Railway Board said that delay in clearance of dues will not be acceptable.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||14,065 Tamils returned from abroad: Centre||The Centre on Friday informed the Madras High Court that 40,433 repatriation requests to travel to Tamil Nadu were received under the Vande Bharat mission, from Indians stranded abroad due to COVID-19 and so far, 14,065 Tamils had returned to India. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy were told that 26,368 requests were pending. The submission was made in reply to a public interest litigation petition filed by the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. When senior counsel for the DMK P. Wilson pressed for bringing back others too under Vande Bharat mission, the judges granted time till June 23 for the Centre to spell out its plan.
20 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Body of missing patient found in Cooum||A body retrieved from Cooum on Friday was identified to be that of a 65-year-old COVID-19 patient, who went missing from Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital recently, police said. Following information from public, Vaitheeswari, a woman sub-inspector of police attached to the Triplicane police station, along with other police personnel, rushed to the spot and found a body floating in the river adjacent to Swami Sivanandha Salai. Police suspect that he took the extreme decision due to frustration. Those with suicidal tendency can contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.
20 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||14 more persons test positive in Coimbatore district||Fourteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 across Coimbatore district on Friday, seven of whom were from the R.G. Pudur cluster near Chinniyampalayam. With these seven cases, 22 cases have been reported from R.G. Pudur so far, Health Department sources said. Two of the seven new cases were children aged eight and nine. All these cases are contacts of the 28-year-old man from the locality who is said to have died of COVID-19 infection. However, the Health Department has not officially declared that the death was due to the novel coronavirus infection. Sources added that 670 swab samples have been lifted in the locality and that contact tracing was under way. In spite of R.G. Pudur being announced as a containment zone, Tasmac outlets were reported to be functioning in the area on Friday. The other seven cases comprised a 98-year-old woman from Peelamedu, a 28-year-old woman from Theethipalayam, a 45-year-old man from Raja Street, a 70-year-old woman from Sirumugai, a 50-year-old woman and an 18-year-old boy from Karamadai and a 28-year-old man from Chokkampudur Road. All the 14 patients have been admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. According to the COVID-19 media bulletin issued by the State government, Coimbatore district recorded 244 positive cases so far, out of which 81 are active cases. As many as 161 patients have been discharged in the district. In Tiruppur district, two new cases were reported on Friday. One was a 30-year-old man from Andipalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits, who travelled to Chennai on June 8. The other was a 22-year-old man from Mangalam, who visited Dindigul on June 9, according to official sources. Both were admitted to the ESI Hospital for treatment. Three out of four cases reported on Thursday were cross-notified from Tiruppur district to Chennai and Coimbatore districts. The district tally is at 119 so far, with four active cases. A total of 115 patients have been discharged.
20 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Postal Dept. earns over Rs. 3 lakh revenue from MSME logistics||The Department of Posts that offers customised logistics solution for essential products made by Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) has earned over Rs. 3 lakh revenue in April and May from this service. According to Sudhir Gopal Jakhere, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, the Department started to reaching out to producers of essential products in the region immediately when the lockdown was announced. Then, it offered the MSME logistics solutions. In April and May, it moved PPE kits, masks, herbal powders and medicines. “We serve Mumbai and New Delhi too,” he said. The Department had a dedicated road transport network and also moved goods to and from airports. In the division, it had a dedicated vehicle that brought goods every day from Tiruppur, Madurai, Tiruchi, and the Nilgiris. In April and May, India Post earned Rs. 3.55 lakh from this service in Coimbatore division, he said. “We are ready to take up all kinds of orders. We have resumed booking of parcels for international destinations too,” he said. Global parcel service India Post would shortly launch global parcel service on the RS Puram Head Post Office premises. This was to cater to large consignments that need to be shipped to other countries. It would also open a common service centre at the Head Post Office on Goods Shed Road that would cater to needs of customers who need to apply for PAN and Aadhaar. The total revenue earned by the Department in Coimbatore division from parcel service, including speed post, business post and logistics post, last financial year was Rs. 17 crore. “We need to keep innovating and offering new services to customers,” Mr. Jakhere said. For instance, the Department would, this year, move textile products made by weavers in Coimbatore and Erode districts to Co-optex showrooms across the State, Kerala and Bengaluru. The priority would continue to be on parcel service for MSMEs that make essential products, he added.
20 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Industries need to invest in low cost automation’||Industries that are hit by labour shortage, following migrant workers returning home during the last few weeks, need to invest in low cost automation, said V. Lakshminarayanaswamy, president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore. At a Knowledge Series webinar on Friday, organised by The Hindu and the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, on ‘Conversation on SME Businesses in Coimbatore Post Lock Down’, Mr. Lakshminarayanaswamy said low cost automation would also help industries improve productivity. Manufacturing industries were facing demand recession now and expected normalcy only by the last quarter of the year. Consumers were reluctant to spend and wanted to save cash. Hence, industries were unable to use the capacities to the optimum levels. The government should increase its expenditure on projects to improve cash flow, he said. The government should also support MSMEs by extending the moratorium on repayment of loans for a longer time. While the industries here were facing challenges because of the spread of COVID-19 in Chennai, there were also opportunities. The government should help Coimbatore tap the opportunities in Foreign Direct Investments that were moving out of China and other places. It needed to promote Coimbatore as a manufacturing hub, he said.
20 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister urges banks to support MSMEs with required funds||Minister for Municipal Administration SP Velumani has urged banks here to support Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) with the required funds. The Minister held a meeting here on Friday with the bankers and heads of industrial associations. According to a release, the banks have disbursed Rs. 554 crore funds under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme to 8, 284 MSMEs. The District Industries Centre supported 397 units in the district last fiscal with Rs. 12 crore government subsidy. The banks should ensure that all MSMEs benefit from the scheme. Only with improvement in industrial activity could there be more job opportunities, the Minister said. According to Lead District Manager S. Venkataramanan, representatives of 17 banks took part in the meeting. Self Help Groups have so far received Rs. 23 crore as COVID loan (Rs. 13 crore) and regular loan (Rs. 10 crore). If MSMEs face any problem in getting the loan, they can approach the Lead Bank. The Central Government was giving thrust to dairy and fishery farmers. The schemes for them were explained at the meeting the lead bank was following up on disbursals for these sectors, he said. R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association, said that the banks, including the private sector ones, should support the MSMEs and those units having current accounts too. “The meeting with the Minister was positive and we are expecting better support now from the banks,” he added.
20 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Regulatory measures to check COVID-19 spread in Coimbatore||Fearing that Coimbatore may face a Chennai-like COVID-19 situation, the district administration and Coimbatore Corporation are clamping regulatory measures. Till May-end, the district had 146 positive cases. The tally rose to 244, with another 98 cases being reported till June 19, with many of these being imported cases. Since June 1, the administration had allowed around 15,000 persons to return to the district from COVID-19 affected areas, and there was suspicion that another 3,000 to 4,000 persons had entered illegally. As part of measures to control the spread, the Corporation cordoned off R.G. Pudur that reported a cluster of cases, the Flower Market in the city to bar entry to hawkers and sealed the Langar Khana Road to remove over 100 hawkers. Vendors at the wholesale and retail fish markets were also warned that these would be shut if physical distancing norms were violated. The Revenue Department, Corporation and Coimbatore City Police officials were maintaining vigil at the markets, R.G. Street and other crowded areas in the city to see if the civic body should re-impose restrictions. Collector K. Rajamani said he would talk to the Coimbatore City and Rural police to see if vigil at the district borders could be further tightened. He had also asked the Transport Department to seize the vehicle of persons entering the district without e-pass. Corporation sources said nearly 3,000 persons who entered the city were in home quarantine.
20 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||11 discharged from hospital||Eleven persons were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Friday after they tested negative for COVID-19 during the second test. The discharged included a 29-year-old pregnant woman from Samichettipalayam, Coimbatore, a 60-year-old cancer patient from Vellakoil, Tiruppur, a 60-year-old man from Ganapathy Nagar, two men aged 24 and 29 years from Coimbatore, according to hospital sources. The discharged persons will be placed under home quarantine for the next 14 days.
20 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NTC workers to get wages||The National Textile Corporation (NTC) will pay its workers wages for May by June 25. This was decided at a meeting on Friday in the presence of District Collector K. Rajamani between the trade union leaders and the NTC management. M. Arumugam, AITUC leader, said the management had agreed to pay the wages for its textile mill workers for the month of May by June 25. Operation in phases The workers would get full wages till May 17 and 50 % of the wages for the period between May 18 and 31. NTC mills would start operation in phases, he added.
20 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dak adalat||The Department of Posts will conduct divisional-level dak adalat on June 22 at 11 a.m. at the office of the Superintendent of Post Offices, Good Shed Road, and the regional-level dak adalat on June 24 at the office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, RS Puram, at 11 a.m. For regional-level adalat, the grievances should be sent to Assistant Director (mails and estt.), office of the PMG, Western Region, Coimbatore - 641002, before June 20.    Amazon Business has launched “MSME Accelerate”, a programme that is expected to benefit MSMEs in the region. It will feature selection, deals, discounts, and savings to help MSME businesses start operations after lockdown. The programme is on till June 20.
20 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Gang loots jewels, cash from house in Dindigul village||A eight-man gang looted jewels and cash from a house at Sukkampatti in Agaram panchayat near Thadicombu on Friday. Police said a man came to the house of Durai Athithan, an astrologer, under the guise of seeking advice around 1.30 p.m. Within a few moments, the others in the gang barged into the house, threatened the inmates with weapons and tied them down. They broke open the almirah, took away gold jewels and cash and fled the spot.On hearing their cries, neighbours rushed in, untied them and the police were informed. Superintendent of Police R. Sakthivel inspected the spot and held an inquiry. A sniffer dog was brought and fingerprints were lifted. Vedasandur police have registered a case. It is suspected that around 100 sovereigns and Rs. 35 lakh should have been stolen. On receiving alert, police intercepted a vehicle at Ponnamaravathi in Pudukottai district within a few hours. While the police nabbed five persons and the vehicle, the details of seizure is not known. Pudukottai police said that they have informed their Dindigul counterparts and would hand over the five persons to them. A 10-member armed gang had looted gold jewels from a farm house near Palani after assaulting the inmates two days ago.
20 June 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Student knocked down by train||A second-year engineering student, Loganathan of S. Pudukottai near Sempatti, was fatally knocked down by a train on Wednesday. According to Railway Police, the body was lying on the track between S. Pudukottai and Kodaikanal Road stations. It is suspected that he might have attempted to cross the track and got knocked down by Nagercoil-Tiruchi Express.
20 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power supply to two units disconnected||Officials of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) disconnected power supply to two units functioning in the Corporation limits where effluents treatment plants were not functioning properly. A flying squad inspected a tannery unit at Maravapalayam and a dyeing unit at Manickampalayam and found the plants not functioning and effluents were discharged into the channel. A report was submitted to the Collector and Chairman of the District Monitoring Committee C. Kathiravan, who ordered disconnection of power supply to the units on Thursday. On Friday, Mr. Kathiravan along with officials inspected a bleaching unit at Vairapalayam in the Corporation limits. He inspected the effluent treatment plant and also the precautionary measures taken against COVID-19. The Collector asked the workers to ensure personal distancing while at work and also wash their hands properly with soap once in two hours.
20 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Minister warns action against schools||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said that action will be taken against private schools if they are found changing the quarterly and half-yearly marks of Class X students. Addressing mediapersons at Kongarpalayam village in Gobichettipalayam block on Friday, the Minister said mark registers of Class X students of private schools were already submitted to the department and a special officer was reviewing it. “The government is monitoring the private schools and action will be taken against schools if violations are found,” he added. To a question on teachers’ association demanding conduct of special exams for government school students who did not write their quarterly and half-yearly exams due to various reasons, the Minister said that it was the duty of teachers to ensure that all students wrote their examinations. “We will consider all the problems that are highlighted and steps will be taken to rectify them,” he said.
20 June 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Two killed as tractor plunges into gorge||Two workers were killed after a tractor plunged into a 1000 feet gorge of a stone quarry here in Bagalur. The victims Pachaiyappan(22) and Amar (22), hailing from a Seelanaikkanur village in Pennagaram, were employed as stone drillers in Universal Crusher, a private stone quarry in Usthanapalli. The workers were navigating a quarry tractor when the vehicle plunged into a gorge. According to sources, the other workers were unaware of the accident, which came to light hours thereafter. Bagalur police are inquiring into the incident.
20 June 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Five held||Five persons were arrested on charges of performing a child marriage here on Thursday. Police said that the victim, a 14-year-old girl, was forcefully married off to a 27-year-old man on April 9. The girl became pregnant. When the news spread, Child Welfare Officer Vijayalakshmi lodged a complaint with the Karaikudi All Woman Police Station. After registering a case under POCSO Act, the police arrested the victim's parents, the 27-year-old man and his parents.
20 June 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Vennaimalai Murugan Temple to get better amenities at a cost of Rs. 3.50 crore||Public amenities around the famous Vennaimalai Murugan Temple would be improved at a cost of Rs. 3.50 crore under a tourism development project. The Sri Balasubramaniaswamy Temple situated at Kathaparai panchayat limits in the district attracts a large number of devotees. Fulfilling a long felt need, amenities around the temple are being improved now. Important among the works would be the laying of a blactopped road with a “paver-block” foothpath around the temple at a cost of Rs. 1.51 crore. A parking lot would be established at a cost of Rs. 30.85 lakh for the benefits of devotees arriving by vehicles. Providing drinking water supply to the devotees would be another major component of the project and Rs. 14.59 lakhs would be spent for this. A new borewell would be sunk and a 30,000 litre capacity water tank would be built as part of the initiative. This apart, a rest room for devotees would also be built at a cost of Rs. 11.56 lakh and stormwater drains would be built at an estimate of Rs. 1.32 crore to drain the rain water around the temple. Works inaugurated Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar inaugurated the works on Thursday in the presence of Collector T.Anbalagan and other officials. On Friday, Mr.Vijayabhaskar inspected the progress of works on a new Cauvery Combined Drinking Water Supply Scheme meant for supply water to residents in Athur, Manmangalam and Kadambankurichi panchayats in Karur Panchyat Union on Friday. The foundation stone for the scheme was laid by Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami in March this year. The scheme was being implemented at a cost of Rs. 8.91 crore. The collector well for the scheme was located on the Cauvery river bed at Mettupalayam village. Water would be pumped from here to a 1.45 lakh litre capacity overhead drinking water tank at Mettupalayam and then on to a 1.25 lakh litre capacity tank at Manmangalam before being distributed the habitations in the village panchayats around. This would ensure uniterrupted and adequate water supply to the residents, Mr.Vijayabhaskar said.
20 June 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Institutional quarantine facility set up at 7 places||Institutional quarantine facilities to accommodate persons coming from abroad, other States or districts have been created at seven places, including a private engineering college in Karur district. Only those with valid e-passes are being allowed to enter the district and all those coming into the district will be quarantined at the facilities for a week and tested for the novel corona virus. Those testing positive for COVID 19 would be sent to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital (KGMCH) for treatment while the others will remain in the quarantine facilities. Those who can afford it can also opt for paid hotel stay but would be monitored by the health authorities. Those quarantined at the facilities would be sent home only after being tested again after a week, the district authorities have said. Institutional quarantine facilities have been created at the Kulithalai Government Hospital with 91 beds, Velayuthampalayam and Manmangalam GHs with 60 beds each, Mayilampatti GH with 66 beds and Aravakurichi and Pallapatti GHs with 10 beds each. This apart, another institutional quarantine facility has been established at the M.Kumarasamy Engineering College at Velayuthampalayam in the district with 348 beds. Samples are lifted from all those accomodated at the facilities. Transport Minister M.R.Vijayabhaskar, while speaking after inaugurating new equipment including a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner at the KGMCH, said that as on Friday 98 persons were at the Kumarasamy Engineering College quarantine facility. “Only those who have not tested positive are kept at the institutional quarantine and provided with free food and other basic amenities at the facilities,” he said. All those who test positive for the novel corona virus are sent to the KGMCH, where 1,000 beds have been kept ready to handle COVID 19 patients. Mr.Vijayabhaskar also disclosed that as of now only 30 COVID 19 positive patients, including 27 from Karur district and three from Namakkal district, are undergoing treatment at the KGMCH, a designated hospital for treating COVID cases in the region. As many as 464 persons have been discharged after treatment from the hospital so far, he said and commended the dedicated service rendered by the hospital doctors and para medical staff. Earlier, the Minister inaugurated the MRI scanner installed at a cost of Rs. 6.50 crore, an endoscope acquired at a cost of Rs. 21 lakhs and an orthopaedic operation theatre established at an estimate of Rs. 47 lakhs at the KGMCH in the presence of its Dean E.Theranirajan and other officials.
20 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||CEO denies allegation that govt. school held exams||A government school here was caught in the wrong foot after it was alleged to have conducted exams clandestinely for some Class X students, whose half-yearly answer scripts were found missing from the school, here on Friday. The incident occurred at Mathur government girls higher secondary school in Pochampally. However, the Chief Education Officer has denied the incident and said the students had visited the school only to sign in the rank card. Earlier, the local media had received a tip-off that over 15 students had come to the school to rewrite Tamil and Science papers after the answer scripts of these students were missing from the school. The students were allegedly made to write the papers in an adjacent private tuition centre. When the local media had visited the spot, they were denied entry. Soon, the students were videographed leaving the premises.  When contacted, Chief Education Officer Murugan said he had spoken to a student and she said that no such exam was conducted. Mr. Murugan also played out the call recording of the girl student saying that they had gone to the school to sign in the mark register and that only five students had come to the school. Asked about the video recording of students rushing out of the premises in a hushed manner, Mr.Murugan said they were only seen leaving the campus. The School Education Department had directed schools to average out the scores in quarterly and half-yearly exams to make up for the annual exams that have been cancelled in view of the pandemic.
20 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Institutional quarantine mandatory: Collector||With a spike in COVID-19 cases in Krishnagiri, the district administration has declared institutional quarantine mandatory for persons arriving from other States or districts classified as red zones. Collector S. Prabhakar said in a release that institutional quarantine was mandatory for those returning from Delhi, Maharashtra, Telengana and Gujarat and from other areas within Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpattu. After seven days of institutional quarantine, they returnees will have to undergo 14 days of home quarantine. Upon completion of this, they will have to undergo a COVID-19 test. Cases will be booked against persons violating home quarantine. Vigilance will be strengthened at the border checkposts. Village level monitoring committees have also been asked to alert officials of new returnees from other districts and other States.
20 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Periyar Bus Stand project to be completed by March 2021’||With 60% of work being completed at Periyar Bus Stand under the Central government’s Smart Cities Mission, bus services will begin from the end of September. The bus stand and the shopping complex will become fully functional by the end of March 2021, said Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, here on Friday. Addressing mediapersons, after inspecting the Smart City projects, the Minister said that the construction of the bus stand and shopping complex was being carried out at a cost of Rs. 159 crore. The bus stand can accommodate 60 buses. The two-level underground parking lot can accommodate 400 cars and 5,000 two-wheelers. The shopping complex will also house around 450 shops. “Tourists who come to Madurai can buy products showcasing the heritage of the city from these shops,” he said. The Minister also inspected the progress of other Smart City projects like the tourist plaza and heritage bazaar coming up at Jhansi Rani park at a cost of around Rs. 2 crore. He also inspected the laying of heritage pathway at a cost of Rs. 16 crore. The pathway will run for around three kilometres and will connect 14 important monuments around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. The project will replace bitumen road with paver blocks and will create pedestrian pathway on either side of the road, he said. When asked about the inflow of large number of people from other districts, the Minister said that strict monitoring was being followed at district borders. “If anyone has entered the district without permission, we urge them to identify themselves so that they can be medically screened,” he said. The Minister also lauded the civic body for their efforts to divert water from the Vaigai to Mariamman Teppakulam through Panaiyur channel.
20 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Focus shifts to markets and logistic network to prevent spread of infection||The district administration and city police are concentrating more on markets and logistic network to prevent spread of COVID-19 infection. With the number of infected people on the rise in the district, Collector T. G. Vinay said stringent measures will be ensured to segregate truck drivers, cleaners and loadmen in markets from shopkeepers and customers. A trader said that the truck crew and loadmen involved in unloading of vegetables that arrive from various districts remain in the market area. “They also do not follow preventive measures like wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing,” he added. Positive cases have been reported in Paravai Market and fruit market in Mattuthavani. Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan had recently said that a survey conducted in various markets in and around the city revealed that only 30% to 40% of the people were wearing masks and most of them were using it in the wrong way. When the same set of loadmen are involved in loading of vegetables and fruits to other vehicles of local customers and traders from other districts, they tend to mingle with them without any social distancing. “We are going to implement social distancing norms strictly to reduce the possibility of spreading of infection,” the Collector said. Similarly, autorickshaws that are being used by retail traders in make-shift markets are crowded. Stringent action “We will take stringent action, including seizure of vehicles if the autorickshaws do not follow the lockdown rules,” said Commissioner of Police, S. Davidson Devasirvatham. He added that trucks were not allowed into the commercial areas of the city during day time as a measure to ease decongestion caused by construction work at Periyar bus stand. “Only small cargo vehicles are allowed with restrictions. So, the issue of truck drivers parking the vehicle on city roads and mingling with the local residents is ruled out,” Mr. Davidson said added. Trucks are allowed only after 9 p.m. when local residents are prohibited from venturing out, he added.
20 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MKU gets a new Registrar in-charge||V. S. Vasantha, Head of Madurai Kamaraj University's (MKU) School of Chemistry, has been appointed Registrar-in-charge of the institution, said Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan on Friday. Ms. Vasantha replaces former in-charge N. Sankar who was appointed unanimously by the MKU Syndicate on December 4 last year. Before his tenure, the post was held by Head of the French department R. Sudha, who was appointed temporarily on June 9. It has been a year since any professor has taken up the permanent post. Although the administration called for initial scrutiny of candidates for the post of Registrar in June 2019, interviews for the post have been postponed at least three times. Ms. Vasantha, who has worked for 10 years at MKU and has been in the research field for 25 years, told The Hindu that she hopes to work in tandem with the administration. Mr. Krishnan said that the decision to appoint Ms. Vasantha will be ratified to the Syndicate soon and that they were not part of the decision making process as it had to be made quickly due to COVID-19 and files were piling up. He added that the administration had already advertised for the permanent post and that the last date to submit applications was July 3. “Mr. Sankar said that he wished to continue research so he stepped down,” the V–C said. Sources at the university claimed Mr. Sankar stepped down due to differences of opinion with the V-C. A member of the MKU Syndicate said that Ms. Vasantha’s appointment violated the university’s statute as it was not an official decision made by the Syndicate. “Such big decisions cannot be ratified. Ideally, the V-C should have consulted us before making the call. That has been the procedure so far,” he pointed out.
20 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘More testing will contain the spread in Madurai district’||Owing to the 12-day lockdown in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, there has been a mass exodus of vehicles into Madurai district. Since June 16, 2,636 vehicles with e-passes have been checked at Soorapatti check-post outside Kottampatti, police said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that to follow the test, trace and contain strategy, mobile medical units had been stationed in Soorapatti, Vadipatti and the Madurai-Natham highway. The Madurai- Coimbatore and Madurai-Thoothukudi highways were also under the scanner, he said. On Thursday alone, 2,564 samples were collected, predominantly from the mobile medical unit. Those coming from other districts were put in institutional quarantine between 12 and 24 hours until they received test results. “If it is positive, they are sent to Government Rajaji Hospital. Or else they are sent for home quarantine for 14 days,” he said. Primary Health Centres in urban and rural areas had been asked to visit houses of those who have arrived from other districts and check their health conditions. “We also stamp them with indelible ink so that we can identify their date of entry,” he said. Those who develop symptoms have been asked to contact the authorities. Many returnees take rural roads ahead of check-posts to avoid institutional quarantining. “My driver has an inter-district pass and has a Madurai number plate. He came and picked me up from Chengalpattu and drove back immediately to Madurai. We told the police that we are coming back from Tiruchi,” said a returnee from Chennai whose permanent residence is in Madurai. He added that several others had taken similar short-cuts to get back as e-passes were getting repeatedly rejected. “We just wanted to come back home as we could not manage in Chennai,” he said. A source from COVID-19 wing of Government Rajaji Hospital attributed to the rise in indigenous cases to laxity at check-posts earlier. “Had we taken more samples, we would not be seeing this many cases. The district must continue testing in the 2,000-range so control the spread. Another issue is the bed strength at hospitals,” he said. The Collector said the number of tests taken had risen from 1,200 to 2,500 this week.
20 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SFI stages protest||The members of Students Federation of India (SFI) staged a demonstration in front of the office of District Chief Educational Officer here on Friday, complaining that private schools in the district were pressurising parents to pay fees, despite a warning from the Directorate of Matriculation Schools. SFI District Secretary S. Veldeva said that most private schools in Madurai and few government-aided schools were sending messages to parents asking them to pay fees for the academic year. Some schools have also put up on their website asking parents to pay the fees. “If parents don’t pay the fees within the deadline, the schools say that their children cannot continue their education in the school,” he said. Many schools have also started the admission process, he said. “When COVID-19 positive cases are on rise in the district, parents are forced to bring their children to schools for admission,” he added. Many parents were struggling to find jobs and were unable to pay the school fees, he said and added that the authorities must take severe action against such schools. The protesters also submitted a petition to the Chief Educational Officer.
20 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A chocolicious tea in an edible chocolate cup||A tea shop on West Masi Street here has started serving its customers using edible cups made out of biscuit and chocolate. Once a customer finishes a cup of tea or coffee, they can then eat their cups. This shop is an outlet of R. S. Pathy and Company, which started selling tea dust packets five years back. This outlet not only sells tea dust packets but also serves tea and coffee to the customers. These edible cups have been a huge hit among customers in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, says R. Vivek Sabapathy, Managing Director of R.S. Pathy and Company. “The cups were introduced a few days back. Within this short period, around 2,000 cups have been sold,” he said. Since the introduction of a ban against single-use plastic products, the company has been using new methods to serve tea to its customers, says Mr. Sabapathy. “Earlier we were serving our customers tea in earthen cups. But, simultaneously we were also working on developing edible cups,” he said. After a thorough research for a year, the cup was set to be launched in March this year. But, it was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. “It was launched post the relaxation of lockdown norms,” he said. The cup can hold 60-ml of cup tea or coffee for up to 10 minutes. A. Abdul Sikkander, who had a cup of tea on Friday, said that the introduction of the cup during the pandemic was a good idea as people do not prefer to consume tea in an used cup during these times. “Both the tea and the cup was tasty”, he said.
20 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Wear face mask: Minister||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar advised the public here on Friday to ensure that they wear a face mask while walking on the streets and at other public places as he had observed that not many people were following the rule. At a press meet, the Minister said that village-level monitoring committees have been formed to check on the number of people wearing face masks. They have also been inspecting the validity of e-passes at various points in the district border and ensuring that action is taken in case of suspicion. According to District Collector T. G. Vinay, who was also present at the meet, Rs. 19.49 lakh has been collected as fine from 18,843 individuals as on June 18 for not wearing face masks. From June 15, he said that the minimum fine has been fixed at Rs. 200. The Revenue Minister thanked the Rotary Club in Madurai for providing automatic foot operating sanitizing machines at the District Collectorate and police stations across the city.
20 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks response on three missing fishermen||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday sought a response from the State government on the three fishermen who went missing off the coast in Rameswaram earlier this week. A Division Bench of Justices P. N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi issued notice to the State govt. in the habeas corpus petition filed by Sahaya Denis Reejan, coordinator of the Tamil Nadu Meenavar Urimai Padukappu Iyyakam. The petitioner said that on June 15 four fishermen from Rameswaram – Malarvannan, Rajini Baskar, Anand and Sesu – went missing after they ventured into the sea in their mechanised boat. On June 16, a group of fishermen were able to spot Sesu mid-sea and rescued him. However, the plight of the other three fishermen was not known yet. He said that the Centre and the State must deploy adequate helicopters and high speed vessels to rescue the missing fishermen. He pointed out to several incidents of fishermen losing their lives and said that there was a need for air-ambulance services to be deployed along the coast in order to rescue fishermen in distress. The case was adjourned for further hearing.
20 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bail for Tasmac salesman||Granting bail to a salesman of a Tasmac outlet who illegally sold liquor during the COVID-19 lockdown in Ramanathapuram district, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed him and another salesman, the co-accused in the case to pay a sum of Rs. 50,000 each towards COVID-19 relief fund. Justice M. Dhandapani granting bail to Kottaisamy directed him, the main accused in the case and Poosaidurai to pay a sum of Rs. 50,000 each to the Dean, Ramanathapuram Medical College Hospital, for the purpose of providing adequate facilities for health workers. It was said that the duo, both working as salesmen in a Tasamc outlet had illegally sold liquor worth Rs. 7.72 lakh during the lockdown period. Following a search, Rs. 6.55 lakh was recovered. The court granting bail to the petitioner with conditions directed him to pay the remaining amount within a period of two weeks.
20 June 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Mechanised boats to resume fishing from Monday||Mechanised boats in Nagapattinam district will be venturing into sea from June 22 after 90 days due to the COVID 19 lockdown. Representatives of fishing hamlets have urged the Fisheries Department to make arrangements for auction of the catches in conformity with social distancing norms at the Nagapattinam Harbour.  ‘Offer right prices’  According to Fisheries department officials, exporters have been told to offer the right prices for their catch including squid and shrimp. Operators of mechanised boats had the option of venturing into the sea from June 1, but chose to wait as there was no assurance on procurement of the catches by exporters and other traders. The traders, on their part, had expressed problems faced by them due to interception of the loads at the check posts. The district administration subsequently convened a meeting of fishers and exporters to arrive at a solution. This year, the 61-day fishing ban period that commenced on April 15 was preceded by COVID 19 lock down restrictions that prevented fishers from entering into the sea. At a meeting this week, representatives of Keechankuppam, Akkaraipettai, Nagore and a few other fishing hamlets urged the Fisheries department to disinfect the harbour and to make arrangements for thermal scanning at the location. It will be ensured that 40 to 50 mechanised boats are operated every day on a turn system from June 22 onwards, officials said, adding that the safety protocol will be complied with.
20 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||16 COVID cases||Puducherry registered 16 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the active count in the Union Territory to 162. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said while 12 of the fresh cases were admitted to the IGMCRI, and three patients to Jipmer, a 35-year-old pregnant woman, was admitted to the government general hospital in Karaikal.
20 June 2020||SALEM /ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Police official, accused test positive for Covid-19 in Salem||An Assistant Commissioner of Police here has tested positive for COVID-19. Four persons accused in various cases also tested positive for the disease on Friday. While three of the accused had been arrested by the Salem City Police, the other was arrested by the Salem Rural Police. The police official is undergoing treatment at a private hospital and the accused were admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) P. Thangadurai said that about 30 police personnel attached to two police stations in the city police limits were quarantined and the stations disinfected. They were provided with masks, sanitisers and other safety gear. Police personnel have been advised to exercise caution while carrying out arrests, he said. In the rural police limits Ethappur Police Station was disinfected after an accused tested positive. Six police personnel involved in the arrest were quarantined. Erode district recorded three new positive cases on Friday. They were admitted to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Health officials said that one of them was a 25-year-old man from Valayakarar Street in the corporation limits where three positive cases were reported earlier. He is working at an auditor’s office and was involved in auditing at a bakery on R.K.V. Road in the past few days. Nine persons working at the bakery and six staff at the auditor’s office were asked to be under home quarantine, and swab samples were lifted from them. Two women, one aged 28 and the other 30, tested positive after returning from Chennai. Collector C. Kathiravan and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan inspected the disinfection measures at the containment zone on Valayakarar Street. Mr. Kathiravan said 51 houses were in the zone and officials were asked to ensure availability of vegetables, milk, drinking water, and mobile ATM to the residents.
20 June 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. rejected plan to sell milk to Lankan military’||The Tamil Nadu government has rejected a business proposal to supply one lakh litres of Aavin milk daily to the Sri Lankan military, said Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, on Friday. “The proposal came to the government through a private agency here. But Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami rejected it as the people of Tamil Nadu would not like milk to be supplied to the Lankan military that has killed lakhs of Tamils,” Mr. Bhalaji said. However, another proposal for supplying milk to parlours in areas like Jaffna and Batticaloa, where Tamils live in large numbers, is under consideration. “We are ready to supply Aavin milk to the common people of Sri Lanka, including Sinhalese,” Mr. Bhalaji said.  Meanwhile, milk procurement by Aavin has increased significantly during the lockdown, the Minister said. Procurement by Aavin used to be around 32 lakh to 35 lakh litres per day, and increased to 42 lakh litres. “Private players have shut shop in many areas and are not buying milk during the lockdown. However, Aavin officials and employees continued to buy milk from farmers,” he said. Despite the COVID-19 crisis, export of milk to Hong Kong and Singapore has continued. “This reflects the high quality of Aavin milk,” he said.
20 June 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Ganja peddler dies||S. Sheik Abdullah, 56, who was arrested on charges of being in possession of ganja, died while being produced before a Judicial Magistrate in Sivakasi on Thursday night. The Tiruthangal Police have registered a case of custodial death. A post-mortem was conducted in the presence of Judicial Magistrate II, S. Santhanakumar, on Friday. The body was handed over to his relatives later. The Sivakasi Town police apprehended him after he was found in possession of 1.100 kg of ganja near Sirukulam tank on Thursday evening. He was taken to the Government Hospital in Sivakasi for a physical fitness test. Later, he was produced before the Judicial Magistrate I, S. Kalyana Marimuthu at his quarters, when Abdullah complained of uneasiness and collapsed at around 10 p.m. He was rushed to the government hospital where he was declared brought dead.
20 June 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Released bear attacks vets||A sloth bear, while being released into the wild inside Kalakkaad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve near here, attacked and injured two veterinarians . The fleeing animal attacked the vehicle the vets were standing. While it bit the right calf muscle of forest veterinarian Manoharan, Muthukrishnan of Veterinary College and Research Institute, Tirunelveli, fell from the vehicle and got injured . According to forest officials, the forest personnel attached to the Kadayam Range, led by Range Officer C. Nellainayagam, had successfully trapped two sloth bears at Mudaliyarpatti and Bungalowkudiyiruppu last Tuesday after farmers filed complaints that they raided jackfruit orchards. While a seven-year-old female bear was caged at Mudaliyarpatti, an eight-year-old female bear was trapped at Bungalow Kudiyiruppu at 9.10 p.m. The forest personnel had used jack fruit as bait and the captures were completed within a day. After releasing the first animal, the team of forest and veterinarians took the eight-year-old bear to Koviltheri beat beyond Papanasam in the KMTR, situated about 30 km away from the spot where it was captured, on Wednesday morning. Dr. Manoharan and Dr. Muthukrishnan examined the animal for injuries. Since the bear was healthy and active, it was taken to be released into the KMTR. Whenever a caged panther or bear is released inside the KMTR after being taken in a tractor, one group of forest personnel would open the cage while standing atop the steel enclosure, another group standing at the top of another vehicle would take photos and videos of the animal running into the forests. When the forest personnel standing atop the cage opened it, the bear that came out went straight at the other vehicle on which veterinarians Manoharan and Muthukrishnan were standing to take photos and videos. As the forest personnel shouted, the frightened animal changed its course towards the forest for a second but ran towards the vets again and pounced on them. Though the shouts from their colleagues saved the duo from the wild animal that ran into the forest in a flash, it bit Dr. Manoharan on his right calf muscle for which the vet was given a few sutures in the hospital. Deputy Director of KMTR’s Ambasamudram Division Kommu Omkaram, who was present at the spot while the sloth bear was released, said, “Dr. Muthukrishnan was discharged with some bruises for which immediate medical attention was given. Dr. Manoharan will be discharged after the sutures are removed."
20 June 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Released bear injures two veterinarians||A sloth bear, while being released into the wild inside Kalakkaad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve near here, attacked and injured two veterinarians.
20 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Farmers moving towards mechanisation in delta districts||Mechanisation of farm activities has been fast catching up in the delta districts with the measures initiated by the State government receiving a favourable response from farmers. Ironically, it was the delta districts that witnessed vehement protests against farm mechanisation two decades ago when the combined harvesting machines were not even allowed to pass through the core delta region. At that time, movements were organised in every nook and corner of the Delta districts demanding that farmhands should only be deployed for agricultural operations. However, the organisers of such movements subsequently backed the 100-days job work scheme implementation with vigour and continue to support the job work scheme even now despite the fact that the implementation of the scheme is widely seen to cause shortage of labour for farming activities. The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme scheme which was promoted as an effort to provide income-earning opportunity for rural masses during non-employment days in a year has gradually become a year-long activity resulting in a situation where the farmers found it difficult to engage required number of farmhands to carry out agricultural works during the crop seasons. Thus, a paradigm shift was witnessed in the agricultural operations in the delta districts where the farmers have slowly moved towards mechanization of the farming activities such as sowing, transplantation, weeding, and harvesting. While large seed sowing machines made their entry into the rain-fed cultivation areas, small machines were used for sowing of seeds in filter-point and surface water irrigation areas in the Delta districts. A small farmer having landholding of around five acres in Kannathangudi Kizhaiyur in Orathanadu taluk, Thanjavur district, S.Rajendran said till a few years ago he would be struggling to complete the tilling, nursery raising and transplantation activities in view of the problems he faced in finding farmhands for these works. “But once I decided to deploy machines for tilling and sowing of seeds I was able to do these works on time with fewer employees during the last two years. I have invested just Rs. 5000 to procure the manually operated direct seeding machine which helped me to complete sowing of seeds in an acre of land within 6 hours. Since the deployment of direct seeding machine result in sowing of seeds like in the systematic rice intensification method, the weeding operation can also be carried out using machines,” said Mr.Rajendran. Advocating that it was high time that farmers move towards mechanisation of farming activities, G.Srinivasan of Ganapathi Agraharam near Iyyampettai in Thanjavur district, a progressive farmer said such machines were available at the cost affordable for small and marginal farmers also. If not the farmers could avail the machines offered on rent through the farming machines lending centres (FMLC) being set up by the State government involving farmers groups or women self-help groups in every taluk. Expressing similar view, S.Sundaram of Maharajapuram near Thirukattupalli in Thanjavur district, a progressive farmer, has suggested that the FMLCs should be encouraged to purchase small machines instead of investing in large-sized machines requiring huge investment such as combined harvester or tractor-driven tillers and land levelling equipment. Small-sized machines would be of most use for the small and marginal farmers. Lending of hand-operated harvesters or mini-combined harvesters would be much helpful for the harvesting of crop cultivated in the fields where large combined harvester machines could not be deployed, he pointed out. Meanwhile, the Tiruvarur Collector T.Anand on June 18 inspected the field demonstration of a mini-harvester at an agricultural field at Anumanthapuram in Needamangalam taluk and the Food Minister, R.Kamaraj inaugurated a FMLC at Prathamaramapuram village panchayat in Kudavasal taluk recently. While inaugurating the FMLC operated by the Prathamaramapuram women self-help group, the Minister said that machines such as power tiller, weeder, hand-operated and motor-operated insecticide sprayer and straw baler would be available on nominal rent at the FMLCs. A total of 9 FMLCs – three in Kudavasal taluk and two each in Koradachery, Nannilam and Valangaiman taluks – would be set up during this current financial year, the Minister added.
20 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Centre, State failed to control COVID-19 spread: K.S. Alagiri||The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president, K.S. Alagiri, has charged that the Central and the State governments have failed in controlling the spreading of COVID-19 virus. Addressing the gathering at a function organised by the Party at Orathanadu to mark the birthday of Rahul Gandhi, the TNCC president said that by not heeding to the suggestions given by the Opposition parties to control the spread of the virus the Central and State governments have created problems for the people. Pointing out that several migrant workers had lost their livelihood at their place of work and some of them had lost their lives while getting back to their native places by walk, Mr.Alagiri said had the Central and State governments had accepted the suggestions from the Opposition parties to handle the migrant workers’ issue deftly, the workers would not have faced such problems.
20 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Woman booked for e-pass violation||A woman who had travelled in an e-pass taken in the name of the another woman has been brought under police interrogation. According to police, the Revenue Officials have lodged a complaint with the Thanjavur Town West Police on Friday stating that a woman of Nandivaram-Guduvancheri in Chengalpattu district has arrived Thanjavur using the e-pass issued in the name of another person of Kizhalangam in Thanjavur town to travel from Nandivaram-Guduvancheri to Thanjavur. Hence, a first information report has been filed by the police.
20 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Worker loses forearm||Revathi (40) of Pattukottai, working in the Municipal compost yard, lost her right forearm in a freak accident on Thursday. According to sources, the mishap took place while Revathi was handling a garbage segregation machine. Her right hand was trapped in the machine and when she attempted to retrieve the same she lost the forearm. She was immediately rushed to the Government hospital at Pattukottai from where she was referred to the Thanjavur Medical College hospital, sources said.
20 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A sales manager of an automobile showroom was murdered near here on Friday. Sannasi, proprietor of the showroom, told the police that Arun Kumar, 34, had gone to withdraw Rs. 22 lakh from a bank and did not return. The police located his mobile phone location and went to Periyakulam bypass road where Arun Kumar was lying in a pool of blood. They found his two-wheeler nearby and the money was missing. The police suspect that some persons might have followed Arun Kumar and killed him to steal the money. Superintendent of Police Sai Saran Tejaswi visited the scene of crime and formed special teams to nab the killers.
20 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Hospital to get second lab within a week||With the number of COVID-19 positive cases, particularly indigenous cases, increasing in the district alarmingly, one more Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction lab to test the viral infection is to be commissioned within a week in Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. This is the second lab to be established in the hospital as the first facility was inaugurated on April 18, said Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju after giving away COVID-19 relief worth Rs. 8.13 crore to self-help groups and the physically challenged people and Rs. 7.74 lakh-worth welfare measures to differently abled people here on Friday. He said COVID -19 was posing a serious threat though frontline health workers were waging a valiant battle against it. Since no vaccine had been found as yet, people should cooperate with the official machinery in ensuring physical distancing and following safety measures. He said a team of Indians stranded in Iran would reach Thoothukudi on June 28 by an Indian naval ship.
20 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fishing harbour closed as trader tests positive||The fishing harbour, which became alive on June 1 after being idle for more than 90 days owing to COVID -19 outbreak and mandatory annual fishing ban, plunged into darkness again on Thursday night after a trader from Seythunganallur who came to the fishing harbour tested positive for the viral infection. Sources in the Department of Fisheries said disinfection was going on in the harbour since Thursday and it would remain closed till Sunday. After six workers of a seafood export unit at Pazhayakaayal near here tested positive for the viral infection, the unit was closed and disinfection was on. Moreover, other workers were being screened for the viral infection, Department of Public Health officials said. A commercial complex near Cruz Fernandez statue was also closed on Friday after two shopkeepers tested positive for COVID -19.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||63 more persons test positive for COVID-19 in central region||Sixty-three more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Friday. Among them, 13 hailed from Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts respectively, 10 hailed from Tiruvarur, nine from Nagapattinam, eight from Pudukottai, seven from Ariyalur and three from Karur. In Tiruchi, 13 patients, including two doctors at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, tested positive and a Tiruchi City Corporation employee tested positive. A 24-year-old female house surgeon and a 30-year-old female sonologist began showing symptoms of the virus after they attended to a pregnant woman who tested positive for the viral infection. While the house surgeon was admitted to the MGMGH, the sonologist is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. A driver with the Tiruchi City Corporation has also tested positive for the infection. Of the 13 patients, two hail from Manapparai and two from Marungapuri while the other nine belong to Tiruchi city. Four patients belong to Thillai Nagar, one from Krishnamoorthy Nagar, one from Varaganeri, one from Kuppankulam, one from Mullainagar and one from Eda Street. “They suffered from cold, fever and other symptoms and were tested for the infection. Source of the infection is being traced,” a senior health official in the district said. Of the 58 active cases in the district, 38 are admitted to the MGMGH while 16 are admitted at three different private hospitals in Tiruchi City. Two are undergoing treatment in Chennai and two others are admitted to the Government Ranee’s Hospital in Pudukottai. Meanwhile, 52 patients are undergoing treatment at the MGMGH. Of them, 39 are from Tiruchi, four from Chennai, two from Ariyalur, three from Perambalur and one each from Kallakurichi, Karur, Cuddalore and one patient who landed at the Tiruchi International Airport. Ten patients, including one from Perambalur, were discharged from the MGMGH after they recovered from the infection. In Pudukottai district, a four-year-old girl, two women aged 20 and 24 and five men- aged 32, 29, 30, 29 and 30, all of whom returning to the district from Chennai tested positive. Of the eight patients, five hail from Aranthangi while three hail from Pudukottai town. All patients have been admitted to the Ranee’s Government Hospital and are undergoing treatment. The total number of cases in the district is now 62 but 31 patients have recovered from the infection and have returned home. Of the nine patients who tested positive in Nagapattinam, seven were men and two women. A police constable posted at Pandhanallur in Thanjavur district had travelled to Nagapattinam where he tested positive. Another man, a 38-year-old returned from Bihar, where he had been working. Seven others, including five men aged 37, 47, 50, 47, 33 and two women aged 57 and 38 returned to their hometowns in the district from Chennai. All patients are undergoing treatment at the Periyar Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai .  In Ariyalur district, six men and a woman tested positive for the viral infection. Three men aged 41, 27 and 17 and one woman aged 48 tested positive after returning from Chennai. Meanwhile, a 38-year-old man who returned from Kerala, a 32-year-old man who travelled from Thiruvanalamai and a 33-year-old man who had been working in Bihar also tested positive. As on Friday, Ariyalur has 15 patients undergoing treatment at the Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital, two are admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH while one is admitted to a hospital in Chennai. A total of 174 new throat swabs have been lifted from people in the district and have been sent to the K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing. In Karur, three patients including a sanitary inspector of the Karur municipality tested positive for the virus. Another patient, a 27-year-old man who was to undergo surgery at a private hospital also tested positive. “He was asked to take a COVID-19 test before the surgery. Unfortunately, it was positive,” a health official said. All patients have been admitted and are undergoing treatment at the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. Thirteen persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Thanjavur district on Friday, taking the total number of persons infected with COVID-19 virus in the district to 214 as on Friday. The increase in the number of new cases was attributed to the arrival of several persons from other districts and States. The new cases were reported from different parts of the district such as Adhiramapattinam, Orathanadu, Pattukottai and other areas. As on Friday, 94 persons are under treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital . At Tiruvarur, ten persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection taking the tally of positive cases reported in the district to 186 as on Friday.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Owners seek nod to reopen gyms||The nearly three-month shutdown of fitness centres in view of the COVID-19 pandemic has left the industry high and dry with some gyms contemplating closure while some have even laid off several trainers. Over 75 days have passed since they last closed the shutters on their gyms and the owners are unable to take on the increasing pressure to meet the expenses. While salaries were paid to trainers for the month of March, some paid them half a month’s salary for April but are unable to afford them without any revenue, they said. Along with electricity bills, hefty rent amounts gym owners also have pending loans, says Vignesh Ramanathan, owner, Define Fitness Centre in Thillai Nagar. Seven staff members, including trainers were asked to leave at his gym and he continues to pay rent for the gym from his own savings, he said. “Along with the rent, the equipment in the gym is purchased on loan. These loans have to be paid off and cannot be deferred,” he said. K. Hemajothi, who runs an all-women gym near Chathram Bus Stand, said that along with the financial burden of paying off these debts, she worries about her customers. “Most women who trained at our gym found solace here. That one hour in a day would be a stress-buster, free from work, from family and all other commitments. During the lockdown, many of them have become stressed and anxious and are yearning to return to the gym,” she said. While many gyms continue to provide online classes and workouts, equipments are languishing in locked gyms. “Just like how cars need to be regularly used to be in good condition, some equipment needs to be used. Initially we contemplated going and switching them on and off but fearing action from authorities, we have kept the gyms closed,” another gym owner in Woraiyur said. A group of owners plan to petition the district collector to allow them to reopen the centres. “When salons can open, we can too. We will reduce the number of people per session and will ensure all norms are followed,” Mr. Vignesh said. Reopening gyms will only increase immunity and help people fight against the deadly virus. “The city corporation and health officials can provide standard operating procedures which we will ensure and will also sanitise the equipment regularly,” he added.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in input costs cuts down profit margin of building contractors||Though construction activities have resumed to a considerable extent after relaxation of lockdown restrictions, building contractors have their fingers crossed due to the sudden escalation in the cost of inputs. The cost of cement has risen by Rs. 50 for a 50-kg bag, and branded steel costs Rs. 8,000 more per tonne. Likewise, the cost of M.sand per load of four units has also gone up by Rs. 1,000. Earlier, a bag of cement used to cost anywhere between Rs. 350 to Rs. 400, depending on the brand. Steel used to be available in the range of Rs. 53,000 per tonne, and a load of four units of M.sand used to cost Rs. 16,000. To top it, the masons now charge Rs. 800 per day, Rs. 100 more than what used to be the daily labour rate earlier, according to Raja, a building contractor. "We cannot recover the higher costs from the clients. The concept of escalation clause does not exist for small buildings. There is bound to be a drastic cut in the profit margin," he explained. Kamaludeen, a cement trader in Tiruverumbur, said the sudden rise in the cost of cement is the reason why it is now being sold in loose for Rs. 12 per kg from Rs. 10 earlier. Labourers are also becoming scarce for loading, unloading and delivery of cement bags at the construction sites, he said. “For now, the traders of building materials are able to generate tidy profits, as they are in the process of clearing inventory that had stagnated in the last two months as the lockdown was intense. But, the margin will take a hit when we start getting new stocks,” a seller of branded paints and emulsions, said. The strain in the supply chain is bound to remain for some months since the manufacturers of building materials have cut down production to less than 50 % of their usual levels, the traders say. The only silver lining for the building contractors is that there is no scarcity of work force, and they can retain the goodwill of the clients by completing construction activities without undue delay.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers look for early finalisation of truncated portions in syllabi||Teachers look for early finalisation of the truncated portions in the syllabi in the wake of the School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan assuring that the content will be reduced for the 2020-21 session, in view of the delay in reopening of schools due to COVID 19 lockdown. The Minister had announced that an 18-member committee had been formed to trim the portions for the next year. Karnataka and other States had already announced slashing of content on the lines of the decision taken by the Central Board of Secondary Education citing the uncertainty over when the next academic year will begin. “We deduce from the Minister's statement that the quantum of portions for one term - from the usual date of reopening to the quarterly exams - will be reduced. That would imply that there will be no quarterly exams,” a senior headmaster said, adding, “The classes must have started by the first week of June. There is no indication as yet on when the new academic year will begin.” Right now, the topic of discussion is on how severe the community spread of COVID 19 virus would be. “In the school education circles, there are talks doing the rounds that the government would rather wait till September to see through the next wave of COVID 19 affliction than taking the risk of announcing early reopening of classes,” another headmaster said. The school heads seemingly have no idea about how the physical distancing norm could be followed in classrooms where there are more than 60 students, in the event of the government giving a go ahead for opening schools any time soon. Meanwhile, there are mixed signs from parents to the online classes being conducted by schools. The question of engaging students of government schools online does not arise at all, a panchayat union teacher said. Even in the case of private schools, there are instances of students from well-off families living in remote locations struggling to keep pace with the teaching-learning process due to connectivity problem, a teacher of a private school said. Some school heads say there is unanimity among the teachers of private and government schools that under the prevailing situation,the government would do well to rope in experienced team of teachers to carry out teaching-learning through live phone-in interactive sessions on television utilising its exclusive channel 'Kalvi', with separate time slots for the different levels. The writing assignments could be sent to the schools or the addresses of respective teachers by post, they say.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Coaches reduced in special trains due to ‘poor occupancy’||Days after introducing daily special trains during the lockdown from Tiruchi to Nagercoil and back and in the Tiruchi –Chengalpattu- Tiruchi broad gauge section, the Southern Railway has revised the composition of the two trains due to ‘poor occupancy.’ The number of reserved coaches in the Tiruchi – Nagercoil – Tiruchi superfast special (Train No. 02627/02628) has been revised from 19 coaches to 14 coaches. The revision in respect of coaches would come into effect from June 21. With regard to the Tiruchi – Chengalpattu – Tiruchi special (Train No. 06795/06796) being operated on the mainline section via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam and Mayiladuthurai, the number of reserved coaches have been reduced from 23 to 16 with effect from June 19. The Southern Railway administration has communicated the change in the composition of the coaches in the special trains to divisional railway authorities in Tiruchi, Madurai and Thiruvananthapuram besides Chennai Division. The communication has in turn been conveyed to the station masters of stations where the trains have stoppages. After over two months of complete suspension of passenger rail traffics, the Southern Railway resumed services on select routes including the Tiruchi – Nagercoil – Tiruchi superfast special train which began operation on June 1 with 19 coaches including eight second class sitting coaches and equal number of general second class coaches. As per the communication, the number of coaches has now been revised to 14 in this train. The Tiruchi – Chengalpattu – Tiruchi special was operated on the mainline section from June 12 with 23 coaches. Some of the air-conditioned coaches have been reduced to bring down the composition to 16 coaches. Railway sources here said the reduction in the composition of the trains was done due to poor patronage. Southern Railway has also been operating another special train to Chengalpattu from Tiruchi from June 12. This train, however, is being operated on the chord line section via Ariyalur and Vriddhachalam. In addition to these three originating trains from Tiruchi Junction, the Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi expresses and the Madurai - Villupuram - Madurai specials pass via Tiruchi every day.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||College’s community radio, UNICEF to spread awareness of COVID-19||The Holy Cross Community Radio (90.4MHz) run by the Holy Cross College in Tiruchi has been selected as a partner in raising awareness about COVID-19 in a national project sponsored by UNICEF. Titled ‘Mission Corona’, the six-month initiative will feature a 25-minute weekly programme in Tamil that will focus on issues related to the usage of masks, home quarantine, physical distancing, and elderly care, among others. “During this unprecedented public health emergency, we can come together to create a meaningful impact on the communities around us through ‘Mission Corona,’” said Rev. Sr. Christina Bridget, principal, Holy Cross College. With a transmitter that caters to a radius of around 5 to 6 km around the college, HCCCR’s listeners are mostly based in the slums of Jeevanagar, Dharmanathapuram, Kalnayakan Street and Kolathamedu. HCCR was named as a partner in Mission Corona by the Community Radio Association in Delhi. UNICEF has been reaching out to public service broadcasters globally, through community radio stations, with each partner allowed to tailor the topics according to local requirements, on COVID-19 prevention. Seven student journalists are part of the production team, led by Geetha Lakshmi, assistant station manager. “We are trying interview people who have been affected by COVID-19, and document their experiences. The programmes will try to give scientific viewpoints on myths about diseases, and also create awareness about prevention,” said a college official. HCCR’s programming will also look at nutrition and hygiene. A poster campaign to provide pictorial guidelines on safe practices is also on the anvil.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lodge sealed||A lodge in Samayapuram near here was sealed on Friday on the orders of the Collector after its owner was found to be using it repeatedly for prostitution. The licence of the lodge situated near the Samayapuram Four Roads Junction was cancelled. Police said Manachanallur Revenue Tahsildar sealed the lodge in the presence of the Samayapuram Police Inspector R. Madhan who had recommended to the Collector to seal it. Mr. Madhan and police personnel conducted checks in the lodge on June 4 and found that the lodge was being used for prostitution and arrested its owner Jayakumar of Echampatti. He was remanded. The affected victims were sent to the Government Home on the direction of the court. Cases against the lodge had been registered in 2015, 2019 and 2020.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New Postmaster General assumes office||A. Govindarajan took charge as the Postmaster General, Central Region, Tamil Nadu, in Tiruchi on Friday. Belonging to the 2000 batch of Indian Postal Service, Mr. Govindarajan held the post of Director of Postal Services, Chennai, prior to this. He had played a key role in pilot launching of Core Banking Solution and Core Insurance Solution in post offices in Chennai. During his stint in Kerala, he was instrumental in introducing Corporate e-Post with Chief Minister of Kerala as its first Corporate customer at the national level. He had also worked in the Postal Directorate, New Delhi circle, a press release said.
20 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Motorist injured by 'maanja' thread||A two-wheeler rider suffered an injury on his neck reportedly caused by a ‘maanja’ thread used for flying kite here on Friday. The incident occurred in the morning near the Melapudur bridge when Mohammed Abbas aged around 30 years of Varaganeri was riding a two-wheeler when the thread suddenly got entangled around his neck, said police. Abbas underwent treatment in a private hospital and reported the matter to the Palakkarai police. The sources further said further inquiries were on. No case has been registered so far.
20 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Vigil high on district borders following influx of returnees||With the influx of returnees from Chennai and districts surrounding it, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi authorities have intensified vigil at check-posts and on rural roads. When the influx from Maharashtra rose in May, Tirunelveli Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish visited the Gangaikondan check-post on Madurai highway, where she posted additional police personnel and created a facility to take samples from the returnees for analysis. Later she ordered installation of surveillance cameras for round-the-clock monitoring. When those without e-pass started using rural roads before the check-post to enter the district without being screened, surveillance along these roads were heightened and village-level monitoring committees were formed. When people started using Kavalkinaru check-post to gain entry without much of screening or inquiry, the Collector visited it recently and established a testing centre with police personnel. Those who enter Tirunelveli district from Kerala and other States via Kavalkinaru check-post are asked to furnish their details and blood and swab samples collected before being checked for e-pass. “After they are cleared at the check-post, they are asked to be in home quarantine for 14 days even if they test negative while the positive cases are taken to hospital once the results are out,” said a doctor attached to the Department of Public Health.  Thoothukudi When Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri grew suspicious over increased arrival of people from northern districts, especially from Chennai, before the lockdown, he inspected the Thottilovanpatti check-post on Thursday evening and personally scanned the e-passes for a couple of hours. He also blocked Meenakshipuram road ahead of the check-post which was used by those without e-pass and ordered the police to block the road with barbed wire. When Mr. Sandeep saw a group of 10 people walking towards the check-post after being dropped at Virudhunagar – Thoothukudi border, he asked them for their e-passes. When they could not provide it, the Collector asked the police to take them for inquiry. “Of the 19,993 persons from whom blood and swab samples were collected, 487 tested positive for COVID-19 and 329 of them have been discharged from the hospital. We’ve kept ready 1,600 beds for treating the positive patients. At Thottilovanpatti check-post, we’ve created an isolation camp for temporarily keeping the people entering the district with valid e-pass. If they test negative, they will be allowed to go home where they should be in isolation for two weeks,” Mr. Sandeep said. On the Collector’s instruction, QR Code scanning apps have been installed on mobile phones of all policemen manning the rural roads being used by fake e-pass-holders. “So far, 188 Maharashtra and Gujarat returnees have tested positive for COVID -19 and 89 persons from Chennai and Chengelpattu districts are found to have the viral infection. And, 50 more, who were in touch with these people, too manifest COVID-19 symptoms. So we’re intensifying vigil,” Mr. Sandeep said.
20 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Woman booked for threatening journalist||Tiruppur City Police on Friday registered a case against a woman on charges of threatening a journalist on TikTok. Subbulakshmi aka Surya released a video on Wednesday allegedly threatening M. Senthilkumar, a Tiruppur-based journalist with a Tamil television news channel, for broadcasting a report on her. Complaint Based on his complaint, Veerapandi police registered a case under Sections 294(b) (Uttering obscenities), 500 (Punishment for defamation) and 506(1) (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code on Friday.
20 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Duration of three-phase power supply may be increased’||Food Minister R.Kamaraj has stated that if needed the duration of three-phase power supply to farm power connections would be increased. Talking to reporters at Needamangalam after inspecting the ongoing Rs. 16.83 crore 36 MW electricity sub-station construction project on Friday, the Minister said hitherto 12 hours of three-phase electricity supply was made available to the farmers in a day. If needed the supply hours might be extended by another three hours in a day, he added by pointing out that the 225-megawatt power requirement of the Tiruvarur district was being taken care of through 26 sub-stations. In addition to this, two more sub-stations – at Needamangalam and Edamelaiyur - were being constructed and nine more sub-stations have been planned to ensure a proper and an uninterrupted power supply in the district.
20 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Six more test positive in the Nilgiris||Six persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris district on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases in the district so far to 30. The administration said in a release that all the new cases were residents of Udhagamandalam. Two cases are secondary contacts of a lorry driver in Kulisholai, who tested positive on Monday. The other four are a 22-year-old woman from Khandal and three of her primary contacts.
20 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works to be conducted at Ooty Sub-Station, there will be no power supply in the following areas between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. on June 20 : Entire Ooty Town, Finger Post, Khandal Thamizhagam, Hill Bunk, Kodappamund, Mulli korai, Charring Cross, Bombay Castle, Ketti, Nondimedu, Thalaiyattumund, Ithalar and M Palada.  Erode  In view of works to be taken up to remove electric poles in the market electric lines, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 12 p.m. on June 21 at Agilmedu Street, Nehru Street, Sakthi Road, Muthusamy Street, Nachiappa Street, Muniyappan Street, Vasuki Street, Theppakulam Street, Thillai Nagar, Masjid Street, Kandasamy Street, Market areas, K.A.S. Nagar and Periya Mariamman Kovil Street.
20 June 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Vehicle surveillance stepped up in Villupuram||The Villupuram district administration has stepped up surveillance and vehicle checks to monitor people entering the district from neighbouring States and from Chennai, where there has been a spike in cases. Around 20 to 30% of people returning from Chennai have tested positive.
20 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Quarantining is to prevent spread of infection among family members’||A man who sneaked into Virudhunagar district from Chennai a few days back was taken to quarantine centre after the officials got an alert from local people. Subsequently, not only has he tested positive, but also his physical presence with his family had led to four of his family members getting infected by COVID-19. This is not an isolated incident, say health officials. “People often find novel ways to pull the wool over our eyes and clandestinely enter the district and sneak into their homes. They think they can deceive us. But, in fact, they end up infecting their dear ones, if they had contracted the virus,” said Deputy Director of Health (Sivakasi) S. Ram Ganesh The very purpose of e-pass given for people to move from one district to another during the lockdown was only to trace them and their contacts, in the event someone gets infected by the virus, Collector R. Kannan said. However, in many instances, people have managed to enter the district without e-pass through interior roads. Mr. Kannan said that after people realised the gravity of infection, they started alerting the officials. Besides, village vigilance committees had been formed to keep a tab on movement of outsiders without the knowledge of district administration. “Quarantining of people coming from other districts, especially from COVID-19 hotspots, is only to prevent spread of the virus among the local populace,” Dr. Ram Ganesh said. People need not take quarantining as a stigma or burden. “Not all are quarantined. Only those coming from hotspots and those with symptoms are kept in facility quarantine. Those who can afford can go for paid quarantine facility approved by the district administration,” he added. The district has so far found 96 persons who had come from other States, especially Maharashtra to have contracted COVID-19. “If these people were not quarantined, they would unknowingly spread the virus among their family members and friends,” the Collector said. People should understand the fact that there was a possibility that they could have been infected and remain asymptomatic. “If they do not remain in quarantine facility, they would pose danger to their family members too,” he added. The police had earlier seized a van from Chennai that had illegally ferried over a dozen persons from Chennai without any e-pass but with fake stickers of State government emblem and Department of Disaster Management.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||58 test positive in Madurai||Madurai district recorded its highest number of cases in a single day as 58 people tested positive here on Friday taking the total count to 550. The State bulletin recorded three deaths at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) - one, a resident of Madurai, the other two were residents of Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram district respectively. An 88-year-old woman from Sellur with diabetes and severe head trauma arrived at GRH on June 15 and tested positive for COVID-19 on the same day. She died due to respiratory failure. This takes the toll to seven deaths in Madurai. Sivaganga district recorded its first death as a 78-year-old man with organophosphate (OPC) poisoning was admitted to the GRH on June 16 when he tested positive. He died the next day. An 85-year-old man from Rameswaram tested positive for COVID-19 on June 15 and died the next day due to a number of co-morbidities, including type-II diabetes, hypertension, scoliosis, traumatic paralysis and respiratory failure apart from COVID-19. With this, the death toll in Ramanathapuram rose to two. New areas where cases were recorded included West Masi street, S. S. Colony, Katrapalayam, Lake Area, Krishna Avenue, Sengappadai, Chinna Chokkikulam, Thathaneri, North Perumal Maistryi Street and Pasumalai. Collector T. G. Vinay said that three cases will be cross notified to Chennai and two to Ramanathapuram. There were 15 discharges according to the bulletin and 198 active cases. Madurai district recorded a total 21,461 tests according to the numbers collated in the Indian Council for Medical Research's (ICMR) portal in ICMR approved labs. It was ninth among the districts in Tamil Nadu. The State Bulletin also showed that Madurai district performed 6,050 tests per million population. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi collectively added 55 more COVID -19 positive cases on Friday. While total number of infections in Tirunelveli district stands at 584 so far, Thoothukudi’s tally rose to 529 on Friday. These districts have 179 and 181 active cases respectively. Two persons, both men, who have been undergoing treatment at Tirunelveli Government Hospital, were declared dead on Friday. The two districts are getting more number of indigenous cases. In the past three days, i.e. since last Wednesday, Thoothukudi has added 97 indigenous cases while Tirunelveli has 48 indigenous infections. Tenkasi added 14 more cases to its tally including 3 imported cases on Friday that took the total number of infections to 210 and active cases to 112. In Kanniyakumari, 7 more COVID – 19 positive cases, all indigenous cases, were reported on Friday that took the total number of infections to 151 and active cases to 59. Virudhunagar The district saw 15 positive cases being reported on Friday. Among them seven had come from Chennai and Coimbatore. A private doctor who had met relatives and friends from other districts too has tested positive. Collector R. Kannan, said that three persons who tested positive had come to Madurai from Chennai in a truck and had boarded a bus to Virudhunagar. However, he said that local people had alerted the officials about the outsiders presence. With this the total number of cases in Virudhunagar has increased to 179 After cross-notification of 17 persons, the total number of active cases in the district, as per the media bulletin, is 46. The number of patients discharged is 132. Dindigul Twenty-two fresh cases were reported in Dindigul district, which included a young practising doctor from the GH, a Tamil Nadu Housing Board employee from Chennai and a lady nurse from Ammayanakanoor near here. While 16 persons had travel history, the rest were indigenous cases who had contacts with COVID-19 positive patients.  Theni In Theni, the single day tally stood at 15. According to Collector M. Pallavi Baldev, the district had 185 positive cases and out of which, 123 were discharged. With two persons succumbing to the virus, the rest were all under treatment at Theni, Cumbum, Periakulam, Chennai and in a private hospital in Madurai, she stated in a press release.  Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram district, there were 23 new cases. District Collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that 15 patients had returned from Chennai, while two were from Coimbatore. The rest were from Ramanathapuram Town and suburbs. In neighbouring Sivaganga district also, eight tested positive. According to the doctors at the GH, eight fresh cases were reported on Friday. All of them had travel history. Four persons were discharged from the GH after successful treatment, the bulletin said.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector helps Tripura workers go home||Collector S. Prabhakar intervened to expedite the travel of four workers from Tripura in quarantine in the government facility here after he was alerted to the kidney ailment of one of the workers on Friday. The Collector decided to book a flight ticket for the ailing worker, just before a Shramik Express was confirmed. Earlier, Bashid Ali was worried about the festering pain in his kidney, as he stood behind the locked gates of the quarantine facility at the Government Arts College for Men in Krishnagiri. Mr. Ali along with three other workers are in the 18th day of their quarantine, locked, waiting for the elusive train to be sent home. For Ali, there is the added fear of his kidney pain aggravating, and giving up. “I need to go home alive to my family,” he says in desperation. Bashid Ali, Hussein Ahmad (20), Haseeb Ali (22), and Abdul Noor (18) had arrived here at the instance of their Chennai-based manpower supplier A 2 B Facility Services, for housekeeping work in Rajiv Gandhi International Matriculation School, five months ago. Mr. Ali, as house-keeping executive was on a payroll of Rs. 18,000 per month, of which he has not been paid any money. “Like me, other three also have not been paid.” The contractor transferred Rs. 5,000 to Mr. Ali’s account, after he insisted for money during the lockdown, when he got news that his baby girl was unwell back in his village. While in Chennai, he developed pain in the kidney region, and was treated at a private hospital. He was asked to return for check-up, but was sent to Krishangiri before that. “The doctor said there was some trouble and that I should go for check-up after the medication. But, by then I was sent here.” Had he known Krishnagiri stint was going to be longer, he would have brought his medicines. “My manager (contractor) told me it was going to be a week’s job. When we came here, the school asked to remain for longer time.” After the lockdown, they were given food and a place to stay. Late May, the school asked them to leave and the workers were sent to the Collectorate to apply for travel in the trains. It was from there that they were brought to the quarantine facility, where they have been quarantined for over 18 days. Mr. Ali’s pain has also been aggravating by the day. A policeman had been delivering them food thrice a day. “The policeman also gave me two tablets. But it has not helped,” he said. When The Hindu spoke to him, he said, his kidney was giving up. “I should reach home. My family had said, don’t wait for the manager to pay salary, just come home. I have to stay alive to take up jobs and earn.” As soon as the Collector was alerted to Mr. Ali’s condition, he intervened and followed up to expedite the process. Soon after, special tahsildar for disaster management Sathya called to state that a train has been arranged from Chennai directly to Tripura, which will also ferry workers from Assam. “The Collector had personally arranged for this. The workers will be transported to Chennai by the administration,” Ms. Sathya told The Hindu . “At first, the Collector said, book a flight for the worker. We worked out the cost and it came to Rs. 30,000. When I flagged that to him, he said he will provide the funds. It was just then the train was confirmed, “ said Ms. Sathya.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Absence of physical distancing norms at events questioned||The Coimbatore east district unit of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam led by MLA N. Karthik has asked Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani to explain if his and his partymen’s participation in various events in the recent past was in conformity with the physical distancing norms advocated by the Central and State governments. In a release issued here on Friday, Mr. Karthik said that he had learnt that the Minister was to participate in a series of events in the district after having shared a platform with Higher Education Minister K.P Anbalagan in Chennai a few days ago. When Mr. Anbalagan had tested positive for COVID-19, was it not imperative that Mr. Velumani also undergo test, Mr. Karthik asked. In the past few days, Mr. Velumani had inaugurated several schemes and participated in ground-breaking ceremonies to launch others. At these meetings, AIADMK men and officials were present in large numbers in violation of physical distancing norms, he said and added that people feared if such events could lead to COVID-19 spreading quickly in the district.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A fruitful bond||
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘15% of deaths could have been avoided’||The city uses the services of 400 doctors for fever surveillance. As many as 40,882 persons with symptoms have been treated by doctors at fever clinics, 17,011 have been tested for COVID-19 and 6,391 residents have tested positive for the disease. “One lakh residents in the city are on home quarantine. We have deployed 4,000 focus volunteers to help the residents on home quarantine get essential commodities. The volunteers will monitor violations. At least 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh houses will be on strong quarantine, with services provided by the volunteers. All residents will get help. At least 299 COVID-19 patients remain non-traceable, while 150 have been traced so far,” said Mr. Prakash. Hostel rooms Answering questions about the need for taking over hostel rooms of Anna University students, Mr. Prakash said the Corporation has invoked the provisions of the Disaster Management Act to issue notice for vacating the rooms. “We will open the rooms of students, pack their belongings and send them to the college management. The rooms will be used for COVID-19 care centres. We have powers to issue notices to private buildings as well,” he added. Many students have opposed the move to open their hostel rooms in their absence.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New initiative||Nativelead will launch Thendral, an initiative for better mental health for entrepreneur, on June 20 at 5 p.m. The launch will be live on Facebook and through Zoom.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Free online guest lecture||Coimbatore Productivity Council will organise a free online guest lecture on health management on Saturday from 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. Chief Executive Officer of Agna Inc P. Sureshkumar will conduct the lecture. Those interested shall join using the Google Meet linkwww.meet.google.com/dtr-iqgv-pnu. For details, contact 99524 04302 and 82200 003371/2/3.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||When motorcycles are meshed with yoga||The Big Biking Commune, a motorcycling community, is organising an online yoga session for bikers on June 21 to celebrate International Day of Yoga and World Motorcycle Day. Yoga instructors and motorcycle enthusiasts Yogabandhu Prashanth and Sameera Dahiya will teach asanas that can help the physical fitness of bikers. Big Biking Commune will also release a booklet Yoga for Bikers , which comprises 18 asanas curated for bikers. The live yoga session can be viewed on Big Biking Commune’s Instagram page (@big_biking_commune) from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m. on June 21. The online motorcycle community is spread across 1,500 clubs and has 25,000 bikers. Prashanth, who’s been a yoga instructor for 12 years now, explains how he curated the postures. “I am a biker. I figured out my yoga practices help me ride better. When I was in Europe some time back, I taught some asanas to a few professional bikers from Germany and Poland. They got back saying how the asanas worked for them” He adds that the asanas help the riders not just physically but mentally as well. “Last year, we had our first edition of Motoyoga, where we gathered bikers from the city to perform yoga under the supervision of yoga instructors,” says Arun Kumar, the convener of the motorcycling community. “This year too, we wanted to reach out to bikers across India through our online platform. The current lockdown situation can be utilised by bikers to keep themselves physically fit and have a stress-free mind.”
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fuel price hike hits finances of Road Transport Corporations||Road Transport Corporations in the State that are already reeling under huge revenue loss due to the COVID-19 pandemic are facing another financial hurdle — the consistent increase in fuel prices. Though services have resumed to an extent, the corporations are running at huge losses as their revenues are still way below that of pre-pandemic times. The rising fuel price has only added to their woes. All the four corporations in the State – KSRTC, BMTC, NWKRTC, and NEKRTC– purchase fuel in bulk. According to officials, in the last 14 days, the price of fuel has increased by Rs. 4.5 per litre, causing additional burden of Rs. 70 lakh per day on the corporations. “Our financial burden will increase by another Rs. 20 crore per month paying for fuel,” said an official. BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha told The Hindu that  the BMTC alone needs additional Rs. 4.36 crore per month for fuel. An official of the BMTC said: “Though the number of services have gradually increased, ridership remains low at around 25% , which has impacted fare revenue collection. Now, operational cost has also increased.” Together the corporations consume an average of 1,544 kl of fuel per day. “Governments are unlikely to reduce fuel prices at this stage as they are also facing problems in generating revenue in this difficult time. On June 1, KSRTC was paying Rs. 63.56 per litre; now it has gone up to Rs. 68.05 per litre,” said a KSRTC official. BMTC and the other transport corporations are not in a position to operate the entire fleet of buses due to poor demand and other restrictions. The corporations could not pay their employees on time in April and May. It was only after the State government released funds that over 1.25 lakh employees received their salaries. They have already approached the State for help to pay salaries for next month as well.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only 35 of 8,281 patients needed ventilator so far||Although the number of patients being shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) at various designated COVID-19 hospitals is on the rise, not many of them seem to require ventilator support. Ever since the first COVID-19 case was reported in the State on March 9, only 35 of the 8,281 positive patients have required ventilator support. As on Friday, while 78 COVID-19 patients were being treated in ICUs, eight were on ventilator support. According to ICU data collated by the State’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU), only 0.8% of the 1,000 ventilators available in the State are in use. The highest number of ICU admissions are in Bengaluru, with 0.75% of the 265 ventilators available occupied. In Kalaburagi, although 12 patients are being treated in ICU, the ventilator occupancy is zero. K.V. Trilok Chandra, who heads the CCSU, said that so far not more than 0.4% of the total positive patients have required ventilator support. “Ventilators are required at a stage when saturation starts dropping below 94% and when patients develop acute respiratory disease syndrome (ARDS). Although ICU admissions are on the rise, most of the patients are on high-flow nasal oxygen,” he said. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said the need of the hour was more well-equipped ICU beds. “As of now, the average ventilator occupancy in the State is 0.8% of the available ventilators. The need to connect a patient to a ventilator arises when the patient’s respiratory rate becomes fast with falling oxygen saturation. While high-flow nasal oxygen followed by non-invasive ventilation is first given to any patient who requires mechanical ventilation, ventilator support is the last option, and this is followed as a matter of protocol and strategy of treatment. However, not all those who are connected to a ventilator survive,” he said. Admitting that the Health Department’s plan to procure 1,500 ventilators has been delayed, Dr. Manjunath said, “The Centre has promised to give around 300 ventilators to the State. There is a supply shortage because the functioning of manufacturing units has been hit and it has also become difficult to import.” “Well-equipped ICU facilities with round-the-clock availability of doctors and good nursing staff is what we need most now. The focus should be on strengthening emergency services and training technical staff in using ventilators,” he added.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1.2 lakh lockdown violations reported since March 23: Govt.||Around 1.2 lakh instances of violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms have been reported from across the State since March 23, and 4,947 FIRs have been registered so far, the State government told the High Court of Karnataka on Friday. The government said complaints have been lodged under provisions of the Disaster Management (DM) Act against 59 persons for violating lockdown guidelines following the death of Kannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja on June 7. Meanwhile, a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy pointed out that around 40% of the people coming to Cubbon Park in Bengaluru in the morning do not wear masks. Machinery for plaints The Bench emphasised the need for a machinery to receive complaints on such violations. It was hearing a PIL petition filed by the city-based Letzkit Foundation about the violation of lockdown norms by the public as well as politicians and others. Additional Advocate General M. Dhyan Chinnappa also pointed out that while some complaints were lodged when people violated the lockdown norms near the hospital where the actor breathed his last, a few were also lodged against persons for following the vehicle in which the actor’s body was carried to a farm house for the funeral. The government also told the court that 10,843 persons have been arrested in connection with lockdown violations, and a penalty of Rs. 3.73 crore collected so far, besides the seizing of 1.05 vehicles since March 23. Call 100 for violations It was also pointed out by the government that people can call the toll free number 100 for police control rooms across all districts to lodge complaints about lockdown guideline violations at any time, and the necessary instructions for handling such complaints had already been issued to the police stations. The State government also said the station house officers of police stations, not below the rank of sub-inspector of police, have been authorised since April 4 to lodge complaints related to violations of the DM Act before the jurisdictional courts. ‘Legally enforceable’ Earlier, referring to a memo submitted on behalf of the Union government, Additional Solicitor General of India (Karnataka High Court) M.B. Naragund said that all the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued for various establishments such as places of worship, restaurants, hotels, and malls were legally enforceable. Any violation of the procedure laid down will attract penal action under provisions of the DM Act as the SOPs form part of the guidelines issued by the competent authority under the Act, he said.  The data 1,20,327 instances of lockdown/curfew violations  4,947 FIRs registered   10,843 persons arrested  1,05,158 vehicles seized  Rs. 3,73,59,700 collected in fines
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dubbed content floods Kannada channels||Of the 75 odd daily serials that were being aired on Kannada General Entertainment Channels (GECs) before the lockdown, 30 of them have now been discontinued. Instead, dubbed content from other languages, especially Hindi, are taking over those slots. At least 4,000 people working on these serials have lost their jobs, estimates Karnataka Television Association. What started withMalgudi Daysbeing aired in Kannada during lockdown has now expanded to include several others. While presently only dubbed mythologicals are being aired, several contemporary social serials from Hindi, Telugu and Tamil are being dubbed and will soon start airing, sources said. A first for television This is the first time dubbed content is being aired on Kannada television, as there had been an unofficial ban on dubbing content into Kannada since late 1960s when Dr. Rajkumar led a movement against dubbing to protect a nascent Kannada film market. However, Competition Commission of India recently said such a ban was against fair practices of the market and outlawed it. A delegation led by senior directors and producers of the industry under the banner of Kannada Television Association, petitioned the State government — Revenue Minister R. Ashok — to intervene and hold parleys with channel managements to “save livelihoods and Kannada culture.” Paying the price Not just the Kannada TV industry, but culturally Kannada too is paying the price for not being enterprising and starting native channels completely owned in the State, say industry veterans. For instance, Tamil, Malayalam and Telugu have had large networks of native GECs, which also have channels in Kannada. Except for Kasturi TV, owned by H.D. Kumaraswamy, we do not have a single native GEC in Kannada. “This has made us all the more vulnerable to the ‘network effect’. During a downtime like we are in now, the channel managements want to dump content they produce in their primary language by dubbing it into channels they run in other languages. With no GECs except one of our own, our audience will have no choice but to consume what is aired,” said veteran film-maker and television producer B. Suresha. “This is a serious threat to not only livelihoods, but also to Kannada culture, as the market dynamics may soon make Kannada native content sparse on television,” he added. But Arun Javgal of Kannada Grahakara Koota that campaigned for lifting a ban on dubbing and even petitioned GECs to start airing dubbed content, said these were initial days of dubbing. “In the long run, dubbed content will not dominate the entire market. Our stance has always been that audience have to have a choice and hence dubbing cannot be banned. “Presently, channels are taking to dubbed content due to lack of new content being produced. If people do not like dubbed content, channels will eventually come back to original content,” he argued. A law to regulate dubbing? The industry body has called for regulations on airing dubbed content in Kannada. “There has never been a law on dubbing in the State. It is high time the government intervenes and legislates regulations on airing dubbed content. Protectionist measures have been implemented across the globe even in trade, why not for culture,” asked Shivakumar, president, KTVA.  This is a serious threat to not only livelihoods, but also to Kannada culture, as the market dynamics may soon make Kannada native content sparse on television B. Suresha, film-maker and television producer   In the long run, dubbed content will not dominate the entire market. Our stance is that audience have to have a choice and hence dubbing cannot be banned Arun Javgal, Kannada Grahakara Koota
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5 held for murder of MD of steel firm||The city police have cracked the recent murder of an industrialist from Ballari and arrested five hitmen. The investigation has revealed that the deceased's son and brother had given a supari for the killing over a property dispute, and the duo is still at large, said a police officer. Singanamala Madhav, managing director, Bellary Steel and Alloys Ltd., a publicly listed company, was killed on February 14 by two bikers as he was entering the colony he lived in, in Talaghattapura in Bengaluru. In their complaint, some members of his family said that they suspected his son Harikrishna and his younger brother Shivaram Prasad. They alleged that there was a property dispute running in the family and the duo had allegedly attempted to kill Singanamala Madhav in the past. He had lodged multiple cases of assault, attempt to murder and kidnap against the duo in various police stations in the city. They have been absconding ever since the murder. “Madhav was staying with his younger son and had parted ways with his elder son Harikrishna, who had been pestering him for a property worth over Rs. 100 crore,” sources said. The investigation led the police to Riyaz, a notorious rowdy sheeter from Madgaon, Goa. He was also on the run and was caught after a two-month-long pursuit. During questioning, he claimed to have taken a supari of Rs. 25 lakh from Harikrishna and Shivaram Prasad to kill Madhav. He carried out the crime with four of his associates – Sharukh Mansoor, 24, from Madgaon, Goa; Shahbaz, 23, Adil Khan, 28 and Salman, 24, all from Bengaluru. All of them have been arrested. Investigations revealed that Harikrishna and Shivaram Prasad had earlier given two contracts to two different teams, but when they failed to kill Madhav, they approached Riyaz who was paid Rs. 7.5 lakh as advance, said the police. The gang studied Madhav’s movements and decided to kill him on his daily walk near his house. Police are searching for Harikrishna and Shivaram Prasad.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Garbage vehicles being fitted with GPS trackers||While fitting GPS trackers on all garbage collection vehicles, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has discovered that 10% of the vehicles on record are either ‘missing’ or are unfit. The civic body has on record over 4,200 auto-tippers and around 550 compactors. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep told The Hindu that vehicles ‘missing’ meant that they didn’t come to the designated spot in the division for fitting of the GPS trackers. “We also found some vehicles did not have the self-start mechanism or had malfunctioning batteries, which meant that the GPS would not function. We have asked the contractors to change such vehicles,” he said. He added that the number of vehicles on the field compared to those on record may actually drop once the process is complete. “The trackers are being fitted only after verification of the registration number and fitness of the vehicle is certified by the zonal office,” he added. Not the first time This is not the first time that garbage vehicles have gone ‘missing’. Last year, when the BBMP attempted to digitise its records and installed RFID chips on vehicles, several vehicles remained ‘absent’. It was alleged that this was a scam amounting to around Rs. 250 crore, as the civic body had been paying bills for the ‘missing’ vehicles for two years. “Once the GPS trackers are fitted, we will have a concrete record of vehicles on the field. We will also be able to track their movement,” Mr. Randeep said. The fitting of GPS trackers was taken up recently and is expected to be completed by the second week of July. So far, GPS trackers have been fitted on over 355 vehicles. “The fitting of GPS trackers on all vehicles was to be completed by June-end. We are trying to expedite it and have directed the vendor to deploy additional teams,” he added.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Crisis for senior actors||Senior actors, above the age of 60, are in a bind over whether to resume shooting for film and television projects given that older people are more vulnerable to the corona virus. While many are keen to get back to work despite the risk, production houses remain wary as the government advisory states that they should avoid casting children below the age of 10 and senior artists over 60. This has left many people jobless. Malathishree Mysore, a senior professional theatre actor who works in TV serials and films, has been struggling to make ends meet. “I have been solely dependent on my acting assignments all my life. It has been over three months since I got any work. Though shootings are resuming, production houses are not calling me back. Either we suffer joblessness and hunger or take a health risk and resume working” she said adding the government's relief package of Rs. 2,000 did little to ease her financial burden. “Industry insiders say it may be the end of the year before we get back to work. I don’t know how I will survive that long without work,” she added. Senior artist V. Manjulamma finds himself in a similar position. “It has been two months since I paid rent as there is no work coming my way,” she said. While actors like Ms. Manjulamma are aware that the health advisory is for their own safety, they say that the pandemic has robbed them of the means to earn a living with dignity. Senior film actor H.G. Dattatreya, popularly known as Dattanna, said there is no legal ban on senior citizens taking part in film shoots. “I am ready to go back to work, and I will take all the necessary precautions,” he said. “It is not only about money. For actors, our job is also a way to express ourselves.” He argued that by barring them, production houses are giving the impression that they are not wanted. “This has affected the psyche of actors. As a law-abiding citizen, I have been mostly indoors during the lockdown. But now, I want to get back to work,” he said. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said that the yet-to-be notified guidelines for film shoots, has no ban on senior actors, but has mandated a medical clearance certificate for them to join a shoot. However, a senior producer admitted that most production houses do not want to take the risk of having senior actors on the set. “If anything goes wrong, the producer will be held accountable. In such a scenario, we are not in a position to take on the additional risk of involving senior citizens, who are all more vulnerable to COVID-19, at least for now,” he said.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||STP and sewerage network projects at KC Valley delayed||The construction of the 150 MLD Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) at Koramangala-Challaghatta (KC Valley) and laying of sewerage network will not be completed by July-end as planned. Senior officials of the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) admitted that work had come to halt on account of the lockdown. Though restrictions have eased, labour is a problem. A senior BWSSB engineer said that with migrants heading to their hometowns, getting labour was a problem. “We had around 300 labourers working on the STP. Now, it has come down to around 90,” the official said. The STP, once completed, will play a crucial role in the rejuvenation, maintenance and protection of the infamous Bellandur and Varthur lakes. According to the interim report of the National Green Tribunal-appointed committee to oversee the rejuvenation and protection of Agara, Bellandur and Varthur lakes, the STP was slated to be completed by July 30. The committee had directed BWSSB to set up all the STPs related to Bellandur and Varthur lakes and lay the sewerage network before September 30. These works, too, may see a delay. Gangadhar B.C., chief engineer (wastewater management), BWSSB, said they anticipate a delay of six to eight months. “The 210 MLD-capacity Intermediate Sewage Pumping Station (ISPS) at Koramangala Sports Complex is ready. It is from here sewage will be pumped to KC valley STP,” he said. However, the laying of the 1,800 mm pipeline in the storm water drain to pump sewage from ISPS to KC Valley STP, which was scheduled to be completed before the KC Valley STP, has also been delayed. Work on four km of the 5.3 km has been completed. Mr. Gangadhar said that the onset of the monsoon will also affect deadlines. “But the pipes will be laid before the completion of the STP.” A senior BWSSB official told The Hindu that BWSSB would write to NGT on the delay. “Around 80% of the STP work is complete. The delay has been due to unforeseen circumstances,” the official said. Two STPs linked to Bellandur and Varthur lakes – Sarakki (5 MLD) and Hulimavu (10 MLD) – have been completed and commissioned. The STP at Agaram was recently completed and the STP at Chikkabeguru will be completed by July 2020.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Minister shifts official meetings to Vidhana Soudha||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday shifted his official meetings to the Vidhana Soudha for getting his home office ‘Krishna’ sanitised by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) staff. Following a suspected COVID-19 case in a constable posted at the home office, the Chief Minister shifted two official meetings to the State Secretariat, sources in the CMO said. BBMP staff took up sanitisation of the premises of Vikasa Soudha and Vidhana Soudha on Friday morning. The government had asked all Vikasa Soudha employees to work from home on the day. The government has instructed all employees of the Vidhana Soudha and Vikasa Soudha to undergo tests at their respective buildings. Screenings will be held on Friday, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday. This is subsequent to an employee at Vikasa Soudha, working for the Food and Civil Supplies Department, testing positive. The public was barred from visiting the building.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police battle invisible enemy with more precautionary measures||Of the 36 policemen who have tested positive for COVID-19, 28 are being treated currently. “Fortunately, all 28 are recovering well and have reported no complications,” said City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. Seven personnel have been discharged, while one assistant sub-inspector has died. A bulk of these cases were reported over the last two weeks, raising concern among personnel, who are worried not only about themselves but also about their family members. Mr. Rao addressed over 12,500 personnel in a webinar on Thursday evening. “The message I wanted to deliver is this: don’t lose your spirit. Do your duty, but take all necessary precautions and the government is there to take care of you,” he told The Hindu . Policing has become increasingly risky as the personnel who contracted the virus were either on duty in containment zones or in contact with accused persons brought to police stations for interrogation. “We cannot not do policing either. So we have now issued SOPs stating that any accused, before being brought to the police station, should be made to take a bath, wear a fresh set of clothes, have their nails cut, and undergo testing for COVID-19,” he said. Five police stations — City Market Traffic, V.V. Puram Traffic, Sampangiram Nagar, Marathahalli, and Kalasipalya — as well as the headquarters of the Central Crime Branch are sealed at present. The Soladevanahalli police station, which had been sealed, is operational again. “The family members of the assistant sub-inspector who was diagnosed with COVID-19 after his death did not come forward to conduct his last rites, fearing contracting the infection. Our policemen did the last rites,” Mr. Rao said, adding that he had written to the State government to make arrangements for a group insurance claim of Rs. 50 lakh for the deceased policeman. Meanwhile, more than 6,000 policemen have till date been tested for COVID-19 in the city. “As we are yet to test all our personnel, those who tested negative a few weeks ago need to be tested again as they may have contracted the infection while on duty later. This is an ongoing process we are trying to keep pace with,” Mr. Rao said.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Don’t increase fees this year, govt. tells private unaided schools||The Karnataka government has directed private unaided schools not to enhance the fees for the academic year 2020-21. In a circular issued on Friday, the government warned of action if schools increased the tuition fee. The circular stated that the government received numerous requests from parents of children studying in private unaided educational institutions not to hike fees because of the financial crisis resulting out of the COVID 19 pandemic. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka said the government issued the clarification because some schools had increased the fees. “The government had said earlier that no fees should be increased this year. But some schools increased the fees, which is not acceptable during this time,” he added.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SOPs for care centres||Following the recent announcement by Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar that asymptomatic patients would be treated in COVID care centres instead of hospitals, the State government on Friday issued guidelines for clinical assessment and admission of asymptomatic patients into these centres. Admission will be based on a rapid assessment of positive patients by the district surveillance officer. This includes recording the person’s body temperature, oxygen saturation level, and comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, TB, HIV, cancer, stroke, and pregnancy. “If the person has a body temperature above 37.5°C and the oxygen saturation level is below 94%, and if the person is aged above 60 years or suffers from known comorbid conditions, he or she should be taken to a dedicated COVID hospital or appropriate private hospital as opted by the patient,” the SOP document states. All other patients should be taken to dedicated COVID care health centre or a private hospital. The patients will be assessed clinically, and if after evaluation they are asymptomatic, they will be shifted to COVID care centres.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||MTB set to be one of the richest legislators||N. Nagaraju (MTB), the BJP’s nominee for the Legislative Council elections, is going to be one of the richest legislators in the State. Mr. Nagaraju, a businessman by profession, has fixed deposits of Rs. 144.41 crore in his 155 bank accounts. His wife has fixed deposits of Rs. 34.08 crore in 42 bank accounts, according to an affidavit by the candidate. Mr. Nagaraju has over Rs. 20.26 crore across 14 saving accounts while his wife has Rs. 11.21 crore in four . Mr. Nagaraju has Rs. 30.5 lakh cash in hand, while his wife has Rs. 45.6 lakh in hand. The former Minister, who quit the Congress and joined the BJP last year, has investments of Rs. 9.15 crore in MTB Estates and Properties, Rs. 2.81 crore in Sabari Enterprises, while his wife has investments of Rs. 65.7 crore in MTB Estates and Properties, and Rs. 4.49 crore in Sabari Enterprises. The former Minister owns five high-end cars, worth Rs. 2.48 crore. His wife owns a car worth over 1.72 crore. The BJP candidate has a LIC policy for Rs. 10 lakh, while his wife has a policy for Rs. 54.76 lakh. Mr. Nagaraju has jewellery worth Rs. 2.23 crore while his wife has jewellery worth Rs. 1.48 crore. Farmland The candidate owns 53 acres of farm land with a market value of Rs. 29.86 crore, and non-agricultural land worth Rs. 308.52 crore. His wife owns four acres of land worth Rs. 26.4 crore. Besides these properties, Mr. Nagaraju and his wife own commercial buildings/apartments worth Rs. 45.21 crore and Rs. 28.1 crore respectively, according to the affidavit. Mr. Nagaraju lost to BJP rebel candidate Sharat Bache Gowda in the bypolls to the Hoskote Assembly constituency in 2019.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Advocates’ association raises Rs. 13.44 lakh||The Advocates’ Association Bengaluru on Friday told the Karnatraka High Court that Rs. 13.44 lakh has been collected by way of donations from advocates towards relief for clerks facing hardship because of loss of income following closure of courts during COVID-19 lockdown. The AAB, in coordination with the Karnataka State Bar Council, collected the amount after the Karnataka High Court suggested raising donation since no monetary benefit could be extended to the registered clerks under the Registered Clerks Fund of the Karnataka Advocates’ Welfare Fund Act, 1983 as relief could be given only when a registered clerk ceases to work or in case of death. A counsel appearing for the AAB told a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy during the hearing of the PIL petition, filed by the Karnataka State Level Advocates’ Clerks Association, that a committee, headed by a senior counsel, has now invited applications from the needy registered clerks for disbursement of the collected amount. There are around 575 registered clerks in the city of Bengaluru.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Phone-in programme||The BWSSB will hold a phone-in programme on Saturday [June 20] between 9 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. People can call 080-22945119 to participate in the programme. Consumers are required to share their R.R. number details before raising a complaint, the release added.
20 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SWR divisional office sealed||The Bengaluru Divisional office of South Western Railway (SWR) was sealed on Friday after a railway official tested positive for COVID-19. The office, located next to Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna railway station in Majestic, was sanitised. Divisional Railway Manager Ashok Kumar Verma told The Hindu that the official was working at Hebbal Railway Station and had, just two days ago, visited the divisional office to submit an application. “We have sanitised both the divisional office and the railway station where he was working. The official was asymptomatic. A few days ago, he had consulted a doctor for knee pain and surgery was required for that. He had to undergo a COVID-19 test, which came back positive. His primary contacts have been identified and have undergone testing,” he said.
20 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||New chairman of BWSSB||N. Jayaram, who was posted as chairman of Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board on Thursday, took charge on Friday, according to a BWSSB release. He replaces Tushar Girinath, who has been transferred.
20 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Do yoga at home this year: AYUSH||The Department of AYUSH has called upon the people to practise yoga indoors on the occasion of International Yoga Day on June 21. The officials said that unlike every year, wherein camps and mass yoga programmes were being held in every district on June 21, this year there would be no such events. The theme this year is “Yoga at home, yoga with family”. The yoga programme will be telecast live on DD News, DD Bharati, DD India, and DD Sports from 6.15 a.m. till 8:00 am.
20 June 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Kharif sowing completed on 1.26 lakh hectares||As the district received widespread rainfall in the last 15 days, farmers completed sowing on 1,26,290 hectares of land, recording 17% of the targeted 7,55,130 hectares for kharif season, till June 19. According to the Department of Agriculture, farmers in Afzalpur taluk completed 58% of the sowing with 49,622 hectares against the targeted 85,930 hectares. Followed by Chincholi with 30,784 hectares (31%) against the targeted area of 99,767 hectares. In Afzalpur taluk, sowing completed on 27,000 hectares (27%) as against the targeted area of 99,850 hectares. The timely monsoon showers in the district have enabled farmers to take up sowing operations, mainly of short duration crops. The farmers have completed sowing of a black gram on 11,590 hectares of area, recording 39% of the targeted 29,800 hectares. Sowing of green gram has covered 31,812 hectares (65%) against the target of 49,100 hectares in the district. Of the total target of 7.55 hectares fixed by the department – 17,280 hectares of land was for cultivating cereals and millets, 6,12,250 hectares for sowing pulses, and 39,400 hectares for cultivation of oilseeds. The district received 81 mm rainfall from June 1 to June 19. Sedam taluk received the highest rain of 104 mm, followed by 98 mm rainfall in Kamalapur taluk. The rainfall recorded in Kalagi taluk was 95 mm. Shahabad taluk recorded 90 mm rainfall. The rainfall recorded in Aland, Afzalpur, Chincholi, Chittapur, Kalaburagi, Jewargi was between 74mm to 90 mm. Yaddrami taluk recorded the lowest rainfall of 51 mm in the last fortnight.
20 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases on the rise on JSW campus||COVID-19 cases linked to one patient, who is an employee of the JSW Steel plant at Toranagal in Ballari district, have gone up. Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul said that more than half of the 65 new cases that were reported on Friday were traced to the JSW Steel plant, taking the total cases linked to Jindal’s Toranagal Steel plant to 244 – all traced to a single patient P-4184, a 35-year-old man and employee of JSW Steel working at the Corex plant. The plant accounted for over half of the total COVID-19 cases in Ballari district that stood at 402 as on Friday. Apart from quarantining hundreds of primary contacts in different hotels and isolating secondary contacts at their homes, the entire Corex section at the sprawling Jindal Steel campus where a major portion of the cases of COVID-19 was reported from was sealed down. The JSW management asked more than 10,750 employees to work from home. Taking note of the virus sourced from Jindal campus spreading to cities and towns outside the JSW plant such as Ballari, Hospet and Sandur with employees travelling to and from the plant, the Deputy Commissioner, who was Chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, had issued an orders restricting the movement of JSW Steel employees to JSW Township and the factory.
20 June 2020||KALABURAGI/udupi,KARNATAKA||Two more COVID-19 deaths in Bidar, one in Udupi||Bidar reported two more deaths and 10 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday taking the novel coronavirus death toll to 11 and the total number of detected cases to 411 in the district. As per the media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, P-7959, a 45-year-old man who had a history of travel from Telangana was admitted to the designated hospital in Bidar on June 13 after he complained of fever and breathlessness. He died on June 18. The other patient, P-7962, a 70-year-old man, who was diagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness, was brought dead to the designated hospital in Bidar on June 11. The bulletin noted that he had complained of fever and breathlessness and was a known case of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. With the new deaths, Bidar is in second place with Kalaburagi on COVID-19 fatalities after Bengaluru Urban that continues to maintain the top position with 58 deaths. There were 146 active cases in Bidar after the discharge of three patients upon recovery on Friday. One dead in Udupi A 54-year-old person died by COVID-19 in Udupi district on June 18. This is the second COVID-19 death in the district. G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said here on Friday that a group of four had come from Mumbai to Thekkatte at 2.30 p.m. on June 18. They first went to the District Receiving Centre. Their temperature was checked through thermal scanning. Since their temperature was normal, they were sent to home quarantine. But the 54-year-old man died at home at 5 p.m. The exact reason for his death would be known only after a post-mortem. But his swab had tested positive for COVID-19. This was the second COVID-19 death in Udupi district, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha appealed to people saying the sooner the symptoms were identified and tested, the more were the chances to save lives. People should not hide facts (related to their health). Since the person from Mumbai died within four hours of his arrival at Thekkatte and did not give information about his health, it became difficult to save him, he said. 13 test positive in DK Seven persons who returned from Sharjah and four who returned from Saudi Arabia tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. As many as 30 were discharged following treatment. According to the health bulletin by the district administration, the seven returned from Sharjah on June 16. Six of them are women. The oldest among the group is a 55-year-old woman while the others are aged between 21 and 38 years. All the four returnees from Saudi Arabia are men and are aged between 22 and 43 years. They returned on June 11. A 78-year-old man and a 22-year-old man with influenza like illness also tested positive. Among the 30 discharged from Government Wenlock Hospital are two one-year-old males and a two-year-old girl. A 70-year-old man with diabetes and pneumonia and a 52-year-old with diabetes continue to be treated in the ICU. In all, 206 active persons are undergoing treatment at the hospital, the bulletin said. 18 more cases in Hassan The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 rose by 18 in Hassan district on Friday. Among these, 17 had a history of travelling to Maharashtra and one 60-year-old patient from Channarayapatna taluk showed influenza-like illness (ILI). With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district increased to 271. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, at a press conference here on Friday, said the 60-year-old had no history of travelling outside the State recently. He visited HIMS in Hassan with a cough on June 10. Later, he was found positive for COVID-19. The administration identified 17 primary contacts, including doctors. “The risk assessment team of the hospital will screen staff who treated him and take their swab samples for tests if necessary. It is not yet clear how he contracted the infection. This is the first case in his village,” the DC said. In Chikkamagaluru Two people, including an inmate at the district prison, tested positive for COVID-19 in Chikkamagaluru district on Friday. The 20-year-old inmate is from N.R. Pura taluk. Dr. Bagadi Gautam, Deputy Commissioner, said that a 35-year-old person from Tarikere taluk, who had recently travelled from Udupi taluk, tested positive. Four positive in Yadgir Four persons tested positive in Yadgir district on Friday. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 877. As many as 477 patients, including 11 on Friday, have been discharged after treatment so far. Active cases are 399 while one woman passsed away of the disease. The contacts of P-8227, a 27-year-old female; P-8228, a 31-year-old male; P-8229, a 78-year- old female; and P-8230, a 32-year-old female, who tested positive are under tracing by the authorities.  (With inputs from Mangaluru, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Yadgir)
20 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||12-hour live lecture on yoga today||Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) in association with Avishkar Yoga will organise a 12-hour virtual live lecture series on 10 yoga topics by experts on June 20. It will be organised as part of the International Day of Yoga. Ramachandra Bairy, Dakshina Kannada District Health and Family Welfare Officer, will inaugurate the lecture series at 8.45 a.m. It can be viewed on Namma Kudla television channel, YouTube channels of Avishkar Yoga, Namma Kudla and Yenepoya varsityand Facebook page of Avishkar Yoga.
20 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Yoga training in schools||K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, has directed officials of the Department of Public Instruction to impart training in yoga at government and private schools in the district from the present academic year. He was speaking at a meeting here on Friday to review development works being implemented in the district. Mr. Eshwarappa said that, as yoga will help children improve physical and mental fitness, it is necessary to provide necessary training for them in this regard. The department has already selected 50 teachers in each taluk of the district who have orientation in yoga and meditation. These teachers have been trained to conduct these sessions at schools, he said. He directed the administrative officer of McGann Hospital, a government hospital attached to Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences (SIMS), to complete ongoing work related to the renovation of laboratories and construction of residential quarters for doctors in an expeditious manner.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Girl, friends try to blackmail doctor||The police have busted a gang of three, including a 22-year-old girl, for allegedly trying to blackmail a doctor. The doctor lodged a complaint with the Yelahanka police stating that he was befriended by a girl, Chandini B., on social media recently. He had been talking to her since then. The duo met near Kempegowda International Airport on June 13, had dinner and went to his house in Yelahanka. While the duo were in the house, two men barged in, claiming to be from a television news channel and that they had recorded the couple on camera. The girl also joined in and demanded Rs. 10 lakh failing which they would air the visuals on television or upload it on the internet, the doctor alleged. He claimed that they threatened to kill him if he did not pay up. The trio took Rs. 5,000 he had on him. The girl said she would call him the next day to give him details on how to make the payment. The Yelahanka police have arrested Chandini, 22, and her associates Prajwal, 26, and Anirudh, 23. Senior police officials said they are probing to see if the gang had trapped other victims as well.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Tribute to martyrs||
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 2.38 lakh fine collected||The BBMP has fined more than 1,140 people for not wearing masks and 49 for not maintaining social distance. Around Rs. 2.38 lakh has been collected so far by way of fines. The maximum number of fines have been levied in the south zone (356 cases) and Rs. 71,200 collected, followed by east zone (250) with a fine of Rs. 50,800. Among the five outer zones, Mahadevapura leads with 111 cases followed by Bommanahalli with 98 cases.
20 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||13 cases in Alappuzha, Idukki records two||In yet another spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, 13 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. Officials said that six of the patients were people who returned from foreign countries and seven had come from other States. Of the foreign returnees, five came from Kuwait. One of the patients, a young man from Mannancherry, came on June 9. Another, a 47-year-old man from Muthukulam, reached the district on June 11. The third patient, a youth from Kandalloor, came on June 12. Two young men, hailing from Puliyoor and Nooranad respectively, reached their houses on June 13. The sixth patient, a 55-year-old native of Kodamthuruth, returned from Sharjah in the UAE on June 14. Of the cases from other States, a 47-year-old woman from Thalavady reached the district by train from Delhi on June 9. Another, a young woman, hailing from Bharanikavu, came by a flight from Mumbai on June 6. A young man from Nooranad came by a flight from Haryana on June 14. A 52-year-old man, a native of Karthikappally, reached the district by a flight from Thane on June 6. A young man from Pattanakkad came on a private vehicle from Maharashtra on June 7. Another youth from Cherthala came on a flight from Assam on June 4. Another person, a young man from Chengannur, came by train from Mumbai on June 5.  Five recover Meanwhile, five people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 100. Idukki A Correspondent writes from Idukki: Two persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday. They were a 17-year-old who reached Pezhumkandam from New Delhi on June 13 and a 37-year-old driver of a vehicle carrying vegetables from Tamil Nadu to Kattappana. He had gone to Madurai on June 15.
20 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||All-women team to sanitise care centres, houses||The Thanneermukkom grama panchayat has joined hands with Kudumbashree to launch ‘Kudumbashree Rapid Action Force Against COVID-19’ (KRAFAC), a disinfection squad. The 10-member all-women team is expected to replace Fire and Rescue Services personnel in sanitising corona care centres, houses, and other facilities used/visited by patients in the local body. It will be launched on Saturday. According to the panchayat authorities, the rapid action force is formed to tackle the spread of COVID-19. “Until recently, all disinfection jobs were done by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Recently, 11 people observing institutional quarantine at a corona care centre in the panchayat tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. After the people left the centre, personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services visited the place but returned without sanitising the centre. The panchayat later cleaned the place on its own. Further, we decided to launch our own team,” says P.S. Jyothis, president, Thanneermukkom grama panchayat. The squad members, who joined voluntarily, will be provided insurance cover and protective gear. “We will operate as two groups of five members each. All the members are in the age group of 35-45. Apart from sprayers and other materials, members will be given gumboots, face shields, and protective suits to reduce health risks,” says Sreeja Shibu, chairperson, CDS, Thanneermukkom. Prasanth Babu J., Kudumbashree District Mission coordinator, says the disinfection squad will operate as per the protocol and guidance of the Health Department.
20 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Child’s death: mother held||The police on Friday arrested the mother of a 12-year-old girl who allegedly committed suicide in her house at Mahadevikadu, near Karthikapally, earlier this week. A special investigation team led by Thrikkunnappuzha Circle Inspector R. Jose arrested the child’s 33-year-old mother under Section 75 (punishment for cruelty to child) of the Juvenile Justice Act. The girl was living with her mother and stepfather. She was found hanging in her room on June 14. The police said that the woman had confessed to scolding her daughter on Saturday night for showing lack of interest in studies. The accused also told the police that she had beaten her daughter with a stick 10 months ago. Some months ago, the Childline, panchayat authorities, and Pink Police had interviewed the child based on a complaint from the public that the girl was being subjected to physical assault by her mother.
20 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Cage set up to trap elusive man-eater||Forest and Wildlife Department personnel set up a cage with a bait at Basavankolly near Pulpally in Wayanad district on Friday evening to capture the big cat which has triggered panic among villagers in the area. The cage was set up nearly 500 metres from the Basavankolly tribal settlement on the fringes of the Kathavakkunnu forest in the South Wayanad Forest Division, where a 24-year-old youth of the tribal hamlet was killed and partially devoured by a carnivore on Tuesday. Though a team of forest officials had searched the area for the animal, they were yet to sight it. However, the image of the big cat was captured in a camera trap fixed in the area and the frontline forest staff also heard the growling of the animal near the site on Thursday night during their round-the-clock patrolling. Fresh pug marks were also sighted in the area, Forest department sources said. Eighteen camera traps have been set up in and around the spot and round-the-clock patrolling has also been intensified in the area.
20 June 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Situation in Kannur critical: Jayarajan||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has warned that the situation in Kannur is critical and people should take precautions against contracting COVID-19. The contact list of the excise driver who died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, on Thursday was extensive, the Minister told media at the Collectorate here on Friday. ‘Be on alert’ He had visited several places and also played football. There should be a proper investigation into the cause of his death. “So far there is no community spread, but people should be on alert and adopt preventive measures,” Mr. Jayarajan said. He said the government insisted that COVID-19 tests should be conducted on non-resident Keralites travelling back home in Vande Bharat Mission flights as well as in chartered flights to ensure that the rest of the passengers did not get affected, as the positive passengers could be arranged to return in a separate flight. Mr. Jayarajan said the government was firm on bringing back expatriates. However, it was found that most of the people returning from abroad had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Risk on aircraft He said it was inappropriate to bring back people together without testing as the risk of transmission was high in aircraft cabins. Taking a dig at Opposition leaders, he said it was not the time to settle political scores. There should be proper interventions to save the people, he added.
20 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Health workers rue not being tested for COVID-19||In the wake of their colleagues testing positive for SARS-CoV-2  at several places in Kerala, health and sanitation workers in the district are a worried lot and they feel that their request for testing might have fallen on deaf ears. “As ASHA [Accredited Social Health Activist] workers, we are regularly in touch with people. Though we had raised a request to test all ASHA workers, that has not been done yet,” said Lissy Varghese, district secretary of the CITU-affiliated ASHA workers union. ASHA workers have tested positive in a few other districts, making it necessary to test all of them, in a situation in which so many people have been travelling into the State, she said. Ward committees comprising junior public health nurses (JPHNs), health inspectors, ASHA workers, Kudumbashree and anganwadi workers, Janamaithri police and local elected representatives monitor people in quarantine. A police official who had been monitoring people in quarantine had recently tested positive. “Most of us are regularly in contact with people within our health circles. While checking on the health of a quarantined person can be done over phone, we will have to intervene directly if problems arise among residents in an area,” said a Kochi Corporation health inspector. “We have heard that testing might be done among some of us. It should include the junior health inspectors and JPHNs who regularly contact people,” he said. Mohanan, a sanitation worker in the Kaloor area, said that most of them still did not know where people were living in quarantine while they collected waste from corporation divisions. “Our details were collected earlier and we were told we would be tested. But that has not happened,” he said. Sentinel surveillance “Forty ASHA workers had been tested in the district as part of sentinel surveillance or if they were suspected to have been exposed. Health workers, among others, are randomly being tested,” said Dr. Mathews Numpelil, Ernakulam district programme manager, National Health Mission. “The strategy is to test people who are symptomatic or if doctors suspect cases among others. The idea is to avoid a sudden surge in cases,” he said.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cinemas remain in the dark as losses mount||Cinema halls in Kerala have reported a monthly loss of Rs. 20 crore in maintenance and operational expenses alone in the aftermath of the pandemic crisis. The average loss is about Rs. 20.1 crore at Rs. 3 lakh each a month for 670 screens in the State despite no shows since the nationwide lockdown from March 25, according to estimates by the Film Exhibitors United Organisation of Kerala (FEUOK) and the Film Exhibitors Federation. “Cinemas need to be run at least for half-an-hour in two days to avoid breakdown of the projection systems. An estimated Rs. 3 lakh is required to meet the operational and salary expenses, including power charges,” says M.C. Bobby, general secretary, FEUOK. “We have not assessed the loss in terms of not having any shows as it would run into crores. Many owners continue to provide salary to the staff as per their capacity even in these tough times,” he says. Electricity charges P.V. Basheer Ahamed, president of the Film Exhibitors Federation, says the fixed electricity charges per each billing cycle will be around Rs. 1 lakh for multiscreen theatre complexes and Rs. 45,000 for single screens. “The government has promised to cut the fixed charges by 25%,” he says. “We have urged the government to exempt them from paying all taxes, including GST and local body tax, for at least one year to tide over the financial impact of the COVID-19 outbreak,” he says. Question of reopening On when cinemas will reopen amidst the continuing crisis, Mr. Bobby says they are awaiting directions from the Union and the State governments. “The exhibitors are ready to resume operations by adhering to safety protocols prescribed by the authorities,” he says. The discussions over a possible increase in producers ready to opt for a direct-to-digital release have not doused the hopes of the exhibitors. “Nothing can replace the experience of watching a movie in a big screen,” claims Mr. Bobby.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Another policeman tests positive||One more civil police officer (CPO) of the Kalamassery police station in Ernakulam tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. He was among the primary contacts of his colleague who tested positive on Wednesday night. He is already at an institutional quarantine facility at Edakochi and is likely to be shifted to the Government Medical College shortly. His family also remains quarantined. “Both the infected CPOs hailed from Vengola and used to come to the station together daily. Vengola (near Perumbavoor) has now been declared a containment zone,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Poonguzhali. Meanwhile, protest is brewing among police associations against what they perceive as the haste in reopening the Kalamassery station on Thursday afternoon, just hours after the cop was tested positive. “Around 40 police personnel from various police stations within the Thrikkakara sub division were drafted in to resume the operation of the Kalamassery station after an initial disinfection. They are angered by the move and are anxious for the safety of their families, including children and aged ones,” said a police association office-bearer. He said that a primary disinfection was unlikely to ensure complete safety. Ms. Poonguzhali, however, shot down this allegation. “The station was disinfected and was certified as safe by health authorities. All those working out of the station have also been given N95 masks and gloves,” she said.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four get 20-year RI in juvenile gang rape case||The Additional Sessions and District Court (POCSO), Ernakulam, on Friday sentenced four convicts in the abduction and gang rape of a 16-year-old girl to 20 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 25,000 each. The convicts are Arun Stanley, 22, of Thoppumpady; Vishnu, 23, of Thoppumpady; Christopher, 26, of Thuravur; and Antony Jineesh, 26, of Mundamvely. Judge P.J. Vincent delivered the verdict and the prosecution was represented by the Special Public Prosecutor P.A. Bindu. The incident occurred on October 13, 2018. The victim had allegedly committed suicide a year later. The prosecution case was that the convicts had hatched a conspiracy to abduct and rape the juvenile. The first accused had talked her into leaving her home on the night of October 13. She was then allegedly intoxicated by feeding her alcohol and drugs following which the convicts gang raped her at two different locations. The first accused was arrested on October 21 and the others were nabbed four days prior to that. The Assistant Commissioner, Mattancherry, filed the charge sheet invoking, among others, IPC Sections 366(A) (procuring minor girl), 376D (gang rape), the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences and the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SIT arrests gangster||A special investigation team on Friday arrested the alleged mastermind behind organising a gang from Tamil Nadu to take down a rival earlier this year in the district rural police limits. The arrested was identified as Harria aka Chalikkavattom Harris, 37, of Chalikkavattom. The police had nabbed the eight-member gang from a lodge at Munambam in March. On interrogation, it emerged that they were hired to attack Anas, a gang leader from Perumbavoor, an accused in several criminal cases. A gang rivalry had led to the hiring of contract goons, it is learnt. The accused believed that Anas had tipped off the police leading to the bungling of a theft he had planned a few years ago. Haris has cases registered against him at Palarivattom and Ponkunnam police stations. The SIT was on search for Haris for the past few months.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One more held in film set demolition case||One more person was arrested by the police on Friday in connection with the case relating to the demolition of a film set at Kalady. The arrested man was identified as Vishnu Prasad, 30, of Neelishwaram, the ninth accused in the case. He reportedly has criminal antecedents. The police have already arrested the key conspirator and five other accused in the case.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC upholds law banning sacrifice of birds, animals||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has upheld the constitutional validity of the Kerala Animals and Birds Sacrifices Prohibition Act, 1968. The Bench passed the verdict on Friday while dismissing a public interest litigation filed by Muraleedharan T. and another person from Kozhikode challenging the constitutional validity of the Act. They said section 28 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, enacted by the Centre, permits sacrifice for the purpose of religious practices, thereby removing killing of animals or birds from the rigour of criminal prosecution. The Bench pointed out that no materials were forthcoming to establish that sacrificing animals and birds were essentials of the religion. The court, while citing a Supreme Court ruling, observed that unless they were essentials of the religion, such acts were not protected under Article 25 of the Constitution. The court observed that the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960 did not employ the word “sacrifice” for the purpose of religious practice. The petitioners were just adding such contention to the Act.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. must improve waste collection: PCB report||The State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has submitted a report before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) stating that the Kochi Corporation should improve its segregated waste collection system. It is to be ensured by the corporation that dry and wet waste are segregated at source and only segregated wet waste reaches the Brahmapuram dumping yard. The same must be ensured by other municipalities and panchayats that depended on the site for daily waste disposal, said the report filed before the tribunal’s Principal Bench, New Delhi, on June 16 on a case related to the status of solid waste management by local bodies in the State. The report pointed out that non-biodegradable waste was collected and disposed in the two sheds and nearby open yard at Brahmapuram. Only 1% of plastic waste is segregated and handed over to those engaged in recycling. “In order to minimise the load of non-biodegradable waste reaching Brahmapuram, action may be taken to segregate non-biodegradable waste through existing material and resource collection facilities under the civic body through the involvement of Haritha Karma Sena, Scrap Merchant Association [etc],” it said. Leachate plant The board informed the tribunal that the construction of the new leachate treatment plant with a collection capacity of one lakh litres at Brahmapuram was nearing completion.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Passport authority cannot impose penalty: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has held that the passport authority has not been vested with any powers under the Passport Act or rules to impose fine on persons who violate the provisions of the Act. The Bench further held that the power to punish an offender with imprisonment was conferred only on the magistrates.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Judge recuses himself from hearing IPS officer’s plea||Justice Sunil Thomas of the Kerala High Court on Friday recused himself from hearing a petition filed by Additional DGP Tomin J. Thachankary challenging the Kottayam Vigilance court’s rejection of his plea for discharging him from a disproportionate assets case. The judge recused himself when counsel for the IPS officer sought to post the case before a court having videoconferencing facility.
20 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||17 positive, 14 cured in Kollam||The district reported 17 COVID-19 cases and 14 recoveries on Friday. The new cases, all of them Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs), include nine persons who came from Kuwait. While 15 are from abroad, two others are from Delhi and Mysuru. The patients include residents of Ayoor, Alappad, Sooranadu, Piravanthur, Parippally, Kottankara, Mynagappally, Thevalakkara, Asramam, Chathannur, Sasthamcotta, Neendakara, Pathanapuram and Poruvazhi. A 30-year-old Ayoor resident and her 9-year-old son were in home quarantine after reaching Kollam on May 31 from Abu Dhabi. The Pathanapuram resident had travelled by train from Delhi, reaching Ernakulam on June 16. He was transported to an institutional quarantine centre at Pathanapuram in an ambulance. A Poruvazhi native came from Mysuru by car on June 16 and was in home quarantine. Another positive case, a 52-year-old Asramam resident had travelled from Russia and was in institutional quarantine.
20 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Model cashew farm at open prison||As part of the efforts to expand and promote cashew farming, 25 acres of land at the Nettukaltheri open prison will be converted into a model farm. “The project is a step towards attaining self-sufficiency in raw cashew nut (RCN) production and land will be made available in more jails,” said Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma after inaugurating the project through videoconferencing on Friday. While the cashew sector requires six lakh tonnes of raw material, Kerala’s domestic production is only 83,000 tonnes. “We are trying to produce the minimum quantity needed to ensure them at least 200 working days,” the Minister said.
20 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Sachy knew pulse of popular cinema||K.R. Sachidanandan, popularly known as Sachy, who died on Thursday at the age of 48, was one of Malayalam cinema’s most successful scriptwriters of his generation. Both the films he directed were hits. His last film as a director, Ayyappanum Koshiyum , was still attracting large audiences when cinemas were shut down following the outbreak of COVID-19. The film he wrote before that, Driving License , had also hit the bull’s eye at the box office. His end came at a time when his career was beginning to peak Sachy had a knack for writing commercial cinema. Most of his films – whether he wrote on his own or in partnership with fellow-lawyer Sethu – were hits. He could tell a tale without tiring the viewer at all, as he did with Ayyappanum Koshiyum . The thriller starring Prithviraj and Biju Menon had a running time of more than three hours – that is too long by any standards – but he was able to have his viewer glued to the seat till the end. That was also the case with Run Baby Run , the first film he had gone solo with as a scriptwriter. Sachy had made his debut, along with Sethu, in 2007 with a comedy, though. Chocolate had an interesting premise – the only man studying in a women's college. Prithviraj had essayed that role. When Sachy made his directorial debut with Anarkali in 2015, the actor played the hero once again. 12 films In 13 years, he was part of 12 films. He was planning to direct another film before the pandemic outbreak. But its script was not going to be his though. “The screenplay would be co-authored by G.R. Indugopan, whose short story the film is based on,” Sachy had told this writer over the phone two months ago. He had then spoken about Ayyappanum Koshiyum and how happy he was that a song from the film, Kalakatha sandana ... , was used for a video by the Kerala Police to show how to wash hands properly as a precaution against COVID-19. The song had gone viral and it was reported by global television channels like the BBC, Fox News, Sky News and Russia Today.  Ayyappanum Koshyium also had made news recently when its Hindi remake rights were bought by Bollywood star John Abraham. The Tamil rights were bagged by producer Kathiresan. Sachy could not live long enough to see how the rivals Ayyappan and Koshi spoke in Hindi or Tamil. State honours Special Correspondent writes from Kochi: The mortal remains of Sachy were consigned to flames with full official honours at the Ravipuram crematorium here on Friday. People from various walks of life, including his friends and well-wishers in Malayalam film industry, turned up to pay their last respects.
20 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Bodies of youngsters fished out from river||Rescue personnel on Friday recovered the bodies of two students who went missing in Arappuzha on Thursday. The bodies of Shabarinath, 14, and his cousin Harinand, 12, were fished out after a five-hour-long search in the river. The Olavanna natives went missing by around 5 p.m. on Thursday. They were out for remitting the monthly contribution to a nearby Kudumbashree unit as directed by their parents. The city police suspect that the boys fell into the river while trying to catch fish from a risky stretch. Based on the statement of local residents, the police said the students had been found engaged in fishing in the area. Rescue personnel found the body of Sabarinath first. With the support of fishers, the body of the second victim was fished out by around 11 a.m.
20 June 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||18 new COVID-19 cases in Malappuram, 11 in Ernakulam||Eighteen more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Friday, raising the total number of patients currently under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, to 226. Out of the 18 new cases, 15 had returned from abroad and three from other States. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said those who had had any contacts with the persons tested positive should remain in self-isolation at their homes. “If they show any symptoms, they should never approach a hospital directly. They should call the district cell at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252 or 2733253,” he said. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 10 persons were confirmed positive on Friday. Among the 10 new cases, seven had returned from other States and three from abroad. In Kannur A 53-year-old Maloor resident testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday has raised concerns for the Health Department and the district administration in Kannur. The Health Department is expecting a possible rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district as the patient is a trader, engaged in selling pappadam , and might have come into contact with several people. He had visited Maloor and Peravoor town for business purposes, said District Medical Officer K. Narayana Nayak. District Surveillance Officer Shaj said the man contracted the disease from the father of an Air India employee, who had tested positive for the virus on May 29. The District Collector declared six new wards as containment zones on Friday after eight people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. The Collector also ordered the complete closure of Wards 3 and 12 of Maloor panchayat. Four new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Kasaragod on Friday. In Kozhikode Six new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Kozhikode district on Friday. At present, there are 103 patients under treatment and 12,713 under observation in the district. In Wayanad The number of COVID-19 cases reported from Wayanad rose to 65, with four persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Of the 65 cases reported from the district so far, 43 persons have recovered. In Kochi A total of 11 people in Ernakulam district tested positive on Friday. As many as 1,106 people were home-quarantined on Friday while 672 were taken off quarantine. Eleven new suspected cases were admitted to hospitals in the district for observation.  (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod, Palakkad, Kozhikode, Wayanad and Kochi bureaus)
20 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||When SFI rose to a KSU ‘challenge’||Malappuram witnessed a rare gesture of camaraderie on Friday between political adversaries Kerala Students Union (KSU) and Students Federation of India (SFI). The SFI donated a television set to the KSU as part of its ongoing ‘TV challenge’ across the State with the objective of bringing the marginalised school students under online coverage of study. The KSU readily accepted the gesture with the intention of taking the TV to a deserving student. It was a WhatsApp status posted by KSU Malappuram district president Haris Mudur requesting philanthropists to donate a TV for a poor student that made his friend and SFI district secretary K.A. Sakeer respond. “I was more than happy to respond to Mr. Sakeer’s gesture. In spite of our differences in ideology and way of functioning, we are proving that a noble cause can bury all our differences,” said Mr. Mudur. ‘A fine example’ Handing over the TV set to Mr. Mudur here on Friday, Mr. Sakeer said that it was a fine example of how the youth should go about in their political thinking. “By accepting the TV from the SFI, my friend has displayed a big lesson for the student community. We are led by liberal and tolerant political ideologies even when following stringent policies,” said Mr. Sakeer.
20 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Cheruvally estate: SASS flays move to pay compensation||The Sabarimala Ayyappa Seva Samajom (SASS) has expressed concern over the government order for acquisition of 2,263 acres of land on the Cheruvally estate in Kottayam district, invoking Section 77 of the Kerala Land Acquisition Act, after depositing a compensation amount in a court. In a statement here on Friday, SASS president Akeeramon Kalidasan Bhattathirippad alleged that there was every reason to suspect a ‘‘hidden agenda’’ behind the government decision as it amounted to regularising an illegal transaction of the government land between two private parties. The government land, leased out to Harrisons Malayalam Plantation Limited, should have been wholly vested with the State once its lease period expired. Hence, the sale of the land to the Believers Eastern Church itself was illegal. It was wrong to pay compensation to a private party in the name of a government land acquisition, especially against the backdrop of the High Court direction to take over the land. The government should take over the land, instead of opting for land acquisition. He said the proposed greenfield airport should in no way affect the serenity of the sacred pilgrimage centres of Erumely, Pampa and Sabarimala.  ISP plea In another statement, Indian Socialist Party (ISP) State secretary C.P. John called upon the government to take over the five hectares of government land as stated in a report submitted by the M.G. Rajamanikyam Committee in May 2015. The government should distribute the land among the landless poor. The decision to pay compensation for its own land in the illegal possession of the Church would pave the way for huge corruption.
20 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Nine NoRKs positive in Pathanamthitta||With nine more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district went up to 104 on Friday. Twelve people recovered from the disease on Friday, taking the tally of recovered persons to 64. In hospitals A total of 116 people, including people with serious symptoms, were put in observation at isolation wards.  A 29-year-old woman who came from Maharashtra on June 5, a four-year-old boy who came from Maharashtra on June 7, a 25-year-old woman who came from Chennai on June 4, a 66-year-old man and a 56-year-old woman who came from Muscat on June 6, a 64-year-old man who came from Delhi on June 4, a 32-year-old man who came from Kuwait on June 12, and a 42-year-old man who came from Bengaluru on June 15 tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||8, including 3 of family, test positive in capital||Eight persons, including three members of a family and a medical student from Kollam district who returned from Tajikistan, tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Friday. A 52-year-old autorickshaw driver hailing from Iranimuttom, Manacaud, his wife aged 42 and their 14-year-old daughter have tested positive. The driver had plied autorickshaw in Thiruvananthapuram till June 12. All the three of them have been shifted to the General Hospital. A 19-year-old medical student from Perumpuzha in Kollam district who had returned from Tajikistan tested positive on Friday. On his return, he had been shifted to an institutional quarantine centre here. Four Kuwait-returnees The remaining four patients, all males, returned from Kuwait by different flights on June 12. On their arrival at the Karipur and Kochi airports, they had travelled by KSRTC buses to institutional quarantine centres in Thiruvananthapuram district. The men belong to Varkala, Attingal, Nedumom near Kallayam, and Mukkola, near Kallayam. Swab samples had been collected from them as part of sentinel surveillance measures. With the tests returning positive, all four have been transferred to the Government Homoeo Medical College Hospital, the district administration said. 926 more in quarantine On Friday, 926 people were placed under COVID-19 surveillance in the district, even as 518 others completed the observation period without developing symptoms. As on Friday, 19,089 people are under surveillance in the district. Of this, 17,946 persons are in home quarantine, 137 in hospitals and 1,006 in COVID Care Centres.  The City police registered cases against two persons for flouting quarantine norms on Friday. During a police inspection, a woman, who hailed from Thuckalai, was found missing at her place of quarantine in Poonthura. It was found that she had visited the cooperative bank at Muttathara. The second person, an Uttar Pradesh native, was reported missing by the authorities of the Government Mental Health Centre, Peroorkada, where he was quarantined. Both individuals have been charged under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, and the Kerala Public Health Act. So far, the City police have registered cases against 11 persons for flouting quarantine norms, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The City police also booked 11 others under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance for violation of COVID-19 containment measures. Action was also initiated against 111 persons for failing to wear masks, Mr. Upadhyay said. Meanwhile, 167 people, including 78 women, entered the State through the interstate border check-post at Inchivila in the district.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tests mandatory for expatriate flyers from June 25||From June 25, Kerala will give operational clearance only to airline companies and chartered flight operators which ferry COVID-19 positive and COVID-19 negative passengers on separate flights. The government has accorded an extra time of five days to flight operators and expatriate associations to set up COVID-19 testing facilities at the points of departure to ensure that no passenger boarded a flight to the State untested. In touch with Centre Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta told The Hindu that Kerala was in touch with the Centre to lobby the Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Oman and Bahrain governments to allow Indian embassies, flight operators and expatriate organisations to set up relatively speedier and cheaper TrueNat Beta CoV testing facilities there. Kerala was trying to rush the testing kits to the countries to ensure that no untested passenger boarded a flight to the State. He said the UAE and Qatar, which accounted for the bulk of arrivals, had sound testing facilities in place for residents and gave no cause for worry for Kerala. Unlike the RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) test, TrueNat did not require a laboratory environment. ‘‘It could be done anywhere.’’ Kerala could not discount the threat of community transmission from asymptomatic travellers, he said. New arrivals accounted for the bulk of new COVID-19 cases in the State. More than 2 lakh expatriates are scheduled to arrive soon. Over 300 flights have been scheduled from June 25. Caseload The State could not afford a slip-up. Mr Mehta said the government had to walk a tightrope between returning expatriates and insulating the local population from the transmission of the disease. “We can't allow Keralites to risk their health further in epidemic ravaged regions. However, the government also has to ensure at the same time that the COVID-19 caseload in Kerala did not escalate to the alarming levels witnessed in New Delhi and Mumbai,” he said.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Firms to pay for waste generated||With most companies failing to collect their non-biodegradable packaging material as part of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR), the State government is planning to introduce a system for collecting an annual fee from such firms. This amount is proposed to be maintained as an EPR fund, which can be utilised to fund the waste management and door-to-door collection activities of local self-governments. As per the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, all manufacturers of disposable products such as plastic, glass or tin packaging or brand owners who introduce such products should implement a system to take back packaging waste or provide financial assistance to the local bodies to do the same. But even after four years, there has been not much of a compliance, except one-off collection attempts by brands, for instance after an international cricket match in the capital. At Rs. 10 per kg As per the proposed EPR fee rates, plastic, paper, glass, tin or aluminium packing can be charged at Rs. 10 per kg. The companies have to file an affidavit annually with the Pollution Control Board (PCB) on the amount of waste they generate and remit the corresponding fee. Some of the applications will be counter-checked randomly with the GST Department. Online application The EPR fee is proposed to be collected through an online application. The fund will be maintained by the PCB. For branded items, brand owners are to remit the fee based on the quantity of packaging entering the State. Once the fee is remitted, the responsibility of collection, treatment and disposal will rest with the local body. The sharing of the EPR fund is based on the successful door-to-door collection by the local authority. This will be gauged based on the annual reports submitted by the local bodies and field verification by the PCB. The EPR fund will be transferred to the Urban Affairs Directorate and the Panchayat Directorate for transferring to the successful local bodies and 5% of the fund will be maintained for operational charges of the PCB.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIIFB hands over fund to acquire land||The long wait for the four-lane flyover at Sreekaryam Junction on the National Highway-66 has overcome another hurdle with the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) providing the first tranche of Rs. 35 crore for acquiring the 1.343 hectares needed for the flyover. The amount was handed over by Vikramjith Singh, CMD, KIIFB, to Anand Elamon, Chief General Manager, Kerala Rapid Transit Corporation Ltd. (KRTL), in the presence of Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran on Friday. The amount will be handed over to the district administration for disbursement to those who have parted with the land for the flyover. The Minister said the compensation to those who have lost land and buildings would be disbursed in a time-bound manner. Rs. 135.40-cr project The cost of the flyover, including land acquisition (Rs. 81.5 crore), will be Rs. 135.40 crore. Administrative sanction has been given by the KIIFB for the flyover and the remaining funds for the land acquisition will be given in due course as the plan is to complete land acquisition in next three months. Common pillars The 15-metre-wide flyover at Sreekaryam, along the proposed light metro corridor, will have common pillars for vehicular traffic and MRTS. The service roads on both sides will have a width of 5.5 metres. The KRTL, the special purpose vehicle set up to execute light metro in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, has been tasked with the work of the flyovers at Sreekaryam, Ulloor, and Pattom in the capital. The three flyovers were designed by the DMRC and the government has asked the KRTL to stick to the alignment, approved design and drawings. Land acquisition for flyovers at Pattom and Ulloor along the 21.18-km light metro corridor from Pallipuram Technocity to Karamana will commence soon. Panel evaluation The seven-member expert committee tasked with the evaluation of the Social Impact Assessment (SIA) study carried out by Centre fro Advanced Research in Health and Human Behaviour (CARB) has recommended acquiring 1.343 ha of land for the flyover at Sreekaryam.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. let down expatriates: Oppn.||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of having worked against the interests of expatriates ravaged by the COVID-19 outbreak in foreign countries, particularly the Gulf. Mr. Chennithala staged an eight-hour sit-in protest in front of the Secretariat here on Friday to highlight the plight of non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) “left in the lurch” by the government. Hurdles He said the government had repeatedly thrown insurmountable hurdles before the expatriates aspiring to return home from the high-risk epidemic hotspots. It made COVID-19 free medical certification mandatory for those aspiring to return home. The decision shocked the non-resident Keralite community. Pregnant women, aged persons, children, amnestied prisoners, and those who had lost their jobs owing to the lockdown suddenly found the safety of home out of their grasp. The government followed up the decision by a “cruel order” which stated that the State could not accord the level of protection to overseas returnees it had given to other State migrant workers stranded in Kerala. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan used the pandemic as a cover to push corrupt deals, he said. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran, who spoke at the venue, accused Health Minister K.K. Shylaja of having claimed a premature victory over COVID-19 to burnish her personal and political credentials as the defeater of the plague. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader M.K. Muneer were present. Other senior UDF leaders joined the protest via video link.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi inaugurates reading fortnight||The Kerala State Library Council should take up the task of upgrading libraries into centres for e-learning, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating the reading fortnight celebrations organised by the State government, library council, and the P.N. Panicker Foundation here on Friday. Reading and publishing were undergoing several changes in these times. When COVID-19 threatened to put the brakes on learning, the online mode was resorted to. Where children did not have facilities for online learning, libraries were becoming the venues for hosting the classes. When becoming part of such social initiatives, libraries should keep up with the changing times. The growing publishing industry in the State and good book sales show that online technology will not replace books. However, one should not turn away from new technology. Its possibilities should also be tapped, the Chief Minister said. Online programmes will be held in 6,500 libraries in the State till July 7. Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel presided.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Job aspirants a worried lot||The State government move to maintain a tight control over appointments to teaching posts in colleges has made job aspirants, including research scholars, a concerned lot. Fearing that the ongoing steps to tighten workload norms for teachers could bring in a virtual recruitment freeze in the sector, they are planning to launch an agitation. The Higher Education Department revised the norms to determine workload for teaching posts in government and aided arts and science colleges over the past two months. As per the orders, teaching posts could only be sanctioned by maintaining a workload of 16 hours a week for each faculty member. Moreover, the government also reversed its order of May 9, 2018, which had stipulated 16 teaching hours, but permitted the creation of posts when the “remaining workload is 9 hours and above.” No extra weightage Besides increasing workload from 9 hours, the government also scrapped the system of providing additional weightage to postgraduate classes. So far, while calculating the workload for staff fixation, each teaching hour in postgraduate classes was considered as one-and-a-half hours. Job aspirants fear that several hundreds of posts would be scrapped with the government deciding to do away with the positions created on the basis of workloads less than 16 hours. Aleena S., convener of the United Action Forum to Protect Collegiate Education, an umbrella organisation of research scholars, students and job aspirants, said 2,500-4,000 could be scrapped and that appointments could be held up for around 10 years. She claimed that the government failed to factor in the examination duty, laboratory work and responsibilities relating to dissertation and project work while fixing work hours. The All Kerala Research Scholars Association, a sub-committee of the CPI(M)-feeder Students Federation of India (SFI), has also taken exception to the government move. Research guides Association State convener Gopikrishna V.G. said the decision was bound to affect availability of research guides. While the government had promised to create 1,000 teaching posts in the aided sector, Mr. Gopikrishna said a bulk of these were meant for new-generation courses and were unlikely to compensate for the lost posts.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heightened vigil at Vizhinjam||The district administration has strengthened vigil at the Vizhinjam fisheries harbour as part of preventing the spread of COVID-19. District Collector Navjot Khosa visited Vizhinjam on Friday to assess the situation. More health workers will be deployed at the harbour, Ms. Khosa said. Masks to be distributed Physical distancing norms will be strictly enforced in the region, especially in locations where fish is sold. Face masks will distributed free of cost and wash basins and cleaning products will be provided on the harbour premises. Additionally, surveillance using thermal scanners will be strengthened, the District Collector said. The district administration is also planning to call together a meeting of the harbour management society shortly, Ms. Khosa said.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New guidelines for returnees||The Kerala government has issued a fresh set of guidelines for Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) returning to the State to ensure strict compliance with the campaign to contain the spread of COVID-19. The new directives by the Disaster Management Department are in tune with the Central government guidelines and contain procedures that aim to check transmission of COVID-19 through contact. The directives are meant for inbound air, rail or road travellers from other States and abroad. They define the safety measures to be undergone at airports, seaports and border check-posts and the procedures to be followed during home quarantine subsequently. After registration On completion of the registration process by expatriates at the COVID-19 counter, the information will be passed on to the civic body, police, COVIDd care nodal officer and the District Collector. The police will ensure that the returnee reaches his/her home or the right quarantine centre and the local administration will check whether the facilities at the place of stay match with what the returnee had revealed earlier. The guidelines specify that it is the returnee’s responsibility to alert his/her neighbours about the arrival and make them aware of the rules related to quarantine. The returnee has to also know whether his/her neighbourhood has people of the age or health condition vulnerable to COVID-19, and direct them on ways to take special care to avert chances of acquiring the disease. Penal action under the IPC and the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 will be taken by the police against returnees flouting the guidelines.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Separate BEd exams||Kerala University has decided to conduct the fourth-semester BEd examinations separately for those hailing from outside the university’s jurisdiction and unable to reach their colleges. The online examinations are slated on June 23 and June 24. Following complaints by those from other districts, including Malappuram, Thrissur and Ernakulam, the university decided to conduct the exams for such students in July.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A scam in the making: Sudheeran||Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran has said the move to purchase Cheruvally estate in Pathanamthitta district under the pretext of building an airport there is a huge land scam in the making. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday, Mr. Sudheeran said the government had decided to purchase the land at massive cost from private persons, ignoring cautionary reports filed by several agencies that the property belonged to the State. At least two commissions and back-to-back inquires by the Crime Branch and the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) had brought to light how the questionable “owners” of the land had come into its possession fraudulently by faking land records and enlisting the help of corrupt revenue officials. Mr. Sudheeran quoted Mr. Vijayan of having said in the Assembly that the estate belonged to the government. Ironically, the government had decided to pay the private party a huge amount to take possession of the land that rightfully belonged to the people.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI leader dead||Freedom fighter and senior leader of the Communist Party of India (CPI) V.K. Bhaskaran died on Thursday. He was 97. He had participated in the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising. He had functioned as CPI State council member and Navayugam manager. The body was cremated.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation - LIFE||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Friday laid the stone for a flat complex at Poonkulam under the Livelihood, Inclusion, Financial Empowerment (LIFE) housing project of the State government. The flats will be coming up at 1.17 acres of land owned by the city Corporation, at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. There will be 12 flat complexes of three floors and six housing units each. 72 families can be accommodated in these flats, each of which will be of 500 sq ft.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Pond||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the renovated Alappuram pond and walkway around it at Muttada here on Friday. The renovation work was completed at a cost of Rs. 65 lakh. Silt was removed from the pond bed and a walkway has been built around it. LED lighting has also been installed around the pond.
20 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) to protest against oil price hike||The CPI(M) State secretariat has decided to hold protests before Central government offices against fuel price hike on June 25. The secretariat said in a statement here on Friday that the protests would be organised in line with the COVID-19 protocol. The Central policy to fleece people is unjustified. Statistics show that the Centre has earned Rs. 2 lakh crore by revising the excise duty 10 times. This was much higher than the benefits doled out as part of the COVID-package, the statement said.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Top briefly No lockdown restrictions this Sunday||The government has issued an order lifting the total lockdown restrictions on June 21. The exemption has been granted in view of several examinations including the entrance test scheduled for Sunday.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Webinar to mark World Hydrgraphy Day||The office of the Chief Hydrographer is conducting a webinar on June 21 in connection with World Hydrography Day. Minister for Ports Kadannappally Ramachandran is scheduled to inaugurate the webinar.
20 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Plasma therapy: patient’s condition improves||Lending credence to researchers’ hope that convalescent plasma therapy could be effective on COVID-19 patients, a man who underwent the therapy at the Government Medical College Hospital here has been shifted from ventilator support to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). He would soon be shifted out of the ICU to a room as per the recommendation of the medical board, said M.A. Andrews, Principal, Government Medical College, Thrissur, on Friday. This is considered the ‘first successful case’ of plasma therapy for COVID-19 in the State. “The condition of the patient is improving. Currently he is in ICU. He will soon be shifted to the room as per the recommendation of the medical board. He was administered plasma in two batches,” said Dr. Andrews. Though plasma therapy was tried on some other patients too, including former Santhosh Trophy player E. Hamsakoya, it was not effective on them. Convalescent plasma therapy was done on the critically ill 51-year-old COVID-19 patient, who arrived from Delhi, on an experimental treatment basis, with plasma collected from a person who recovered from the infection. Willingness Many patients who recovered from COVID-19 had expressed willingness to donate plasma. The therapy was carried out by the Department of Transfusion Medicine and the Department of Anaesthesia. The therapy is an experimental treatment that some doctors are using for people with severe COVID-19. People who have recovered from COVID-19 have antibodies — proteins the body uses to fight off infections — to the disease in their blood. The blood from people who have recovered is called convalescent plasma. Researchers hope that it can be given to people with severe COVID-19 to boost their ability to fight the virus.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hell or high water||
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In tune with the times||
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pandemic takes a toll||
20 June 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police bid adieu to tracker dog ‘Rider’||Police officers of different ranks paid floral tributes to a tracket dog ‘Rider’, which died due to ill-health on Friday. They performed the funeral to the canine with government honours. Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, Additional SP M. Mahesh Kumar, Armed Reserve Inspectors Krishnam Raju and Srinivas Rao and other officials paid tributes to ‘Rider’. Dog handler, Tony Praveen Kumar, said the tracker used to be very active and was a clever in detecting cases. Other dog handlers too attended the funeral and paid the last respects to the canine. “Rider joined in service in 2014, after completing training. The canine helped the police in detecting sensational cases, including some robbery and dacoity cases, in the district,” said Mr. Narayan Naik.
20 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP bags all four RS seats||Four senior leaders of the YSR Congress Party, including its two most popular BC faces, were elected to the Rajya Sabha on Friday. Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose (East Godavari), Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao (Guntur), Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy (Guntur) and Parimal Natwani were declared elected after each of them secured 38 votes each. The lone candidate from the Telugu Desam Party — Varla Ramaiah — secured 17 votes. ‘Jagan a man of his word’ Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, his Cabinet colleagues and Deputy Speaker Kona Raghupati cast their votes in the morning. Four of the 173 votes polled were declared invalid.  Soon after the result was declared, party leaders led by MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy thanked the CM for giving them the opportunity and vowed to make the voice of Andhra Pradesh heard in the Upper House and to secure allocations for State projects. Later, the MPs-elect called on Mr. Jagan. In an emotional tone, Mr. Subhash Chandra Bose and Mr. Ramana Rao, both BC leaders, said their election was a fulfilment of the promise made by Mr. Jagan. The party had proven its social commitment unlike the TDP which had plumped for corporate and business magnates.
20 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mopidevi rewarded for loyalty to the YSR family||Rising from a humble background, Mopidevi Venkata Ramana Rao, 63, has created history by becoming the first politician from the fishermen community in the State to step into the hallowed portals of the Rajya Sabha. A native of Nizampatnam village, Mr. Ramana Rao is the Minister for Marketing, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry in the YSRCP government. Even though he suffered defeat at the hands of Anagani Satya Prasad (TDP) from the Repalle Assembly constituency, Mr. Ramana was rewarded for his unflinching loyalty to the YSR family and made a Minister after being nominated to the Legislative Council in June 2019. His entry into mainstream politics was a surprise, and as a 20-year-old graduate from Andhra Loyola College, Vijayawada, Mr. Ramana Rao found himself standing in direct elections to the Mandal Praja Parishad in 1987. It was former MLC Singam Basavapunnaiah who spotted him and recommended him as a candidate for the Congress in Assembly elections from the Kuchinapudi constituency in 1989. Even though he lost in two successive elections to Epuri Seetharavamma (TDP), Mr. Ramana Rao did not lose hope and won a landslide victory in 2004. In 2007, he was made a Minister for Ports and Infrastructure in the YSR Cabinet.  Thanks Jagan But soon after the death of YSR in September 2009, Mr. Ramana Rao found himself embroiled in a series of controversies. Named as an co-accused by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Vanpic case, Mr. Ramana Rao was arrested and was lodged in central jail for over a year. Ill-health dogged him and he was frequently hospitalised during his remand. “I thank Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy for giving me the opportunity and this is certainly the most memorable moment in my political career,” he said.
20 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Modi can count on our support, says Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the people of the State would provide their unstinting support to any decision taken by him to protect the interests of the country. Participating in a video-conference organised by the Prime Minister, Mr. Jagan said the supreme sacrifice made by 20 Indian soldiers in a combat with Chinese troops would be remembered for a long time. Battles are not fought on a military plane alone. Tactics such as trade restrictions, international pressure, etc, are equally effective, he added. Lauding the foreign policy initiatives of Mr. Modi, the CM said: “India is now a global powerhouse and gained prominence in the global sphere due to successful foreign policy initiatives of the Prime Minister, including establishing missile control regimes, becoming a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council by securing support from 184 out of 192 member States, and these things have been never seen in the past.’’  ‘Key victories’ While India is marching on the path of progress and gaining glorious heights, a few countries have tried to destabilise the country, the CM said. But India under the leadership of Mr. Modi has shown the resilience to fight back like it did in the Battle of Pulwama. India has achieved several key victories on the foreign policy front, including getting the international community declare Masood Azad an international terrorist and winning the case in International Court of Justice in the Kulbhshushan Jadhav issue.
20 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat control room opened at Nagarjuna Sagar||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar on Friday inaugurated a boat control room at the Nagarjuna Sagar launch station. It is among the nine boat launching stations opened by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy across the State. Trained staff It is manned by staff trained to monitor movement of boats through high-end binoculars and security personnel. They will issue permissions for operating boats. The Collector went round the boating area and gave several instructions to ensure a smooth and safe ride to passengers. He also took part in a video conference with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy.
20 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LIC staff chip in for CMRF||LIC Employees Union members of the Kadapa division presented a cheque for Rs. 3.07 lakh to Member of Parliament Y.S. Avinash Reddy towards Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF), in the presence of Collector Ch. Hari Kiran. Mr. Avinash Reddy appreciated office-bearers A. Raghunatha Reddy, Avadhanam Srinivas and others for their voluntary gesture to support the government in its fight against COVID-19.
20 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Grameena bank puts up impressive show||Andhra Pragathi Grameena Bank (APGB) has achieved a net business of Rs. 31,543 crore and a net profit of Rs. 281.37 crore after making a provision of Rs. 306 crore for pension payment. Interestingly, the net Non-Performing Assets (NPA) stood at zero%. Bank chairman A. Venkata Reddy announced the financial results for the year ending March 31, 2020 here on Friday, which showed the bank’s total business witnessing a quantum jump of Rs. 3,258 corre over the previous year, recording Year-Over-Year (YOY) growth rate of 11.52%. Similarly, the Rs. 16,151-crore deposits registered 12.75% growth for the year, i.e., an increase of Rs. 1,826 crore. Thrust areas On the advances side, the bank registered YOY growth rate of 10.25%, i.e., Rs. 1,431 corre over the previous year to touch Rs. 15,392 crore. Identifying mobilisation of small savings, recovery of loans and enrolment of maximum beneficiaries under social security schemes as the ‘thrust areas’ for the current financial year 2020-21, Mr. Venkata Reddy forecast the business to touch Rs. 35,000 crore by the end of the fiscal. General Managers K. Mukteshwar Rao, B.S. Anantha Padmanabha Rao and other executives of the bank were among those present.
20 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||38 test positive in East Godavari||East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Friday launched an initiative — ‘No mask - no entry’ — making wearing a mask mandatory in public places to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in the district. The district so far registered six deaths and 653 cases including 38 reported on Friday. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy stated that commercial establishments and small shops would be asked to down shutters for a week if any of their staff members attended the work without a mask.
20 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||National award for Chelluru||The Chelluru panchayat of Rayavaram mandal bagged the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP)-2020 award for categories including treatment of solid waste, distribution of social pensions and sanitation. The Ministry of Panchayat Raj announced the awards on June 16. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has lauded the efforts of District Panchayat Officer S.V. Nageswara Naik and congratulated everyone on bagging the national award.
20 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘ends life’ in E. Godavari||A 39-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by hanging to a tree reportedly following an argument with his wife at Antarvedipalem village under Sakhinetipalli police limits in East Godavari on Thursday night. Talupudi Ramesh was found hanging to a tree on the village outskirts on Friday. Ramesh earned a livelihood by mending coconut trees in the Konaseema area. Family issues According to the Sakhinetipalli police, an argument between Ramesh and his wife over family issues was said to be the reason that drove him to end his life. The police sent the body to the government hospital in Rajole for post-mortem and registered a case. Those suffering from suicidal tendencies can dial Disha police at 95029-47778.
20 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco farmers hail bailout announced by Chief Minister||Tobacco growers on Friday welcomed Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s ‘bold and historic’ decision to bail out the sector through market intervention. The tobacco sector has been among the hardest-hit in the wake of the lockdown, coupled with a decline in demand owing to a global economic downturn. Leading tobacco farmers in offering a ‘Palabhishekam’ to a portrait of the Chief Minister here, Andhra Pradesh Tobacco Growers’ Cooperative Union chairman V. Basivi Reddy said that the marketing wing of the State Government would purchase tobacco stocks not purchased by traders, and export the same as and when demand picks up. The Chief Minister had assured the growers to allot whatever amount required, and said the government was ready to bear any losses during the market intervention operation, said YSRCP farmers’ wing (Prakasam district) president Mareddy Subba Reddy. The Chief Minister had also promised to opt for a crop holiday as sought by a section of farmers during the next cropping season if necessary, in order to facilitate liquidation of this year's stocks that were lying unsold, he said. Former Tobacco Board member P. Bhadri Reddy said the NTR and YSR Governments had advanced interest-free loans to the union for market intervention. However, Mr. Jagan went a step further to earmark Rs. 1,300 crore to purchase unsold tobacco, he said. Farmers’ Welfare Association president in Ongole II auction platform V.V. Prasad wanted the government to ensure a minimum price of Rs. 190 per kg for bright grade, at least Rs. 150 per kg for medium grade, and not less than Rs. 100 for low grade. It was a double whammy for farmers as after untimely rains, the prolonged lockdown coinciding with the peak of marketing season led to a fall of over 30% in the prices for various grades prevailing before the lockdown. Farmers in the State were saddled with an unsold stock of over 80 million kg of tobacco with traders picking up less than 30% of the produce so far.
20 June 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surge continues in Prakasam dist.||Forty-nine more persons, 38 in Prakasam district and 11 in SPSR Nellore district, tested positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours. Two persons from Bihar were among the 11 persons who contracted the infection in Nellore district. Vinjamur accounted for three cases, followed by Sangam with two cases and by Nellore, Maripadu, Atmakur and A.S.Peta with one case each. With this, the number of cumulative cases went up to 526. The number of active cases came down to 195 as 18 persons were discharged from designated COVID-19 hospitals on Friday. ‘Shortage of staff’ Shortage of staff at the testing lab has led to a delay in declaring test results. “We are unable to cope with the situation. Every day, over 1,000 mouth swab samples are collected and there is a backlog of three days in clearing the samples with only four staff available to handle them,” said COVID-19 nodal officer M. Narendra. “We have asked for another 10 lab technicians to declare the results without any delay,” he said after reviewing the situation. In Prakasam district, Chirala accounted for a maximum of 16 new cases, most of the primary contacts of one infected person from Prasad Nagar in Kothapeta area of the handloom town. Ongole reported eight cases, including five from Siva Prasad colony, while Pamur village registered six cases. Two of the newly-infected persons hailed from Darsi, while an equal number of persons had come from Bapatla in Guntur district. Kanduluru, Singarayakonda, Gudluru and Kanigiri registered one case each. With this, the number of active cases went up to 143 in the district.
20 June 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism boats to criss-cross the Godavari from tomorrow||The AP Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) is all set to resume boating operations on the River Godavari from Sunday. Services will be operated from the Padmavathi and Gowthami and Pushkar ghats in the city. Rajamahendravaram Member of Parliament M. Bharat on Friday inaugurated the Tourism Boats Control Room (TBCR) at Padmavathi Ghat here. The State government has sanctioned three TBCRs for East Godavari district. Two more will be set up at the Pochamma Gandi and Pochavaram points. Safety matters APTDC Divisional Manager (East & West Godavari districts) D. Prakash told The Hindu that four boats are ready for tourism operations in the city alone. Two of them are 12-seat capacity and two more are above 12-seat capacity. “Boating service to Papikondalu, a major tourist destination, will not be resumed immediately. The process of registration of boats, a set of permissions and certification of safety standards is yet to begin,” said Mr. Prakash. The Department of Ports will issue the permission to run the services. The MP said the initiative of setting up the TBCR would ensure adoption of all safety protocols. Officials from the APTDC, revenue, police, and the Department of Ports would monitor operations.
20 June 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Infant found dead in open well||A 15-day-old baby girl was found dead under mysterious circumstances in an open well at China Kondepudi village under Seetanagaram police limits in East Godavari district on Friday. The body was found during a search for her by the police and the villagers. The parents of the baby, Kalla Suresh and Kalla Sujana, woke up to find that their baby was missing while she was sleeping along with her mother in their house. The couple ekes out a livelihood as farm labourers. Rajamahendravaram DSP (North) P. Satyanarayana Rao said the police did not find any clue on how the baby was taken away from her mother and thrown into the open well on the village outskirts. The police have registered a case and investigation is on.
20 June 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas BHIMAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||International drug racket busted||In a shocking incident, the Customs officials of Chennai airport arrested an engineering dropout of the town for allegedly peddling drugs from the Netherlands. Investigation officials raided his house and seized some packets which were booked online from Harleem City, through a parcel service. “About 400 Methylenedioxy-Methamphetamine (MDMA) pills (weighing 470 grams), which were banned, worth more than Rs. 12 lakh, were recovered from the accused. The accused reportedly booked the consignment on the pretext of toys on fake addresses,” an officer said. The 28-year-old man booked the consignment through ‘Bitcoin’, a Crypto currency. He was produced in a court in Chennai and was remanded to judicial custody. The Customs officials, who kept a vigil on the drug peddler, are trying to find out how long he was running the racket, whether the accused was having a gang and his customers.  Modus operandi “A dosage of the ecstasy pill (MDMA) above 120 gms could be fatal. The accused booked the drug through a banned site and was smuggling the pills. We are investigating how he came into contact with the suppliers and other peddlers and other details,” an investigation officer told The Hindu on Friday. Thorough probe The police, who swung into action post customs officials raids, suspect that the drug racket has links to Narsapuram, Veeravasaram, Razole, Akiveedu and the neighbouring districts in Andhra Pradesh. Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gauam Sawang said the police were investigating deep into the international drug racket and book the accused. “There are rumours that some influential persons are behind the drug racket. The government is very serious on drug smuggling and the police will take stern action against the peddlers,” Mr. Sawang said. “We are cooperating with the Customs and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officials of Chennai airport, who are investigating the case,” said West Godavari district Superintendent of Police (SP) K. Narayan Naik.
20 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala temple to be closed for solar eclipse||The temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala will remain closed for 18 hours due to the solar eclipse on June 21. According to the TTD almanac, the solar eclipse is scheduled to occur between 10.18 a.m. and 1.38 p.m. on June 21. The temple doors which will be closed at 8 p.m. on June 20 will be reopened only at 2.30 p.m. on June 21. After observing certain post eclipse rituals such as Suddhi and Punyavachanam, mandatory rituals like Suprabhatam, Thomala, Koluvu and panchanga sravanam will be carried out till 6 p.m., followed by other religious proceedings till 8 p.m. which include Archana, Bell, Bali, and Sattumurai. Thereafter, the temple will be again closed at 8.30 p.m. Pilgrims will not be allowed for darshan of the deity during the entire day.
20 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viva voce held online for SPMVV’s first NRI scholar||Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswa Vidyalayam (SPMVV) conducted its online viva voce through video-conferencing for its first overseas student at the campus here on Friday. Meenakshi Anipindi of Dallas, USA, registered as a Ph.D. scholar in the Department of Music and Fine Arts under the supervision of associate professor R.N.S. Saileswari, who participated in the viva voce as the external examiner. A. Sri Vidya from Tamil Nadu Government Music College, Thiruvaiyaru conducted the exam via video-conferencing. T. Bharathi, Dean (Social Sciences) acted as the chairperson of the research committee, while P. Vijayalakshmi and T. Tripura Sundari, the Dean and Associate Dean of International Relations, head of Music department Dwaram Lakshmi, Board of Studies (BoS) chair K. Saraswathi Vasudev and other scholars from India and abroad participated online in the process. Under the music courses offered by the Department of Music and Fine Arts, students are trained to become professional musicians who will be eligible to take up teaching positions in schools, colleges and universities as well as secure opportunities in All India Radio and Doordarshan, besides setting up music institutes of their own.
20 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||On the 100th day, new cases in the State shoot up to 465||As the State entered the 100th day since it detected the first COVID-19 case, it witnessed 465 new positive cases and four more deaths in the past 24 hours, as of Friday morning. It is the biggest single day spike so far. According to the Health Department bulletin, the tally has inched closer to the 8,000-mark at 7,961 cases. Of them, 3,905 patients have recovered and 3,960 are undergoing treatment. More than half of the cases have been reported in the past 18 days and the other in 82 days since March 12 when the first case was reported. Spurt in Krishna district Krishna district, which is the second most affected after Kurnool, has reported 82 new cases and Chittoor and Anantapur reported 58 and 50 new cases respectively. West Godavari reported 47 and Kurnool and Prakasam 31 new cases each. They are followed by Kadapa (23), East Godavari (22), Guntur (17), Visakhapatnam (13), Nellore (2). No new cases were reported in Srikakulam and Vizianagaram. Two of the four new deaths occurred in Krishna district which has the highest mortality rate in the State. Each of the other two occurred in Prakasam and Srikakulam districts. It is the first COVID death in Srikakulam. Of the new cases, 376 are of locals while the rest are of foreign returnees and people from other States. Of the total 7, 961 cases, 6,230 are of locals, 308 cases of foreign returnees and 1, 423 cases of migrant returnees and people from other States. On the positive side, 131 patients recovered in the past 24 hours. As many as 17, 609 samples were tested during the past 24 hours. The overall recovery rate has come down to 49% and the mortality rate is 1.21%.
20 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15,745 cases booked against liquor, sand smugglers in one month||Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) are cracking the whip on sand and liquor smuggling in the State. The newly created SEB, in association with the Police and Prohibition and Excise personnel, is conducting raids at all vulnerable places. “The SEB personnel conducted raids and booked 15,745 cases against liquor and sand smugglers in the last one month. They arrested 21,798 accused, seized 75,731 litres of ID liquor, destroyed 12.86 lakh litres of fermented jaggery wash and 45,969 kgs of jaggery wash,” said Director-General of Police, D. Gauam Sawang, who is also the Ex-Officio Principal Secretary of SEB. The SEB and the police, during vehicle check and raids, confiscated 10,530 kg of ganja (Cannabis), 544 litres of toddy and seized huge quantity of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), Non-Duty Paid Liquor (NDLP) and beer, Mr. Sawang said. SEB teams seized 4,872 vehicles, including 4,187 two-wheelers, 127 three-wheelers (autos), 490 four-wheelers and 60 heavy vehicles involved in liquor smuggling. Similarly, 1,924 vehicles had been seized for illegally transporting sand, the DGP said. The police and the SEB personnel seized 3.82 lakh tonnes of sand being transported illegally in the State from May 16 to till date, Mr. Sawang said adding that instructions had been given to maintain strict vigil on all the State borders in Guntur, Krishna, East Godavari, Anantapur, Chittoor and other districts. “We seized liquor being smuggled through boats in Krishna river, liquor dumps concealed in fields, illegally smuggled through ambulance, milk van, fruit and flower vans and other means of transport,” the SEB Principal Secretary said. Mr. Sawang praised the efforts of the SEB and the police officers in their efforts to check sand and liquor smuggling and directed the officers to act tough against the smugglers.
20 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM inaugurates tourism control rooms||The objective of setting up control rooms by the tourism wing is to ensure safe operation of the tourist boats in the State, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. Speaking after inaugurating in the online mode the nine control rooms set up at different tourist destinations across the State on Friday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy referred to the ghastly boat capsize at Kachuluru that had claimed many lives, and said the control rooms manned by personnel of nine departments were set up to avert any such possible accidents in the future. He said the personnel at these control rooms would monitor key aspects such as registration of the vessels, fitness tests and availability of life-saving equipment. Addressing via a video link, the Chief Minister asked Krishna district Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, who, along with Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, attended the inaugural function of resumption of boating activity at Berm Park in Bhavanipuram, to review boating activity every week. He wanted strict monitoring of the implementation of the Standard Operating Procedure put in place for the purpose. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said people could visit the tourist destinations and enjoy boating with their families without any fear since a fool-proof system was put in place. The Collector said, to begin with, nine boats, including three speed boats and a Jet Ski, would be operated. He said people could enjoy these recreational facilities, but in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol. The nine control rooms are located at Singanapalli (West Godavari); Gandi Pochamma (East Godavari); Perantalapalli (West Godavari); Pochavaram (West Godavari); Rajahmahendravaram (East Godavari); Rushikonda beach (Visakhapatnam); Nagarjuna Sagar Boating Point (Guntur); Srisailam Boating Point (Kurnool); and Berm Park in Vijayawada (Krishna district). Each control room has a manager from the Revenue Department, a system operator, inspection staff, and lifeguards and swimmers from the Tourism Department, a liaison officer from the Water Resource Department and security personnel from the Police Department.
20 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayamma releases book on Jagan’s one-year padayatra||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is sincerely implementing the promises he made during his historic padayatra, said YSR Congress Party honorary president Y.S. Vijayamma. She was speaking after releasing Prati Dinam Praja Hit h am , a book on the day-to-day activities of Mr. Jagan from May 2019 to May 2020, published by the office of the Adviser, National Media and Inter State Affairs, Government of Andhra Pradesh, in Hyderabad on Friday. The Adviser’s private secretary and Information and Public Relations Department Divisional PRO Palepu Raja Sekhar has compiled the book. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Vijayamma said that during the padayatra, Mr. Jagan had the opportunity to understand the problems being faced by the common people and had assured them that he was there for them. “I appreciate the Chief Minister for fulfilling 90% of the promises he made within one year of coming to power. He considers the manifesto as Bhagavat Gita, Quran and Bible,” she said. Ms. Vijayamma said Mr. Jagan was striving for the completion of irrigation projects to transform the State into Harithandhra Pradesh. Welfare and development activities were being taken up simultaneously. The Chief Minister was determined to distribute houses to the poor on July 8, she said, adding that A.P. stood as a role model for the country by conducting over 6 lakh COVID-19 tests.
20 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Defamation notices to Naidu, Ramoji, Vemuri||The State government on Friday issued legal notices to former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for allegedly making defamatory statements against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, and Ushodaya Enterprises founder-director Ch. Ramoji Rao and Ushodaya Publications editor M. Nageswara Rao for publishing them in Eenadu newspaper. In the notices served on behalf of Commissioner and ex-officio secretary (consumer affairs and civil supplies) K. Sasidhar, High Court Special Public Prosecutor K. Srinivasa Reddy said Mr. Naidu made objectionable comments on Mr. Jagan with regard to the supply of sand and that a contract for supplying bags used to distribute commodities under the PDS was awarded to a company owned by the Chief Minister. Mr. Naidu and the others were asked to issue an unconditional apology and get the same published within seven days of receipt of the notice or face criminal prosecution. Through a separate legal notice, the government demanded an apology from Mr. Naidu, Mr. Ramoji Rao, and Andhra Jyothi editor Vemuri Radhakrishna for making malicious statements that mining leases for Saraswati Power located in Dachepalli mandal of Guntur district were extended for 50 years through blatant violation of norms as the company was owned by Mr. Jagan.
20 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||MoU signed for manufacturing cattle vaccine||The Andhra Pradesh Centre for Advanced Research on Livestock (APCARL) and IGY Immunologix India Private Limited signed an MoU for manufacturing vaccines for cattle afflicted with various diseases. It is a Public-Private Partnership project targeted to be launched next year. APCARL CEO M. Srinivasa Rao and IGY Immunologix promoter Adinarayana Reddy signed the pact in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Special Chief Secretary (Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries) Poonam Malakondaiah at the CM camp office at Tadepalli. According to an official release, the State government will create the necessary infrastructure and M/s IGY will invest about Rs. 50 crore in the joint venture, which is expected to provide employment to 100 veterinarians and other staff. The government has plans to export the vaccines after meeting the local requirement and transform it into a vaccine manufacturer of international repute over a period of time.
20 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-level meet on new industrial policy held||Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy has held deliberations with his Cabinet colleagues Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy (Panchayat Raj and Mining), Botcha Satyanarayana (Municipal Administration), Balineni Srinivasa Reddy (Energy), P. Anil Kumar (Water Resources), K. Kanna Babu (Agriculture), G. Jayaram (Labour) and P. Viswaroop (Social Welfare), and APIIC chairperson R.K. Roja on the new industrial policy that is in the offing. Addressing the meeting at the APIIC headquarters at Mangalagiri in Guntur district, Mr. Goutham Reddy exuded confidence that the State would attract sizeable investments in the wake of the new policy, and stated that priority was being given to providing the best-in-class infrastructure to the industries, especially land, power, manpower and water. Director of Industries J.V.N. Subrahmanyam was present.
20 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister holds talks with WB officials||The State is seeking WB assistance for carrying out reforms in education sector. Minister A. Suresh, who had a meeting with WB representatives as part of a webinar on “AP School Education Improvement Project,” later said aid was sought for programmes such as teacher training, designing of teaching methodologies, assessment, human resource training.
20 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cash seized||The Governorpet police, led by Circle Inspector Nagaraju, seized Rs. 70 lakh unaccounted money from a van near Challapalli bungalow centre on Friday. They took three persons into custody for possessing the cash without proper documentation. The police were doing a routine check of vehicles when they suspected something foul. On a thorough check, the unaccounted money was found. A case was booked and information given to the Income Tax Department.
20 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘job fraud’||The Penamaluru police on Friday arrested G. Satya Surya Chalapathi Rao alias Sashikantha Rao, who allegedly deceived several unemployed youth by promising them jobs in Navy. He was arrested on similar charges by New Port police station and Two Town police station in Visakhapatnam in 2016 and 2018. He collected huge amounts from the victims, the police said. The modus operandi of the accused is to contact youth in various social media groups and introduce himself as a naval officer. He reportedly married a woman in 2012 by making the same claim.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||29 new cases take tally to 382 in Vizag district||Twenty-nine new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district on Friday taking the tally to 382. Till date, this has been the biggest single-day spike of COVID cases in the district. The total number of active cases in the district as on Thursday is 200. Meanwhile, 14 patients were discharged after testing negative. The total number of discharged persons stands at 181. According to officials, among the 29 cases, nine cases were reported from Zone II, which includes six members of a family from Balaji Nagar, two persons from Peda Jalaripeta and one from Kirlampudi Layout. This apart a woman from Arilova area with a travel history to Srikakulam, four PG medical students and one staff nurse from King George Hospital (KGH) and a woman who came for treatment at KGH also tested positive. The medical students and the staff nurse have contracted the virus from her, it was learnt. A large number of KGH staff are being sent to quarantine. Meanwhile, a police inspector working with the city police, residing in Appannapalem area, has tested positive. Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V. Sudhakar, said that as on Friday, the total number of very active clusters was 31, while active clusters were 38.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boating Control Room inaugurated||District Collector V. Vinay Chand along with officials from the Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) took part in the inaugural ceremony of the Boating Control Room at Rushikonda beach here on Friday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated the facility through video-conference from Vijayawada. The facility is one among the nine control rooms in the State set up to mitigate boating/drowning accidents. The State government had decided to have disciplined boating system after the accident at Kutchuluru in East Godavari district last year. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Vinay Chand said that Rushikonda beach has been one of the biggest attractions in the city and the boating facility over here attracts nearly 2,500 tourists per month and about 30,000 tourists every year. Apart from the APTDC boats (two four-seater boats, two Jet-ski and one eight-seater), there are two six-seater boats of private operators functioning here, he said. The control room will have ticketing counter, waiting hall, restrooms/changing areas and CCTV cameras, with live feed for boating operations, public address system for emergency announcements, drinking water facility, power back-up with solar panels, adequate illumination, lighting and first-aid kits.  Life-saving equipment to be in place He said that there will be breath analysers to check alcohol consumption, life-saving equipment and patrolling boats for rescue operations. He said that an official from the Revenue Department, of the rank of MRO / Deputy Tehsildar, staff from the Water Resources Department, two tourism department staff for system operation and inspection, security personnel from the Police Department, lifeguards and swimmers / Quick Response Team from the Tourism Department will be posted at the control room. Mr. Vinay Chand said that the Chief Minister has also given the nod for starting the boating operations. Since we have proper Standard Operating procedure (SOP) to run the boating facilities, the Chief Minister has permitted to resume operations. The tourism department will be given permission after contacting the government soon, he said.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Iron ore, steel exports help Vizag port cut losses||An increase in export of iron ore and steel products like billets to China is helping the Visakhapatnam Port Trust fare better than other major ports during the lockdown, its Chairman K. Ram Mohan Rao said on Saturday. “While the port saw its growth declining to -10%, we still fared better than other rival ports, some of which saw their growth plummeting to -30%,” Mr. Rao told The Hindu . He said that there was a 20% drop in handling coal due to a fall in demand for power production by various plants and iron ore owing to scaling down of output by steel plants ever since the lockdown was imposed. Mr. Rao said SAIL, Jindal, Tata and Bagadia Group were doing better in exploring demand for steel products in China after it stopped production as a fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. “As far as coal is concerned, there is a slump in demand following decline in industrial activity. This would go up once the industries revive normal production in the coming days,” he said. VPT has identified coastal shipping as a potential area for future. “We want to encourage coastal shipping in a big way so as to improve our throughput during this year,” he said. Vast hinterland Port authorities feel that coastal transport of cargo from the hinterland extending to Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Jharkhand to ports like Haldia will help it recover the losses sustained during the lockdown. VPT, which stood fourth in 2018-19, improved its cargo flow by handling 72.72 million tonnes in 2019-20, rising to third position after Kandla and Paradip, and pushing JNPT to fourth. Mr. Rao said that container traffic from the port through its BOT operator Visakha Container Terminal Private Limited was witnessing impressive growth by increasing throughput from 2.5 lakh twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) three years ago to five lakh TEUs now. End-to-end logistics He said by offering total end-to-end logistic solutions, they were able to convince prospective clients to handle cargo through Visakhapatnam Port. The recent meeting of the port also retained discount in vessel-related charges for container cargo and other benefits to prevent diversion of cargo to other ports and attract new clients taking advantage of competitive user charges and advantages over faster evacuation.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘User-friendly PPEs to hit market soon’||User-friendly personal protective equipments (PPEs) approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are expected to hit the market within a month as the National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) has issued licence to five MSMEs for commercial production of the safety gears. NRDC, an undertaking of Department of Scientific and Industrial Research in the Ministry of Science and Technology, has partnered with the Intellectual Property Facilitation Cell of Directorate General Quality Assurance (Naval), Ministry of Defence, to protect the IP. “The commercial production of user-friendly PPE named NavRakshak will begin within a month. The concept of the breath-easy equipment with no mend or lamination was developed by a naval doctor,” said H. Purushotham, Chairman and Managing Director, NRDC. The know-how has been provided to Greenfield Vintrade Private Limited (Kolkata), Vaishnavi Global Private Limited (Mumbai), Bharat Silks (Bengaluru), Sure Safety (India) Limited (Vadodara) and Swaps Couture (Mumbai). They will produce more than 10 million PPEs per annum. “The PPE could be provided at Rs. 450 to Rs. 500 per piece as the technology and quality of fabric is of superior quality and they need no sealing around the seam of the suit, ruling out the import of costly sealing machines and tapes. The PPE fabric does not require lamination with polymer or plastic. This makes the PPE permeate heat and moisture from the skin of the user,” explained Dr. Purushotham. Hoping a good scope for PPE manufacturers, he said as per the NITI Aayog, the PPE market in the country has grown from almost zero to Rs. 10,000 crore in just two months. The know-how of manufacturing the ‘NavRakshak’ PPE has been developed at the Innovation Cell of the Institute of Naval Medicine, INHS Asvini Hospital. The PPE has been tested and certified at the INMAS, DRDO, among the nine NABL accredited labs authorised by Ministry of Textile in India for PPE prototype sample testing as per the ISO standards and COVID protocols.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5,500 beds readied for high-risk patients, says Collector||District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that the authorities are gearing up to have at least 5,500 to 6,000 beds ready for COVID-19 patients, especially those who fall in the high-risk category, in the wake of increase in the number of cases in the district. Speaking to the media here on Friday, Mr. Chand said that with the opening up of economy, the increase in cases was natural. “In this scenario, we need to worry about people above 60 years of age and those having health issues, as per the ICMR indications.” he said. He said that in the coming days, patients, who had proper accommodation facility, would be given an option of home quarantine. But high-risk category patients strictly need hospital care, for which the beds were being prepared and would be made available shortly, he said adding that shortage of beds was never an issue. He also said that the officials are hopeful of increasing the testing capacity to 4,000 per day. At present, 2,400 tests per day are being conducted. People in quarantine facilities should also cooperate if the test reports are delayed by a week, he added.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DEO warns private schools||District Educational Officer B. Lingeswara Reddy has warned that action will be initiated against schools conducting online classes for students from I to V standard, in violation of the rules. In a statement on Friday, the DEO said that complaints were received from parents and public in this regard. They would be investigated and stringent action would be initiated against such school managements. He also directed the managements of all schools (unaided) to implement the rules issued by the Commissioner of Education, A.P., in the past, asking the recognised schools not to hike the fee for 2020-21 in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The parents should be given the option to pay it in instalment in view of the financial difficulties of parents due to the lockdown. The schools should not be reopened till further orders, he added.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||20-year-old girl ‘commits suicide’||A 20-year old girl allegedly ended her life reportedly due to depression at Sriharipuram in Visakhapatnam on June 16. The deceased, identified as Suman Kumari, was working as a teacher in a private school. According to reports, Suman Kumari ended her life by hanging herself to a ceiling fan at her residence. Police registered suicide case and are investigating. According to Malkapuram police, the family, a native of Bihar had come to Visakhapatnam about six months ago. The victim had discontinued her Intermediate education and was working as a teacher. Her close relatives suspect that after hearing the death of Sushanth Singh Rajput on June 14, she plunged deeper into depression and probably it could have triggered her to take the extreme step.  Those having suicidal tendencies can contact 100 for assistance.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan praised for Assembly resolution against NRC and NPR||The YSR Congress Party State minority wing has expressed happiness over the State government passing a resolution in the Assembly opposing the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register (NPR). Addressing a press conference here on Friday, YSR Congress Party State minority wing president I.H. Farooqui said that the TDP leaders had carried out a malicious campaign against Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that he was afraid of the BJP-led Union government and will not oppose the Bill. But the CM proved the TDP leaders wrong, he added. Mr. Farooqui appreciated the Chief Minister for allocating Rs. 2.53 crore for the welfare of the minorities, as against Rs. 950 crore that was allocated by the TDP. Former MLA S.A. Rehaman said that the Muslim minority across the State and the country would hail Mr. Jagan for his initiative.
20 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP organises door-to-door campaign||A door-to-door campaign — Jana Jagaran Abhiyan — was organised by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), under the aegis of its State executive member K.V.V.V. Satyanarayana, at the 28th ward in Visakhapatnam East Assembly constituency on Friday. Party leader Kasiviswanadha Raju explained to the people about the schemes launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the welfare of weaker sections and his measures for strengthening the nation.
20 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Meghadrigedda water can be used for drinking’||Water from the Meghadrigedda reservoir can be used for drinking water purpose after filtration and disinfecting, said Visakhapatnam District Collector V Vinay Chand. In a release on Friday, the Collector announced that it is based on the recommendations made by the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). Gas leak incident It may be noted that ever since the LG Polymers styrene monomer leak incident took place in Visakhapatnam(May 7), drinking water supply from the reservoir had been suspended by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation(GVMC), as the reservoir is located close to the chemical factory.
20 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three booked on charge of cheating a woman||The Kancharapalem police registered a case against three persons for reportedly cheating a woman to the tune of Rs. 5 lakh by promising to give her a role in a movie, here on Friday. According to the police, the woman complained that three persons — Prasad, Shareef and Satyanarayana — had duped her. She said that she had given the money in two instalments. She alleged that the three persons had threatened her when she sought the money back. The police said that they were yet to ascertain facts in the case. A case was registered and investigation is on.
20 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Row in Vizianagaram royal family takes a new twist||Who is the legal heir of Pusapati Ananda Gajapathi Raju, scion of the Vizianagaram royal family and former MP? Who is the person legally authorised to head the MANSAS Trust he had founded and which controls over Rs. 50,000-crore worth properties in the North Andhra region and other parts of the country? Even as the legal battle continues, the issue has taken a new twist with Ananda Gajapathi Raju’s second wife and their daughter claiming right over the MANSAS Trust. Sudha Gajapathi Raju and her daughter Urmila Gajapathi Raju are planning to call on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy soon and show him the documents to claim their right. Ms. Urmila, a 21-year-old student pursuing her post-graduation course in economics in the U.K., recently arrived in Visakhapatnam to consult legal experts on the issue. “We have not uttered any word till date on the issue only to protect the image of the royal family,” Ms. Sudha and Ms. Urmila told The Hindu , and disputed the claims of Sanchaita Gajapathi Raju that she is the legitimate legal heir. Ms. Sanchaita is the daughter of Ananda Gajapathi Raju from his first wife Uma. The couple, however, took divorce in 1991. Ms. Sudha married Ananda Gajapathi Raju on January 22, 1999, and Ms. Urmila was born on November 30, 1999. “My husband had struggled to ensure quality education to the students through the MANSAS Trust. He had devoted his time and energies for the development of the Trust till his last breath. We want to fulfil his dreams and enhance the image of the Trust,” said Ms. Sudha Gajapathi Raju. Controversy erupted in the royal family with the YSRCP government appointing Ms. Sanchaita as chairperson of the MANSAS Trust in place of P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, former Union Minister and younger brother of Ananda Gajapathi Raju. Shocked at the sudden development, Mr. Ashok had approached the court. “Ananda Gajapathi Raju had given valuable movable and immovable properties to Ms. Uma. However, after obtaining divorce in 1991, Ms. Uma had married Ramesh Varma, and Ms. Sanchaita used to stay with them in New Delhi. Ms. Sanchaita had come to Vizianagaram after the funeral of my husband in 2016 and left immediately. She does not have any right over the properties as the issue had been settled legally in 1991 itself,” Ms. Sudha claimed. Ms. Sanchaita was not available for comment.
20 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Develop infra at Bhogapuram airport’||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) on Friday urged the government to take steps for establishing aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul unit at the proposed international airport at Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district. Addressing a media conference here, TDP district president Mahanti Chinnam Naidu, Bhogapuram former Mandal Praja Parishad president Karrotu Bangarraju said the government had allocated only 2,200 acres of land out of 2,700 to the GMR group, with which the government has signed an agreement for the project, and retained 500 acres of land without any valid reason. TDP senior leaders Kandi Chandrasekhara Rao, Suvvada Ravikishore felt that the locals would not get jobs without the development of the infrastructure. The leaders said that the farmers had sacrificed their prime lands and they should get the benefits with the establishment of the airport.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rural job scheme proves a boon in Anantapur||Utility of providing work to the rural poor under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) could probably be best established, at the place where it was launched 14 years ago by creating a record 6,18,288 person days on a single day. COVID-19 exposed the fragile rural economy in the arid Anantapur district with second lowest average annual rainfall of 550 mm in the country and ground reality check by The Hindu showed that if this scheme were not implemented proactively with a renewed vigour by the district administration, hunger deaths could have become a reality. E. Sivaiah, a curry leaves farmer of Muchukota village in Peddapappur mandal, is crestfallen as lush green crop in 1.5 acres, that should have earned him Rs. 1 lakh in three months, is a ‘no touch’ zone for this season as COVID-19 led to price of this spicy leaf to fall from Rs. 10 a kg to Rs. 1 a kg and even at that price there is none to buy, despite tall claims of the Horticulture Department of coming to the growers’ rescue during two months of lockdown. Sivaiah, who usually supervises about a dozen of farm labourers plucking leaves every alternate day or twice in a week, is today engaged in shallow trenching works on the revenue forest land in his own village earning Rs. 800 to Rs. 1,000 a week, which keeps the family afloat and away from hunger with the State government’s quota of subsidised rice. He now understands the importance of the scheme formally launched on February 2, 2016 at Bandlapalli in neighbouring Narpala mandal and thanks the government for coming to his rescue. Special focus District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, explaining the special focus put on the NREGS, said as of June 17, Rs. 251.67 crore was spent from April 1 in disbursing the wages to the people engaged in various works. It was only next to Vizianagaram, which had spent Rs. 365 crore providing 7,77,484 person days per day. While for the entire last fiscal year, 1.82 crore person days were created, this financial year the target is three crore person days and out of that 1.07 crore has already been achieved and wages disbursed till June 13, with no pending bills. About 30,000 of distressed migrants from various States and districts came back during or after the lockdown period pushing the demand for work. “Our aim is to make Anantapur a distress-migration-free district at the earliest," said Mr. Chandrudu. The maximum person days created last fiscal was a little above 2.5 lakh per day, he said. Increase in job cards The number of job cards also increased by 50,000 from 5.05 lakh last fiscal to 5.53 lakh and some of the inactive ones (28,367) have been reactivated with job seekers touching a peak of 8.76 lakh this fiscal.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to work||
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leading by example||
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flooding the market||
20 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Cases filed against officials involved in timber smuggling||A Sarasala-like incident, which had witnessed forest officials and employees being attacked by villagers in Kagaznagar mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district last year, was averted three days back in Lingapur mandal in the same district when a team of forest officials and employees raided a furniture workshop in Naddamguda hamlet of Mamidipalli gram panchayat. The team busted a racket involving local smugglers, forest officials and officials from other departments and seized nearly 35 logs of illegally felled teak and furniture worth a few lakh of rupees in the raid on June 15 but the incident came to light only on Friday. Nadamguda is a tiny hamlet in Lingapur mandal about 500 metres away from Lingapur mandal headquarters, and some 20 km from Jainoor mandal headquarters. Based on information provided by Additional PCCF (Vigilance) Swargam Srinivas and DFO Vigilance, office of PCCF (HoFF), Hyderabad, M. Raja Ramana Reddy a party headed by Adilabad Forest Divisional Officer V. Chandra Shekhara Rao raided the Nadamguda furniture workshop and seized teak logs as well as furniture and a mini saw mill. The team, however, came under attack from about 200 villagers when the officials tried to shift the contraband to the forest office elsewhere. The incident did not take an ugly turn thanks to better sense prevailing among villagers. The raid laid bare the complicity of the forest field-level officials and some officials from other departments. One deputy forest range officer was suspended soon after initial inquiry and a case was booked against an official from another department besides, the arrest of one carpenter who owned the workshop. Inquiries by The Hindu revealed that timber smuggling has been on in these parts since long. The furniture making racket was initiated a few months back and at least three lorry loads of furniture was shifted out from the workshop so far. KB Asifabad incharge Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier said an inquiry was underway.
20 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||‘No need to panic over locusts’||The collectors and superintendents of Police of Adilabad, Nirmal and Mancherial districts on Friday asked farmers in areas bordering Maharashtra not to panic over the anticipated attack by swarms of locusts. They assured the people that the government has made all preparations to meet any eventuality in this regard. Adilabad Collector A. Sridevasena and SP Vishnu S. Warrier, Nirmal Collector Musharraf Ali Faruqui and SP C. Shashidhar Raju and Mancherial Collector Bharati Hollikeri addressed separate press conferences at respective district headquarters on the subject. They said all precautionary measures are being taken to prevent the locust swarms from harming crops, in case the swarms arrive in these parts. Ms. Sridevasena said eight bordering mandals and 42 villages have been identified as vulnerable. Mr. Warrier also talked of curbing with an iron hand sale of spurious seeds and timber smuggling.
20 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||People’s tributes to slain Armymen||Social media continues to be flooded with video songs and poems paying tributes to the 20 valiant heroes, including Colonel Santosh Babu, who laid down their lives at the altar of duty combating the Chinese aggression in eastern Ladakh on Monday night. Several poets and lyricists across the old undivided Khammam district took to social media giving voice to emotions of sorrow and pride sweeping across the country over the supreme sacrifices made by the 20 bravehearts defending the territorial integrity of the motherland. Some of the traders in Khammam town had put up banners with pictures of Colonel Santosh in front of their shops commemorating his supreme sacrifice for the cause of the nation. Manuguru-based lyricist V. Bhasker composed a video song extolling the valour of the Indian bravehearts who attained martyrdom in the Galwan Valley in Ladakh. The four-minute video song titled “Mera Tera Bharat Hamara … Jai Jawan Jai Hai Bharat Ki Jai…Nee Tyagam Maruvanidhi” shows the strength of Indian Army and the valiant heroes guarding the Indian frontier with China in subzero temperature in Ladakh. It has become popular on social media.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sagar maintenance works to be completed by month-end||Ahead of the flood season, the project administration of Nagarjunasagar has undertaken the maintenance works of its radial crest gates and associated machinery and equipment. According to the project engineers, they have been told to complete maintenance works in all respects by the month-end. As part of the maintenance works, the engineers have taken servicing and greasing of mounting brackets, hoisting platforms, ropes, rope drums, switch-gear panels and oil top-up of gear-boxes. Besides, application of cardium compound which provides enhanced retention on bearing surfaces where the lubricant has to withstand the washing action. Hoist platform rope adjustment rope drum cleaning and full lifting of all gates was also being done as part of the annual maintenance work. The exercise was take up on the gates of spillway and the head regulators of right and left canals. According to the engineers, Nagarjunasagar has received 1,374.35 tmc ft of water during the 2019-20 water year – from June 1, 2019 to May 31, 2020. A total of 160.26 tmc ft water was released to the right canal and 131.89 tmc ft to the left canal. Similarly, 54.07 tmc ft was lifted to Alimineti Madhava Reddy Project (AMRP) and another 6.02 tmc ft to flood flow canal.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID cases in State spike to 499 in a day||There was a quantum jump in the number of COVID – 19 positive cases on Friday with the State recording 499 cases in 24 hours. This marks the highest number of cases till date.The number marks a significant spike, for, 352 cases were recorded on Thursday. The total number of cases recorded till date stands at 6,526. Of the 499 cases, as many as 329 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, followed by 129 from the Rangareddy district. As many as three COVID – 19 positive patients died, bringing the total number of fatalities to 198. As was reported in these columns, the Telangana government embarked on conducting an additional 50,000 tests earlier this week in containment zones, and contacts of positive patients, and those with symptoms, among others, in an attempt to gauge the prevalence of coronavirus. After a gap of one day, the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare on Friday released data on the number of tests conducted in a day. As on Friday, the State tested as many as 2,477 samples bringing the cumulative tests till date to 50,569. Out of these 2,477 samples, 1,978 tested negative on Friday, bringing the percentage of those tested positive to 20%. Data released by the government revealed that the highest number of COVID deaths were recorded in the 51- 60 age group with as many as 52 fatalities. This was followed by the 61-70 age group with 48 deaths. The third highest number of 42 deaths were in the 41-50 age group. As many as 16 COVID positive patients in the 31-40 age group lost their lives. The State government has identified as many as 34 hospitals for COVID treatment, and has earmarked 17,081 beds. Out of these, 976 beds are occupied. The number of vacant isolation beds in COVID hospitals is 10,970 and the number of vacant ventilator beds is 460. As many as 10 government labs, including those at Gandhi Medical College, Osmania General Hospital and Government Fever Hospital, will be conducting COVID tests. Additionally, 18 private labs, including those at Apollo Hospitals in Jubilee Hills, Vijaya Diagnostic Center in Himayath Nagar, American Institute of Pathology and Lab Sciences, Citizens Hospital in Serilingampally, Medcis Pathlabs in Anand Nagar have been authorised to conduct COVID tests.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Missing, inaccurate coronavirus data makes netizens inquisitive||For two days — June 16 and 17, the Health department bulletin had information about the number of tests conducted to discover COVID-19 patients. Out of the 1,251 tests, 17% results were positive on June 16, and on the next day, out of 1,096 tests, 24.5% were positive. On June 18, a whopping 352 test results were positive. Curiously, information about the number of tests conducted disappeared from the June 18 bulletin, triggering some angry questioning by netizens. “Arre tests gayab ho gaya fir se... Ek ek din ek ek format like Navaratri (data about number of tests has disappeared. Everyday they are using a new format like Navratri,” wrote Sudarshan on Twitter. On Friday, the bulletin disclosed that 50,569 tests were conducted till now. Even the information about tests conducted did not go uncontested. “Yesterday total tests 44,431.. now 45,911. Which means 1,480 samples taken but you mentioned as 1,069. Don’t play with public with irresponsible data,” wrote Hari Krishna on the microblogging platform. On the first day the test data was included, there were bouquets for the health ministry. “Sir, good format. These days we were afraid what and why the government is hiding. It’s good to be frank. People are not ignorant. What we need is correct information. If we know the depth of the problem we will be more careful. Thanks for including test numbers. It creates confidence,” wrote Revanth Kulkarni applauding the test numbers. But the information in the medical bulletins has remained patchy. On June 8, the health department did not issue the medical bulletin. According to information, 393 patients were discharged on that day, with five deaths being reported. But the medical bulletin showed 1,742 as the total patients discharged on June 7 as well as on June 9. The appearance and disappearance of data columns have not gone unchallenged. “We would be happy if this includes details like total number of discharges and total cases tested in a day along with the total positive cases detected area-wise. The exact location where the positive cases were detected so that people would really be more cautious…” wrote another social media user Shirish Chandra. The State government had announced on June 15 that 50,000 tests would be conducted within 10 days in Hyderabad and its surrounding districts constituting 30 Assembly constituencies. Test data has become something of a holy grail at a time when the World Health Organisation (WHO) linked the fight against COVID to the number of tests on March 16. Between March 5 and 24, the Telangana government disclosed data about the number of tests conducted before it stopped. Till March 24, only 764 tests were conducted in the State even though 17,283 air travellers were identified as having symptoms during screening. Till May 30, the number of tests conducted in the state stood at 30,000. Between March 2, when the first COVID-19 case was detected in Telangana, and June 17, the State has averaged 429 tests per day.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Why not rope in public to help migrants?’||Reiterating that the Supreme Court had categorically stated that it was State’s responsibility to look after migrant labourers during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Telangana High Court on Friday instructed the State government to consider providing accommodation to migrant workers in Manoranjan complex in Secunderabad. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL petition on the plight of non-local workers, said the government could think of taking the help of Lions Club or Rotary Club to help such workers. “Why cannot the civil society be engaged to look after migrant labourers? Even corporate sector can also be roped in,” the CJ remarked. Lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, who was appointed as amicus curiae in the publc interest petition (PIL) petition, said nearly 300 workers were accommodated in a 150-capacity shelter near the Secunderabad railway station. The workers were forced to live there waiting for Shramik trains to reach their States like Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. The bench asked Advocate-General B.S. Prasad why the authorities could not think of temporarily using Manoranjan complex which was vacant at present. It had sufficient space, rooms, toilets and other basic amenities, the bench said. The Chief Justice J instructed the AG to send officials of Labour or Social Welfare department to inspect the present shelter for migrant workers at the Secunderabad railway station and shift half of them to Manoranjan complex. Expressing dissatisfaction over the government not complying with its directions, the bench said it gave orders on June 10 to provide e-toilets to inmates of the shelter. But even after nine days, nothing was done, the bench said. “If trains are not available, the government can think of shifting them to their respective States in RTC buses,” the CJ said.
20 June 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ex-IAS officer B. P. R. Vithal passes away||B.P.R. Vithal, former IAS officer of the 1950 batch, passed away here early on Friday. He was 93. He is survived by wife Seshu, daughter Nivedita Kumar, sons Sanjaya Baru and Chaitanya Baru. Mr. Sanjaya Baru was adviser to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Vithal was Secretary, Finance and Planning, government of Andhra Pradesh, from 1972 to 1982 and Deputy Chairman, State Planning Board, and Member, Tenth Finance Commission. He was also Chairman, Expenditure Commission, government of Kerala. He had a brief stint at the International Monetary Fund as fiscal adviser to the governments of Sudan and Malawi. He established the Centre for Economic and Social Studies, Hyderabad. In 1942, Vithal quit his under-graduate studies at Nizam College, Hyderabad, attended the Quit India session of the Indian National Congress in Mumbai and involved himself in the national movement. On Gandhiji’s advice, written on a postcard that Vithal preserved with care, he returned to his studies at Chennai where he was the first Indian president of the MCC students’ union to fly the Indian tricolour. Vithal had many publications to his credit. His essay titled “The Telangana Surpluses: A Case Study” played an influential role in shaping the demand for a separate Telangana. In 1960, he was deputed to be Registrar of Osmania University. After retirement, he was associated with many social organisations and causes, including the Nizam's trust, Hyderabad Literary Society and Jana Vignana Vedika.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘SCR’s hospital must treat railway staff’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Friday urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to permit the South Central Railway’s Central Hospital at Lallaguda to treat railway employees and retired railway personnel and their families for COVID-19. In a letter to the CM, a copy of which was released to the media, Mr. Reddy pointed out that railway personnel have been involved in running trains to move essential commodities, migrant labourers and others during these troubled times in the last couple of months, despite the lockdown. Mr. Reddy said that there were several railway staff and ex-employees in his Secunderabad parliamentary constituency and he has been receiving letters from them to use his good offices and convince the TS government to allow COVID treatment at the railway hospital. “This will also reduce the burden on the government’s designated Gandhi Hospital,” he pointed out. The Union Minister also stated that the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had already identified Secunderabad and Vijayawada railway hospitals for COVID-treatment. He assured that patients requiring ventilator or other specialised care could be referred to Gandhi Hospital, if need be. The issue was first highlighted in these columns earlier this week when SCR employees’ associations had requested GM Gajanan Mallya to take up the issue with the TS government.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Demand for commercial LPG yet to gather steam||Consumption of the 19-kg commercial liquefied petroleum gas cylinders that serve as a pointer to the business at eateries and restaurants remain muted in Telangana, more than ten days after the lockdown norms were relaxed for the hospitality sector. It is a reflection of the situation on the ground, both LPG trade leaders and officials of national oil company say, pointing out to how only some eateries and hotels have reopened. Many are in a wait and watch mode to gauge the customer response, understand the impact of the new seating norms in restaurants as well as await the return of their workers. The offtake of the 19-kg cylinder is far from normal, but showing signs of recovery, an official of a national oil marketing company said. The Telangana market, however, is not an exception as commercial LPG sale across the country is down. At the national level, the sale in the first fortnight of this month is only around 56% of what was registered in the same period last year. According to trade numbers, 1.02 lakh units of 19-kg LPG cylinders were sold in the State during June 1-15 as against 2.52 lakh units. Besides hotels and eateries, other major consumers of commercial LPG are various industries, poultries and cloud kitchens. Of these, some use bigger, 40-47 kg, cylinders.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC nod to health varsity PG exams||The Telangana High Court on Friday gave green signal to Telangana University of Health Sciences to conduct the examinations for Post Graduate courses beginning Saturday. PIL plea rejected Disposing a PIL plea seeking postponement of the exams till conducive conditions emerge in the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic, the High Court said it would be in the interests of ‘justice’ to permit the exams. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said that the authorities, however, should take all safety precautions to ensure no student or staff member contracted the virus while conducting the exams till June 29. Health University vice-chancellor Karunakar Reddy, who attended the hearing through a video-conference, told the Bench that the Medical Council of India (MCI) had agreed to permit holding additional exams for students who do not appear for the exams on Saturday. Fees paid by the students for the present exams would be adjusted for exams to be held later. Special arrangements were being made for the PG students of Gandhi Medical College since Gandhi Hospital is the designated COVID-19 nodal centre. Report on Dalit death Meanwhile, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, who was directed by the HC to inquire into the custodial death of a Dalit in Manthani police station of Ramagundam commissionerate, presented his report. Hearing a PIL plea on the matter seeking judicial inquiry into the death of Sheelam Rangaiah, the Bench said that Mr. Anjani Kumar’s report said that there were no injury marks on his body barring a ligature sign around his neck. RTI proof Even the statements of two of Rangaiah’s associates, who were in the police station that day, suggested that the victim ended his life by hanging himself, the CJ said. The petitioner’s lawyer, however, said he had secured some documents through RTI and can prove that Mr. Anjani Kumar’s report was false. The Bench directed the Registry to permit the lawyer to peruse the inquiry report of Mr. Anjani Kumar and take notes. The lawyer, however, should not take pictures of the report or post the content of the report in social media till the matter was adjudicated, the Bench said.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State Waqf Board staffer succumbs||The senior citizen working at the Telangana State Waqf Board who tested positive for coronavirus breathed his last on Friday morning. According to TSWB sources, the 62-year-old COVID-positive patient worked as an attender in the Establishment section. He is said to have stopped reporting for duty from June 10. Later, he was admitted to a private hospital where he developed COVID-19 symptoms and then was moved to Gandhi Hospital where he died. TSWB officials confirmed that the attendance on Friday was much lower compared to any other day post ‘Unlock 1’. Most of the employees who came to the office, left in the afternoon. Meanwhile, sources said that a senior official of the Health department at BRK Bhavan tested positive. Three other employees working at the Minorities Welfare department showed coronavirus-like symptoms. They were told to get themselves tested.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State to promote oil palm plantation||As part of encouraging farmers to diversify from cultivating regular crops to ones having better commercial value, that too over a longer period, the State government has initiated the process for establishment of oil palm processing units to tie up with 3,09,431 hectares (7,64,619 acres) of the plantation crop proposed to be cultivated over the next few years. Although the plantation crop is limited mostly to Bhadradri-Kothagudem district so far with some extents covered in Khammam, Nalgonda and Suryapet districts, the government has plans to promote its cultivation in 24 other districts to cover nearly 7.65 lakh acres under it from the present 45,000 acres. After a study last year, the Centre has permitted oil palm cultivation in 18,100 ha (42,250 acres) during 2020-21 and 2021-22 in the State. The survey conducted by the National Mission on Oilseeds and Oil Palm has also identified that soil and weather conditions were suitable for the plantation crop in 246 out of 563 rural mandals in the State. As part of encouraging the farmers to take up oil palm plantation, the Horticulture Department has taken up its cultivation in 2,500 acres last year as demonstration plots. According to Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy, applications have been invited from the interested parties for setting up oil palm processing units for the new extent to come under the plantation crop so that allotment of factory zones for processing of the produce is made. A 10-member committee headed by him has been constituted for screening the applications for the establishing of oil palm processing units in the areas where the plantation would be promoted. On its part, the State government has already undertaken the exercise to revive oil extraction unit for traditional oilseeds such as groundnut, sunflower and safflower at Beechupally in Jogulamba-Gadwal district and make it an oil palm processing unit. The government is planning to give push to plantation crop in Nirmal (33,520 ha), Mahabubabad (28,164 ha), Kamareddy (26,337 ha), Warangal-Rural (23,118 ha) and Nizamabad (22,218 ha), where the plantation would be promoted in more than 20,000 ha. In 19 other districts it would be promoted in the extent ranging from 1,800 ha to 19,900 ha. An international meet on oil palm was scheduled to be held in Hyderabad in April with experts from Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, Costa Rica and other countries expected to take part in it. However, the meet was cancelled following the COVID-19 lockdown and the spread of the pandemic.  Sustained income The plantation crop gives sustained yield and income for about 30 years Country imports edible oils, mostly palm oil, from Malaysia, Indonesia, Brazil, Argentina Current production of oil palm bunches in Telangana is about 7 lakh tonnes from about 45,000 acres with a yield of about 18.5 tonnes per acre An expert committee report stated that there is scope for oil palm cultivation in 20 lakh hectares in 18 States in the country It is being cultivated in only about 3.45 lakh hectares now Country is importing about 21 million tonnes of edible oils including 15 million tonnes of palm oil costing about Rs. 75,000 crore a year Horticulture officials say oil palm trees release more oxygen into the atmosphere than the amount of carbon dioxide they consume
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC launches cargo services; app to be developed soon||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation on Friday launched its parcel, courier and cargo service. Speaking at the event, Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar said the services will be made available at all bus stations and in the first phase will begin with 104 buses and 140 stations. Each station will have a dedicated staff of three to five employees. An app will soon be developed which will enable the booking and delivery of parcels and cargo. Interestingly, during the lockdown, buses of the PCC Service were pressed into service to transport food items to anganwadi centres. The tariff for booking dickeys, parcels, couriers, and bulk transportation is contingent upon the number of kilometres travelled and weight, among other factors. The first cargo consignment left from the MGBS to Nizamabad on Friday. Speaking to The Hindu , the Transport Minister said, “We have ample number of employees who will be available for cargo services. There will be three to five people, depending on the need, at each station.” Touching upon bus services in the Greater Hyderabad Zone, he said that at the moment there are no plans of resumption of services give the number of COVID – 19 positive cases that are being recorded in the city.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Eight arrested for ‘playing cards’||Eight persons, including a retired government employee, were arrested by the Saifabad police on Thursday night on the charge of playing cards at the quarters allotted to the late Congress leader and former minister M. Mukesh Goud at New MLA Quarters in Adarshnagar. On a tip-off, police raided the quarter number 120 of New MLA Quarters at 11.45 p.m. They seized Rs. 1,12,610, eight mobile phones, 52 playing cards (loose), five sealed playing card boxes, three cigarette packets and two empty liquor bottles from them. The arrested are K Kiran Kumar (61), a retired government employee, Satish Kumar (53), a supermarket owner from Saidabad, G. Gopal Rao (46), C. Pradeep (54), realtor, P. Murali (48), a businessman, S. Manmohan (57), a realtor, and Raj Kumar (34), a gym trainer. A case under Sections 3 and 4 of Telangana State Gaming Act was registered against the arrested persons.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM condoles death||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed deep sorrow over the death of B. P. R. Vithal. He recalled the services rendered by Vithal as longest serving Finance and Planning Secretary, Vice-Chairman of the A.P. Planning and Development Board in the united A.P., Adviser to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and Member of the Tenth Finance Commission. The Chief Minister conveyed his heartfelt condolences to members of the bereaved family. Mr. B. P. Acharya, Director-General , MCR HRD Institute of Telangana and President of Telangana State IAS Officers Association, condoled the death. In a condolence message, Mr. Acharya said Vithal was an illustrious civil servant and doyen of planning in the combined State of Andhra Pradesh and was one of the first officer to to be appointed Secretary, Planning, in the State. He was also a member of the Executive Committee of CESS (Centre for Economic and Social Studies) and rendered great service.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress leaders distribute essentials, donate blood||Telangana Congress celebrated the birthday of Member of Parliament and former AICC president Rahul Gandhi without any fanfare and distributing food material to people and donating blood. The subdued celebrations were part of a call given by the AICC in view of the pandemic. However, party leaders and activists were quite enthusiastic as they reached out to people in different areas distributing essential commodities to the poor. Prayers were also held at various places by individuals. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy inaugurated the blood donation camp organised at Gandhi Bhavan by the National Students Union of India (NSUI) activists led by Telangana NSUI president, Venkat Balamuri. He later felicitated by the sanitation staff of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) for their role in dealing with COVID-19 and distributed food bags to them. He also handed over Rs. 50,000 cheque from the NSUI to the family members of journalist Manoj, who succumbed to COVID-19 recently. Hyderabad City Congress president Anjan Kumar Yadav, Telangana YC president Anil Yadav, Telangana NSUI president Venkat Balamuri and Feroz Khan from Nampally Assembly division were present. They also observed two minutes silence in memory of martyred soldiers. Former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah distributed handloom sarees to sanitation workers in Jangaon and said had Prime Minister Narendra Modi taken Rahul Gandhi’s suggestions on lockdown and migrants seriously, situation in the country would have been much different now. Former MP Ponnam Prabhakar also celebrated the day distributing food material in Karimnagar along with the party activists. He said special prayers were held in temples, masjids and churches for a healthy and successful life of Mr. Gandhi. Former MP V Hanmanth Rao distributed essential commodities to poor people. former Mayor of GHMC Banda Karthika Reddy along with her husband Banda Chandra Reddy distributed fruits and clothes at an old age home in Secunderabad.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Manoharabad-Gajwel railway line completed||South Central Railway (SCR) has announced that a new 31-km. railway line between Manoharabad-Gajwel, constructed as a part of 151-km. Manoharabad-Kottapalli project, has been completed and commissioned in all aspects on Friday. The project is prestigious for Telangana and passes through hinterland areas of five districts connecting Gajwel, Siddipet, Sircilla and Vemulawada. Once the entire project is completed, it will provide direct and shortest rail connectivity to Karimnagar from Hyderabad, senior officials said. The project was sanctioned in 2016 at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,160 crore with Prime Minister Narendra Modi laying the foundation stone. It is being executed in five phases with Manoharabad (Medak)- Gajwel (Siddipet) is the first phase completed having Nacharam and Elkal Begumpet stations. About l,500 acres was acquired in a short span of one year and work was started in 2018 and completed within two years. The work includes rehabilitation of Appayapally villagers and diversions across National Highway No. 44 which is the longest north-south busy highway connecting Kashmir and Kanyakumari. Construction was done in a difficult terrain of handling four major hillocks. It involved handling 22 lakh cubic meters of earth work in embankment and 12 lakh cubic meters of earth work in cutting, including four lakh cubic meters of rock cutting. Total of 61 bridges were constructed, including four major bridges and 45 minor bridges. “We have avoided surface level crossings by providing for several road under bridges and road over bridges. Pre-stressed concrete girders were used for the the bridges construction to speed up work,” said Chief PRO Ch. Rakesh. Incidentally, the railway line passes over the underground irrigation canal system of Kaleswaram project. Manoharabad junction station was also commissioned in advance to ease the rail panels movement in the section and about one lakh cubic metres of ballast was collected in advance for linking the track. General Manager Gajanan Mallya complimented chief administrative officeer Amit Goel and Hyderabad division railway manager N. Sita Ram Prasad for their role in completing phase one and observed that besides providing better transportation towards the twin cities, it will aid in employment generation.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mobile app for information about weather launched||People of the State will forthwith have weather-related information on their fingertips for planning any activity. The State government launched a mobile application enabling people to access information about weather conditions for planning their activities. The app, TS-Weather, is especially useful to farmers in planning their agriculture-related activitieswhile general public can plan their visits based on the weather info. State Planning Board vice-chairman B. Vinod Kumar formally launched the app designed and developed by the Telangana State Development Planning Society on Friday. He also unveiled posters relating to the app that could be downloaded from the Google Playstore. He said the app was designed to give comprehensive information about weather like rainfall warnings which the people could utilise in planning their activities. Mobile users could access information relating to all areas across the State from remote villages to core urban centres at their fingertips through the application.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Boy falls into swimming pool, dies||A three-year-old boy was found dead in a swimming pool under construction at a private school in Apurupa Colony of Jeedimetla here on Friday. Police said the boy, Rithvikanth Reddy, went to the school with his mother, Vijaya, a sweeper. “While she was busy at work, the boy was playing on the premises and accidentally fell into the pool. Water had been released into the pool to check leaks,” Jeedimetla police said, adding that the incident took place around noon. Realising an hour later that her son was missing, Vijaya launched a search for him and found his body floating in the pool. Killed in accident A 57-year-old school bus driver died after his bike skidded in Medipally here on Friday. The accident took place around 6.30 a.m. when the victim, Rangu Sudharshan Goud, from Buddha Nagar in Peerzadiguda was returning home. “When he reached street number 8 of Hemanagar, the victim failed to notice the drainage leakage, and his bike went over a manhole and skidded, as a result of which he fell off the vehicle and suffered severe injuries on his head and other parts of the body,” police said. He was rushed to Kamineni Hospital where he died.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Narayanpet Kodangal LI Project ignored’||AICC secretary Ch. Vamshi Chand Reddy has alleged that the government was deliberately neglecting the Narayanpet Kodangal Lift Irrigation Project and the Congress party would expose the government’s failure. The former Kalwakurty MLA said that in 2014, Rs. 134 crore was allocated for the project for providing irrigation water for one lakh acres and drinking water for more than five lakh people in Narayanpet, Kodangal and Maktal assembly segments. But it is yet to take off, he said and alleged that the government has a step-motherly attitude towards south Telangana. “As per Bachawat Tribunal award Congess party rolled out an action plan to ensure 7.10 tmc ft water but the irony is that after TRS came to power the state government has claimed stake on flood water instead of assured water,” he said. His arguments were supported by DCC president Shiva Kumar Reddy.
20 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Avenge lives of soldiers: Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday expressed his disappointment on his party not being invited to the all-party meeting on the India-China border situation. The Hyderabad parliamentarian blamed the Narendra Modi-led government for the situation, and demanded the lives of Indian soldiers be avenged. In a letter to the Prime Minister, which he shared on Twitter, Mr Owaisi described the move to invite only parties with more than five members of Parliament to the meeting as ‘absurd’. “It is unfortunate that you failed in dealing with Chinese designs. The lives of those killed should not go in vain, and the best way to avenge their lives must be recovering Chinese-occupied Indian territory in Galwan Valley and Pangong So Lake areas by any means necessary,” Mr Owaisi wrote. The Hyderabad Member of Parliament demanded the constitution of an independent review committee to probe the developments on the border and share facts with the country. Mr Owaisi sent a list of 11 questions in which he sought specific information, including the number of security personnel who lost their lives due to Chinese incursions, the Chinese response on the abrogation of Article 370 and the subsequent declaration of Ladakh as a union territory.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man kills wife, ends life||An auto rickshaw driver and his 26-year-old wife were found dead at their house in Begum Bazar on Friday, police said. The victim, Mohammed Sabir (35), throttled his wife Rubina to death and later committed suicide by hanging, following an altercation, police said. The offence took place around 3 a.m. Begum Bazar inspector K Madhu Mohan Reddy said that the couple had four children and their elder son and daughter, aged about five and six, saw Sabir killing their mother. “They are too young to understand what was happening. The two kids also tried to stop their father from hanging,” the inspector said. ‘Suspecting fidelity’ Sabir got married to his aunt’s daughter Rubina in 2011 and a few years later he started suspecting her fidelity, the officer said, quoting the woman’s mother. “Even if she spoke to the neighbours or her parents, the husband suspected that they were talking bad about him,” the inspector said. The offence came to light around 9.30 a.m. when the children went out and informed the neighbours, who alerted the police. A case was registered and the bodies were shifted to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy.  (Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000 or 66661117)
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MP plants saplings||Rajya Sabha member Joginapalli Santosh Kumar planted a sapling as part of the Haritha Haaram programme at a village adopted by him near Keesara along with Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy and Malkajgiri Lok Sabha constituency incharge Marri Rajashekar Reddy. Saplings were also planted in several places near Thumkunta, BITS Pilani and Keesara where a large number of TRS activists and people participated. The programme was initiated by Mr. Rajashekar Reddy as part of the Green India Challenge taken up by Mr. Santosh Kumar.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Businessman stabbed to death||A 63-year-old businessman from Jadcherla of Mahabubnagar was abducted and stabbed to death in his car near Kothur in Shadnagar mandal of Rangareddy district here on Friday. The victim, B. Ramachander Reddy, who owns a petrol pump, came to Shadnagar to settle his relatives’ land dispute. “After the meeting, the accused Pratap Reddy along with a few others took the victim in his own car, after an argument and stabbed him to death,” police said.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three IPS officers test positive||Three senior IPS officers from Hyderabad city police tested positive for coronavirus. Two Additional Commissioners of Police and a DIG-rank officer were tested positive, even as the total number of police personnel infected with the virus has gone up to 200, confirms a senior police official. While the two Addl. CsP were diagnosed with the infection on Friday, another officer was tested positive on Wednesday night, being the first IPS officer in the two Telugu states to get infected. Soon after the results were out, the officers went into home isolation. “Before one of the three got infected, 14 other police personnel working in his branch were tested positive. We suspect that he contracted the virus through one of them,” an officer said. Though he is under home quarantine, the officer is attending the ‘mandatory’ teleconferences with the top brass and is constantly monitoring the developments in the city. One of them actively participated in some essentials’ distribution programmes for the homeless and migrants workers in the city. “All of them are asymptomatic, perfectly al right and will join the office very soon. They are keeping good health,” the officer said. Sources confirmed that a few more IPS officers, who met the three on different occasions, got themselves tested on Friday and their results are awaited.
20 June 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Steel bridge inaugurated||A steel bridge at Panjagutta was inaugurated by Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali on Friday . It was constructed at a cost of Rs. 5.95 crore. Mr. Mahmood Ali said the bridge was approved by Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao specifically to ease traffic congestion at Panjagutta. Mr. Rao had also approved road widening at the spot. He added that no disturbance was caused to the tombs inside a graveyard at the site due to the construction of the bridge. Animal Husbandry Minister T. Srinivas Yadav and Mayor Bonthu Rammohan were present.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cyberabad||The Cyberabad police has decided to invoke the Preventive Detention Act against two government teachers for harassing a girl student by sending her obscene messages. The accused, Srikanth and Surender, from a government school in Shabad, were arrested recently. They were sending obscene messages to a Class IX student when she raised doubts while they were conducting online classes.
20 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||KTR bats for regulated farm model for country||Minister K Taraka Rama Rao said that the regulated farming is a model for the entire country. Participating in Zilla Parishad general body meeting in Sircilla town on Friday, the Minister said that the government is committed to provide Rythu Bandhu financial assistance to all farmers. He also called upon the ZPTC members and MPPs to ensure that the Rythu Bandhu benefits reach every farmer in the district. Appealing farmers to utilise the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS), he urged them to construct the newly-formed grama panchayats under the NREGS. He also promised to provide internet connections to all the Rythu Vedika buildings and said that Telangana is the only State in the country to provide tractor and nursery to each village. Earlier, the Minister launched the desiltation of the main canal of the Upper Manair Dam in Narmal village of Gambhiraopeta mandal. He also launched the construction of two check-dams across Manair river under the UMD limits.
20 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Flyover to dot BHEL crossroad||The gateway of Sangareddy district, Bharat Heavy Electronics Limited (BHEL) crossroad, situated about 35-km. from the district headquarters, will have a flyover. This will ease the traffic between Hyderabad and Sangareddy on National Highway 65. The government has sanctioned Rs. 75 crore for this purpose. Tenders will be called and work will commence shortly. Similarly, the Isnapur crossroads will be widened to six lane from the existing four-lane. Rs. 13 crore was sanctioned for the purpose. The crossroad will also have a foot over bridge. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will plant saplings on both sides of the NH 65 from Pothireddypally to Zaheerabad. The bottleneck at Pothamshettipally in Medak district on NH 765 - D will be widened to four-lane as the road has witnessed large number of accidents. Rs. 8 crore was allotted for the purpose. Land acquisition for NH 161 - Nanded-Akola road - was completed and Sangareddy bypass road work is already awarded to the executing agency. An amount of Rs. 28 crore was sanctioned for land acquisition on NH 161 B between Narayanakhed and Bidar. The process of land acquisition will commence shortly. These issues were decided at a review meeting held here on Friday presided over by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. Lok Sabha members K. Prabhakar Reddy, B.B. Patil, MLAs Ch. Kranti Kiran, M. Bhupal Reddy, Collector M. Hanumantha Rao and others. Disclosing all these details after review meeting, Mr. Harish Rao said that 1,445 double bedroom houses were sanctioned for the district and all of them are nearing completion and ready for allotment by the end of next month. He directed the authorities to complete the construction of Rythu Vedikas in the next three months. “You have to complete construction of graveyards and dump yards by July 15 without fail. If any sarpanch is not cooperative, suspend him/ her without mercy, even if they belong our party. The MPDO will become incharge and we will complete the work," Mr. Harish Rao directed the officials.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||New baggage screening at RGIA||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport has introduced yet another innovation, this time a tech-enabled ‘Matrix’ solution for the Indian Customs Department to do remote screening of baggage. Matrix system serves up X-ray images of arriving baggage placed on any of the international arrival belts at the airport to the customs officials seated in a state-of-the-art room for screening bags without having to be physically present at the baggage belts. The system is able to randomly map bags on different belts to different customs officials to ensure maximum efficiency and screening integrity, all the while avoiding the need to physically expose the officials to the incoming bags, said a spokesman on Friday. Claiming that it was a maiden attempt in the country, the spokesman said the system also had a ‘reject application’ to track any suspect international arrivals baggage. A dedicated ‘reject loop’ provides spare bag holding capacity to move out multiple suspect/rejected bags without holding up the movement of bags across the entire belt as it has a baggage diverter and a reject line for each belt. The customs department acknowledged the new Matrix Solution to be ‘safe, secure and efficient’ in the baggage screening process, he said in a press release.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Eager wait||
20 June 2020||Bhopal,||Cong., BJP to vie for Dalit vote in M.P. bypoll||Both the Congress and the BJP are preparing to vie for the Dalit vote in the Gwalior-Chambal division where six of the 16 Assembly seats due for by-election by September are reserved for Scheduled Castes (SC). The Rajya Sabha election to three seats on Friday — two went to the BJP owing to its Assembly strength — became a flashpoint, with both the parties trading barbs. The BJP accused the Congress of ignoring backward communities by relegating Phool Singh Baraiya, an SC candidate, to the second preference. Whereas, the Congress rubbished the charge and asserted the leader was in fact slated for a bigger role in the by-election. “Not just regionally but socially also it speaks of Congress’ preferences. A former Chief Minister is preferred to a party worker from the marginal sections of society,” Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, BJP vice president and incharge for Madhya Pradesh, told The Hindu .“The preference symbolises Congress’ policy of garib hatao (weed out the poor) and not garibi hatao (weed out poverty).” By-election to 22 of the 24 seats (two vacant owing to deaths) became imminent after former Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia switched over to the BJP along with Congress MLAs, precipitating the fall of the Congress government. The BJP fielded Mr. Scindia and Sumer Singh Solanki, a tribal face, in the Rajya Sabha election rescheduled from March 26 owing to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Reduced numbers Whereas, the Congress, left with reduced numbers, chose former Chief Minister Digvijaya Singh as its preferred nominee. “We nominated Mr. Baraiya when the party was sure of bagging two seats. So, there is no question of ignoring anyone,” said Jitu Patwari, working president, State Congress. “The BJP toppled our government through a conspiracy, and voters will teach them a lesson in the by-election.” A Congress source said Mr. Baraiya, formerly Bahujan Samaj Party State president who switched over ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha election, would bolster Congress’s prospects in the division in securing the Dalit vote. “He is likely to be fielded as a candidate from Bhander in Datia which he won on a BSP ticket in 1998 as the party’s face in the region,” the source said. The BJP would go into contest riding on the plank of Congress “ignoring backward communities”, said State spokesman Hitesh Bajpai.
20 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha Congress alleges scam in purchase of COVID-19 safety kits||The Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) on Friday alleged that the State Labour Minister Susanta Singh and senior officials were involved in misappropriation of Rs. 300 crore in purchase of working tools and safety kits for labourers. “Funds meant for 28,22,696 labourers registered with Odisha Building and Other Construction Welfare Board has been siphoned off. About 15 lakh labourers have been supplied with working tools and safety kits which were purchased at very inflated price. At least Rs. 300 crore has been embezzled,” alleged Pradeep Majhi, OPCC working president, addressing a press conference here. “Goggles, which are available at Rs. 12 per piece in the open market, have been purchased at Rs. 60 per piece. Hand gloves have been bought at Rs. 90 per piece while it is available for Rs. 12 in the market,” charged Mr. Majhi. The senior Congress leader, who exhibited purported invoice and government document to support his allegations, charged that the billing price of each mask was Rs. 10, but Odisha government bought it at Rs. 90 apiece. Neither Labour Minister Mr. Singh nor any government officials refuted allegations made by the State Congress.
20 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Issue ultimatum to Beijing, says Punjab CM||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday advocated aggressive steps to take back the Galwan Valley territory seized by the Chinese, urging the Indian government to issue an ultimatum to Beijing to vacate the occupied land immediately. “While India would also have to suffer some consequences of such an act, it could no longer afford to allow such intrusions and attacks on its territorial integrity to continue,” said Captain Amarinder, talking informally to journalists at the Chandigarh air base where he had gone to pay tributes to the three sepoys whose mortal remains were flown in from Galwan Valley. Laying a wreath on the mortal remains of Sepoys Gurbinder Singh from Sangrur, Gurtej Singh from Mansa and Ankush from Hamirpur (Himachal), he saluted their supreme sacrifice. Declaring himself to be totally against following an appeasement policy viz-a-viz China, Capt. Amarinder said past experience showed that when faced with aggression, the Chinese had always backed off. “It was time to call their bluff,” he said, reiterating that every Indian wants a befitting response to be given to the Chinese. The Chinese, with their Salami tactics, had been nibbling into Indian territory piece by piece since 1962, said the Chief Minister, demanding an end to these intrusions, which 60 years of diplomacy had failed to stop. Questioning the so-called agreement which prevented the Indian troops from firing (even if they had the weapons), Capt. Amarinder demanded to know who had come up with such an agreement. “How can one have an agreement of this nature with a hostile neighbour?” he quipped. In any case, it was clear that the attack on Indian soldiers was a premeditated one by the Chinese, who had come prepared with their crude but deadly weapons, he said, adding that by carrying the nail studded lathis and barbed-wire clubs and by attacking our troops they had abrogated whatever agreement was in place. In the circumstances, the Indian soldiers had full right to retaliated by using their own weapons, he said, adding that India alone could not be responsible for adherence to the terms of the agreement.  ‘Stop it at all costs’ “If the situation is allowed to escalate further, then China, in collusion with Pakistan, would get further emboldened to encroach into more Indian territories, which had to be stopped at all costs,” said the Chief Minister.
20 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Increase in COVID-19 cases in Haryana worrisome: Hooda||Asking the BJP-JJP government in Haryana to step up its efforts to control COVID-19, Leader of Opposition in Haryana Assembly and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday said the rapid pace at which cases were increasing in the State was worrisome. “The government should wake up in time. If they don’t react now, the situation in Haryana could be similar to Delhi, Gujarat or Mumbai. The government needs to take more strict steps to prevent infection. The number of test should be tripled and the rates of these tests should be reduced by half,” he said. On the issue of sacked Physical Training Instructors following the Supreme Court’s order, Mr. Hooda said the government should immediately use its legislative power to save jobs. “When the Congress was in government, the Supreme Court and the High Court ordered the sacking of guest teachers but the government, using its powers and legal provisions, was able to save their jobs and they are still serving in the schools of the State. The current government should also use its legislative powers to save the jobs of 1,983 PTIs. The job of the government is to provide employment, not to take it away,” he said. The Supreme Court had last month upheld the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing appointment of 1,983 Physical Training Instructors in schools in Haryana in 2010.  ‘Fuel price hike unfair’ Hitting out at the BJP-led government at the Centre on the issue of rise in the prices of petrol and diesel, Mr. Hooda said, “People from all sections have suffered financially because of the pandemic over the last few months and on top of this the government is putting additional burden on them. Crude oil prices are at a low in the international market, but instead of passing on the benefits to people, the prices are being increased daily.” “The biggest impact is on the farmers. The government should have been providing relief to the people, not adding to their problems,” he added.
20 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. launches campaign against ordinances||The Congress on Friday launched a State-wide campaign in Punjab against the Central ordinances on the farming sector, even as the Shiromani Akali Dal accused the party of “misleading” the farmers. State party chief Sunil Jakhar alleged that in the backdrop of these ordinances, the Union government’s game plan to dump the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system for crops had been exposed. The Shiromani Akali Dal hit back and accused Mr. Jakhar of misleading the farmers and asked him to fight for the rights of farmers by getting the recent hike in State VAT on diesel withdrawn by the ruling Congress government. Launching its campaign at Fatehgarh Sahib, Mr. Jakhar said, “The Congress will take its fight against the ‘black laws’ enacted by the Central government to each village so that farmers get to know the anti-agriculture intent and policy of the Modi government.” “We will conduct such programmes at all the district headquarters. If the MSP was abolished then it would completely destroy agriculture in Punjab. Millions of farmers who were ensuring food security of the country could not be left at the mercy of moneylenders. Such a model had failed in States like Bihar. Only a few families would benefit from the new system,” he said. Shiromani Akali Dal leader and former Minister Daljit Singh Cheema said Mr. Jakhar should first tell if the MSP and assured marketing policy were in force or not in the State? “If both are in force and the produce of Punjab farmers will be procured as per the MSP then what is Jakhar protesting against?” quipped Mr. Cheema.  ‘No compromise’ He said as far as the SAD was concerned, the Central government has pledged that MSP and assured marketing would continue. “We have also announced that there will be no compromise on these twin issues. The new ordinance also provides adequate and fool-proof guarantees for the continuation of MSP and assured marketing regime on a long-term basis,” he said.
20 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana caps rate for COVID-19 test at Rs. 2,400||Haryana government on Friday capped the rate for COVID-19 Rt-PCR test at Rs. 2,400, including all taxes and expenses, reducing it from the earlier Rs. 4,500. New revised rates will come into force with immediate effect. The orders said no private laboratory should charge any amount more than Rs. 2400 for Rt-PCR test for COVID-19, inclusive of GST/Taxes, if any, cost involved in pick up, packing and transportation of samples, documentation and reporting in Haryana. Further, the laboratories have also been directed to display rates in a visible manner.
20 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Religious leaders to be roped in to help infected||In the wake of instances of depression and people ending their lives due to COVID-19, the district health department is planning to rope in religious leaders to visit isolation centres and hospitals to talk to the inmates infected with the virus to bolster their sagging morale. Director, Health Services, Veena Singh, said that pujaris , maulvis and other religious leaders could play an important role in allaying the fears of the patients and their families. She said the administration had decided to rope in the religious leaders after many people ended their lives and a few others had fallen into depression after the COVID-19 outbreak in Gurugram. An executive jumped from his apartment in Sector 37D after his wife had tested positive for COVID-19 two days ago. Earlier, a security guard had shot himself in Sushant Lok, suspecting that he was infected. In a similar incident, a man killed himself after his wife had tested positive a few weeks ago. Additional Director, Health Services, Suvir Saxena, said the religious leaders were sought across the State to create awareness among the devotees visiting the shrines on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. He added the leaders had also visited the families of the deceased and counselled them to cope with the loss. “In Ambala, the religious leaders have also been allowed to visit the isolation centres to speak to the patients and help them deal with depression and negative thoughts,” said Mr. Saxena. Gurugram Deputy Civil Surgeon Vijay Kumar said temples and other religious places in Gurugram are still shut, but mental health department teams had been visiting the patients to counsel them. He added that they also had plans to create awareness on the matter among the masses with the help of RWAs through psychiatrists.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health,011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Panel recommends price cap on isolation beds||A Home Ministry committee has recommended capping the price of isolation beds for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 18, 000 per day. Currently, the cost per day ranges from Rs. 24,000- Rs. 54,000. A statement issued by the Home Ministry said that as per directions given by Home Minister, Amit Shah, in a series of meetings over the last few days in regard to COVID-19 situation in Delhi, house-to-house health survey in 242 containment zones of Delhi has been completed in which a total of 2.3 lakh people were surveyed.  Increased testing As many as 7,040 people have been tested in 193 rapid antigen detection testing centres. Testing will continue with increased numbers in coming days, the Home Ministry said. A total of 27,263 testing samples have been collected from June 15-17 against the daily collection, which varied between 4,000-4,500 earlier. “A committee under Dr. V.K Paul, Member, Niti Aayog to fix rates charged by private hospitals in Delhi for 60% beds for COVID-19 patients in various categories has recommended a range from Rs. 8,000-Rs. 10,000 per day [including PPE and medicines], Rs. 13,000-Rs. 15,000 per day [including PPE and medicines] and Rs. 15,000-Rs. 18,000 per day [including PPE and medicines] for isolation beds, ICUs without ventilators and ICUs with ventilators respectively for all private hospitals [depending on whether the private hospital is NABH accredited or not],” the statement said.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘People opting for home isolation has helped fight’||The fight against COVID-19 outbreak in the city has been bolstered with nearly 8,480 patients having mild symptoms opting for home isolation, the Delhi government said on Friday. While the Delhi government had issued guidelines for home isolation of confirmed very mild or pre-symptomatic cases on April 30, a ‘home isolation management system’ with built-in escalation mechanisms for patients who require critical care had been launched on May 8, a government official said. A large number of people opting for home isolation has reduced the strain on hospital infrastructure, a Delhi government spokesperson said, adding: “If everyone opts for hospital beds, then the strain on the healthcare system will be more.” Instead, hospital resources are currently focused on severe patients, which brings down the number of deaths in the city, said officials. As per guidelines, when a patient opts for home isolation, a team of ASHA workers check the suitability of the household for quarantine. Caregivers and close contacts are advised to take Hydroxychloroqine and download Aarogya Setu app. Once a patient is identified for home isolation, an ID is created and the patient is called up to have their symptoms recorded. The patient then undergoes teleconsultation with a doctor to complete their “onboarding”, the official said. The patient is monitored daily, and there is regular relay of information to a doctor regarding symptoms. In case the symptoms get worse, the patient is referred to a hospital. If the patient is asymptomatic after 17 days of quarantine, the home isolation is ended following a consultation with a doctor on Day 17. Till June 17, 5,748 patients in home isolation had recovered and 367 were moved to hospitals.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital reports record rise with 3,137 COVID-19 cases||The Capital reported 3,137 COVID-19 positive cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 53,116, according to a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government. A total of 66 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours with the number of deaths being revised to 2, 035. As many as 1,828 people recovered taking the total number of recoveries to 23,569. There are 27,512 active cases in the city and 243 containment zones. In the past 24 hours, 13,074 tests were conducted as compared to 8,726 on Thursday. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who took over the charge of the Health Department, held a meeting with Medical Directors of top COVID-19-dedicated hospitals and directed them to augment ICU health infrastructure at the earliest. Speaking after the meeting, Mr. Sisodia said: “Most of the existing beds in the hospital currently have oxygen supply for the patients, and in the next ten days all the other beds will have oxygen supply attached to them.” Dearth of manpower One of the major problems raised by the Directors of the hospitals was the lack of manpower, the government said. Mr. Sisodia said that the bed capacity as well as all the infrastructural and manpower assistance will be given to all the hospitals as and when required. “If any hospital is in urgent need of any kind, the government will fully support it,” he said. The Central government said that on the directions of Home Minister Amit Shah to increase COVID-19 testing capacity and quick delivery of results in Delhi, testing via rapid antigen testing methodology was started on Thursday. “As many as 7,040 people have been tested in 193 testing centres. Testing will continue with increased numbers in the coming days,” it said. The government added that house-to-house health survey in 242 containment zones was completed and a total of 2.3 lakh people were surveyed. The survey was undertaken after directions issued by Mr. Shah. “Also, sample testing has been doubled immediately in pursuance of decisions taken by the Centre and a total of testing samples of 27,263 have been collected in Delhi from June 15 to 17 against the daily collection, which varied between 4,000 and 4,500 earlier,” it added. The Delhi government also issued an order asking all institutions under the Health and Family Welfare Department to issue directions to all the staff to immediately report for their duties.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Why hide details of casualties at Galwan Valley, says AAP MP||Not giving the country “correct information” on the ongoing border dispute between India and China is a “big betrayal” with the country, AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said on Friday. Speaking at a press meet after having expressed his displeasure over AAP not being invited to be a part of the all-party meeting on the issue, Mr. Singh asked why the BJP-led Centre “hid information” regarding casualties at the Galwan Valley from the country. While seeking “strict action” against China, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said not allowing AAP to be part of the meeting was the Centre’s call. “The Centre will have to answer this. The sacrifice of our soldiers should not go in vain. Government of India avenge the martyrdom of our soldiers,” he said. “The sacrifice of the heroes of India demands the Centre to immediately take back the land that China has acquired from it... At this time we are all with the government. The positions prior to April 1 should be regained,” he added. Mr. Singh also questioned how a party, which has a three-time CM of Delhi as a leader, could be excluded from the all-party meet.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Jain shifted to pvt. hospital after health deteriorates||Delhi government Minister Satyendar Jain, who tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week, was shifted to a private hospital here after his condition worsened, an AAP source said on Friday. “Morning’s CT scan showed that the pneumonia patch in his lungs has increased. He has been on oxygen support and he will be moved to Max Hospital Saket,” a government spokesperson said, adding that his oxygen levels are low. Mr. Jain had been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital after he experienced high fever and a sudden drop in his oxygen levels on Monday night. His initial test reports showed him negative for COVID-19 but he was tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. His condition worsened on Thursday night. Briefing the media on Mr. Jain’s health condition, Chief Minister Kejriwal said: “...He was feeling very tired and giddy since the morning. All treatment and shifting to another hospital will be done on doctors’ advice.” Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who along with Mr. Kejriwal and other top government officials, had attended a meeting to review Delhi’s response to the pandemic last Sunday, where Mr. Jain was also present. Shah tweeted: “Praying for the speedy recovery of Shri Satyendra Jain, Health Minister of Delhi who is battling with COVID-19 infection [sic].”
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||CM, Baijal appeal to NGOs to join govt. in combating virus||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Friday appealed to NGOs and civil society organisations to join the Delhi government’s efforts in combating the pandemic here. Chief Secretary Vijay Dev issued orders to this effect stating that the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) was inviting volunteers and NGOs to boost the administration’s fight against COVID-19. Such volunteers, it stated, could register themselves on the Delhi government website. According to the order, the volunteers should be aged between 18 and 55 years and would be utilised in surveying suspected cases, isolation cases, assisting senior citizens and helping at hospitals among other such duties.  In a related development, Mr. Kejriwal and his Deputy Manish Sisodia visited a 700-bed hospital in Burari to take stock of the preparations being done, following which Mr. Kejriwal said that 450 beds in the hospital will be reserved for COVID-19 patients. “Almost all the preparations for COVID-19 treatment have been done here. There will be 450 beds in this hospital for the treatment of Corona patients, and every third bed will have oxygen supply attached to it,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “Around 125 beds already have oxygen supply, and 125 beds will be provided oxygen through oxygen cylinders. I think the establishment of this facility will be another great step in our bid to install more beds to treat more Corona patients in the city,” he added.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice on orphans||The Delhi HC on Friday asked the Centre and Delhi government to respond to a plea seeking a scheme for the welfare, education, living arrangement for orphans during the pandemic. The court also issued notice to the Ministry of Women and Child Development, Delhi government and its Department of Social Welfare on the petition by a social worker.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Farewell Delhi||
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai’s COVID-19 cases cross 64,000; 114 more die||The tally of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai rose to 64,068, with 1,269 new patients detected on Friday, while the death toll due to the pandemic reached 3,423, with 114 deaths, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. Of the 114 deaths, 55 were recorded between June 16 and June 18, and the remaining 59 deaths had occurred before June 15. As many as 79 of these patients died due to co-morbidities, the civic body said. A total of 401 COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the number of recovered patients in the city to 32,257. Mumbai now has 28,388 active patients. As many as 791 new suspected patients have been admitted to hospitals since Thursday night. Dharavi sees 17 cases With 17 new patients detected, the number of cases in the slum-dominated Dharavi rose to 2,151 on Friday, the BMC said. One death due to COVID-19 was also reported in the area, which took the death toll to 79. Of the 2,151 COVID-19 patients in Dharavi, 1,055 have been discharged from hospitals. Surge in Thane Besides Mumbai, the surge in new cases continued in Thane, with the district reporting more than 350 new COVID-19 cases, to take the district’s total tally to 9,337. “A total of 103 laboratories — 60 government and 43 private — are currently functional for testing samples. Till date, of a total 7,35,674 laboratory samples, 1,24,331 (16.9%) have been tested positive, with around 16,000 samples across the State tested on Friday,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. The laboratory testing per million population in the State is 5,317, higher than that of the national level, which is 4,210. Dr. Awate further said that presently, 5,91,049 people across the State are in home quarantine and 25,697 are in institutional quarantine. (With inputs from Shoumojit Banerjee)
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||CM calls for doctors’ task force in every district and division||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday asked the administration to set up doctors’ task forces in every district and division on the lines of those in Mumbai, to control the growing number of COVID-19 cases. “We set up a task force in Mumbai and it turned out to be extremely useful. Now, every district and division is required to have a similar task force since the number of patients is growing,” said Mr. Thackeray. He was addressing district collectors, divisional commissioners and other State officials in a review meeting held via videoconferencing. He said the task force should include veteran doctors and specialists who will be in constant touch with those in Mumbai. “We regularly issue guidelines regarding the medicines and treatment pattern. Sometimes those change as well. Therefore, it is important to have senior medical professionals participating. It has been proved in several cases that proper medical treatment ensures cure,” he said. Mr. Thackeray also said guidelines regarding tracking and contact tracing of COVID-19 patients should be followed strictly. “We have been fighting against the virus for the last three months. The rate of doubling has slowed. But we must ensure that death rate is not increasing. At the same time, in certain districts, the number of patients is increasing. Tracing and tracking is the only option to fight this,” he said. According to principal secretary of the Health Department, Dr. Pradeep Vyas, the doubling rate in the State has increased to 23.1 days from 21.3 days, while the death rate has gone up to 4.8 from 3.7. While the country’s recovery rate is 50.4%, the State’s recovery is at 53.8%. 100 testing labs Mr. Thackeray on Friday said that the number of COVID-19 testing laboratories in the State has gone up to 100 from two. The number of such labs will keep increasing, he said. Addressing Shiv Sena leaders and office-bearers online on the occasion of the party’s 54th anniversary, Mr. Thackeray said doctors are being provided all the required equipment like masks, personal protective equipment kits and hand gloves, as they combat the disease. He also informed the party workers that he would take part in an all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Galwan Valley clash. “The Sahyadri (Maharashtra) will be with the Himalaya during the crisis hour.” Mr. Thackeray said his contact with partymen might have become less frequent after he became the Chief Minister, but he would never distance himself from them. Stating that the Shiv Sena was born to fight injustice, the CM said he would carry forward the legacy of his late father and party founder Bal Thackeray. ( With inputs from PTI )
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||If killing 20 jawans isn’t provocation, what is?: Sena||Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement that India will give a befitting reply if provoked, the Shiv Sena said on Friday that the killing of 20 Indian jawans by the Chinese Army was itself a provocation. The editorial in the Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana also said that those who used to blame Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru for the defeat in the 1962 Sino-India war should now introspect. “Modi says if provoked, we will respond. If killing of 20 jawans is not a provocation, then what is? It is an attack on our self-respect and sovereignty,” it added. “Coffins of 20 soldiers is not a matter of pride,” the editorial said. “We spoke of retaliation then and even now. But we can threaten only Pakistan. When will we get rid of the perception that we cannot take on China,” it asked.  “Compared to 1962, we are stronger. If people who blame (then Prime Minister) Nehru introspected, the martyrdom of 20 soldiers will not go in vain,” it said. The Marathi daily also accused Mr. Modi of taking on China “for U.S. President Donald Trump”. “It is being said that Trump is keeping a close watch on the India-China developments. What (good) will happen with that? In 1971, when U.S.A. sided with Pakistan, Russia sent its naval fleet for India’s help. Will Modi’s friend Trump send similar help to India?” the editorial asked. “We can definitely impose economic blockade on China. Indians should boycott Chinese goods. Chinese firms are spread all across the country. If Maharashtra cancels a contract, other States can sign a contract with that company. So the Union government should have a uniform policy regarding Chinese companies,” it said. “Trade between the two countries is worth Rs. 6 lakh crore. There is investment and employment on both sides but China benefits the most,” the Sena mouthpiece said, claiming that relations between the two countries have deteriorated because of the U.S. “We cannot forget that China is an important neighbour. Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka are trying to counter India. China will not back off because of India’s growing proximity to the U.S.,” the editorial said.
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant case: Police seek details of YRF contracts||The Mumbai Police, probing the case of alleged suicide of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, has sent a letter to Yash Raj Films, seeking details of the contracts it had signed with him, an official said on Friday. Another official, however, said that actor Rhea Chakraborty, a close friend of Rajput, who recorded her statement with the police on Thursday, told the investigators that he had ended his contract with Yash Raj Films and also asked her to stop working with the banner. Rajput, 34, known for films like Kai Po Che! , MS Dhoni: The Untold Story, Chhichhore , was found dead in his Bandra apartment on Sunday. “Police are investigating various angles, including that of professional rivalry,” the official said. So far, Bandra police have recorded the statements of more than 13 people, including Rajput’s family members and close friends like Ms. Chakraborty, he said.
20 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai sees 124 new cases||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 124 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 4,515. Of the new cases, 82 are men and 42 are women, while the highest number of cases (44) was recorded at Koparkhairane, followed by 20 at Turbhe. With nine deaths, the death toll in Navi Mumbai is now 147. On Friday, the youngest death under the NMMC was that of a 18-year-old girl from Indira Nagar in Turbhe. In all, there were four deaths at Turbhe, one at Vashi, one at Ghansoli, and two at Airoli. As many as 16,329 people have been tested by the NMMC till date, of whom, 11,118 have been found negative and 696 reports are pending. The civic body on Friday conducted a screening of 120 people at Juhu village in Vashi, of whom eight were suspects and of the 223 screened in Sanpada, there were three suspects. Swab tests of all the suspects were done. The active cases in NMMC stand at 1,765. The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported the highest single-day positive cases on Friday, with 65 new cases. The total number of positive cases is 1,194. With 32 recoveries, the number of people discharged so far stands at 812. With one death in Kalamboli, the death toll is now 53. Currently, the active cases under the PMC is 329. Panvel rural recorded 23 fresh cases, pushing the total tally to 566. While nine recoveries took the figure of those discharged to 422, two more deaths took the death toll to 14. As many as 129 patients are under treatment.
20 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai may have its own testing lab soon||A testing lab for COVID-19 will soon come up at Vashi General Hospital, making it the first such facility in Navi Mumbai. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) Commissioner Annasaheb Misal said the lab will cost around Rs. 1 crore, of which Rs. 80 lakh will be spent on the machineries. “We have started the process of tendering and once we finalise the specifications of the machines, we will place the advertisement inviting tenders,” NMMC health officer Balasaheb Sonawane, who is looking after the work of laboratory, said. Around five machines are required to conduct the tests. “Each machine has a separate function and once we have them, at least 200 tests could be conducted daily,” Mr. Misal said. The NMMC needs to hire around seven people to run the lab and the recruitment process is also going on. Once the infrastructure and machines are ready, a proposal will be sent to the Indian Council of Medical Research. “After the proposal is sent, officials from Armed Forces Medical College in Pune will visit the lab to check the facilities before granting approval for testing COVID-19 samples,” Mr. Misal said.
20 June 2020||Pune,||Pune district’s total case tally nears 15,000||The rise in COVID-19 cases in Pune district continued with nearly 500 new cases being reported on Friday, as the district’s cumulative case tally soared to 14,248. As per data released by authorities till evening, the district had reported 498 new cases since Thursday, while the total death toll currently stands at 552. Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said of the total cases, 5,172 are active ones, while 8,524 people have been discharged across the district. The current recovery rate stands at 59.83% — a reduction from the 62% in the past few days. Both Pimpri-Chinchwad and certain pockets in the Pune rural region have witnessed a spike in cases since May 19. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 104 new cases on Friday, as the township’s total case tally surged to 1,569, of whom 579 are active, while 954 have been discharged. Despite the contagion having been hitherto under control in the PCMC area, the civic body has reported an estimated 450 active cases since mid-May. The spread of the infection in the slum clusters in Anand Nagar and Sai Baba, have been the chief contributors to the new cases. Meanwhile, along with Pune’s fatalities, the death toll in Pune division — which consists of the districts of Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur, along with Pune — has now risen to 774. Pune division’s case tally stands at 17,929, of whom 6,151 are active cases, while 11,004 people have been discharged thus far, Mr. Mhaisekar said. As many as 316 people in the division are critical, of whom 304 are from Pune district. All other districts, besides Pune, fortunately reported relatively few cases on Friday, with Solapur recording only eight cases, taking the district’s case tally to 1,905. However, only 663 of them are active ones, with 1,074 people discharged so far. Solapur’s death tally has risen to 168. “Satara has reported 11 new cases to take the district’s tally to 781. Of them, the number of active patients is 151, with 592 recoveries thus far,” Mr. Mhaisekar said. Sangli district reported four fresh cases to push its tally to 266, of whom 110 are active ones, while Kolhapur recorded only one new case to take its tally to 729, of whom merely 55 are active.
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||Two accused in Elgaar Parishad case challenge transfer of probe||Advocate Surendra Gadling and journalist Sudhir Dhawale, accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, moved the Bombay High Court on Friday, challenging the transfer of investigation to the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from the Pune Police.  The two, arrested on June 6, 2018, have been prosecuted for their alleged connections with Naxalites.  They moved the High Court through advocate Madhavi Ayyappan, challenging the transfer of investigation to NIA after the charge sheet was submitted.  The transfer, they said, is contrary to the NIA Act, under which there is no provision that empowers the Central government to transfer the investigation when there were no compelling circumstances necessitating it. The transfer of investigation amounts to re-investigation, they said.  “In order to keep the false implications and wrongful incarceration of innocent people unconnected with the case under cover, the investigation of offences has been transferred by the Central government to NIA, immediately after the Bharatiya Janata Party lost power in Maharashtra,” their petition said.  ‘Vague allegations’ The petition also said allegations that Mr. Dhawale was making provocative statements and inflammatory speeches, performing inflammatory street plays and songs, and distorting the history as per the CPI (Maoist) agenda, were vague. “It is not possible to infer from such allegations that the petitioners are organisers of Elghar Parishad,” it said.  The petition has sought an order quashing the direction for an NIA investigation, besides the first information report against the petitioners and eight others in jail. It has also sought quashing of the order dated February 12, 2020, granting the sanction to transfer the FIR from the Pune Police to NIA. The matter will be heard on June 23.
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||Population in 60 prisons at 28,950, State tells High Court||The State government informed the Bombay High Court on Friday that the prison population in Maharashtra is at 28,950. The prison population chart, filed by the State, said there are 28,950 inmates in 60 prisons, which include 21,525 male undertrials, 1,063 women undertrials, 6,116 male convicts and 246 women convicts. It also submitted measures to be undertaken in prisons in view of the pandemic, such as collectors of 27 districts throughout the State declaring 36 locations as ‘temporary prisons’ to be used as ‘quarantine centres’ and ‘COVID Care Centres’. In other revenue districts too, steps are being taken to declare some places as temporary prisons. These premises are being used for decongesting prisons, and collectors have been tasked with providing facilities. In all prisons, every inmate will be examined daily with a thermal scanner. In case inmates are found to have a temperature above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit or shows symptoms such as cough and breathlessness, they will need to be referred to the ‘temporary jail’. The medical officer will classify every COVID-19 positive inmate as mild or very mild cases, to be moved to the temporary jail, the moderate cases will be moved to the care centre, while the severe cases will be referred to the COVID-19 hospital. The shifting will be done by the superintendent in consultation with the district collector or municipal commissioner or the relevant health officials. The prison authorities and the local police will take care of prisoners’ security concerns, and if an inmate tests positive, contact tracing and their categorisation is required to be done. ‘Three feet’ rule Inmates or prison staffers who come within three feet of the COVID-19 positive inmate for more than 15 minutes, falls in the ‘high-risk’ category. Those in contact beyond three feet are in the low-risk category. Every ‘high risk’ inmate will be institutionally quarantined in temporary prisons and be tested between the fifth and the 10th day, as per the doctor’s advice. The low-risk inmates will continue to remain in prison but will be examined daily. Disinfection of the place where the patient is kept, and a separate arrangement for inmates above 60 years inside the prison have also been mandated. Inmates above 60 years will be screened for co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, and heart ailments. They will be periodically checked as per the doctor’s advice. Any deviation from normal will be treated immediately.
20 June 2020||Mumbai,||State makes final-year varsity exams optional||The State government on Friday announced that no final-year exams will be held for university students, but those interested in giving the exam can submit a written application to authorities. Arrangements will be then made for them to appear for the exam. A decision on ATKT (allowed to keep term) students, who have backlogs, will be taken within two days, State Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant said. According to the government resolution issued by the State, students in non-commercial courses with no backlogs and who do not want to appear for the exam may inform university authorities. Their results will be then declared based on aggregate marks in the previous exam.
20 June 2020||Pune,||Shetti hints at refusing MLC nomination||A rift is brewing within the Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Paksha after the farmer leader and former MP was reported to have accepted the Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP)’s offer for a berth in the Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. Some leaders of the party were unhappy with Mr. Shetti’s decision, saying he should instead have allowed a senior leader to be nominated as MLC. Mr. Shetti, who is a former MP from Hatkanangale, has said he would not accept the nomination if his decision upsets his colleagues. Earlier this week, Mr. Shetti visited Mr. Pawar in Baramati and had accepted the NCP’s offer of the MLC seat amid much bonhomie. The visit did not go down well with two senior Swabhimani Paksha leaders — Savkar Madnaik and Jalindar Patil — believed to be close to Mr. Shetti. Both leaders, aspirants to the MLC berth, alleged that Mr. Shetti did not take them into confidence.
20 June 2020||Pune,||U.K.-returnee defies quarantine rule, booked||A 31-year-old man who refused to go in for institutional quarantine on his return from the United Kingdom was booked in Pune district, an official said on Friday. The man arrived at Mumbai airport on June 16 and went directly to his home in Pune. The official said, “When the civic body’s nodal officer Ajit Sanas went to his house and counseled him to undergo institutional quarantine, he refused. A case has been filed at Loni Kalbhor police station under sections of Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, Maharashtra COVID Act and Epidemic Diseases Act.” As per guidelines, a person returning from a foreign country needs to undergo a seven-day quarantine.
20 June 2020||Washington,||Trump warns of decoupling from China||President Donald Trump warned on Thursday the U.S. had the option to separate from China’s deeply intertwined economy, despite the powers’ pledges to move forward on a trade deal. Tensions have been mounting between Beijing and Washington on a number of fronts including trade, although the two sides signed a “phase one” deal earlier this year to bring a truce to a bruising trade war. The U.S. “certainly does maintain a policy option, under various conditions, of a complete decoupling from China. Thank you!” Mr. Trump tweeted. Trade talks The U.S. President wrote that he was responding to comments by his Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, who has been at the forefront of trade negotiations with Beijing. Mr. Lighthizer told a congressional committee this week that China so far has been living up to the terms of a “phase one” agreement that eased the dispute, but that decoupling the two economic giants was now impossible. “That was a policy option years ago, but I don’t think it’s a policy or reasonable policy option at this point,” Mr. Lighthizer said. Mr. Lighthizer described himself as a hardliner on China policy, and outlined the Trump administration's plans to “reset” the World Trade Organization, largely so that it can better rein in Beijing’s policies, which he says run afoul of free trade rules. But his admission that the world’s two largest economies are inextricably linked — despite Mr. Trump’s aggressive campaign to push American firms to relocate production to the U.S. — caused some angst in Republican circles. On Friday, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a regular press briefing that “trying to artificially cut global industrial and supply chains, and using political power to change the laws of the economy, is neither realistic nor wise”. “This cannot solve the U.S.’s problems and will only cause ordinary Americans more harm,” he added. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said a senior Chinese official also confirmed to him Beijing’s commitment to phase one, which includes China stepping up purchases of U.S. products. Mr. Pompeo met Wednesday in Hawaii with Yang Jiechi, a veteran maker of Chinese foreign policy, in Hawaii to discuss soaring tensions.  Pompeo’s warning Mr. Pompeo on Friday warned Europeans that they are abandoning democracy if they embrace China, in a scathing denunciation of Beijing two days after he held talks on trans-Pacific friction. In his speech, Mr. Pompeo indicated that his meeting with Mr. Yang did little to change his hawkish views on China, which he called a “rogue actor” on the world stage. He renewed calls on Europeans to shun Chinese telecom giant Huawei, which he called the arm of the communist “surveillance state,” and said Beijing was “flagrantly attacking sovereignty” through its port investments in Greece and Spain.
20 June 2020||Washington,||U.S. marks end of slavery on Juneteenth||The United States marked the end of slavery by celebrating Juneteenth on Friday, with the annual unofficial holiday taking on renewed significance as millions of Americans confront the nation’s living legacy of racial injustice. Demonstrations, prayers and cultural celebrations of food and music will enliven communities from New York to Los Angeles to honour the day in 1865 when a Union general proclaimed in Galveston, Texas that all slaves were free. Virtual commemorations Several commemorations have gone virtual to account for the COVID-19 pandemic, but many are going ahead as planned or with modifications such as social distancing and mask-wearing guidelines. Early on Friday, several streets in downtown Washington were closed to traffic and there was a strong police presence in the new “Black Lives Matter” plaza near the White House, where protesters were to converge in the afternoon. Some 155 years after the demise of the pro-slavery Confederacy, several tragedies have led the country into a reckoning on race. They have also energised a quest for equality among African Americans who decry how systemic racism and injustice have been allowed to fester in the world’s flagship democracy. Forty-six-year-old African-American George Floyd was killed on May 25 when a white Minneapolis police officer pressed his knee onto Floyd’s neck for nearly nine minutes and ignored multiple pleas of “I can’t breathe.” Taking to the streets Video of the horrific incident triggered coast-to-coast protests against racial injustice and police brutality. Millions took to the streets under the “Black Lives Matter” banner. As Americans grapple with their country’s legacy, Juneteenth has the potential to amplify calls for action and reform.  Pressure has mounted for Juneteenth to be declared a national holiday. New York and Virginia have moved to make it an official State holiday. The auto-racing series NASCAR banned Confederate flags at its events. And in the U.S. Capitol, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi ordered the removal on Thursday of four portraits of 19th century lawmakers who served in the Confederacy.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. following India-China face-off ‘closely’, says regional envoy Stilwell||A top U.S. diplomat on Thursday said China’s actions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India could be a negotiating tactic or a manoeuvre to demonstrate its superiority. David Stilwell, the U.S.’s top diplomat for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, also said the U.S. was following the India-China conflict “very closely”. Later in the day, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo tweeted a message of condolence about the Indian soldiers who were killed in this week’s conflict. “We extend our deepest condolences to the people of India for the lives lost as a result of the recent confrontation with China. We will remember the soldiers’ families, loved ones, and communities as they grieve,” Mr. Pompeo said. Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in clashes in the Galwan Valley. Past disputes “What we’re doing... we’re obviously watching the India-China border dispute very closely... this activity is similar to activity we’ve seen in the past on border disputes with the PRC [People’s Republic of China] and again, I would point you to those,” Mr. Stilwell said. He was speaking during a briefing with reporters on Mr. Pompeo’s meeting with Chinese Communist Party Politburo member Yang Jiechi. “The PLA invaded this contested area deeper and longer, with more people, than ever before historically. Again, whether that was a negotiating tactic or ... just a punch in the nose to demonstrate their superiority, I don’t know. But then we saw the Doklam issue down near Bhutan, where we saw similar concerns. I wish I knew. Again, we don’t have a lot of visibility and we don’t have a lot of open dialogue with our Chinese counterparts, and honestly I’d like to see more of that if we can,” Mr. Stilwell said. His comments were in response to a question on whether there was a coherent policy behind Chinese fighters approaching Taiwan recently, China’s legislative actions in Hong Kong and the India-China border clash. “The actions that we’ve seen out of the PRC of late... have been not really constructive as we look at India, the South China Sea, Hong Kong issues, and just go around the perimeter,” Mr. Stilwell added.
20 June 2020||Vienna,||IAEA passes critical resolution against Iran||The board of governors at the UN’s nuclear watchdog passed a resolution critical of Iran on Friday, the first of its kind since 2012, as tension mounts over Tehran’s nuclear programme. The resolution was put forward by European states and urges Tehran to provide inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) with access to two sites in Iran to clarify whether undeclared nuclear activity took place there in the early 2000s. It “calls on Iran to fully cooperate with the Agency and satisfy the Agency’s requests without any further delay, including by providing prompt access to the locations specified by the Agency”. Iran has been blocking access to the sites for months. The resolution was carried by 25 votes in favour versus two against, with seven abstentions. Russia and China, both of which had spoken out against the prospect of a resolution earlier this week, voted against. Iran’s Ambassador to the UN in Vienna Kazem Gharib Abadi’ told Friday’s meeting that the resolution will not “encourage Iran to grant access to the Agency based on fabricated and unfounded allegations”. Even though the sites in question are not thought to be directly relevant to Iran’s current nuclear programme, the agency says it needs to know if activities going back almost two decades have been properly declared.
20 June 2020||Kabul,||Committed to February deal, says Taliban||The Taliban on Friday played down concerns that Afghanistan could be used as a launching ground for future attacks on the West, after the U.S. said it had so far upheld its pledge to reduce its military presence. The top U.S. commander for the region said it cut the number of troops to around 8,600 in line with a deal agreed with the insurgents in February, but warned that conditions must be met for a full withdrawal by next year. General Kenneth McKenzie, the head of U.S. Central Command, said “conditions would have to be met that satisfy us — that attacks against our homeland are not going to be generated from Afghanistan”. The Taliban on Friday said it was committed to the February deal, “especially the U.S. and the West’s concern about a threat to them from Afghanistan”. “Our country will not be used against anyone...,” said Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid. The February deal calls for all U.S. and foreign troops to withdraw from Afghanistan by mid-2021.
20 June 2020||Washington,||U.S. officials pressing spy agencies to hunt for evidence on Wuhan lab links||Senior Trump administration officials have pushed U.S. spy agencies to hunt for evidence to support an unsubstantiated theory that a government laboratory in Wuhan, China, was the origin of the COVID-19 outbreak, according to current and former U.S. officials. The effort comes as President Donald Trump escalates a public campaign to blame China. Some intelligence analysts are concerned that the pressure from administration officials will distort assessments about the virus and that they could be used as a political weapon in an intensifying battle with China over a disease that has infected more than 3 million people across the globe. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has taken the lead in pushing U.S. intelligence agencies for more information, according to current and former officials. Matthew Pottinger, the deputy national security adviser who reported on SARS outbreaks as a journalist in China, pressed intelligence agencies in January to gather information that might support any origin theory linked to a lab. And Anthony Ruggiero, the head of the National Security Council’s bureau tracking weapons of mass destruction, expressed frustration during one videoconference in January that the CIA was unable to get behind any theory of the outbreak’s origin. CIA analysts responded that they simply did not have the evidence. In a statement released earlier Thursday, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence said that the intelligence community “will continue to rigorously examine emerging information and intelligence to determine whether the outbreak began through contact with infected animals or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan.”
20 June 2020||Seoul,||South's unification minister resigns as Korean tensions rise||South Korean President Moon Jae-in on Friday accepted the resignation of Kim Yeon-chul, the Minister responsible for relations with North Korea, as tensions rise over the activities of defectors in the South and stalled diplomacy.Reuters
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Testing the limits of the capital||On February 29 afternoon, when 45-year-old Rohit Dutta walked into the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in New Delhi to take a COVID-19 test, he didn’t think the hospital would ask him to stay the night. The process of getting admitted was “very easy” and the stay “extremely comfortable,” he said. The next day, at around 8 p.m., the doctors said they would move him and three other patients suspected of having COVID-19 to a “better facility,” Dutta said. “They shifted us in an ambulance to the Safdarjung Hospital. We didn’t have to arrange for anything. The next morning, at Safdarjung, three doctors approached me and asked me sit down. I knew then that I had tested positive for COVID-19,” he said. Dutta, a businessman with a travel history to Italy, was Delhi’s first confirmed COVID-19 case. On March 10, after lunch, he received an unexpected call. It was none other than the Union Health Minister, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, calling to enquire about his health. “He called me on WhatsApp and asked me if I faced any problem. He asked me what I ate. He told me that even the Prime Minister had enquired about my health,” he said. Four days later, Dutta walked out of the hospital relieved and happy, after testing negative twice for the virus. That was the Delhi of three and a half months ago. Today, the story is starkly different. On June 14, Rohit, 25, clambered onto his scooter. He left his house in Azadpur, in north-east Delhi, in search of a hospital to admit his mother who had tested positive for the virus. “I first went to AIIMS. Then I went to Safdarjung Hospital and then to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital. None of them had beds despite the Delhi government app, Delhi Corona, showing us beds being available. Finally, I reached GTB (Guru Teg Bahadur) Hospital. There the authorities told me that beds were available,” he said. But Rohit’s problems did not end there. “I called 102 (the emergency number for an ambulance), but no one answered. I had to pay Rs. 5,000 for an ambulance to get my mother admitted,” he said, at the parking area of GTB Hospital, where he had spent the previous night. Rohit said his mother, Rajkumari, was miserable in the hospital. Doctors were busy and there was no one to attend to her. “Yesterday, she called me at 12 p.m. and told me that she was not getting water. I bought two bottles of water. I asked many people for help and finally a guard agreed to give her the water. By the time she got the water, it was around 4 p.m.,” Rohit said. Food for her was kept outside the door of her room, but she had trouble walking which made it difficult for her to get it, he said. The contrast between the two stories paints a picture of the Delhi government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis. From having an initial grip over the situation, the Aam Aadmi Party government is now fighting several accusations — of delayed decision-making, poor planning, hiding data on the dead, disappearing numbers, and poor testing — even as it grapples with the surging cases. Further, unlike Mumbai, Delhi is yet to cap the charges for treatment of COVID-19 in private hospitals. On June 12, the Supreme Court expressed shock at the videos of the “deplorable conditions of wards” and the “pathetic condition of patients” in Delhi hospitals. The Centre intervened, with Home Minister Amit Shah calling for a meeting with all the stakeholders in Delhi. However, with estimates showing cases rising rapidly over the next two months, the government is worried. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal described the challenge as being “unprecedented”. The government will do its best to salvage the situation, he said, even as he urged neighbouring States to help create more facilities so that fewer people come to Delhi from these States.  A cluster, and a delayed response How did things come to such a pass? On April 1, at around 5 a.m., the last bus carrying people from a religious centre in Nizamuddin left the area. A total of 2,346 people had been evacuated from the headquarters of the Tablighi Jamaat, according to the Delhi government. Evacuating them was the government’s first big challenge, and the religious congregation for which they had gathered, one of its first failures. The religious congregation was held in mid-March despite two orders by the Delhi government restricting the size of gatherings. The attendees of the congregation violated the orders, while the police and the Delhi government failed to enforce the orders. A local police station was hardly 100 metres from the Markaz. In the weeks that followed, about 3,000 people, including those evacuated, were traced to the religious gathering and about 1,100 of them tested positive for COVID-19 in Delhi alone, according to officials. In parallel, the number of healthcare workers and their family members who tested positive too gradually increased. Though the first case was reported on March 2 and though a huge cluster of cases was reported from Nizamuddin in late March and early April, it was only in June that the government issued a flurry of new orders aimed at fixing basic issues in hospitals. After reports of numerous complaints from people about lack of helplines, lack of help desks in hospitals, and lack of information on availability of beds, on June 2 the Delhi government launched an app to enable people to check the availability of hospital beds. In addition, 1031 was launched as a Central helpline number. On June 4, the government ordered all hospitals to create a 24X7 helpline number for people to register their complaints. On June 6, Kejriwal released a government order that patients suspected of suffering from the disease cannot be denied treatment by any hospital. A June 7 order said that “some patients” are facing difficulties in admission in government hospitals. Hospitals were ordered to set up a 24X7 help desk. Another order on the same day noted that rules were not being followed in “letter and spirit”. A senior nursing officer was to be appointed in each private hospital to monitor the admission of patients. “Delhi did not do as well as one would expect,” M.C. Mishra, former AIIMS Director, told The Hindu . “These things should have been done in the beginning. Things were not planned properly.” To this a Delhi government spokesperson responded: “Initially, no one expected that the situation would get this big. Also, at different stages our main challenges were different and we kept addressing them. Whenever we noticed issues, we fixed them.” The sorry plight of patients Issues have not been fixed, however. On June 16, at the GTB Hospital, there was no help desk, no helpline number displayed, and no LED board displaying the number of beds. Rohit said he could not find any help despite all the government orders. “There is no one to listen to us. The guards are also very rude,” Rohit said. Hospital authorities blamed the Public Works Department for its failure to provide the information on a LED board. At the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, there is a help desk, and information on the number of beds is displayed, but the hospital has been in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons. There was shock and anger when a video surfaced of a naked body lying under a bed in a ward in the hospital, Delhi’s biggest COVID-19 treatment facility. The Supreme Court took note of the video, but Delhi’s Health Minister, Satyendra Jain, dismissed it as the “mischievous” act of a contract staff. In the blistering heat, on June 15, Sandeep Kumar, 21, and his father sat on the steps of LNJP Hospital, tired and helpless. “My mother was admitted here on June 9. But they are yet to tell us whether she has tested positive or not. She has breathing issues,” said Kumar. The doctor on duty said people often provide the wrong number or switch off their phones making it very difficult for hospital authorities to reach them. At the Max Super Speciality Hospital in Patparganj, Divya Sharma, 28, was angry. She had come with her father who was complaining of shortness of breath. She said they had to argue for nearly half an hour with the hospital staff who told them that beds were not available. “They did not allow him inside though he was sweating in an air-conditioned car. His condition was really bad,” Sharma said in the waiting area of the hospital. She went to the hospital because the government app showed beds being available there, she said. In the admission area of the hospital there was no notice displaying the number of vacant beds or the rates for treatment, despite government orders. By 6 p.m., Divya’s father, Sanjay, died at the hospital. Max Hospital refused to comment. Capping prices While there are some families like the Sharmas who are being refused admission in private hospitals due to lack of beds, there are other families in Delhi that simply cannot afford private hospitals. Private hospitals in Delhi have been demanding anywhere between Rs. 2 lakh and Rs. 8 lakh for COVID-19 testing and treatment even before patients get admitted into hospitals. Responding to reports on the issue, Kejriwal said his government would not allow “black marketing” of beds in private hospitals. In contrast, in mid-March, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation announced that private hospitals in Mumbai allocating isolation beds for COVID-19 patients will have to limit their charges per bed to Rs. 4,000. On May 21, the Maharashtra government said in a notification that 80% of beds in private hospitals would be regulated to ensure that patients are billed according to the government price cap. While the charges for a COVID-19 patient in an isolation ward cannot be more than Rs. 4,000 a day in the State, the maximum charge for an intensive care unit is capped at Rs. 7,500 a day, and charges for a ventilator are capped at Rs. 9,000 a day. Also, items such as personal protective equipment cannot be charged over 10% mark-up on the net procurement cost. Ten days since Kejriwal made that promise, there are still no details in the public domain of action being taken against Delhi hospitals that are charging such high rates. Nor has the government capped the rates. The Delhi government spokesperson said that they were working, along with the Central government, on capping the prices. “It will happen soon,” she said. On June 19, the Union Home Ministry said that a committee set up by it has recommended capping the price of isolation beds for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals in Delhi in the range of Rs. 8,000-Rs. 18,000 per day. Disappearing data Apart from complaints of exploitative billing, the government is also facing complaints of under-reporting cases and deaths. Delhi has had a serious data problem since the COVID-19 outbreak. First, in the second week of May, The Hindu reported that the total number of COVID-19-related deaths reported by the Delhi government was fewer than the number of deaths being reported by hospitals. The government responded that the hospitals sent data on deaths to a government-appointed death audit committee, and only deaths certified by the committee were counted as part of the official death toll. The government blamed the hospitals for delaying reporting deaths. And thus ensued a blame game between the Delhi government and the city’s hospitals. On May 14, the government stopped releasing the hospital-wise number of COVID-19-related deaths happening in the city. Second, from April 15, the government stopped providing details of cases “under investigation”. In a “case under investigation”, it is unknown how a patient got infected by the virus, suggesting chances of community transmission. The health bulletin on April 14 had 85 cases that were “under investigation”. After that, the category was simply removed from the bulletin. Third, data on testing too has been inconsistent. At one point, the government stopped providing details of the number of COVID-19 tests being done and began to provide the data again only after a High Court order on May 4. Fourth, there has been a drop in daily testing in June. During the first week of June, daily testing fell to 3,700 even though the government had a capacity of 8,600 tests per day. The Delhi government said it was a “momentary drop” and that the number of tests per million of the population in Delhi was higher than the national average. Fifth, on June 2, the Delhi government issued an order limiting the scope of people who can be tested for COVID-19. Also, eight labs were asked not to collect samples and conduct tests as they allegedly violated Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. Finally, the number of containment zones also reduced. On May 18, the Secretary of the Health and Family Welfare Department, Padmini Singla, raised this issue in an order. She said the number of containment zones had gone down despite cases going up. A month since then, the number of containment zones has increased from 73 on May 18 to 247 on June 17. A controversial decision Through the months of March, April and May, Kejriwal made multiple statements assuring people that “things are under control” and that “there was no need to panic”. He said on June 2 that “Delhi is four steps ahead of corona”. Sufficient arrangements have been made for a potential increase in cases, he said. But on June 7, he said Delhi government-run hospitals and private hospitals would be reserved only for the residents of Delhi. He cited an expert committee report and suggestions from lakhs of residents who apparently said that Delhi hospitals should be reserved only for the people of Delhi. “The expert committee has said that if we open the hospitals for all, then the 9,000 beds that the Delhi government has kept for COVID-19 patients will be filled within just three days,” Kejriwal said. The decision came under criticism from many quarters. “It was made overnight. The government shouldn’t have gone forward with it as the High Court had struck down a decision for preferential treatment for Delhiites in the GTB Hospital in 2018,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . On June 8, the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal, overruled the Kejriwal government’s controversial decision as well as a June 2 order restricting testing. Harking back to a series of Supreme Court judgments, Baijal said that the right to health is an integral part of the right to life under Article 21 of the Constitution. In the next three days, the 9,000 beds in the city did not get filled as Kejriwal said. As on June 17, 4,245 of the 9,647 beds were vacant, according to the Delhi Corona app. But why did the Delhi government take such a decision in the first place? The capital witnessed its first 1,000-plus daily new cases on May 28. The number of daily new cases has been consistently exceeding that mark since then, except on one day. The committee which recommended restricting access to hospitals was formed on June 2. An earlier committee, headed by S.K. Sarin, formed by the Delhi government, had not made any such recommendation. “We had made an extensive plan on the need for beds at different stages, based on the recommendations of the Sarin Committee. It included details on when we should start acquiring banquet halls or stadiums. The plan was already in place during the lockdown. And we are ramping up facilities whenever cases reach a particular mark. Our preparations have been ahead of the virus,” the Delhi government spokesperson said. K. Srinath Reddy, President of the Public Health Foundation of India, does not think so. “The lockdown should have been used to ramp up systems. But that level of organisation and planning has not been done in Delhi,” he said. Mishra said the government panicked. “They thought they won’t be able to cope with the increase in cases. It was an impulsive decision,” he said. On June 9, the Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi, Manish Sisodia, said after a meeting with the Lieutenant Governor that the latter had not done “any calculation” on the requirement of beds before overturning the government’s decision. Kejriwal said 1.5 lakh beds would be needed by July 31, based on estimates. The AAP government has ordered the Taj Man Singh Hotel to isolate all its rooms and place them at the disposal of the Sri Ganga Ram Hospital. It has began to convert a large tent of the spiritual organisation, Radha Soami Satsang Beas, to a 10,000-bed COVID-19 facility. It has also identified 77 banquet halls which are expected to have 11,229 beds. A panel formed by the government had suggested in June that Pragati Maidan, the Talkatora Stadium, the Thyagaraj Stadium, the Indira Gandhi Stadium, the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, and the Dhyanchand National Stadium be converted into COVID-19 facilities. “These beds should have been arranged a little earlier. But now work has gathered speed,” the Delhi government official said. Centre’s intervention When Baijal overturned the two decisions by the AAP government, the Centre stepped in. Shah reviewed the preparedness of Delhi in a meeting with Baijal and Kejriwal. After the meeting, he said testing would be increased two-fold in the next two days and three-fold after six days. He said testing will begin at every polling station in containment zones after a few days. He promised to provide 500 railway coaches to augment bed capacity. On Wednesday, the Central government capped the price of COVID-19 testing in Delhi at Rs. 2,400. Seeing the chaos in Delhi, Dutta said he considers himself lucky for being infected at the beginning of the epidemic and not later on. “What is happening is depressing,” he said. “I would have faced problems if I was infected now. The government did not prepare well.”
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The gross abuse of the Manipur mandate||Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, a parallel crisis of democracy is unfolding in Manipur — one which also reflects on the state of Indian democracy in general, where the mandate of the people decided at periodic elections is increasingly being allowed to be twisted by turncoat-elected representatives to serve the end of their unique and grotesque power game. So endemic had defection become, that a law — the 10th Schedule — was introduced in 1985 by the 52nd amendment of the Constitution, but when the loopholes in the law were being exploited to make it irrelevant, it was toughened in 2003 by the 91st amendment of the Constitution. That a country’s leaders have to be restrained thus is itself a disgrace, but in recent times, it is no longer a question of dodging the law, but of overturning the very idea of the rule of law by those in power. The Manipur cases illustrate this very well. Government formation In the March 2017 Assembly election, Manipur saw a hung verdict, with the Indian National Congress emerging as the single largest party with 28 seats in the 60-member House (now 59, after one disqualification). The Bharatiya Janata Party was second, with 21. For inadequately unexplained reasons, the State Governor, Najma Heptulla, decided the more stable post-poll alliance would be the one the BJP led, though the party needed the support of at least 10 non-BJP MLAs to be in a majority position, rather than the Congress which needed just three. The BJP did manage to forge an alliance that exceeded the majority mark, but at a cost which it is discovering is too dear only now. The ceiling on the Manipur cabinet set by the 10th Schedule is 12 including the Chief Minister. Of the remaining 11, seven had to be given away to the allies to secure their loyalty, (four to National People’s Party (NPP) and one each to the Naga People’s Front, the Lok Janshakti Party and the first Congress MLA to defect to the BJP), leaving only three cabinet berths for the BJP’s own legislators besides the Chief Minister. Luckily for the BJP, most of its veterans did not win the last election, and a great number of those who did were first timers, whose demands were not always seriously for ministerial berths. Partisan politics Nearly three-and-a-half years down the line, after the initial euphoria of being part of a ruling formation has long died down, many BJP MLAs are now obviously concerned with the reduced prospect of re-election from their constituencies if they went to the polls as mere camp followers. Hence, the internal friction within the ruling party has been visible for the past few months. The tipping point was reached on June 17, when three of their MLAs decided to quit the party and Assembly membership to align with the Congress. The crisis now has the potential of spiralling out of control and more could join the deserters in the days ahead; but given the fact that the adjudication function of the law has been totally smothered, and instead its provisions are now being used with impunity to promote partisan politics, nothing can be said for certain. The resultant loss of esteem for the law in the eyes of the public is predicted to have very long term and grave social consequences in this sensitive, insurgency-torn border State. Another development after the BJP assumed power was that seven more Congress MLAs defected to the ruling side, bringing up the total number of Congress defectors to eight. They were also obviously hoping for some official position to share the spoils of power, but nothing has been forthcoming for them. Hence, other than the first defector who was absorbed as a cabinet minister, the latter seven continued to sit in the Opposition benches but voted all along with the ruling. Petitions for the disqualification of the eight were left unheeded by the Speaker for more than three years, but on the intervention of the Supreme Court of India, the first defector was disqualified on March 28 this year. When the seven other defectors remained unpenalised, the Congress moved the Manipur High Court. The High Court took the cue from the earlier Supreme Court ruling to direct the Speaker to dispose of the case at the soonest but after the election to the State’s lone Rajya Sabha seat that was scheduled yesterday. Till this was done, the High Court placed a ban on the seven MLAs from entering the Assembly. Jumping ship The BJP, however, has more to worry now. It is also beginning to lose its partners. The biggest of these is the NPP, which has four MLAs in the Assembly. The party walked out of the BJP-led alliance and pledged support to the Opposition Congress on June 17. Along with them, one MLA of the Trinamool Congress and an independent MLA also jumped ship and joined the Congress camp. Almost at the same time, in a curious turn of events, four of the seven Congress defectors also decided to return to the Congress camp. If they remained not disqualified and if they were allowed to vote, it had become a foregone conclusion that the BJP would lose the Rajya Sabha seat. But yesterday, in the morning, the Speaker has heard and disposed of the case of the three defectors still in the BJP camp although there is a High Court directive that the hearing should not be before the Rajya Sabha election, and exonerated them so they could vote. However, the names of the other four were missing from the list of voters. Even if the BJP, with the help of the Speaker’s controversial rulings, wins the Rajya Sabha seat, the trouble for the coalition can hardly be said to be over. One, it is extremely likely that intervention would come from the High Court on the election and selective disposal of the disqualification cases as well as the Speaker’s tribunal overruling the High Court directive. Two, the Opposition is now demanding a no-confidence motion against the government. It remains to be seen where this will lead to, or if those with the reins of power will allow a non-partisan decision of the Assembly. At this moment though, it does seem the law has become what those in power want it to be. There can be no dispute there is danger in the law being made a subordinate function of power. This cannot have been better explained than in Robert Bolt’s 1960 classic, A Man for All Seasons . When presented with an opportunity to arrest his opponent and tormentor, Thomas More refused to give a go-ahead, saying the man has not broken any law. When his young assistant, William Roper, challenged him whether he would give the Devil the benefit of the law, he said he would. And when Roper differed to say he would cut every law in England to get at the Devil, More’s famous retort was: “Oh? And when the last law was down, and the Devil turned ‘round on you, where would you hide, Roper, the laws all being flat? …. Yes, I’d give the Devil benefit of law, for my own safety’s sake!” The Manipur BJP seems to be wrestling to fight its own original demon now. Pradip Phanjoubam is Editor, FPSJ Review of Arts and Politics
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||In new lockdown, a second chance for Tamil Nadu||With 54,449 confirmed cases of the novel coronavirus in the State, as on June 19, Tamil Nadu has the second highest numbers recorded after Maharashtra (over 1,20,500). Delhi closely follows with nearly 50,000 cases. The number of new cases recorded in Tamil Nadu, especially in Chennai, has been steadily rising. Deaths too have increased, from 87 on May 20 to 666 on June 19, a 16-fold increase. While there were just three deaths on May 20, the figures increased steadily but remained under 20 till June 12, except on June 11 when there were 23 deaths. If the toll crossed 30 on June 13, for the first time, it has been above 40 since June 15. From 13,191 total cases and 743 fresh cases reported on May 20, the State crossed the 50,000 mark on June 17 with a record 2,174 fresh cases on that day — the first time the number of cases reported on a given day have crossed 2,000; June 18had 2,141 cases. It was on May 31 that Tamil Nadu crossed the 1,000 mark, with 1,149 cases. More testing But the State has been increasing the number of tests carried out each day since May 20. From 11,894 tests on May 20, Tamil Nadu has ramped up testing with each passing day to reach nearly 25,500 on June 17, a sharp increase from 19,200-odd cases the previous day. June 18 witnessed a further increase to 26,736. So far, Tamil Nadu has carried out 8,00,443 tests as on June 18, which is higher than Maharashtra, with 7,19,637 tests. The test positivity rate which has been steadily increasing since June 1, reaching a peak on June 9 with 12.7%, has been reducing since June 14 when the number of tests each day has been climbing; it was 8.5% on June 17. At 10,371 tests per million population, Tamil Nadu is among the top six States. A high test positivity rate reflects either good surveillance or higher spread of the virus in the community. According to Prof. Giridhara R. Babu, Head – Lifecourse Epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, it could be a combination of good surveillance and higher prevalence of the virus in the case of Tamil Nadu. But he is quick to add that surveillance could have remained constant and not drastically changed in a matter of a few days and hence the increase in test positivity is more a reflection of the higher prevalence of infected people in the community. Test positivity can also reduce when the number of tests carried out is increased and the testing is not based on syndromic surveillance. The only way to reduce the true prevalence of infected people in the community is by further ramping up testing, contact tracing and quarantining of contacts and isolating those who test positive. Having squandered the opportunity to contain the spread during the extended lockdown, the State now has a second chance to make up for it during the complete lockdown for 12 days that began on June 19. Go door-to-door The most important departure that Tamil Nadu needs to make is to actively look for cases in Chennai and certain parts of three adjoining districts (Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur) where the most cases are being reported. There is compulsion to carry out door-to-door surveillance and test anyone who shows even one of the 15 COVID-19 symptoms recognised by the Health Ministry, including a loss of smell and taste, which was recently included. Currently, a person needs to exhibit a combination of symptoms to become eligible for a test. Another important shift in strategy should be in testing widely without insisting on a person’s travel history or contact with a known positive case as a prerequisite for testing. The need of the hour is to move away from the restrictive categories of people eligible for a test to a more liberal and inclusive protocol that allows more people to be tested. Aggressive testing and isolation of infected people alone will be insufficient to contain the spread unless it is carried out in a short span of time. With each infected individual capable of spreading the virus to more people, concerted efforts are needed to quickly trace, test and isolate the infected. Lessons from Dharavi While the majority of cases in the State are restricted to Chennai and three adjoining districts — thus making the task of containing the spread relatively easy — the areas in Chennai where more cases are being reported are those that are chock-a-block with people. That crowded neighbourhoods enable easy spread of the virus is the reason why aggressive screening, testing and isolation need to be carried out in double quick time. If the virus spread in Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, in Mumbai, can be controlled, there is no reason why Tamil Nadu cannot achieve the same feat. Proactive screening door-to-door, aggressive testing, quarantining of people suspected to be infected and isolation of those testing positive helped contain the virus spread in Dharavi. In addition, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation established fever clinics for the early detection of cases. prasad.ravindranath@thehindu.co.in
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Crisis in the peninsula||By blowing up a joint liaison office on the border with South Korea and threatening to deploy troops along the demilitarised zone, North Korea is back to what it is best at — aggressive posturing with the threat of war. Troubles began in the peninsula early this year after a deadline the North dictated to the U.S. to achieve progress in the denuclearisation talks expired on December 31. North Korea has conducted missile tests this year, sending warning signals to Seoul and Washington. The latest crisis was triggered by anti-North defector groups that sent out propaganda leaflets via balloons across the border. Angered by the South’s refusal to crack down on them, Pyongyang has severed hotlines, demolished the liaison office, and is planning to deploy troops along the border. Tensions now risk rolling back whatever little was achieved through engagement over the past two years. South Korea’s Unification Minister Kim Yeon-chul resigned on Friday and Seoul has also moved to charge the defector groups. But these moves are unlikely to ease tensions as the real problem is the stall in the talks. Two years after U.S. President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un met in Singapore to discuss denuclearisation, little has been achieved in that direction. It is likely that the North is now trying to get back Mr. Trump’s attention. There were no high hopes of a quick solution to the U.S.-North Korean rivalry — it goes back to the 1950-53 Korean war — when Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim met. Still, the summit was an opportunity to open a new direction in relations. Mr. Kim had in principle agreed to denuclearisation in return for the lifting of American sanctions. But talks stalled as the U.S. insisted on “complete, verifiable and irreversible denuclearization” by North Korea in return for any concession. The North Koreans were wary, particularly because of the U.S.’s history of going after dictators such as Saddam Hussein of Iraq and Muammar Gaddafi of Libya or its breaching of the Iran nuclear deal. Mr. Kim’s regime offered a staged approach. It put a freeze on nuclear tests and offered to shut its Yongbyon nuclear complex. The U.S. and South Korea could have responded to these measures and kept the talks on track. On less contentious issues, such as declaring a formal end to the Korean war — both Koreas are still technically at war — an agreement could have been achieved as a confidence-building measure. But that road was not taken. Worse, the U.S. and South Korea went ahead with their joint military exercise. Mr. Trump is now grappling with many problems at home — from the coronavirus outbreak and a sagging economy, to anti-racism protests. Still, if he does not want his two summits with Mr. Kim to be mere footnotes of history, he should take measures to revive talks with North Korea and push the peninsula back to normalcy.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Revolving door||The politics in Manipur has come under fresh turmoil following the withdrawal of support to the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government from MLAs belonging to the National People’s Party (NPP), two independents and defections by three BJP MLAs to the Opposition. The Biren Singh-led government has probably now been reduced to a minority. The uncertainty in the numbers in the 59-member Assembly has been due to several defections in the last three years, beginning with former Minister T. Shyamkumar’s shift of allegiance from the Congress to the BJP in 2017. This enabled the BJP, with only 21 MLAs, to form the government with the support of the NPP, the four member Naga Peoples’ Front, an independent and an MLA belonging to the Trinamool Congress. The defection by Mr Shyamkumar who went on to become a minister in the ruling cabinet was not ruled on for disqualification for three years, before the Supreme Court intervened, stripping the minister of his post and banned him from entering the Assembly in March 2020. Subsequently, the Speaker disqualified him. Seven more MLAs from the Congress had defected to the BJP since 2017, and the Speaker has yet to rule on their disqualifications. On Friday, only a select number of these seven, and most of whom had not gone back reportedly to the Opposition-fold were allowed by the Speaker to vote in the Rajya Sabha elections, whose results were disputed by the Congress. This might not survive a legal challenge. But the whimsical changes in loyalties have once again opened the door for the Congress to stake claim to form the government. The shenanigans in Manipur are not unique to the State. The examples of Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh most recently, and Arunachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand earlier show the utter failure of the anti-defection law in curbing the brazen subversion of electoral mandates by legislators who get elected on the ticket of one party but do not find it inconvenient to shift to another, due to the lure of ministerial berths or financial gains. If the role of the Speaker who has the authority to decide upon defections has been utilised by ruling parties to engineer defections without inviting immediate disqualification in some cases, legislators have also adhered to the law in letter if not spirit by utilising the option of outright resignation. This begs the question whether the anti-defection law actually serves any purpose today. In the absence of any amendments to the law suitably, the only disincentive for defectors is the possibility that voters might punish them in a by-election. But as Karnataka recently showed, voters in some States have yet to discern candidacies beyond considerations of patronage and identity, emboldening parties to retain or seize power through immoral machinations.
20 June 2020||Madrid,||Real blanks Valencia||Karim Benzema scored what could well be LaLiga’s goal of the season and Marco Asensio scored with his first touch in over a year as Real Madrid stormed past Valencia 3-0 on Thursday. Two brilliant volleys helped Madrid to a convincing win at the empty Alfredo di Stefano Stadium, where Benzema continued his excellent form with a brace after putting his team in front thanks to another combination with Eden Hazard. Valencia had been the better side in the first half when Rodrigo Moreno hit the post and then had a goal controversially ruled out after referee Jose Sanchez consulted VAR. Benzema’s stunning second goal that saw him take the ball out of the air with one foot and then volley home with the other was a breathtaking moment that came shortly after a dramatic one for Asensio too.  This was Benzema’s 243rd goal for Real Madrid in all competitions, putting him above Ferenc Puskas and into fifth in the club’s all-time list. Stiff test for Juve Meanwhile, Juventus’s supremacy faces a stiff test with the champions just one point ahead of Lazio as Serie A kicks off again this weekend. Four postponed games will take place first this weekend involving teams at the epicentre of the COVID-19 outbreak. Inter Milan is third, nine points behind Juventus.  The results: La Liga: Alaves 2 (Sainz 56, Aguirregabiria 90+6) bt Real Sociedad 0; Real Madrid 3 (Benzema 61, 86, Marco Asensio 74) bt Valencia 0.
20 June 2020||BENGALURU,||KSLTA plans new infrastructure||To build a tennis stadium of international repute and a high performance centre in the State capital, along with three regional tennis centres, formed the crux of the Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association’s (KSLTA) ‘Vision 2030’ roadmap announced on Friday. The Executive Committee of the newly elected body met for the first time here. The city plays host to the $162,000 ATP Bengaluru Open – South Asia’s biggest Challenger – at its stadium inside the Cubbon Park, but infrastructure needs to be ramped up if the aim is to host an ATP 250 tournament. The need for a strong local circuit that will help nurture young talent and provide them competitive matches has never been clearer than during the COVID-19 pandemic. The roadmap seeks to address this by aiming to build 500 courts across the State, conduct talent hunt programmes and develop infrastructure at all district headquarters and taluks capable enough to hold National and international tournaments. Skill development programmes to produce competent coaches and trainers are also on the anvil. To implement the roadmap, a slew of sub-committees have been formed, including a Development Committee with Rohan Bopanna at the helm and Coaching Committee headed by Zeeshan Ali.
20 June 2020||KOCHI,||T.P. Ouseph — a very different kind of coach||When he was coaching at Thrissur’s Vimala College some 25 years ago, former National jumps coach T.P. Ouseph made it a habit of carrying a few books to his training sessions. “Every day, he used to read athletics journals and coaching books to us and explain the science of sport. That used to be for 30 minutes just before our training sessions,” said Anju Bobby George to The Hindu on Friday. “He explained how the Russians trained, how the others handled our event. There was no internet those days, even getting videos was rare.” Though it took the girls time to understand those lessons, it went a long way in making them the best in their chosen event. It was Ouseph who introduced Anju, Bobby Aloysius and Lekha Thomas to the world. Long jumper Anju, later coached by husband Robert Bobby George, went on to win the country’s first World Championships medal (bronze, 2003, in Paris) while high jumper Bobby emerged as the Asian champion. “There were times when Bobby, Lekha and I used to walk away with all the three long jump or triple jump medals at National championships. I was the youngest of the lot,” said Anju, also a gold medallist in the Asian Games and Asian championships. Best-ever Bobby feels that Ouseph is India’s best-ever jumps coach in the women’s section. “If you look at major events, his athletes have dominated the stage for nearly 15 years. He was the one who virtually introduced the Fosbury Flop in our country and found success with that,” said Bobby who held the National high jump record for many years. “There were many who tried the Flop but Ouseph’s training helped me succeed. I won the Asian medal through his efforts, not because I went to a foreign country to train. He took high jump to a new level in our country. He was the one who gave the crucial turning points in Anju’s jumping career before she went on to win bigger medals with Bobby George.” Ouseph, who now trains the talented Sandra Babu, has applied for the Dronacharya Award.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan got it all wrong against India in 2019 WC, says Waqar||“Pakistan got it totally wrong against India in the 2019 World Cup, starting from the toss” was how former Pakistan captain Waqar Younis described his nation’s 89-run defeat in England. The defeat was seventh for Pakistan in as many World Cup encounters against India. Interacting online with fans GloFans, the current bowling coach of Pakistan found fault with almost everything with his team on that day. “I think they (the Pakistan think-tank) were hoping that the pitch to do a lot more, help them get early wickets and put India under pressure. India’s very seasoned openers did not really let the bowlers settle down. The pitch did not really do much and once the openers got going, it was very difficult to stop them. “So, I think it was a silly mistake, to begin with, to ask India to bat. Batting first, on that pitch, was the way to go. It did not really help Pakistan that day and India was too good… way too good.” The speedster also raved about Sachin Tendulkar’s knock of 98 against Pakistan in the 2003 World Cup as India chased down a target of 274 with six wickets to spare. Tendulkar at his best “That innings is hard to describe in words. He played so well, especially when India was under pressure and we were good at bowling. That was probably one of his best innings. Even if you ask Sachin about this (innings) he might also say the same thing. The way he faced Shoaib Akhtar, Wasim and me under pressure, the way he attacked and got early runs, I think it was an amazing innings," he recalled. Waqar went on, “Tendulkar is not only a great player, but also a great human being. Due to his qualities, people of all ages like him. He is a very humble man. Overall, full marks to him for the way he has handled his career.”
20 June 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lanka to probe match-fixing allegations over 2011 WC final||Sri Lanka, on Friday, said it would probe allegations of match-fixing in the 2011 World Cup final, a day after a former Sports Minister accused the team of “selling” the match against India. Speaking in a TV show, Mahindananda Aluthgamage, who was sports minister in 2011 and is currently with the ruling Rajapaksas’ Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (People’s Party SLPP), said:  “I tell you today that we sold the 2011 World Cup finals.” The Secretary to Sri Lanka's Sports Ministry has filed a complaint at its special investigations unit to investigate the charge. Aluthgamage is not the first Sri Lankan politician to make this allegation about the final that India won by six wickets at Mumbai’s Wankhede Stadium. In 2017, former Sri Lanka captain and former minister Arjuna Ranatunga too sought a probe but didn’t pursue the matter. Engrossing contest The engrossing 2011 final witnessed India lifting the World Cup after 28 years. Sri Lanka posted 274 for six with Mahela Jayawardene scoring an unbeaten 103. In the chase, after Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag were dismissed, Sri Lanka sensed a chance before Gautam Gambhir (97) and skipper M.S. Dhoni (91 n.o.) helped the host prevail. Following Aluthgamage’s allegation, Sri Lanka’s former captains Mahela Jayawardene and Kumar Sangakkara strongly reacted on Twitter. “Is the elections around the corner? Looks like the circus has started. Names and evidence? #SLpolitics #ICC,” Jayawardene tweeted on Thursday. Sri Lanka is due to go for general polls in early August. Take ‘evidence’ to ICC Sangakkara added: “He [Aluthgamage] needs to take his “evidence” to the ICC and the Anti corruption and Security Unit so the claims can be investigated thoroughly.” Following the controversy, Aluthgamage told the Daily Mirror , “I didn’t refer to any player,” and that he was only speaking about officials who had “purchased car companies” after the match.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Niki Poonacha elected to ITF players’ panel||Reigning National champion Niki Poonacha was elected to the International Tennis Federation (ITF) men’s players’ panel, and will represent the Asia-Oceania zone along with Ti Chen of Chinese Taipei. Aldin Setkic and Francesco Vilardo were elected from Europe while Juan Pablo Paz and Jose Bendeck were elected to represent South America. One more position awaits an eligible candidate in the men’s panel. Eleven players contested the election among men, in which Poonacha polled the second highest vote of 62. “I am happy to be given a chance to represent players in the ITF. I thank all the players who trusted me with this responsibility. I will do my best. “I am already in touch with players from other countries also, about the issues,” said Poonacha, who was the only Indian candidate. The ITF also has a women’s player panel with Akgul Amanmuradova of Uzbekistan from Asia. The two player panels would be headed respectively for men and women by Mark Woodforde and Mary Pierce, who are already athlete representatives on the ITF Board of Directors. “The ITF is committed to improving our communication with athletes at all levels across the world. “We look forward to working with the elected members of the player panels to ensure that players’ opinions are at the forefront when making decisions about the World Tennis Tour,” said ITF president David Haggerty.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stiff tests await Hari on opening day||The presence of Grandmaster P. Harikrishna is sure to cause a major spike in Indian interest in the million-dollar Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour that continues with the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Saturday. Hari, the first Indian on the Tour, is part of a 12-player field that includes the world’s top six — Magnus Carlsen (Norway), Fabiano Caruana (USA), Ding Liren (China), Ian Nepomniachtchi (Russia), Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (France) and Alexander Grishcuk (Russia) — on the classical format ranking list. Following the decision to tweak the league phase of the Tour’s third leg, by dividing the field into two groups of six players each, Hari finds himself in the tougher one.  On Saturday, Hari starts with black against Russia's Vladislav Artemiev and follows alternate colours against Carlsen, Russia's Daniil Dubov, USA's Hikaru Nakamura and Russia's Grischuk. After Sunday’s rest, Hari plays the same rivals with opposite colours. It is pertinent to note, Carlsen and Dubov won the first two legs at the expense of Nakamura. The other group includes Caruana, Liren, Nepomniachtchi, Lagrave, Teimour Radjabov and Anish Giri. Four players from each group advance to the quarterfinals.
20 June 2020||MUMBAI,||No clarity on preparatory camp||With uncertainty over India’s next international assignment due to COVID-19, the BCCI is in no position to plan a camp for its centrally contracted players. The Indian team-management and medical team have requested a six-week training stint. The BCCI is yet to zero in on a safe destination for training, and not many players are keen on travelling from their hometowns. In no hurry With the T20 World Cup, scheduled for October-November in Australia, likely to be postponed, the BCCI is in no hurry to organise a camp as there is no series in the near future. According to a BCCI official, when the training camp is planned, the selectors will be asked to shortlist “deserving youngsters” who could be drafted in along with the centrally contracted players. This means that the question of drafting in M.S. Dhoni “does not even arise,” the official added.
20 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Good response for Shadow boxing challenge||The India Shadow Boxing Challenge 2020, launched on May 18 to celebrate Asian Games boxing medallist Buddy D’Souza’s 84th birthday, received 2473 entries from Indian citizens across the nation, 79 from overseas. Luminaries who took part included Dronacharya awardee G. Manoharan, famous ex-international Gopal Dewang, besides young fighters. Boxers, regular and amateur, coaches and enthusiasts were invited to submit 30-second videos of them doing shadow boxing indoors or outdoors. The contest was on for 20 days.
20 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Sajan remains in Phuket||Sajan Prakash, who was stranded at his training base in Phuket, Thailand, during the lockdown has decided to stay back and train at the FINA Aquatic Centre. With the rapid spread of the pandemic in India and the Central Government not opening the swimming pools for public and training, Sajan thought the best option before him was to extend his stay in Phuket. “I had thought of coming back to India when the lockdown was partially lifted in Thailand, but the situation in India had deteriorated pretty quickly. Moreover, the pools are still closed so I decided to stay back and train in Phuket,” said Sajan, who had qualified for the postponed Tokyo Olympics. The 25-year-old landed in Phuket in the second week of February to train with his Spanish coach Miguel Lopez. But lockdown was enforced in Phuket following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Back in the pool After three months, the lockdown has been lifted and Sajan has resumed training along with 17 others. His coach Lopez, who had left for Spain when the lockdown began, is back with him. However, Sajan has not hit the full throttle in training. The neck (slip disc) and shoulder injuries which he sustained last year is still bothering him and he has decided not to exert himself. “I have been carrying this injury before the 2019 World Championship and it became really bad in December where I couldn’t lift my hand or move my neck. It is better now, but pains when I start pushing myself. So I’m increasing the intensity slowly. “I am in touch with my physiotherapist who is based in India and follow his instructions. I am pretty happy with the recovery and there is no hurry also as the Olympics has been postponed and with no competition in sight I can plan my comeback,” he said.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hockey players go home||More than 100 days since they reported at the national camp, the Indian men’s and women’s hockey players finally headed home for a month-long break, starting Friday. The 56-odd probables had been stuck at the Sports Authority of India’s Bengaluru Centre due to the lockdown. While the men had been at the camp since March 2 following their Pro League games against Australia, Belgium and Holland in Bhubaneswar, the women had been cooped since February 16, making it a four-month long stay. The decision was taken by Hockey India late on Wednesday evening following consultations with SAI officials, coaches and support staff and players themselves. It is understood that while most of the players preferred leaving on Thursday itself, ticketing issues and working out travel formalities took time. The players, both men and women, started leaving in batches with the first group leaving on Friday morning and most expected to be gone by Sunday evening. They will, however, have to strictly follow quarantine rules — home or institutional — depending on their respective states. Karnataka native S.V. Sunil, though, went home Thursday itself. Goalkeeper Suraj Karkera, who decided against travelling because of the severe pandemic situation in Mumbai, and the women’s duo of Sushila Chanu (Manipur) and Lalremsiami (Mizoram) will continue to stay in Bengaluru.  The players have been asked to report back on July 19 which is again likely to be followed by a 14-day quarantine period. “There wasn’t any problem at SAI, honestly, in terms of facilities or diet or anything. But the days of three or four month long camps is long gone. Most players are used to short, high-intensity camps instead and the fact that for almost two of those there was no on-ground training made it more difficult. It was more a mental and emotional thing, staying away from families,” one player en route to the airport said. The players had finally got permission to resume basic on-ground training, in small groups, from June 10. While women’s Dutch coaches Sjoerd Marijne and Janneke Schopman too left for home early Friday morning, the men’s staff including coach Graham Reid and Chris Ciriello is uncertain and staying put at SAI for the moment.  They will have to strictly follow quarantine rules — home or institutional — depending on their respective states.  Goalkeeper Suraj Karkera doesn’t travel because of the situation in Mumbai
20 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Humpy to play in Women’s Speed Chess||K. Humpy will be back once again when the the World No. 2 plays at FIDE’s Online Women’s Speed Chess championship, featuring the game’s elite. Humpy gave a lot of thought — unsurprising since she is not a fan of the format — before deciding to play in the tournament which opens on June 24. That she is still the reigning World rapid chess champion reflects her strength as a player, regardless of the format. Hesitation What made her hesitate a bit was one part of the format for the Speed Chess tournament — the games of a duration of one minute (plus the increment of one second per move). “I haven’t played with time control like that before, but I decided to compete in the tournament anyway and am looking forward to it now,” Humpy told The Hindu over phone from Vijayawada on Thursday. “It will be an interesting tournament, as most of the world’s top players are competing in it.” Though online chess has become hugely popular during the lockdown, she hasn’t been very active in the digital space. She has played only one tournament — the Nations Cup, in which she was part of the strong Indian team led by five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand. She had also featured in a simultaneous exhibition to raise funds for the country’s fight against COVID-19. “I enjoyed playing those two events, though it took me some time to get used to it,” she said. She said it was good to that FIDE was organising quality online tournaments. “It is nice that big stars like Magnus Carlsen are playing so many online events. They are probably playing more chess now than they did before,” she said. The Women’s Speed Chess event consists of four legs of Grand Prix and the women who take the top two places will play a super final on July 20.
20 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Former footballer Hameed passes away||Former State footballer, Shaik Hameed, passed away here on Thursday. He was 65. Hameed started with City College Old Boys FC and then went on to represent Andhra Pradesh in the junior Nationals and was a member of the 1976 winning team. Later he joined Central Excise and played for it in the local league and represented the senior State team twice in the Nationals. öTelangana Football Association president Mohd Rafat Ali, secretary G.P. Palguna, former internationals Shabbir Ali, Victor Amalraj, and Aleem Khan expressed their condolences.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||AICF’s online international competition||Encouraged by the success of the online challenge held in May, featuring some of the best players in the country, the All India Carrom Federation (AICF) has stepped up the idea with an international competition, to be held from June 25. Players from the US, Sweden, Sri Lanka, Maldives, France, Malaysia, UK, UAE, Canada and Singapore are scheduled to compete in the tournament. Apart from many world champions from India, the tournament will also feature the president of the International Carrom Federation (ICF) Josef Meyer of Switzerland. After seeing 11 white slams recorded by men and women in the two-day competition last month, the format has been tweaked a bit to make it more exciting for the online fans. Now, each player will continue to play the white and black pieces alternately, from the same position, till the finish, for eight boards. “Through this method, the players have the chance to score a white slam, a black slam and both slams. Each white slam will fetch five points, and a black slam, three points. The ultimate slam of scoring both the white and black slams in the same board, will fetch 10 points,” said Bharti Narayan, the secretary-general of the AICF. All the players will have a chance to keep scoring points for the first four days. Afterwards, the top four men and women will compete separately for the titles in the knockout stage.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Khelo India centres planned in 1000 districts||The Sports Ministry is planning to establish 1000 district-level Khelo India Centres (KIC) that would be helmed by former sportspersons, starting with 100 in the current financial year. These centres would either be run by a past champion on their own or co-opt them as coaches, ensuring livelihood for former sportspersons and including them in India’s sporting development. However, the sportspersons would have to personally be involved in imparting full-time training at the centre to avail government grant.  Financial grant would include remunerations, purchase of equipment, sports kits, consumables and participation in competitions in archery, athletics, boxing, badminton, cycling, fencing, hockey, judo, rowing, shooting, swimming, table tennis, weightlifting, wrestling, football and traditional sports.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Srikanth recommended for Khel Ratna||The Badminton Association of India (BAI), on Friday, recommended K. Srikanth for the Khel Ratna award after he apologised for pulling out of a tournament midway. BAI, however, show-caused H.S. Prannoy for his outburst against the federation after not being nominated for Arjuna. Srikanth and Prannoy did not play for India in the semifinal of the Asian Team Championship in Manila in February, choosing to fly to Barcelona for another event. After the former accepted his mistake and promised that it will never happen again, his name was forwarded to the Sports Ministry. “Considering Srikanth’s accomplishments, we have decided to recommend him for Khel Ratna,” BAI general-secretary Ajay Singhania said. On Prannoy, he said: “The Federation had been very tolerant with him, but in the recent past his attitude has forced BAI to take action and also look at the disciplinary policies.”
20 June 2020||Madurai,||Skeletal remains of a child found at Tamil Nadu’s Keeladi excavation site||Skeletal remains of a child were excavated from Konthagai village, part of the sixth phase of ongoing excavations in the ancient site of Keeladi here on Friday. The skeleton was found buried between two terracotta urns that were also found on the same day. It was 75cm in height and was found 0.5m below surface level. Excavations are currently taking place at Keeladi, Konthagai, Manalur and Agaram villages in Sivaganga district. Konthagai village, located around 2 km from Keeladi, is believed to be a burial site. Deputy Director of Archaeology and in-charge of the excavations R. Sivanandam said that when the team began excavating, they first found the mouth and the hand in the remains. The lid of the two urns were also exposed at the same time. “The rest of it followed soon,” he said. Mr. Sivanandam said that the gender of the skeletal remains will be determined in two days time. He added that the process of carbon dating needs to be completed to determine the age of the child. It cannot be revealed yet, he said. Two other skeletal remains of adults were found at Konthagai during this phase. A total of 15 urns have been found till date. A gold coin that is said to have been used extensively in the 17th century AD, some shells and pots, have also been found during the excavation, in all four sites.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 08:01 IST,||Sudoku - June 20, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The taste of words||Two little words give me great joy. And those are ghee and roast, put together. My favourite dish at Saravana Bhavan – those carefree days when one could sit there and have a happy meal – was a ghee roast dosa. It was crispy, and had a delicious fragrance of ghee. And it was the thought of this aroma that drew my eyes to a dish called that had the words ghee roast chicken on the menu of Fresh to Home (Freshtohome.com), a food delivery platform. We started ordering uncooked fish and shrimps from Fresh to Home a couple of years ago. Then, some weeks ago, I saw that they had added marinated, ready-to-cook items on their menu. And there was a dish there called Tangy Chicken Ghee Roast! I ordered it, and despite being not a great fan of chicken, I loved it. It came wrapped in the flavours of ghee and all that we had to do was to put it in a kadhai, add a tiny bit of oil and let it simmer for 10 minutes or so in 100 ml of water. We stirred it now and then, sprinkling some water when needed. And out came a delicious dish -- tangy and fiery red (thanks to the Byadgi chillies that it had been marinated with). The dish, says the app, is popular in the Mangalore-Kundapur region of Karnataka. And it’s certainly popular in our house. We tried out some of the other marinated dishes, and came to the conclusion that a prawn dish that we ordered -- Gambas Con Tomates Secos Y Aceituna – deserved the crown, though the runners-up were not bad either. This was a dish of fresh shrimps in a garlicky marinade, cooked in olive oil, with sundried tomatoes, garlic, parsley, chilli flakes, sliced pitted olives and salt. Following the instructions given on the site, we let this cook in 50 ml of water, until the shrimp was done. The dish was delightful, the sweetness of the shrimp complementing the tanginess of the sundried tomatoes. Another dish that worked well was Mutton Mince Dry Fry. It had a tomato base and a mildly sweet taste (perhaps from the peas) that I quite enjoyed. I had the keema with home-cooked rotis, freshly sliced onions and tomatoes on the side. We also asked for Amritsari ajwaini machi pakora – a 300-g pack of sliced boneless basa, in a batter of mildly spiced besan flour and ajwain (carom seeds). This was meant to have been deep fried, but we shallow fried it. I am not a great fan of basa, though Fresh to Home usually stocks the Indian river basa (and not the Mekong one). This one didn’t appeal to me much. The besan coating was a bit too thick, and I think it also lost some of its taste because we didn’t fry it the way it should be done. The rates are reasonable, but a bit erratic. I paid Rs. 279 for the 500-g pack of the Tangy Chicken Ghee Roast, though the site says it costs Rs. 245. Likewise, the 400-g mutton keema pack is priced at Rs. 700, but my bill shows that I paid Rs. 444. Also on the menu are Coconut Chicken Curry, Butter Chicken, Chicken Cafreal, Lahsuni Malai Prawns, Honey Mustard Chicken Wings, Tandoori Chicken Legs, and something called Granny’s Masala Fried Chicken. I am going to try out Granny’s Masala Fried Chicken. The word granny somehow adds to the taste of food. Quite like ghee roast! The writer is a seasoned food critic
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||In search of rare mangoes||After almost going extinct, mango variety Azam-us-Samar, rumoured to be the favourite of Queen Victoria, is making a reappearance in the market through boutique farm AR4 Mangoes, owned by Arifa and Mohammad Rafique. The 21-acre mango farm at Yadagirigutta, near Hyderabad, is now not only growing Azam-us-Samar, but also growing Jehangir, fabled to be emperor Shah Jahan’s favourite mango variety from the Deccan. Says Rafi, “The Jehangir mango looks like an apple and is best consumed when green and ‘tight’. The fruit inside will be ripe and ready to eat. Once it turns orange-ish on the outside, it is best used for juice or pulp. Jehangir is extremely sweet and has a very prominent desi flavour. Meaning, it has a strong fragrance of the original mango. Most other mango varieties are developed, so the actual fragrance of the fruit is missing. Jehangir, along with the fragrance, is also known to have the original flavour of mango. We acquired both these grafts from the Nawab gardens, who have been developing the two varieties. It took us close to five years for the first crop of the two varieties.” He adds that Azam-us-Samar gets its name from Nawab Azam Ali Khan, who developed the mango variety, and that each mango can weigh between 400 grams to 1 kilogram. “The fruit, however, is not very attractive to look at and has a rather uneven surface.” The fable behind the Azam-us-Samar mango goes thus: Developed by the Nawab at his sprawling gardens at Shadnagar, this variety made it to the Buckingham Palace, along with other different mango varieties that were regularly sent to the Queen during her reign. The legend goes that Queen Victoria tasted them all and chose ‘Azam-us-Samar’ as the best. It is said that the mango was sent to the Queen until the death of Nawab Azam Ali Khan, after which this variety began disappearing. “If you thought Azam-us-Samar is the biggest, then you are mistaken. It is the Noorjahan variety. Each mango weighs about three to four kilograms,” says Rafi.  These two varieties and more from Uttar Pradesh are available at www.ar4mangoes.com.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A gamechanger for live music||“It is said that medicines cure but music heals. In these difficult times, when so many of us are prone to maladies like depression, anxiety, and insecurity, listening to soothing music can help us stay calm and cope,” says Dr. Suvarnalata Rao, Head – Programming (Indian Music), at National Centre for Performing Arts (NCPA). Every year, Dr. Rao curates events and festivals, ranging from classical to contemporary music. However, things post-COVID-19 are a tad tough. Artistes are frustrated because of the financial loss from the lack of opportunities to perform freely. “We must accept the hard fact that while we definitely wish to return to our 'real' world of live events, the virtual world of online digital presentations is here to stay,” she says, adding that musicians are forced to work from home. Besides having had to postpone all events that were lined up until September this year, people doing research work are also not able to access archival recordings at the NCPA. In the absence of physical concerts, there is no other way but to access music online. In the next six months, Dr. Rao plans to have professional recordings made of the concerts and use online platforms to get them to audiences. “We are hopeful that artistes are allowed to travel to our venues. Otherwise we will request artistes to perform from their respective places and host the performance on online platforms. This option is technologically more challenging in case of multiple artistes,” says Dr. Rao, a Ph.D. in music. Excerpts from an interview:  As we celebrate World Music Day, in what way has the way we receive and interact with music changed over the past three months?  Over the past three months, the world has changed in the most unbelievable way. There has been a major shift in the way we produce and receive music, in the sense that there is only one way to reach the audiences now, which is online communication. All aspects of concert organization— production, presentation, marketing and reception has shifted to digital platforms. Now any artiste can directly upload music and anyone can access this. Even listeners are informed digitally. In such a scenario, there is little control over the quality of the product. While this mode may seem very convenient to the listeners, they need to be more watchful of what they are served.  Having trained as a sitar player in the Hindustani tradition, what kept you from becoming purely a performer?  What I do at the NCPA is...a very creative engagement starting with curation. It is not necessary to leave one profile for the other. My grooming as a practitioner of classical instrumental music and training in musicology has been extremely helpful in my work as a curator. In fact, I feel that had I remained a performer, I would have restricted myself to the circle of art music only, and missed out on the experience of curating meaningful productions aimed at preserving and promoting myriad music traditions that exist in India.  How are you at the NCPA making classical music more accessible for everyone?  Besides organizing concerts of classical music by upcoming as well as stalwarts, we also hold insightful workshops on different aspects of music making by experts who provide insights in to this difficult art form for the benefit of young practitioners. We also present specially curated guided listening sessions based on the invaluable recordings of the great masters, that we have in our archives.  What are your plans on World Music Day?  To celebrate the World Music day in the most appropriate way, we will be presenting Sufiana songs by Javed Ali on our online platform NCPA@home (on YouTube; register on In.bookmyshow.com). With this presentation, we hope to spread the message of peace, love and hope, especially in these difficult times.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Ask me 10 Qs’||Some performers don’t like doing corporate events, saying, “I am a true artist — I shall not conform to your prototype of my artistry, etc.” Good for them. I have no such qualms. Before the lockdown, I would perform any event. You could call me to do an outdoor show in 48˚C heat in Agra for a group of arms dealers that sell guns to Colombian farmers and I will be there, as long as the full payment has been received. Because I have kids. Each corporate show pays the yearly school fees for one of my two kids. I also loved these shows because I could take care of them while being in a five-star hotel away from them. Best of both worlds. Now I still do corporate shows, but they’re online. Last week, I did two Zoom shows in three hours and spent the next two hours homeschooling my kids. The work never ends. And now I can’t even pretend I’m out of network range. Surprisingly, it is not so bad. Earlier, I’d be home three days a week and spend a tonne of time running around parks, malls, the museum or the zoo with them — anything that would distract them from breaking furniture at home. Now I’m here seven days a week. And I’m really enjoying their company, even when they inadvertently insult me. Like the time my son saw hair on my arm and asked, “Papa, what is this?” I said, “ Beta , that’s hair.” He said, “Oh, it fell from your head?” Or when he suggested, “Papa, we should take all the sanitiser in the world and put it in volcanoes. The volcano explodes and Covid-19 is gone.” I’m glad my kids are only five and three. Because I should not home-school anyone — I failed every subject in school, including art. Every day, for an hour, my son and I do an ‘assignment’: we spent all of last week finding the total of every number from 1 to 100. The answer is 5050. The joy on his face when we finished would outdo the face of scientists at CERN if they demystified dark matter. The three-year-old has finally figured out how to write ‘2’, and I feel she may be precisely my daughter. We also play a lot. My wife is a genius at inventing activities. The dining table is transformed into a plane, and the kids are taking a trip to China (only OK to do that in imagination right now). Or they’re building homes like the three pigs. Or converting cardboard into rockets. Or potting plants to be like the protagonist in Jack and the Beanstalk . Versus my games that include throw ball, catch ball, hide ball and the show stealer, throw two balls, catch two balls, hide two balls (that sounds perverted). My favourite quote by a famousyogihas been this: “The lockdown is a series of good days and bad hours.” Thatyogiwas me, and I believe in myself. There are people suffering terribly across the world, and I cannot find reason to complain with all my privileges. My kids have made this lockdown fun — barring the rare times it has been overwhelming. Like when for Mothers’ Day, we sneakily made a nice card for my wife. Mainly, I made the card and my kids stuck glue on their hands and painted random robots. But we pretended it was their handiwork. I’m pretty sure that tomorrow, they will scam me the same way. One of my favourite things was the start of a bedtime game called, “Ask me 10 Questions”, where I attempt to reward my son’s curiosity and remind myself of how interesting things are. The questions include: “Snails are small, how do they carry that shell?” “Do we die only when we turn 100?” “How do paper planes fly?” And my favourite question, “Why are we here?” I still don’t know the answer to the last one, but currently, the lockdown is reminding me that ‘here’ is not that bad. If you’d like to hire me for a corporate event to finance groceries for my kids, email pantonfirecomedy @gmail.com
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The mother of all sentiment||There are no friends in this world. Only strangers we are yet to make.   ~ Swami Vivekamunnunn ~ 65  This is the first of a series of stories on how my social distancing efforts began way before the outbreak of the coronavirus. We have these friends, a couple. Okay, we had these friends. (I’ll personally take credit for the past tense.) We would meet them regularly. The evenings were always pleasant. Except when I spoke. So I kept that to a minimum. Now, let’s call them Mommy and Daddy. Mommy and Daddy had a daughter in the USA. Obviously. Fancy college. Of course. Paid for by Mommy-Daddy. Duh. She was working now. Daddy got her a job, silly. I began noticing at these intimate dos that Mommy would be unavailable for an entire hour. It didn’t matter where we were. Mommy would slink away into the shadows, just totally vanish and materialise an hour later, sporting a sparkling maternal corona. ‘She just has to talk to Swapnasundarimani,’ Daddy would say, taking a large sip of single malt as a fatherly tear (with extra salt from the peanuts) rolled into his glass at the tenderness of it all. His loving ardhangi who had borne him his ekaika suputrikamani indulging in an hour-long WhatsApp video-embrace at a designated time every night was the stuff of art, poetry and Rajshri Productions. Everyone nodded approvingly. Mother-Daughter sentiment is unbeatable. Ask T Rajendar. Daddy even got a choked-up pat or two from a fellow father missing his own offspring, currently learning root vegetable hybridisation or tractor tyre technology in Umpherston Sinkhole, Australia. The whole scene was soft-focus, glowy, family-affirming, wonderful. Except for one tiny glitch: me. ‘Mommy,’ I said that day what I’d been thinking all along. ‘While keeping unfailingly in touch with your grown-up daughter is fab and all, not too fair on us, is it?’ One very extended minute of silence followed. When I open my mouth that is the standard reaction. It is followed by a panchanga sravanam or a punch to my kisser, depending on my horoscope for that day. ‘How so?’ said Daddy. ‘Why fix up to meet us if you are unavailable for an entire hour?’ ‘I’m there, no?’ said Daddy. ‘Perhaps,’ I said. ‘But... er... that’s not what we signed up for, no?’ ‘Hey,’ popped in Mommy, bristling like Nargis in Mother India . ‘Swapnasundarimani comes above everything for me. And that ‘s our designated time.’ ‘Why?’ I said. ‘What do you mean?’ she said. ‘Why is that your designated time?’ ‘Well, er, it’s convenient for her to speak at that time,’ said Daddy. ‘Why?’ ‘Because that’s when she drives to work.’ ‘Okay, so it’s convenient for her ,’ I said. ‘What if that time is inconvenient for you?’ ‘We’ll adjust, of course,’ they said in chorus. ‘What if I won’t?’ I said. They both stared at each other. ‘Here’s the thing,’ I said. ‘By all means make all the adjustments you want to make for your daughter. That’s your prerogative. But don’t expect the world or life to follow suit. They won’t.’ My wife got up on cue. ‘We will be leaving, I’m guessing,’ she said. She had guessed right. ‘Never to return,’ she muttered under her breath. On our way back home, I had to ask, ‘Was I wrong?’ ‘Your timing was off,’ she said. ‘What do you mean? I shouldn’t have said it after a drink?’ ‘No,’ she said. ‘You shouldn’t have said it before dessert. It was puran poli , idiot.’ Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Fine dining: surviving takeout||Indian Accent London, the poster boy for Indian dining internationally, has shut permanently, even as I write this — a victim of post-Covid restaurant economics. As other restaurants reopen around the world, they too are struggling. Old business calculations have fallen apart and, as lifestyles get redefined, there is a hunt for new ways of earning revenue. In our altered world, dining-in has turned fashionable overnight. In Singapore, the Michelin Guide lists more than 25 starred establishments now offering delivery, including Odette, Asia’s reigning best — with a new ‘at-home’ menu that comes in boxes described as collectible, and commanding prices to the tune of $98 for classics such as Kampot Pepper Pigeon (for one) and $248 for Duck Apicus (for four). In India, too, food delivery is seeing a move away from an emphasis on price to quality and brand. Before Covid-19, an average order value (AOV) may have been Rs. 300. However now, with the entry of top restaurants into the delivery business, the attention is on premium. “Consumer preference [cognisant of hygiene and safety] has changed from deep discounting and anonymous cloud kitchens to quality. Brands that were extremely low AOV are now finding it difficult to stay relevant, and even aggregators like Zomato and Swiggy have shifted their focus from deals and discounts to hygiene, family combos and health foods,” says Ishita Sudha Yashvi, co-founder of Cross Border Kitchens, which runs seven delivery brands across the NCR. The game is being upped further by five-star hotels who want to bring in “experience”. Hotels that were initially testing the waters by offering coffee shop or limited menus are now looking at deliveries as a long-term business and thinking up ways to augment the dining-in experience to be at par with what restaurant dining used to be. “If the customer cannot come to the restaurant, the restaurant must go to the customer,” declares Anil Chadha, COO, ITC Hotels, which is set to launch gourmet deliveries from its super brands Bukhara, Dumpukht, Ottimo and others across cities. “We will be competing not on price, but on the experience. Our food is well-known, but we are also looking at things like mood lighting, butler service, chefs on call [when it becomes safer], and wine recommendations to up the dining at home experience,” he says. What seems to have bolstered hopes is a recently-concluded, four-day biryani festival across outlets, where, according to some accounts, 900 biryanis costing upwards of Rs. 1,700 were sold.  Banking on quality  That Covid-19 has accelerated the delivery business’ shift to a more premium space is indisputable. In fact, both Swiggy and Zomato are working on fleshing out their premium segments. “Restaurants that were earlier focussed on dine-in are now working to build similar delivery experiences for their customers. We believe such offerings will help us render premium food experiences,” said a spokesperson at Zomato, that has tied up with hotel chains like Hilton, Marriott and Hyatt. Swiggy, meanwhile, has a nationwide tie-up with ITC restaurants. But the big question is how feasible is it for restaurants to get into the delivery business? Can they ever look at making the kind of revenues they once did from dine out, pressing their staff and kitchens to a newer dynamic? “I am treating these two as completely separate businesses,” says chef and restaurateur Ritu Dalmia, who has no plans to open her restaurants till air conditioning, alcohol and extended hours of operating are permitted. But she has launched Diva Casa — DIY kits with a limited menu — for which the cooking and delivery is being done from her base kitchen in Delhi. Dalmia lists many reasons why delivery is not as lucrative as restaurateurs may be assuming. “My daily sanitisation cost is Rs. 7,000, then there is the delivery — we are sending our own staff in cars with full PPE gear. If we pay 20% commissions to aggregator apps, we will be in losses,” she says. Despite Diva Casa doing well, it is just about breaking even. “I am making no money. All I am getting is keeping the brand Diva alive and the system oiled till we can figure out better ways of augmenting business,” she adds.  Shift from red to black  Restaurant economics work differently from deliveries. For a well-run, 1,000 sq ft, 50-cover restaurant, revenue can be estimated as Rs. 35-Rs. 40 lakh per month. A good delivery brand in just one location, on the other hand, can expect to do only about Rs. 8-Rs. 10 lakh — which can perhaps be pushed by another Rs. 2-Rs. 3 lakh, even though the market is already getting cluttered and competitive. “Brands have become important. Yet even well-loved restaurants have been able to do just one-third of the business that they did from dine out,” says Saransh Goila of Mumbai’s Goila Butter Chicken, who says that the business works on scale and only when you have multiple outlets. A single restaurant operating at 30%-40% of its earlier capacity in a socially-isolated world will find it tough to make up for revenue loss even if it adds deliveries to its model. One-third of the business can come from the latter, one third from restaurant operations, but there is still a substantial chunk missing. Given that even exceptional restaurants earlier brought in just about 10%-15% profits, deliveries cannot make the red black. There is also the question of price. While a brand can command a premium from its loyal customers, repeat customers are generally estimated at just about 30%-40%. The rest are influenced by factors such as competitive pricing and easy access. Something that restaurateur Gauri Devidayal of The Table and (home delivery-only brand) Iktara agrees on. “In the early days of lockdown, when fewer delivery options were available, I thought of ordering pizza from a five star, but then decided that Rs. 2,000 for a pizza was just not worth it,” she says. In many ways, the delivery business is an equaliser. Hotelier Tanveer Kwatra of Andaaz hotel points out how many hotels started off with high-priced menus and soon realised there were few takers after the initial period. To get more people, prices need to be competitive, he says, something he did with the Annamaya menu. Ultimately, the balance everyone is seeking is how to give that ‘experience’ at home while remaining competitive, quality-conscious, and trustworthy. Anoothi Vishal is the author of the book,Business on a Platter: What Makes Restaurants Sizzle or Fizzle Out.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||world music day, june 21||
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Smoked pork and downstairs aunty||I saw a rather unusual Netflix film called Axone , pronounced ‘akhuni’. Named after a Naga condiment made from fermented soya beans, the word comes from axo meaning smell and ne meaning strong in the Sumi Naga dialect. A rough paste stored in banana leaf packets, axone is added to smoked pork or beef, snails or vegetable stew for that extra kick. But like durian, axone has a strong, pungent smell that takes a lot of getting used to, a smell beloved in the Northeast but unknown elsewhere. Shillong-born director Nicholas Kharkongor makes the condiment a metaphor for the people of the Northeast — who look different, speak different, and who have therefore been subjected to some horrific discrimination by other Indians. The movie, coming at a time when the world is raging against the killing of George Floyd by a white policeman in the US, reminds us again, if reminders are needed, of how deep the roots of racial, caste and communal biases go in our own country.  Axone is not brilliant, its solutions are simplistic, the plot patchy, dialogues stilted. But it’s a vital interjection because it puts India’s racism issues bang in the middle of mainstream cinematic consciousness. It’s not a film about the Northeast and it doesn’t have Punjabi actors playing Manipuri boxers. It’s a film by Northeasterners for  the rest of India. And it basically says, ‘Look, we’re here, living and working where we want. Get used to it because we’re here to stay.’ The message comes not a moment too soon. When the pandemic broke, many Indians targeted Northeasterners in a bizarre exhibition of ignorance and hate, throwing them out of homes and shops because they thought Northeast = China = Corona. Given the current border skirmish, there are concerns that similar acts might be repeated. But, besides this particular form of idiocy, Northeasterners have been generally targeted both for their features and because their culture is more permissive than the mainland’s. Most Indians will quibble about this in imaginative ways. They’ll say, look we throw stones at doctors and nurses too, we’re equal opportunity discriminators. Or they’ll say ‘caste’ or ‘religion’ is not equal to ‘race’. But if one whittles the notion of racism down to its basics, as intolerance of the ‘other’, it’s obvious we’ve been infected with a particularly virulent strain of the virus. In the last few years, we have allowed this canker to grow enormously, generously watered and nourished by television channels and social media platforms. Kharkongor has kept Axone light and funny, a smart choice since he hopes an urban audience might be beguiled into seeing its hypocrisy for what it really is while laughing along and munching chips. God forbid Kharkongor had made a serious film about Nido Taniam from Arunachal Pradesh who died of his injuries after being racially attacked in Delhi in 2014 — that would have been too real for our gated community inmates. They would have branded him an urban Naxal and switched to primetime news hour.  Axone, in fact, takes great pains to not offend the chips-munching viewer. Whether vicious landlady or creepy man-on- khatia, they are all lovable, comical goofballs whose intolerance or voyeurism hides one large, happy heart. Like how our cricketers lovingly call black players kalu and explain it away as a term of endearment. Even the nasty man who makes sexual innuendos is redeemed by a large, curler-crowned mother whose outlandish looks are meant to locate her as an outlier — normal Indians don’t say such things; this is a ridiculously evil exception. Then, having finally been forced to a terrace to cook the smoked pork with axone for their wedding dinner, the Northeasterners have to further prove their Indianness so that our loving, streaming viewers are not alienated by a film daring to call them out. The character called Bendang (a stand-in for Taniam) who hates Delhi and wants to return home must obviously break into a Hindi song. Unsurprisingly, many Northeasterners have called the film a copout, but one suspects that Kharkongor’s instincts are spot-on. Just as the ubiquitous Hindi film song has been a bit of a national unifier, it’s the frothy, light OTT film that might just be able to do what no amount of rationalising can — bring home to Indians that it’s simply wrong to call someone ‘kalu’ or ‘corona’, bless their loving hearts. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic parenting with an only child||It has been over three months since my 11-year-old son has seen another child. Like most children in the country, he has been confined to the house. Playdates, even now as lockdown eases, are out of the question. As an only child, he is used to keeping himself occupied. Books, Lego, playing by himself, all served to fill the endless days. The “What should I do now?” litany soon began in earnest, though. He wasn’t missing school, but he did miss the physicality of meeting other children. To tackle this, we have been organising mock wrestling matches and fake-boxing. Only-children across India are coping with solitary confinement in various ways. Gurgaon-based poet Sahana Ahmed’s nine-year-old daughter had her birthday two weeks into lockdown. “The first few days were spent explaining why we couldn’t invite her friends and she had a Zoom party with them on the big day,” says Ahmed. In Kolkata, Vinita Garg says the lockdown has been liberating for her seven-year-old and “infuriating for me”. The writer admits, however, that she was initially glad at the dismantling of structure and routine. “We would walk together on the terrace, study, watch films. Just as the boredom started to set in, online school began, so that helped hugely.” Conversations around Covid Meanwhile, down South, in Bengaluru, book editor Ganesh Vancheeswaran says his nine-year-old was curious to know what lockdown and Covid-19 were all about. “He was mildly anxious about not being able to go downstairs to play and not meeting his grandparents who live in Chennai. We had a number of conversations about why it was important to stay at home,” he says. This is key, says psychologist Trishna Agarwala, adding that talking to children at their level is helpful. “Give them information they can digest. It is important to empathise and validate their feelings. Let them know that it is normal to feel anxious.” Kids may also quietly worry about parents and grandparents falling sick at this time. “They might fret about what will happen to them if a parent is ill,” she cautions. “Talk to them about what will happen in such a situation. This will lower their anxiety. Let them know the adults have a plan in place.” Teen speak Children need other children to play with, to learn how to negotiate and compromise. “The lockdown period is taking away these vital opportunities. It might be especially hard on children who are shy and who might cling even tighter to their parents,” explains Agarwala. In the absence of siblings or friends, parents must double up as playmates. The question is, are parents adequate substitutes? “Families with only children do have a slightly more difficult deal,” says Garg, “You find ways around it, though. My son is productively engaged for a good part of the day. I study with him, and my husband is teaching him chess and coding.” If you’re going online, Agarwala recommends trying something active like charades, Pictionary or storytelling. While younger children may welcome extra parental attention, teenagers are a different story. With school plus a hectic schedule as a state and national level footballer, Thaïs Mascarenhas, 15, is usually quite busy. “When news of the quarantine first came out, I was thrilled because at that time I had exams and I was praying they would cancel them, and they did!” she says. “I am enjoying myself at home, especially not having to wake up early for school. I keep in touch with friends on social media. The thing I miss terribly is football.” Like my son, Mascarenhas hasn’t given school a second thought over the summer. “I didn’t really think about school until today, when my mother and I went to pick up my books and I met a few of my friends,” she says, adding that she has her dog for company, though. “Frankie is always there to put a smile on my face. Mama refers to him as my brother.” Talk quality, not quantity There are no studies to show how children fare when they’re away from other kids for long periods of time. The single-child families we have spoken to sometimes struggle with demands for parental attention and the guilt can be crushing. “I realise my son needs a playmate and I try my best to engage with him in his world of make believe,” says Garg. Agarwala advises that parents aim for quality over quantity. “If you are rushed for time, let your child know when you will be available to play with them. When you are playing, avoid getting distracted,” she says. Journaling might also help focus thoughts. When lockdown began, my son wrote every night with a vengeance. It alleviated his confusion about low food supplies and the uncertainty of what was going on. He still journals, but apparently his nightly notes are now all about Minecraft.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Feedback||We invite your feedback to the articles in this supplement. Letters may be sent to: Weekend, c/o The Editor, The Hindu, No 859 & 860, Kasturi Buildings, Anna Salai, Chennai - 600002 or e-mailed to weekend @thehindu.co.in or tweeted to us @Weekend_TH. All communications must contain the name of the writer and the complete mailing address.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Annular solar eclipse: We may not have much entertainment at the moment, but the celestial bodies are putting on a show to make up for it this weekend. A rare solar eclipse — occurring when a new moon is at its farthest point from Earth — will take place on Sunday, and be visible in parts of Africa, Pakistan, India and China. Be prepared to see these "ring of fire" images all over your timeline.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||World Music Day||International Indian Film Academy's STOMP Online brings together DJs Amann Nagpal, Shaan Gidwani, Akbar Sami and more. On their Facebook and Instagram, from 7.30 pm. Hungama Artist Aloud features concerts from Mame Khan, Parikrama, Anand Bhaskar Collective and Hardeep Grewal. Rs. 299 on in.bookmyshow.com. Alliance Française de Delhi will host French pianist Olivier Moulin, Dutch cellist Saskia Rao-de Haas and her son Ishaan Leonard Rao. On Facebook and YouTube at 6 pm. All events on June 21.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Self-help strategies||Meet best-selling author and speaker, Jack Canfield, in a 90-minute conversation on the secrets of ‘Breakthrough to Success’. Hosted by author and CEO of Right Selection, Gautam Ganglani, the virtual event includes a digital certificate. Today, at 4 pm, at Rs. 500 on meraevents.com. Advaita Wellness, an online platform for mental health services, is offering a series of webinars. The first topic is 'Drawing Boundaries 101'. Today from 4 pm to 5 pm, at Rs. 555 per person. Details on @advaita_wellness on Instagram.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Ayurveda and macarons||Missing your Le 15 Patisserie macarons? Learn how to whip them up in the comfort of your own home, guided by chef Pooja Dhingra. In the demo class, she will show you how to make a chocolate shell with dark chocolate ganache filling, plus her pro tips. On June 30 at 7 pm. Tickets at Rs. 2,360 on insider.in. Rediscover ancient wellness through Ayurveda, with Amrita Kaur. The session will cover the basic concept of Vata, Pitta and Kaphadoshas, plus recipes based on Ayurvedic principles. On June 28 at 5 pm. At Rs. 999 on conosh.com.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This Sunday, join columnist Vasudha Rai in conversation with Deepak Badhwar, the founder of CoutureScape. They'll talk about fragrant flowers and creepers that can be grown in every home, repotting tips and garden maintenance. At 5 pm @thehinduweekend. Past sessions this week — with architect Vinu Daniel, director Ritesh Batra, Bharatanatyam dancer Malavika Sarukkai and a World Martini Day special with beverage consultant Karina Aggarwal — are now available on our IGTV channel.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Art therapy||Try your hand at acrylic pours with this workshop by artist Surekha Sundaram. The live session will include feedback and personal guidance. Tomorrow at 5 pm. For details and tickets (at Rs. 499), head to dialogues.space. Or learn the Kachni style in the school of Madhubani from Bihar-based Remant Kumar Mishra. The award-winning artist will teach you how to make elaborate line drawings using closely-drawn lines and dots. Weekend sessions at Rs. 1,450, weekdays at Rs. 899.9318327629. Email madhubani@catterfly.travel.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Investing for charity||Crowdsourcing platform Ketto’s Quarancharity has collaborated with Chemould Prescott Road gallery to curate 14 artworks to raise money for those affected by the pandemic. Artists include Dhruvi Acharya, Aditi Singh and Tanujaa Rane. Pieces between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 45,000 on quarancharity.ketto.org. In Chennai, educator Srini Swaminathan helps migrant workers (“interstate guests”, as he calls them) by providing passengers on the Shramik trains with food packets, tea and toys for children. Details @srini091 on Instagram.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||International Day of Yoga: Every year, since its inception in 2015, June 21 has seen mass gatherings practising yoga together. This time around, the theme, quite aptly, is ‘Yoga at home with family’. Numerous virtual events have been planned, including a video blogging contest (yoga.ayush.gov.in). Ira Yoga Wellness is organising day-long live sessions, from 7 am to 7 pm (yoga-thon.com). Or join the 10 million Suryanamaskar challenge on the Cure.fit app.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Activities for kids||The latest from the Talking Market series curated by Chennai-based co-working space, Backyard, is a kickboxing workshop. The hour-long session is for kids eight and above. The virtual class will be led by Ashwin Raj of FitKits, today at 6 pm. At Rs. 150.7358458117. Chennai Photo Biennale's Teen Photo Academy begins on June 23. The intensive seven-week programme takes place every Tuesday and Thursday from 5 pm to 6 pm. For ages 14+ at Rs. 5,000. Register on chennaiphotobiennale.com.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Sign up with dad||Cocktail Workshop With Yash Bhanage Make your Dad finally put his bar tools to use and gift him a spot for our online workshop
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Ask me 10 Qs’||Some performers don’t like doing corporate events, saying, “I am a true artist — I shall not conform to your prototype of my artistry, etc.” Good for them. I have no such qualms. Before the lockdown, I would perform any event. You could call me to do an outdoor show in 48˚C heat in Agra for a group of arms dealers that sell guns to Colombian farmers and I will be there, as long as the full payment has been received. Because I have kids. Each corporate show pays the yearly school fees for one of my two kids. I also loved these shows because I could take care of them while being in a five-star hotel away from them. Best of both worlds. Now I still do corporate shows, but they’re online. Last week, I did two Zoom shows in three hours and spent the next two hours homeschooling my kids. The work never ends. And now I can’t even pretend I’m out of network range. Surprisingly, it is not so bad. Earlier, I’d be home three days a week and spend a tonne of time running around parks, malls, the museum or the zoo with them — anything that would distract them from breaking furniture at home. Now I’m here seven days a week. And I’m really enjoying their company, even when they inadvertently insult me. Like the time my son saw hair on my arm and asked, “Papa, what is this?” I said, “ Beta , that’s hair.” He said, “Oh, it fell from your head?” Or when he suggested, “Papa, we should take all the sanitiser in the world and put it in volcanoes. The volcano explodes and Covid-19 is gone.” I’m glad my kids are only five and three. Because I should not home-school anyone — I failed every subject in school, including art. Every day, for an hour, my son and I do an ‘assignment’: we spent all of last week finding the total of every number from 1 to 100. The answer is 5050. The joy on his face when we finished would outdo the face of scientists at CERN if they demystified dark matter. The three-year-old has finally figured out how to write ‘2’, and I feel she may be precisely my daughter. We also play a lot. My wife is a genius at inventing activities. The dining table is transformed into a plane, and the kids are taking a trip to China (only OK to do that in imagination right now). Or they’re building homes like the three pigs. Or converting cardboard into rockets. Or potting plants to be like the protagonist in Jack and the Beanstalk . Versus my games that include throw ball, catch ball, hide ball and the show stealer, throw two balls, catch two balls, hide two balls (that sounds perverted). My favourite quote by a famousyogihas been this: “The lockdown is a series of good days and bad hours.” Thatyogiwas me, and I believe in myself. There are people suffering terribly across the world, and I cannot find reason to complain with all my privileges. My kids have made this lockdown fun — barring the rare times it has been overwhelming. Like when for Mothers’ Day, we sneakily made a nice card for my wife. Mainly, I made the card and my kids stuck glue on their hands and painted random robots. But we pretended it was their handiwork. I’m pretty sure that tomorrow, they will scam me the same way. One of my favourite things was the start of a bedtime game called, “Ask me 10 Questions”, where I attempt to reward my son’s curiosity and remind myself of how interesting things are. The questions include: “Snails are small, how do they carry that shell?” “Do we die only when we turn 100?” “How do paper planes fly?” And my favourite question, “Why are we here?” I still don’t know the answer to the last one, but currently, the lockdown is reminding me that ‘here’ is not that bad. If you’d like to hire me for a corporate event to finance groceries for my kids, email pantonfirecomedy @gmail.com
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Fine dining: surviving takeout||Indian Accent London, the poster boy for Indian dining internationally, has shut permanently, even as I write this — a victim of post-Covid restaurant economics. As other restaurants reopen around the world, they too are struggling. Old business calculations have fallen apart and, as lifestyles get redefined, there is a hunt for new ways of earning revenue. In our altered world, dining-in has turned fashionable overnight. In Singapore, the Michelin Guide lists more than 25 starred establishments now offering delivery, including Odette, Asia’s reigning best — with a new ‘at-home’ menu that comes in boxes described as collectible, and commanding prices to the tune of $98 for classics such as Kampot Pepper Pigeon (for one) and $248 for Duck Apicus (for four). In India, too, food delivery is seeing a move away from an emphasis on price to quality and brand. Before Covid-19, an average order value (AOV) may have been Rs. 300. However now, with the entry of top restaurants into the delivery business, the attention is on premium. “Consumer preference [cognisant of hygiene and safety] has changed from deep discounting and anonymous cloud kitchens to quality. Brands that were extremely low AOV are now finding it difficult to stay relevant, and even aggregators like Zomato and Swiggy have shifted their focus from deals and discounts to hygiene, family combos and health foods,” says Ishita Sudha Yashvi, co-founder of Cross Border Kitchens, which runs seven delivery brands across the NCR. The game is being upped further by five-star hotels who want to bring in “experience”. Hotels that were initially testing the waters by offering coffee shop or limited menus are now looking at deliveries as a long-term business and thinking up ways to augment the dining-in experience to be at par with what restaurant dining used to be. “If the customer cannot come to the restaurant, the restaurant must go to the customer,” declares Anil Chadha, COO, ITC Hotels, which is set to launch gourmet deliveries from its super brands Bukhara, Dumpukht, Ottimo and others across cities. “We will be competing not on price, but on the experience. Our food is well-known, but we are also looking at things like mood lighting, butler service, chefs on call [when it becomes safer], and wine recommendations to up the dining at home experience,” he says. What seems to have bolstered hopes is a recently-concluded, four-day biryani festival across outlets, where, according to some accounts, 900 biryanis costing upwards of Rs. 1,700 were sold.  Banking on quality  That Covid-19 has accelerated the delivery business’ shift to a more premium space is indisputable. In fact, both Swiggy and Zomato are working on fleshing out their premium segments. “Restaurants that were earlier focussed on dine-in are now working to build similar delivery experiences for their customers. We believe such offerings will help us render premium food experiences,” said a spokesperson at Zomato, that has tied up with hotel chains like Hilton, Marriott and Hyatt. Swiggy, meanwhile, has a nationwide tie-up with ITC restaurants. But the big question is how feasible is it for restaurants to get into the delivery business? Can they ever look at making the kind of revenues they once did from dine out, pressing their staff and kitchens to a newer dynamic? “I am treating these two as completely separate businesses,” says chef and restaurateur Ritu Dalmia, who has no plans to open her restaurants till air conditioning, alcohol and extended hours of operating are permitted. But she has launched Diva Casa — DIY kits with a limited menu — for which the cooking and delivery is being done from her base kitchen in Delhi. Dalmia lists many reasons why delivery is not as lucrative as restaurateurs may be assuming. “My daily sanitisation cost is Rs. 7,000, then there is the delivery — we are sending our own staff in cars with full PPE gear. If we pay 20% commissions to aggregator apps, we will be in losses,” she says. Despite Diva Casa doing well, it is just about breaking even. “I am making no money. All I am getting is keeping the brand Diva alive and the system oiled till we can figure out better ways of augmenting business,” she adds.  Shift from red to black  Restaurant economics work differently from deliveries. For a well-run, 1,000 sq ft, 50-cover restaurant, revenue can be estimated as Rs. 35-Rs. 40 lakh per month. A good delivery brand in just one location, on the other hand, can expect to do only about Rs. 8-Rs. 10 lakh — which can perhaps be pushed by another Rs. 2-Rs. 3 lakh, even though the market is already getting cluttered and competitive. “Brands have become important. Yet even well-loved restaurants have been able to do just one-third of the business that they did from dine out,” says Saransh Goila of Mumbai’s Goila Butter Chicken, who says that the business works on scale and only when you have multiple outlets. A single restaurant operating at 30%-40% of its earlier capacity in a socially-isolated world will find it tough to make up for revenue loss even if it adds deliveries to its model. One-third of the business can come from the latter, one third from restaurant operations, but there is still a substantial chunk missing. Given that even exceptional restaurants earlier brought in just about 10%-15% profits, deliveries cannot make the red black. There is also the question of price. While a brand can command a premium from its loyal customers, repeat customers are generally estimated at just about 30%-40%. The rest are influenced by factors such as competitive pricing and easy access. Something that restaurateur Gauri Devidayal of The Table and (home delivery-only brand) Iktara agrees on. “In the early days of lockdown, when fewer delivery options were available, I thought of ordering pizza from a five star, but then decided that Rs. 2,000 for a pizza was just not worth it,” she says. In many ways, the delivery business is an equaliser. Hotelier Tanveer Kwatra of Andaaz hotel points out how many hotels started off with high-priced menus and soon realised there were few takers after the initial period. To get more people, prices need to be competitive, he says, something he did with the Annamaya menu. Ultimately, the balance everyone is seeking is how to give that ‘experience’ at home while remaining competitive, quality-conscious, and trustworthy. Anoothi Vishal is the author of the book,Business on a Platter: What Makes Restaurants Sizzle or Fizzle Out.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||world music day, june 21||
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police file 12 more chargesheets in Nizamuddin religious event case||Delhi Police on Friday filed 12 more chargesheets against 46 foreign nationals from 12 different countries for attending an event at the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin by violating visa conditions, indulging in missionary activities illegally, and flouting government guidelines issued in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. With these, the police have filed 59 chargesheets till date against 956 foreign nationals belonging to 36 different countries. The Centre has cancelled their visas and blacklisted them. The foreign nationals have not been arrested yet and are residing at various places approved by the High Court. The Delhi Police Crime Branch on Friday filed one main chargesheet and 11 supplementary chargesheets before the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate. Twenty-seven people from Indonesia have been named in the document; four from Myanmar; three from Sri Lanka; two each from Sudan, Bangladesh and Thailand; and one each from Ethiopia, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Kazakhstan and France. The punishment for various offences under penal provisions ranges from six months to eight years of imprisonment. All the foreign nationals have been booked for violating visa rules, flouting government guidelines under the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act; and violating prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure. They have also been booked for offences under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Foreigners Act. On May 25, the police had filed 20 chargesheets against 82 foreigners from 20 countries; on May 26, 15 chargesheets against 294 foreigners from 14 countries; and On May 27, 12 chargesheets were filed against 541 foreigners. At least 9,000 people, including the foreign nationals, participated in a religious congregation in Nizamuddin. Later, many of the attendees travelled to various parts of the country. According to the police, the foreign nationals had entered India on tourist visas and then participated in the gathering illegally. Besides violating the provisions of the visa, the religious event led to spreading of the infectious COVID-19, and threatened the lives of the general public, they said. The police added that chargesheets are being prepared country-wise under sections of Foreigners Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of IPC. An FIR was lodged against Tablighi Jamaat leader Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and six others on March 31 based on a complaint by the Station House Officer of Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act; and other relevant sections of the IPC. Mr. Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the religious congregation died due to COVID-19, the police said.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Kadakh – an edgy and fun romp through darkness||A Diwali party is on in Sunil (Ranvir Shorey)’s home when an aunt (Yamini Das) and uncle (Manoj Pahwa) walk in unannounced with pollution masks on their faces. Given the situation the world is in, at this moment in time, I found myself chuckling away at the eerie and unintended immediacy of it. Though, of course, they are wearing them (incorrectly at times) for other reasons—to keep the “germs” away and for their “highly evolved sense of smell” and a nose that—just like a dog’s—sniffs out the malodorous. There’s lots that’s fetid in Sunil’s home and in the party. The food served to the guests, for instance, has rotted. A French mindreader Francoise Marie (Kalki Koechlin) can sense something uneasy in her very first visit to Sunil and Malti (Mansi Multani)’s home. Earlier, at the start of the film, we find a stranger Raghav (Chandrachoor Rai) walking into the house just as things are being arranged for the party. It’s Raghav’s entry that throws things uncontrollably upside down. Even though it’s about a huge set of friends assembled for merriment, there’s a sense of locational containment in Kadakh . However, director Rajat Kapoor maintains a sense of movement, much of it emerging from the nicely gliding camera, the individual energies of the characters and the interactions of the actors playing those roles. There is a fluidity in the interpersonal as we move from the revelry to the skirmishes to the drunken brawls. All the actors are in uniformally great form (a special shoutout for Nupur Asthana as single mom Paro) in their camaraderie, arguments and even while fighting. It’s a cast of actors, at ease and wonderfully in sync in the give and take with each other. The twists and turns in the tonality of the film are just as much of delicious fun. In the very first interaction itself, between Sunil and Raghav, you find things going from the soft and the courteous to the slightly eerie on to the totally edgy. From a Hitchcockian thriller like Rope to some mad friendly fun to a dark exploration of betrayal and guilt to the downright macabre— Kadakh , is quite like life. The film demonstrates how fortunes can change in a matter of minutes. As does the moral compass of most people. In the game of life, nothing is quite sacrosanct, it all comes in various shades of the amoral.  Kadakh dropped from the line-up of Jio MAMI Mumbai Film Festival in 2018 in the light of #MeToo accusations, is now streaming on Sony Liv
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Debt, financial crisis during lockdown drives 25-year-old to commit robbery||A debt of Rs. 2 lakh pushed a 25-year-old man to commit robbery in south-east Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh. The accused and his accomplice have been arrested, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said that the accused have been identified as Abid, a resident of Haryana and an Arabic language translator, and his accomplice Parvez Khan, a former student of a reputed private school in Faridabad. The police said that they received a call on Tuesday regarding a robbery of Rs. 3,000 and two gas cylinders near Al Shifa Hospital. When the police reached the spot, the cylinder delivery boys told them that four persons came and introduced themselves as vigilance officers and started making allegations that the delivery men were indulging in malpractices, after which they forcefully took the money and cylinders from them. During probe, the police identified Parvez and one Neeraj with the help of technical surveillance and human intelligence. Subsequently, based on a tip-off, Parvez and Abid were held and they confessed to having committed the robbery with Neeraj and one Salim, the police said. During interrogation, Abid told the police that he has wife, two children and seven sisters to support. His father is a farmer, who used to work as a translator and facilitated persons coming from Gulf countries. Later, he started a guest house business with a friend, but incurred a loss sue to the lockdown. Debt of Rs. 2 lakh Abid eventually met Neeraj who lends money on interest. He took Rs. 2 lakh from Neeraj having kept his car on mortgage. As Abid could not pay back Neeraj, he asked the latter for some work after which Neeraj allegedly roped him in the robbery along with others.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Court refuses to extend interim bail to Ishrat Jahan||A Delhi court on Friday refused to extend the interim bail granted to former Congress councillor from Jagatpuri, Ishrat Jahan, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots. Ms. Jahan, who was recently released on interim bail to get married, was directed by Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana to surrender in jail on Friday. The court also asked the Jail Superintendent to ensure adequate medical care to her. Advocate Lalit Valecha, appearing for Ms. Jahan, said that after his client got married on June 12, her husband came in contact with a relative who was COVID-19 positive. Mr. Valecha said that Ms. Jahan has developed symptoms and doctors of Max Super Speciality Hospital, Patpargang, have advised her to stay in home isolation for seven days before undergoing a test. Mr. Valecha also argued that the investigation relating to her has already been completed and she is no more required to be detained in judicial custody. The advocate added that her Ms. Jahan’s husband’s test report was negative. The investigating officer, in his report, stated that the doctor concerned has not prescribed any COVID-19 test and “it has also been reported that it is a simple case of flu with nothing specific”. “Considering the totality of circumstances, especially the opinion of the doctor and the nature of offence, no ground for extension of interim bail is made out,” the judge said. In a separate petition, Ms. Jahan on Friday moved the Delhi High Court, challenging the decision of a trial court here allowing 60 more days to the police to file chargesheet in a case against her. Ms. Jahan, who is also an advocate, has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. Ms. Jahan was arrested on March 21 in a case registered by the Crime Branch in relation to the riots in north-east Delhi. She was remanded to the police custody till April 5 and thereafter, has been remanded to judicial custody. Subsequently, the case was transferred to the Special Cell. On April 19, the sections under the UAPA were also invoked by the Special Cell.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Padma Shri awardee Vidyaben passes away||Social worker and National Award winner Vidyaben Shah passed away on Friday at her residence in the national capital. She was 98. Vidyaben was the first non-official to head the New Delhi Municipal Council in the 1970s and was also the president of the Indian Council for Child Welfare (ICCW) between 1976 to 1979 and then from 1985 to 1994. A pioneer in the field of child welfare, she established the first Bal Bhavan in Rajkot in the 1940s and as a university student, she participated in the Quit India Movement. She was awarded the Padma Shri in 1992 and received the National Award for outstanding services in the field of child welfare in 1986. President of Delhi Gujarari Samaj for over 40 years, she also played a leading role in establishing Sardar Patel Vidyalaya and the Triveni Kala Sangam, an institution for imparting training in dance, music and painting. She also pioneered the setting up of the Mahatma Gandhi Sanskritik Kendra in the 1970s for facilitating cultural exchange among city residents.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||BSF officer killed in road accident||A 55-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector of the BSF died after he was allegedly hit by a speeding bike near Daryaganj police station, the police said on Friday. The deceased has been identified as A.K. Pal. The incident took place on Thursday on Outer Ring Road, when he was crossing the road, they said. “Pal was rushed to a hospital and succumbed to the injuries during treatment,” DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said. On Thursday, he was posted outside IP Estate police station along with 11 others. He was supposed to reach there by 2 p.m., police said. A case has been registered and the accused was arrested.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt.-run colleges need funds, says DU teachers’ body||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) on Friday wrote to the State Education Minister, Manish Sisodia, complaining about the inadequacy of funds sanctioned to 12 colleges run by the government. Grants sanctioned till date are much less than the money required to cover salaries up to May, DUTA wrote in the letter. Besides, grants sanctioned previously have been barely enough, it added.  Deficit of nearly Rs. 26.76 crore According to the feedback received from staff associations of these colleges, there is a total deficit of nearly Rs. 26.76 crore among all 12 colleges put together, the letter reads. “Many colleges have either paid only partial salaries for the month of May or the entire amount is still pending,” it added. The union also pointed out that colleges do not have funds to pay electricity bills, property tax and general maintenance. Stating that the colleges were in dire need for funds, DUTA appealed to ensure that the grant in aid for the month of June was sufficient to clear the backlog of salaries.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two more chargesheets filed against Tahir Hussain||Delhi Police on Friday filed two chargesheets against suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain in a case related to communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. The police submitted the chargesheets before Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri in cases of rioting. The chargesheets have been filed under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 147 and 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 34 (common intention), said a lawyer privy to the matter. The police said that Mr. Hussain was leading a mob that entered two buildings in Chand Bagh on February 25. He damaged goods in the shop, causing a loss of around Rs. 30 lakh. Cars parked in other building were also torched, they said. The police had earlier chargesheeted Mr. Hussain in the murder case of IB staff Ankit Sharma and another one related to rioting. Hussain has also been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
20 June 2020||New Delhi,||NHAI pulled up over documents on green cover along highways||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has pulled up the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for not furnishing relevant documents in compliance with previous orders pertaining to maintaining mandatory green cover along national and State highways. Stating that authorities lacked “respect for the rule of law,” the NGT said, “However, by way of indulgence, we give last opportunity to the NHAI to file a proper affidavit within one month,” the Bench said.
20 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||UN World Food Programme collaborates with IIT-Delhi||The United Nations World Food Programme India and IIT-Delhi on Friday announced that they will collaborate to combine forces to develop solutions for enhancing the efficiency and effectiveness of the government’s food safety nets through operations research.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Text for clarification||The headline of a report in our edition dated June 19, 2020, erroneously said ‘Chargesheet against social worker in Delhi riots case’. D.S. Bindra’s name was only mentioned in the chargesheet. The error is regretted.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Annular solar eclipse: We may not have much entertainment at the moment, but the celestial bodies are putting on a show to make up for it this weekend. A rare solar eclipse — occurring when a new moon is at its farthest point from Earth — will take place on Sunday, and be visible in parts of Africa, Pakistan, India and China. Be prepared to see these "ring of fire" images all over your timeline.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||World Music Day||International Indian Film Academy's STOMP Online brings together DJs Amann Nagpal, Shaan Gidwani, Akbar Sami and more. On their Facebook and Instagram, from 7.30 pm. Hungama Artist Aloud features concerts from Mame Khan, Parikrama, Anand Bhaskar Collective and Hardeep Grewal. Rs. 299 on in.bookmyshow.com. Alliance Française de Delhi will host French pianist Olivier Moulin, Dutch cellist Saskia Rao-de Haas and her son Ishaan Leonard Rao. On Facebook and YouTube at 6 pm. All events on June 21.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Self-help strategies||Meet best-selling author and speaker, Jack Canfield, in a 90-minute conversation on the secrets of ‘Breakthrough to Success’. Hosted by author and CEO of Right Selection, Gautam Ganglani, the virtual event includes a digital certificate. Today, at 4 pm, at Rs. 500 on meraevents.com. Advaita Wellness, an online platform for mental health services, is offering a series of webinars. The first topic is 'Drawing Boundaries 101'. Today from 4 pm to 5 pm, at Rs. 555 per person. Details on @advaita_wellness on Instagram.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Ayurveda and macarons||Missing your Le 15 Patisserie macarons? Learn how to whip them up in the comfort of your own home, guided by chef Pooja Dhingra. In the demo class, she will show you how to make a chocolate shell with dark chocolate ganache filling, plus her pro tips. On June 30 at 7 pm. Tickets at Rs. 2,360 on insider.in. Rediscover ancient wellness through Ayurveda, with Amrita Kaur. The session will cover the basic concept of Vata, Pitta and Kaphadoshas, plus recipes based on Ayurvedic principles. On June 28 at 5 pm. At Rs. 999 on conosh.com.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Activities for kids||The latest from the Talking Market series curated by Chennai-based co-working space, Backyard, is a kickboxing workshop. The hour-long session is for kids eight and above. The virtual class will be led by Ashwin Raj of FitKits, today at 6 pm. At Rs. 150.7358458117. Chennai Photo Biennale's Teen Photo Academy begins on June 23. The intensive seven-week programme takes place every Tuesday and Thursday from 5 pm to 6 pm. For ages 14+ at Rs. 5,000. Register on chennaiphotobiennale.com.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||This Sunday, join columnist Vasudha Rai in conversation with Deepak Badhwar, the founder of CoutureScape. They'll talk about fragrant flowers and creepers that can be grown in every home, repotting tips and garden maintenance. At 5 pm @thehinduweekend. Past sessions this week — with architect Vinu Daniel, director Ritesh Batra, Bharatanatyam dancer Malavika Sarukkai and a World Martini Day special with beverage consultant Karina Aggarwal — are now available on our IGTV channel.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Art therapy||Try your hand at acrylic pours with this workshop by artist Surekha Sundaram. The live session will include feedback and personal guidance. Tomorrow at 5 pm. For details and tickets (at Rs. 499), head to dialogues.space. Or learn the Kachni style in the school of Madhubani from Bihar-based Remant Kumar Mishra. The award-winning artist will teach you how to make elaborate line drawings using closely-drawn lines and dots. Weekend sessions at Rs. 1,450, weekdays at Rs. 899.9318327629. Email madhubani@catterfly.travel.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Investing for charity||Crowdsourcing platform Ketto’s Quarancharity has collaborated with Chemould Prescott Road gallery to curate 14 artworks to raise money for those affected by the pandemic. Artists include Dhruvi Acharya, Aditi Singh and Tanujaa Rane. Pieces between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 45,000 on quarancharity.ketto.org. In Chennai, educator Srini Swaminathan helps migrant workers (“interstate guests”, as he calls them) by providing passengers on the Shramik trains with food packets, tea and toys for children. Details @srini091 on Instagram.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||International Day of Yoga: Every year, since its inception in 2015, June 21 has seen mass gatherings practising yoga together. This time around, the theme, quite aptly, is ‘Yoga at home with family’. Numerous virtual events have been planned, including a video blogging contest (yoga.ayush.gov.in). Ira Yoga Wellness is organising day-long live sessions, from 7 am to 7 pm (yoga-thon.com). Or join the 10 million Suryanamaskar challenge on the Cure.fit app.
20 June 2020||June 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Sign up with dad||Cocktail Workshop With Yash Bhanage Make your Dad finally put his bar tools to use and gift him a spot for our online workshop
