20 November 2020||Lahore,||Terror funding: Saeed gets 10 years in jail||Mumbai terror attack mastermind and Jamat-ud-Dawa (JuD) chief Hafiz Saeed was on Thursday sentenced to 10 years in jail by an anti-terrorism court in Pakistan in two more terror financing cases. Saeed, a UN-designated terrorist on whom the U.S. has placed a $10 million bounty, was arrested on July 17 last. He was sentenced to 11 years in jail by an anti-terrorism court in February this year in two other terror financing cases. The 70-year-old JuD chief is presently lodged at Lahore’s high-security Kot Lakhpat jail. “The Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) of Lahore on Thursday sentenced four JuD leaders, including its chief Hafiz Saeed, in two more cases,” a court official said.  Three others sentenced Saeed and his two close aides — Zafar Iqbal and Yahya Mujahid — have been sentenced to 10 and a half years each, while the JuD chief’s brother-in-law Abdul Rehman Makki was sentenced to six months imprisonment. “Judge Arshad Hussain Bhutta of ATC court No. 1 heard the case filed by the Counter Terrorism Department (CTD), in which the verdict has been announced after the statements of witnesses were cross-examined,” the official said. A total of 41 cases have been registered by the CTD against the JuD leaders, of which 24 have been decided while the others are pending in the ATC courts. Four cases have been decided against Saeed so far. Thursday’s sentencing comes weeks after the Paris-based global money laundering and terrorist financing watchdog — the Financial Action Task Force — retained Pakistan on its grey list till February 2021 as Islamabad failed to fulfil the agency’s six key obligations, including failure to take action against two of India’s most wanted terrorists — Saeed and Maulana Masood Azhar. Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), which is responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans. The U.S. Department of the Treasury has designated Saeed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist.
20 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||16% reservation sought for Veerashaiva Lingayat||Stating that the Veerashaiva Lingayat Development Corporation has been set up without any proper planning or thinking, Lingayat leaders from the Congress and the Janata Dal(S), including the former Minister Basavaraj Horatti, have urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to provide 16 % reservation for the community in employment and education like the way it had been done in Maharashtra for the Maratha community. Addressing presspersons here along with Dharwad district unit president of Akhil Bharat Veerashaiva Mahasabha Gururaj Hunasimarad and the former KPYCC State president Sadanand Danganavar, Janata Dal(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti said that the corporation for Veerashaiva Lingayat community had been constituted in a hurry without consulting experts and without properly planning its composition. “As per data provided by Statistics Department, there are 1.18 crore members of Veerashaiva Lingayat community in the State. Such corporations can only be of help to small communities. But for bigger communities such as Lingayats, even provision for maximum grants will not be of much use,” he said. To a query, he clarified that he would neither welcome nor oppose the development corporation as the government was yet to come out with details on its composition and grants. “But we want the government to provide 16 % reservation and also inclusion of the community under the Union government list of Other Backward Classes,” he said. Independent religion To another query, Mr. Horatti clarified that the issue of independent religion for Lingayat was another issue and the fight for it would continue. “Let us not mix up issues, as independent religion is before court and it will take its own course. But now as the development corporation has been set up, a confusion has been created and we want the government to provide us 16 % reservation,” he said. Mr. Gururaj Hunasimarad said that Veerashaiva Mahasabha welcomed the formation of the development corporation but as it had been done in a hurried manner, it would not serve any purpose. “So we want the government to provide 16 % reservation like in Maharashtra so that students and youths of the community benefit,” he said.
20 November 2020||New Delhi/Bengaluru,||Time our local technology is deployed by the world: Modi||India’s local technology has the potential to go global, and it is time the solutions designed here are deployed by the world, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, virtually inaugurating Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020. As many as 25 countries, under a single band called “Global Innovation Alliance” are coming offline and online to attend the summit, a three-day event. Emphasising the importance of technology amidst the pandemic, Mr. Modi pointed out that during the COVID-19 lockdown, technology was used to ensure that India’s poor received assistance. He also stressed the importance of cybersecurity with increased use of technology. Addressing the summit, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said that India and his country had signed the ‘Australia India Technology Framework Agreement’ on cyber and cyber-enabled technology. “That means Australia and India are working together for an open, free, safe, and secure internet... We will be soon launching Australia-India Cyber and Critical Technologies Partnership grant programme,” he said. The first day of the tech summit saw space being a subject of discussion with Israel highlighting the economic value. It saw countries such as Finland, the Netherlands and the UK interacting on tech themes.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,||This case will remain etched in Eshwar Khandre’s memory||Eshwar Khandre was almost thrown out of the proceedings in an election petition, pending before the High Court of Karnataka, challenging the legality of his election in the 2018 polls held to the State Assembly, without him knowing about it for nearly two years. This was because his personal assistant, who was suffering from a disease causing forgetfulness, had forgotten to inform the MLA for Bhalki about the court matter. Though the High Court accepted Mr. Khandre’s contention on why and how he was unaware of the proceedings for two years, it allowed him to join the proceedings by asking him to pay a hefty sum of Rs. 5 lakh. He had been thrown out of the proceedings way back in August 2019 after being treated as ex parte as he did not respond to the court’s notice. While asking him to pay the sum to the Chief Minister’s COVID-19 care fund within three weeks, the court also warned him against seeking any adjournment in proceedings in future, except for genuine reasons. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order on a petition filed in June 2018 by defeated BJP candidate D.K. Sidram. Mr. Khandre had filed an application on July 17, 2020, seeking permission to participate in the proceedings after coming to know about it through reports published in two Kannada dailies on July 10 and 11, though the court’s notices were served two years ago. Acute encephalopathy The court, after going through the records, accepted the claims of Mr. Khandre that the notice issued by it was, in fact, served on his personal assistant (PA) Mainalle Basavaraj Baburao. However, the PA, who was suffering from a condition that entailed forgetfulness and that escalated later and came to be diagnosed as “acute encephalopathy”, had not informed the MLA about it. The court also noted from the medical records that the disease had badly affected the PA’s grey matter, rendering his memory pond unyielding, and he was admitted to a hospital in Pune for two months between June 3 and August 10, 2019, as an inpatient. He breathed his last on October 11 this year, as per the medical reports. On the petitioner’s doubt over whether Mr. Khandre was genuinely unaware of the proceedings, the court observed that a returned candidate would not stand to gain from avoiding court matters as in doing so, he runs the risk of likely being unseated from the victorious position.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CAG office waging proxy war against State govt., says Isaac||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas has accused the office of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of ‘waging a proxy war’ against the State government and trying to scuttle the Rs. 50,000-crore Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board-funded projects. Lashing out at the CAG and its 2018-19 audit report at a press conference here on Thursday, Dr. Isaac said the intention of the report is ‘suspicious’ as four pages which were not in the draft report were added to the final report without seeking the comments of the State government and forwarded for tabling in the Assembly. “Such unilateral moves are not expected from Constitutional bodies such as the CAG. The report has created an extraordinary situation in the State and extraordinary measures will have to be taken as uncertainty prevails over development projects,” he said. KIIF Act Pointing out that the CAG has observed that all loans taken by KIIFB are unconstitutional, the Minister said this cannot be agreed to as the KIIF Act was passed by the Assembly with the support of the Opposition United Democratic Front. Reiterating that there were only two paragraphs on KIIFB in the draft report, the Minister said it was not right to suggest that the Assembly should discuss a report that was not even discussed with the government. The government has the right to open a report before it is placed in the Assembly, he said, pointing out that the Chief Minister and the Finance Minister can examine the report. Dr. Isaac said he had received a letter from the Assembly Speaker based on the notice from the Opposition on breach of privilege and that reply will be given citing all aspects and background. “We are contesting the CAG’s report and their arguments. A 100-page reply is ready. We will use all options and consult legal experts on the CAG’s interpretation of the Constitution and Article 293(1). We will table it in the Assembly and discuss it.” Dr. Isaac said.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||All set for Tungabhadra Pushkaralu from today||Endowments Minister V. Srinivasa Rao on Thursday said elaborate arrangements had been made in strict adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines for the 12-day Tungabhadra Pushkaralu. Addressing the media here, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would inaugurate the festival at 1.21 p.m. on Friday in Kurnool district. The festival would be celebrated till December 1. Devotees would be allowed to the ghats from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. only. All the departments, including Revenue, Police, Municipal, Medical and Health, Endowments, Fisheries, Irrigation and Fire, had coordinated in the works that were supervised at regular intervals by the Ministers from the district Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, and Kurnool district in-charge Minister P. Anil Kumar. Appeal to devotees Roads were developed in Kurnool city and in the panchayat limits and ghats were constructed. Showers had been arranged at the bathing ghats, the Minister said, and appealed to the devotees to extend their cooperation in maintaining social distance at the ghats. To maintain order at the ghats, the timings of pujas and the venues would be made known, he said.
20 November 2020||Srinagar,||4 militants killed, 2 policemen injured in toll plaza gunfight||Just ahead of the district polls in Jammu and Kashmir, four recently infiltrated militants were killed and two policemen injured in a gunfight at the Ban Toll Plaza near Nagrota on the Srinagar-Jammu National Highway on Thursday. “The terrorists were travelling in a truck when they were intercepted at a checkpoint around 5 a.m. The truck driver managed to flee as the infiltrators opened heavy fire. All the four terrorists, likely from the Jaish-e-Muhammad, were killed in a three-hour-long gunfight,” Mukesh Singh, Inspector General of Police, Jammu, said. The police said a large quantity of arms and ammunition, including 11 AK-47 rifles, 29 grenades and three pistols, was recovered from the encounter site. They said that the militants could have infiltrated through the International Border in Jammu very recently. Mr. Singh said the identity and affiliation of the slain militants were being established. “Two policemen who were injured in the shootout are stable,” he said. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha visited the injured policemen at the Government Medical College in Jammu.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala gold case: row over ‘leaked’ audio||A ‘leaked’ audio recording of an accusatory mobile phone conversation, purportedly between gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh and an anonymous person, has kicked up a row. The audio appears to suggest that the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had attempted to coerce Swapna into giving a statement implicating Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in her questionable financial transactions with persons in the UAE. Swapna is currently a COFEPOSA detainee at the Attakulangara Women’s Prison here. Quid pro quo deal The recording that surfaced on Wednesday hinted that the ED had invited Swapna to turn approver. However, the rider to the deal was that she should depose against Mr. Vijayan and his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar and accuse them of wrongdoing. The conversation also implied that the ED had doctored Swapna’s statement. The ED allegedly did not allow Swapna to read her account of events and its agents asked her to sign what they had written down after questioning. The theme of the voice clip seemed to echo the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s contention that the ED wanted to foist a case on Mr. Vijayan to destabilise the government and rob it of its mandate. Former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister Sivasankar had said in a court filing that the ED had arrested him on money-laundering charges because he had defied the agency’s diktat to implicate Mr. Vijayan in the case. The CPI(M) State secretariat said the statements of the accused pointed to a deep-rooted conspiracy to target Mr. Vijayan. Alleging that the Central agencies had offered inducements to the suspects to depose against Mr. Vijayan, the party said a court in Kochi had also doubted the grounds for the arrest of Sivasankar.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Pandemic drives teachers to take up farming||Spread over two-and-a-half acres, Shantiniketan Central School in Kadur taluk, Chikkamagaluru district, now resembles a farm. The management of the school and teachers have used the premises to grow marigold flowers, ‘avarekayi’(a type of beans), brinjal and chilli. It’s not the only school that has ‘adapted’ to the pandemic. Many private schools in rural areas that closed their doors to students eight months ago owing to COVID-19 have converted open areas into farms and unused classrooms into spaces for workshops in an attempt to generate revenue. One school is even using its campus to dry fish. The pandemic has been harsh on teachers, many of whom were forced to take up odd jobs because of salary cut. But schools, too, have been struggling to stay afloat. Several private school management members told The Hindu that they had no option but to convert their space as they had not been able to collect school fees. “We were unable to get any revenue this year. Our school has 410 students, but no parent paid the annual fees for the 2020-2021 academic year,” said Dinesh Kumar G.D., chairman of Shantiniketan Central School. The management was able to pay their salaries till July by dipping into the school corpus. However, the initiative to grow produce to meet expenses was not as successful as they had hoped. Mr Kumar said that the recent rains had washed away their produce. “We did not profit from cultivating vegetables or growing flowers. Only Rs. 3,800 is left in the school’s bank balance,” he added. Several budget private schools, particularly in rural areas, are unable to bear the recurring expenditure. Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private School Association, Karnataka, said that the government had not released any relief package for school managements or teachers who were in financial distress. “Some managements are now selling their schools and movable assets such as school buses,” he said. Ranganath, a management member at Educare English Medium, Amadalli, Karwar, said that he had been using his school campus -- spread over 1.2 acres -- to dry fish. “So far, only 50 out of 389 students have paid a portion of the school fees. While their annual fee is Rs. 8,100, some of the parents have paid fees ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 5,000. If we force parents to pay up, they may pull their children out of our school and enrol them in government schools,” he said. RTE Students and Parents Association chief secretary B.N. Yogananda said that the State should reimburse schools for students admitted under the RTE quota so that they could survive. Fall in student strength Another worrying trend for private schools is the growing popularity of government schools, especially among families who can no longer afford the fees. Christopher Cheriyan, secretary of Emmanuel Mission School, Holalkere Rural in Chitradurga district, has converted a portion of his school into a workshop where he does some welding work to earn additional income. “As many as 60 of the 180 students in the primary school have taken transfer certificates. Their parents have enrolled them in government schools as they themselves have lost their jobs or are making do with lower salaries,” he added.
20 November 2020||Patna,||Bihar Minister quits hours after taking charge||Bihar’s new Education Minister Mewalal Choudhury resigned within hours of assuming charge on Thursday, after Opposition parties raised questions about his “tainted past”. The Governor accepted his resignation with immediate effect. Building Construction Department Minister Ashok Choudhary was given additional charge of the portfolio. Mr. Choudhury, a two-time JD(U) MLA from Tarapur in Munger district, had taken oath as Minister in Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s Cabinet on November 16. On Thursday afternoon, he assumed charge as Education Minister. Later, he met Mr. Kumar for an hour and soon afterwards sent his resignation to the Raj Bhavan. The Opposition RJD had been questioning Mr. Kumar about his “zero tolerance” for corruption claim following Mr. Choudhury’s induction into the Cabinet. Mr. Choudhury, former Vice-Chancellor of the Bihar Agriculture University of Sabour in Bhagalpur district from 2010 to 2015, was an accused in a scam in the recruitment of assistant cum junior scientists (2012-13). An FIR was lodged against him at the Sabour police station under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120(B) of Indian Penal Code. Some accused persons were arrested, but Mr. Choudhury secured bail.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State to pump Rs. 3,000 cr. into Kadapa steel plant||With just over three years remaining for the targeted completion of an integrated steel plant in Kadapa district, the State government has decided to infuse an equity capital of Rs. 3,000 crore in the joint venture (JV) company to kick-start the project, with a rider that the JV partner should eventually buy out the entire stake. The condition is being imposed because the government has no intention to be in the business of steel-making and it can’t afford to make the huge investment that is required. While talking to banks and NBFCs through SBI Caps, the transaction advisor, for raising funds towards its equity contribution, the government is negotiating with JV partners to bring in more investment. “We have set March 31, 2024 as the Commercial Operations Date (CoD) but considering the difficulty for private companies to make investments at this critical juncture, it has been decided to pump in the initial equity ,” said AP High Grade Steels Limited MD S. Shan Mohan. Capacity Mr. Mohan said the installed capacity was 1.50 million tonnes, for which iron ore would be sourced from the National Mineral Development Corporation, and essential infrastructure was being created. The plant would be providing direct employment to 3,000 persons and indirect employment figure could touch 12,000. The environment impact assessment report is being prepared to obtain the clearances from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Good response to Emergency Response Service System||Dial 112 Emergency Response Service System (ERSS) has received good response in Dakshina Kannada with 34 people using it in the last four days since its launch on November 14. Dakshina Kannada was among the three districts where ERSS service was launched on November 14. Gadag and Dharwad districts are the other two. This service is now available in 12 districts. It is likely to be available in Mangaluru city in the first week of December. Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharward and Mysuru cities will be covered under the service shortly. The service of this pan-India 112 emergency number was launched by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in October last year. By dailling 112, people can get help from the police, Fire and Emergency Services and ambulance service. This number replaces the multiple emergency numbers — 100 (for police), 101 (for fire) and 108 (for ambulance). Phone calls made to 112 are received by personnel from the Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) who are operating from the office of Additional Director-General of Police (Communication, Logistics and Modernisation) in Bengaluru. The PSAP will forward information to the District Coordination Centre concerned, if it relates to police and to fire stations or ambulance services for necessary action. PSAP personnel will return the call later to record response. The ERSS number 112 can be activated with a long press of 5 or 9 on feature mobile phones. On the smart phone, the number will get activated when the power button is pressed continuously three times. The service can also be accessed by logging on to www.ka.ners.in or sending an email to112ktk@ksp.gov.inor through 112 India App. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad said that for the time being, calls made to 100 are routed to 112. There are 10 Emergency Response Vehicles to respond to such calls. Action is being taken to make people aware of the availability of 112, he said.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||580 nominations on second day||Second day of nominations for the GHMC polls saw as many as 580 nominations from 522 candidates, taking the total number of nominations to 597 from 537 candidates on Thursday. Among these were 140 from BJP, 195 from TRS, 68 from Congress, 47 from Telugu Desam and 110 independents. Four from CPI-M, one each from CPI and YSRC (Congress) also filed their papers. Tomorrow is the last day of nominations. Model code The election authority and GHMC Commissioner Lokesh Kumar also stated that with the model code coming into force, political parties and contesting candidates should refrain from any public activities like processions, meetings, etc., without taking prior permission and the campaign material should also be eco-friendly minimising the use of plastic as far as possible. The list of the returning officers and the assistant returning officers as cleared by the State Election Commission has issued the symbols notification and the same can be accessed from its website ofwww.tsec.gov.in.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC raps Delhi govt. on rising COVID cases||The Delhi High Court on Thursday called out the AAP government over its handling of the COVID-19 situation in the Capital, saying it was “disheartening” that the daily number of deaths had steadily climbed from 71 on November 9 to 131 on November 18. “You (Delhi government) saw from November 1 which way the wind was blowing. The bell should have rung loud and clear when the numbers were spiralling,” a Bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad remarked. The High Court questioned the Delhi government on why it waited till November 11, when the Bench intervened, to act on issues such as decreasing the number of persons who can participate during marriage ceremonies to 50. “Do you know how many lives were lost during this period? Can you explain it to those who lost their near and dear ones,” the court told the Delhi government. “You (Delhi government) should have put your house in order. You knew Delhi gets worse during this period due to air pollution... You knew it was a cocktail of death for those living in Delhi,” the Bench said. The High Court also expressed concern over the statements made by Ministers and high-ranking officers that the third wave had already peaked in the city and cases of COVID-19 were gradually going down. On the fines collected for violation of social distancing norms, the court said: “While South, South West and West districts have been seriously affected by the rise in COVID-19 infection, the fines imposed in the said districts are proportionately very small.”
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Sand mining: NMDC, MSTC evince interest||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy has said the Director of Mines and Geology has written letters to eight Central government agencies/PSUs requesting them to undertake the operation of sand reaches in the State and two of them, NMDC and MSTC, have come forward. This is according to the revised policy to hand over the excavation, storage and sale of sand to Central agencies/PSUs on terms prescribed by the State government. The operation of the sand reaches would be entrusted to one of the two PSUs which would quote a lower amount .
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC defers hearing in Sudarshan TV row||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave parties in a case against Sudarshan TV two weeks to respond to an I&B Ministry’s order of November 4, which held that the channel’s ‘Bindas Bol - UPSC Jihad’ programme is “offensive and has the likelihood of promoting communal attitudes”.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP dashboard for trade licence||The pandemic has made people wary of launching new businesses in the city. The civic body has received just around 5,646 applications for new trade licences in the current financial year. The BBMP has decided to simplify the process in a bid to cover more trades and encourage traders to renew their licences.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||AQI likely to be ‘very poor’ in Delhi today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated slightly and continued to be in the ‘poor’ category on Thursday while Gurugram’s AQI fell to the ‘poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. The air quality of Delhi is predicted to be ‘very poor’ on Friday.
20 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Rs. 8 crore gold looted from firm in Odisha||In a major robbery at a financial firm, miscreants decamped with gold ornaments worth Rs. 8 crore to Rs. 10 crore from India Infoline Finance Ltd., a gold-loan leasing company, in Cuttack on Thursday. Four persons entered the IIFL’s Nayasadak branch and committed the robbery at gunpoint.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Corpn. to soon launch app for trade licence||Mangaluru City Corporation will soon launch a mobile application to enable people to apply online for trade licence and receive it online itself. The App is in the final stages of its making and is expected to be available for download from Google Play Store next month. Even after the App is launched, the off-line system will continue to work for some time.
20 November 2020||Pune,||BJP MLA from Aurangabad booked for embezzlement||An FIR was registered by the Aurangabad rural police late on Wednesday against BJP legislator Prashant Bamb and 15 others for alleged embezzlement of funds from the Gangapur Cooperative Sugar Factory. Mr. Bamb, the BJP’s MLA from Gangapur in rural Aurangabad, has been accused, along with the others, of defrauding committee members of the Gangapur sugar factory of up to Rs. 15.75 crore by allegedly using fake documents.
20 November 2020||Pune,||Pune and Mumbai see post-festivity case spike||Maharashtra’s recoveries barely outpaced its case surge, with just 5,860 patients being discharged on Thursday as opposed to 5,535 new COVID-19 cases. Pune district and Mumbai, which had been reporting low case surges, saw a rise in cases post Deepavali. Recoveries have risen to 16,35,971, with the State’s recovery rate rising to 92.79%. The tally stands at 17,63,055 while the active cases have dipped to 79,738. With 154 deaths, the toll has climbed to 46,356.
20 November 2020||Patna,||Bihar Minister quits hours after taking charge||Bihar’s new Education Minister Mewalal Choudhury resigned within hours of assuming charge on Thursday, after Opposition parties raised questions about his “tainted past”. The Governor accepted his resignation with immediate effect. Building Construction Department Minister Ashok Choudhary was given additional charge of the portfolio. Mr. Choudhury, a two-time JD(U) MLA from Tarapur in Munger district, had taken oath as Minister in Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s Cabinet on November 16. On Thursday afternoon, he assumed charge as Education Minister. Later, he met Mr. Kumar for an hour and soon afterwards sent his resignation to the Raj Bhavan. The Opposition RJD had been questioning Mr. Kumar about his “zero tolerance” for corruption claim following Mr. Choudhury’s induction into the Cabinet.
20 November 2020||Mysuru,||Changes in land re-sale norms opposed||Farmers in the region will seek restoration of land acquired from them if it is not utilised for the original purpose within 5 years of acquisition. This is consequent to large swathes of land remaining unutilised.
20 November 2020||Kalaburagi,||Ballari to lose Hampi and more||The State Cabinet’s decision to carve out Vijayanagara district from Ballari means the latter is set to lose out on several of its iconic associations, including Hampi, the capital of the Vijayanagara empire. The UNESCO World Heritage Site of Hampi attracts thousands of history and culture enthusiasts from across the globe every year and it will soon be part of Vijayanagara district.
20 November 2020||MYSURU,||Man fined and ostracised for offering haircut to SCs||A barber reportedly offered a haircut to members of the Scheduled Castes community in Hallare village in Nanjangud taluk and this has incensed other villagers. Mallikarjun Shetty, said that he had been fined and ostracised.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Top Kerala bureaucrat indicted in flyover case||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) on Thursday indicted Kerala’s Industries Secretary A.P.M. Mohammed Hanish for corruption in the “shoddy” construction of the recently decommissioned flyover bridge at Palarivattom in Kochi. Mr. Hanish was the managing director of the Road and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK) at the time of implementation of the scheme. Officials at the VACB here said the agency filed an addendum in the court of the Enquiry Commissioner and Special Judge, Vigilance, Muvattupuzha, naming Mr. Hanish as the 10th accused in the corruption case. The VACB alleged that Mr. Hanish had recommended to the government to advance Rs. 9 crore to the builder as a loan to expedite the work. He allegedly wrote a letter to the then Public Works Secretary T.O. Sooraj, currently an accused in the corruption case, seeking a credit advance for the builder. The agency alleged that the Public Works Department (PWD) had subsequently extended a loan to the builder at a nominal rate interest and brazenly advantageous terms of repayment, thus stacking the decks in favour of the borrower at considerable loss to the public exchequer. The VACB also accused the government of not ensuring a security deposit from the contractor. Officials said the PWD had initially decided not to award the contract to financially unsound builders. It had also ruled out extending credit to those who undertake public works. However, the PWD had waived the stipulations for the private builder as a one-off case, pointing to favouritism, the agency alleged. It said that the government’s ‘largesse’ to the builder had, by a conservative estimate, cost the public exchequer Rs. 82 lakh in terms of interest alone. It pegged the total loss to exchequer caused by the faulty construction at more than Rs. 30 crore. Mr. Hanish had denied the charges. By one account, Mr. Hanish stated that he had merely forwarded a letter from the builder seeking a ‘mobilisation advance’ to jump-start the project to the PWD. Mr. Hanish had also denied that he had indulged in any corruption.  Seeks medical report Meanwhile, the VACB has sought the formation of a medical board to ascertain the health condition of former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, who was arrested on Wednesday in connection with the Palarivattom flyover construction scam. The VACB, which sought the custody of the legislator till November 21 before the court of the Enquiry Commissioner and Special Judge, Vigilance, Muvattupuzha, wanted his health condition to be evaluated as Mr. Kunju was admitted to a private hospital for medical treatment. Mr. Kunju was intentionally refusing to cooperate with the investigation and reluctant to reveal what he knew. Hence, his custodial interrogation was inevitable for the investigation of the case, the agency submitted. Sumeet Goyal, managing director of RDS Projects Limited; V.V. Nagesh of Nagesh Consultancy, Bengaluru; T.O. Sooraj, former Public Works Secretary; and officials of Kitco and the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation, Kerala, are the other accused in the case. The allegation against the accused is that they conspired and committed criminal misconduct by abusing their official positions as public servants. The accused, by corrupt or illegal means, acted without any public interest causing pecuniary advantage to RDS Projects Limited and corresponding loss to the State government. There were also reasons to believe that the accused persons gained undue pecuniary advantage in the work of the flyover, which was a substandard one, the agency submitted. The accused compromised on the quality and quantity of the materials used for the construction of the flyover, thereby jeopardising public safety. Counsel for Mr. Kunju, who denied the allegations of corruption, sought time for submitting more documents in the case. The agency wanted the custody of the accused till November 21. The court will consider the custody application on November 24.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Digital India is now a way of life, says PM||Digital India mission, launched five years ago, is not being seen as any regular government initiative and has now become a way of life, especially for the poor and marginalised and those in the government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. He asserted that ‘technology first’ was their governance model. “India is uniquely positioned to leap ahead in the information era. We have the best minds as well as the biggest market. Our local tech solutions have the potential to go global ... It is time for tech solutions that are designed in India but deployed for the world,” he said in a virtual address at Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020. Addressing the summit, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said India and Australia had unlimited possibilities of working together in space research, critical minerals, 5G, Artificial Intelligence, quantum computing and much more. ‘Tech and COVID-19’ Mr. Modi said that at the peak of the COVID-19 lockdown, it was technology that ensured that the poor received proper and quick assistance. “It is technology that gave confidence that we could vaccinate our large population in a short period of time. Technology has also played a vital role in the success of world’s largest healthcare scheme, Ayushman Bharat,” he said. Talking of the government’s ‘Swamitva’ scheme, Mr. Modi observed that giving land titles to millions of people in rural areas was an ambitious scheme and it would be achieved through technology like drones. “This will not only bring to an end many disputes but will also empower people. Once property rights are given, technology solutions can ensure prosperity,” he said. Cybersecurity With the rapid increase in use of technology, data protection as well as cybersecurity has become very important, the Prime Minister pointed out. He called on the youth to play a big role in devising robust cybersecurity solutions which, he noted, could effectively “vaccinate digital products against cyberattacks and viruses.” The Prime Minister said, “We are in the middle of information era and change was ‘disruptive and big’. Achievements of the industrial era are in the rear view mirror, and now, we are in the middle of the information era. Future is coming sooner than anticipated.” The government had taken measures to ease the compliance burden on the IT industry, he added. Highlighting the differences between the industrial age and the information age, he said that in the information era, the first mover did not matter, the best mover did, and that “anyone can make a product any time that disrupts all existing equations of the market”. In the industrial era, boundaries mattered, but the information era was “all about going beyond boundaries”, he said. Technology was also setting the pace for the defence sector to evolve, said Mr. Modi, adding that from software to drones to UAVs, technology was redefining the defence sector. Mr. Morrison said they would soon launch the Australia-India cyber and critical technologies partnership grant programme. “The relationship between India and Australia is going from strength to strength; we share a deep desire to succeed and see our region prosper in peace and safety, as ultimately that is all our technology ambition is all about — the prosperity and safety of us all,” he said. Pact with Australia The two countries were working together for an open, free, safe and secure Internet. They have signed the landmark Australia-India Technology Framework agreement on cyber and cyber-enabled technology, Mr. Morrison stated. Australia believed that technology held the key to new science, medical research, reduction of carbon emission and tackling of global climate change, and it was now at the forefront of foreign policy, security and defence. “It is pushing us to new frontiers in civil liberties and law, in data privacy and protection. That is why the countries like Australia and India are coming together to work on new technology challenges and opportunities,” Mr. Morrison added.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Vaccine plan ready: Vardhan||Expressing confidence that a COVID-19 vaccine will be ready in three or four months, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said the government had drawn up a meticulous priority plan with healthcare workers and those above 65 years on top of the list. Addressing the FICCI FLO’s national webinar on “The shifting healthcare paradigm during and post-COVID”, Mr. Vardhan said it was estimated that 400-500 million vaccine doses would be made available for 250-300 million people by July-August. “I am confident that the COVID-19 vaccine will be ready in the next three or four months,” he said. “It is natural that the vaccine distribution would have to be prioritised. As you know, the healthcare workers who are corona warriors will be prioritised, then people who are above 65 years of age, and then those from 50-65 years of age have been prioritised. Then those below 50 years who have other diseases,” he said. Early planning Mr. Vardhan said everything was being decided by experts with a scientific point of view. “We have made a very detailed meticulous plan on this,” he said. “What we would have to do in March-April next year, we have started planning for it from now only,” Mr. Vardhan said. The Minister said, “We have also initiated an integrated response system against COVID-19 and will also host clinical trials for all the major vaccines.Nearly 20 vaccines are in different stages of development,” the Minister said. He said COVID-19 could be tackled to a great extent by protecting and motivating others. “You can protect yourself from this deadly virus with small precautions like wearing a good quality mask properly, maintaining social distance and hand hygiene,” he noted. Phase 3 trial The Phase 3 trial of the Oxford vaccine of the Serum Institute is almost near completion, while the Phase 3 clinical trial of the indigenously developed vaccine candidate of Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has already started. Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories will also soon start the combined phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the Russian COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, in India. Also, the Biological E Limited has started early phase 1 and 2 human trials of its COVID-19 vaccine candidate. Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE have said their vaccine candidate was found to be more than 95 per cent effective in preventing COVID-19.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Willow warbler spotted for the first time||The willow warbler ( Phylloscopus trochilus ), one of the longest migrating small birds that breeds throughout northern and temperate Europe and the Palearctic, has been sighted for the first time in the country in Thiruvanathapuram. The bird was spotted by Nirmal George, Associate Professor in Pharmacology and programme officer of the National Service Scheme (NSS) of Sree Gokulam Medical College and Research Foundation, Venjaramoodu, on November 14. Unique behaviour “The abnormal behaviour, shape, and non-familiarity with other warblers commonly seen in this area was what caught my attention. The photographs were taken from a distance. Although I visited the area again in the evening to get more photos of the bird, I had to return home disappointed,” says Dr. George. Posting of the photographs of the bird on the WhatsApp group of his birding team and consultations with 10 international experts helped identify the bird. “It is the first time that Phylloscopus trochilus is being sighted and reported in the country,” he said. The bird weighs around 10 g and it has long wing feathers that help it fly long distances. Usually seen in European and the Palearctic regions, the birds migrate to sub-Saharan Africa during early winter. Warblers are generally difficult to identify owing to the small size and change in plumage twice a year. They are also the most difficult groups of birds to identify in the field for their striking resemblance to each other. Dr. George has identified 163 species of birds and photographed over 100 species. Most of them are from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Idukki districts. Biodiversity consultant Sujith V. Gopalan says 17 species of warblers have been recorded from Kerala and the willow warbler forms the 18th warbler and 533rd species of bird to be recorded from the State. Biodiversity hotspot The Vellayani-Punchakkari paddy fields are a birding hotspot on the outskirts of Thiruvananthapuram. It is known to harbour more than 213 species of birds that include both resident and migratory ones. As many as seven species of warblers have been recorded from the Vellayani-Punchakkari fields, of which Blyth’s reed warbler and clamorous reed warbler are common.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Anyone can be arrested now by being branded an urban naxal’||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel raises concerns over reduction in Central funding to combat naxalism and questions the National Investigation Agency (NIA)’s tardy progress in probing major encounters. What is the extent of the spread of Left-wing Extremism (LWE) in Chhattisgarh? Half of Chattisgarh is affected by LWE. So far, the policy to solve the problem of naxalism has been a bullet in response to a bullet. Because of this policy, many tribals were arrested or killed; they were sandwiched between naxals and the security forces. Top naxal leaders have either been arrested or killed. In the year 2017-18, around 350 Naxals surrendered, this year already 302 naxals have surrendered... A solution cannot be reached only at the point of a gun, this is a political, social and conomic issue. In 2018, the Union Home Ministry removed three districts of Chhattisgarh from the list of LWE-affected districts? Any other districts being removed soon? The Centre has massively cut the funds that Chhattisgarh earlier used to get; we wrote to the Home Minister regarding this. Earlier we used to get funds in 60:40 [Centre:State] for road construction. There still exists a large area which is out of bounds for the administration? The Abujhmaad area falls in Maharashtra as well as Chhattisgarh. Some areas in Bijapur and Narayanpur districts are beyond reach. Naturally, conducting operations is not feasible there... We have sought the Centre’s permission to build pre-fabricated steel bridges. Many jawans die while performing security duty during road construction. We do not have any deployment in areas touching the Andhra Pradesh border. Recently we got permission to deploy five battalions of Central forces in those areas... trying to open a camp so that the distance between camps reduces to 5-10 km from the current 50 km. The NIA and the Maharashtra Police arrested several activists including Sudha Bhardwaj in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case. Ms. Bhardwaj has been active in Chhattisgarh for the past several years. What is the State police assessment on her role? The term ‘urban naxal’ has become a jumla . Anyone can be arrested or implicated in the name of being an urban naxal, this has become a fashion. The real action against urban naxals has been taken by the Chhattisgarh government… those who live in urban areas and supply cash and ammunition to the naxals. We arrested some people who were supplying ammunition, shoes, uniforms, walkie talkie sets, and electric wires... they were arrested in the past six months. People from Delhi came here and became millionaires in five-six years; they got contracts in those areas and supplied money to the naxals. They are the real urban naxals….they had an approach till the top. We know Sudha Bhardwaj, she has worked in my constituency too... I have seen her work as a lawyer; we do not have any information on her links with naxals, but if she has been arrested, it is possible that there are some secret inputs against her. We do not have such information. They have not been given bail for over two years... Ask this question to the Centre. The Jhiram Ghati case (2013) was given to the NIA to investigate but they could not find any evidence. Now we want to investigate that case but Centre is denying us [permission]. A BJP MLA was killed in 2019 general elections, we had completed the probe then all of a sudden the Centre announced an NIA probe. All the documents were taken away by NIA. The agency started interfering that we should give the entire case diary to them. Who are they trying to save?  Who according to you is the NIA trying to shield?  We raised this issue during the Chief Ministers’ meet at Vigyan Bhavan (August 2019). Give us the probe when you cannot do anything. What has NIA got till now? They have not agreed that it is a conspiracy; many leaders like Vidya Charan Shukla and Mahendra Karma were martyred, they were identified and then killed. Naxals do not ask for names and then kill; they just blow up the entire convoy and flee the scene. [However, in this case] they waited hours and pumped bullets after asking their names — was this not a conspiracy? The FIR filed by the State police names all the big naxal leaders, but when NIA probed the matter they deleted the names. When NIA court ordered to record the statement of Gudsa Usendi (top Maoist leader who surrendered in January 2014) who is lodged in Andhra Jail, why hasn’t NIA recorded his statement yet? Who are the big leaders you are referring to? Ganapathy (top Maoist leader) is there, why was his name removed? He leads the naxals. Why is the NIA not questioning Gudsa Usendi? So where is Ganapathy? We are after him; we do conduct operations. He has not been caught by any agency or police force yet. There are some areas bordering Maharashtra-Telangana and Odisha, dense forests are there, we have not been able to nab him but if he is arrested then we will definitely take action.  Isn’t it an intelligence failure that police still does not have a latest photograph of Ganapathy?  I agree with you, we do not have any other photo of him, barring one. This is a challenge for the intelligence and security agencies.  The Congress’s performance in the Bihar Assembly poll was particularly bad as it won only 19 of the 70 seats it contested. Do you think not having strong local leaders in the Hindi belt States costs the party?  These are internal issues and I think it is best to raise them within party forum. Your colleague and senior leader Kapil Sibal has recently said there are not many fora in your party where leaders can speak their mind. During the corona period, there have been so many meetings including that of Congress Working Committee via video conferencing. And we have all got opportunities to put forth our views. I don’t think such a senior leader [Mr. Sibal] should speak like this. There have been meetings almost every month. So, you don’t agree that Congress lacks a proper forum for leaders to openly articulate their views? Congress is the only democratic party where workers can put their views. You don’t have this in other parties. How can put your views in parties that don’t even have a party constitution? Everyone has a right to put forward their views but some people want to talk through the media and that’s unfortunate. Your party doesn’t have a full time president. Do you think Rahul Gandhi should return or should the party try out a non-Gandhi? I have already said that party issues should be spoken in a party forum. However, I feel Rahul Gandhi is most suitable to become party president as he understands the country, its people as well the needs of our workers. It is my personal view that there is none else better suited for the post.  The State police FIR named all the big naxal leaders but when NIA probed the matter they deleted the names
20 November 2020||Srinagar,||Naqvi kick-starts campaign in J&K||Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Thursday kick-started the party’s campaign for the District Development Council (DDC) polls in Kupwara of in north Kashmir on Thursday, and described the Gupkar alliance as the “Gumrahi gang” of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). “The Gupkar Declaration will prove to be a dying declaration for dynastic and destructive politics of the Congress and alliance in J&K. The Gupkar Gang has become Gumrahi Gang, which is trying to create confusion among people for narrow-minded political interests,” said Mr. Naqvi, who arrived in Srinagar on Thursday. ‘A conspiracy’ He said the alliance was a well-thought-out conspiracy against the people of J&K. “Dynastic and feudal arrogance of those people has been shattered who were involved in loot of public money sent for the development of Jammu-Kashmir and Leh-Ladakh by using the shield of Article 370.” Mr. Naqvi was addressing the first major public rally in Kupwara ever since the polls were announced this month. It was also the first major rally since the Centre ended J&K’s special status last year. All the top leaders of the Gupkar alliance have lain low so far and decided against organising public rallies in the Valley. On the alliance’s decision to contest the polls, Mr. Naqvi said, “Those parties are also contesting the polls that claimed that they would not do it unless the August 5 decision is reversed.” He said it was after the dilution of Article 370 that the rights of the people of Jammu-Kashmir and Leh-Kargil have been provided absolute Constitutional protection.
20 November 2020||London,||Oxford vaccine triggers robust immunity in elderly||The SARS-CoV-2 vaccine developed by teams at the University of Oxford has been shown to trigger a robust immune response in healthy adults aged 56 to 69 and those over 70. The findings published in the medical journal Lancet on Thursday, based on 560 healthy adult volunteers, shows that the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine is safe and well tolerated with a lower reactogenicity profile in older adults than in younger adults, meaning the older age groups could build immunity to the disease. “We were pleased to see that our vaccine was not only well tolerated in older adults, but also stimulated similar immune responses to those seen in younger volunteers,” said Maheshi Ramasamy, an investigator at the Oxford Vaccine Group. “The next step will be to see if this translates into protection from the disease itself,” she said. The Oxford group has a tie-up with the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Andrew Pollard, the head of Oxford’s vaccine trial team, said he was “absolutely delighted” with the latest results. Crucially, the study also found no suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions during this stage of the trial. The 560 healthy adult volunteers who took part in the Phase 2 trials were given two doses of the vaccine candidate, or a placebo. “Inducing robust immune responses in older adults has been a long-standing challenge in human vaccine research, said Angela Minassian, an investigator at the University of Oxford and honorary consultant in infectious diseases. “To show [that] this vaccine technology is able to induce these responses, in the age group most at risk from severe COVID-19 disease, offers hope that vaccine efficacy will be similar in younger and older adults,” she said. The latest trial shows that after a single vaccination, T cell responses were highly comparable in all ages.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Did not ignore borrowers’ plight: Centre||The Centre took strong objection to averments made in the Supreme Court on Thursday that it would not have budged to protect borrowers from financial ruin triggered by the pandemic lockdown, had the court not intervened on time. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said submissions like that were painted in “political colour”. Mr. Mehta said financial packages were in place as early as in March, during the advent of the COVID-19 virus, to help citizens sail through the economic backlash. “We had started immediately with the financial packages in March,” Mr. Mehta said. The court was hearing individual borrowers, power, industry and business sectors on the compound interest or interest-on-interest pay-back scheme introduced by the government and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for borrowers struggling to make ends meet after the expiry of the six-month moratorium period on August 31. Mr. Mehta said the court should now dispose of the petitions post the implementation of the pay-back scheme by November 5. Any grievances from specific sectors can be addressed directly to the government itself. “This is a fiscal policy matter. Government is on top of it. Grievance redressal mechanism lies within the system itself. To ask for sector-specific reliefs from the court will not be a remedy available under Article 32 of the Constitution,” Mr. Mehta submitted. The main petitioner, Gajendra Sharma, who represents individual borrowers in the Supreme Court, has already expressed satisfaction with the government scheme to pay back the difference in the compound interest and simple interest charged during moratorium for eight categories of loans worth up to Rs. 2 crore. The scheme covers MSME, education, housing, consumer durables, credit card, auto, personal and consumption loans. However, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for power producers, said there are still loopholes left to plug or the “big borrowers” may go down under.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M), Cong. in collusion with divisive forces: BJP||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan has said the Congress and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] have aligned themselves with divisive forces in Jammu and Kashmir. Speaking to presspersons on Thursday, he said it was not surprising that the United Democratic Front (UDF) convener had held secret parleys with Jamaat-e-Islami Amir M.I. Abdul Aziz ahead of the local body polls in December. The CPI(M) had also attempted to woo fundamentalist forces for electoral gain. The Central government’s abrogation of Article 370 was a watershed in the history of Jammu and Kashmir. The State was readying for district panchayat elections for the first time in its history. At a stroke, the Centre had paved the way to bring the benefits of decentralisation to Jammu and Kashmir. It had recognised the aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir for development, gender equality and the right to chose their local governments. The Congress had no clear stance on Jammu and Kashmir. The national leadership of the Congress had washed their hands of such tricky political issues and left them to the decision of provincial units.  Vienna convention Mr. Muraleedharan said the Vienna convention prevented the Customs from questioning UAE consulate officials in connection with the gold smuggling case. However, the agency could prepare a questionnaire and sent it to their counterparts in the UAE as part of their investigation. The Centre did not believe that contraband gold was concealed in UAE’s diplomatic baggage. Indeed, the accused had used air freight addressed to individual consulate officials and staff to smuggle gold into the country. Mr. Muraleedharan said Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had violated Article 293 (1) of the Constitution by allowing Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), a State government entity, to issue masala bonds to borrow money from foreign markets without the consent of the Central government. He said the KIIFB was not a corporate entity as claimed by Dr. Isaac. The State government was the guarantor for the loans raised by the KIIFB. Mr. Muraleedharan said the CPI(M) was acting against the spirit of federalism by attempting to intimidate Central law enforcement agencies investigating the various aspects of the UAE gold smuggling case.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||LDF to make CAG report a poll plank||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) will make the controversial report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) a poll plank during the campaign for the forthcoming local body elections. “The unilateral report is a setback to the development of the State. Kerala should rise and public opinion needs to be built against the attempts to topple the infrastructure projects funded by KIIFB. People will be approached to take a call,” Finance Minister T. M. Thomas Isaac said at a press conference here on Thursday. Dr. Isaac said the government cannot wait till the CAG report on KIIFB is presented in the Assembly. “The House can be convened in January and we cannot wait in view of the unusual situation that has come up. It is not like the Enforcement Directorate looking into a project. The intention of the CAG has to be exposed. Whoever rules, it has to be taken forward and one KIIFB-funded project will get commissioned daily from next year,” Dr. Isaac said. Stating that the United Democratic Front will get a ‘resounding reply’ from the people in the local body elections, the Minister said the UDF should spell out its stance on KIIFB and the alternatives.  No direct liability Dr. Isaac said the KIIFB, a corporate body, would not create any direct liability and that the liabilities of KIIFB would not be higher than the assets. The Opposition should see the breach of privilege committed by the CAG and the impediments put forward to scuttle development of the State.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad,||KTR warns against divisive politics||TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao asked the people of Hyderabad whether they wished a peaceful city or were willing to adopt the agenda of divisive, desperate and communal politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). At a ‘Meet the Press’, organised by the Press Club, Hyderabad, ahead of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, he called upon the people to choose a party that had hunger for development of Telangana and Hyderabad and not the ones with a pure agenda of hatred politics. Mr. Rao warned that any effort to incite trouble in the city will be crushed with an iron hand and the TRS will not let anyone put spokes in the growth path of the city. Revealing a series of developmental programmes taken up by the government, he challenged the opposition parties to prove him wrong. Development agenda “The development in the last six years is unprecedented on all fronts and we will go to the people with the same agenda and seek their favour,” he said. He said the TRS dispelled the perceived fears of Hyderabadis, once Telangana was formed, on law and order, IT sector growth city infrastructure creation with sincere and hard work. Four of the top IT players of the world set up their centres in the city after the TRS came to power as they had faith in the TRS government and its policies. “It took lot of effort from the government to bring them and they did not just slide into the city,” he said. Mr. Rao also took potshots at the political parties criticising them on flood relief. He claimed that TRS Ministers and MLAs visited the people affected by the once-in-a-century rains and the subsequent flooding regularly. “All the opposition leaders were sitting in their homes while we were among the people,” he said.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala records further dip in test positivity at 8.54%||Kerala registered 5,722 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, when 67,017 samples were tested, showing a further dip in test positivity at 8.54%. The Health Department recorded 26 more COVID deaths. Eight deaths were reported from Malappuram, five from Kozhikode, four from Thrissur, three from Thiruvananthapuram, two each from Ernakulam and Kottayam and one each from Kannur and Alappuzha. Malappuram district topped in incidence with 862 cases, Thrissur 631, Kozhikode 575, Alappuzha 527, Palakkad 496, Thiruvananthapuram 456, Ernakulam 423, Kottayam 342, Kollam 338, Kannur 337, Idukki 276, Pathanamthitta 200, Kasaragod 145 and Wayanad 114 cases. Telangana conducted 38,757 tests on Wednesday. Till mid-June, only around 1,000 samples were tested in a day.A sharp spike daily testing was recorded from August 25, when around 60,000 people were tested. This continued till September 11 and gradually decreased thereafter. In November, between 40,000 and 45,000 samples were tested. On Wednesday 1,058 tested positive, while four more patients died. The new cases included 168 in Greater Hyderabad, 93 in Medchal Malkajgiri, 91 in Rangareddy and two in Jogulamba Gadwal, besides four in Adilabad. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,316 new infections and 11 deaths on Thursday. At 1.75%, the single-day positivity rate of 75,165 tests was the lowest in several months - the overall positivity rate of 94.08 lakh tests was 9.13%.  Chittoor and Krishna districts reported the highest number of deaths, at two each while Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Vizianagaram had no fresh mortality. Seven districts added one death each. The infections added were: West Godavari district (227), Guntur (206), Chittoor (198), Krishna (196), East Godavari (183), Anantapur (60), Kadapa (58), Visakhapatnam (45), Prakasam (43), Nellore (40), Srikakulam (28), Vizianagaram (18) and Kurnool (14). In Tamil Nadu, 2,252 COVID-19 patients were discharged from various health facilities in the State after treatment, while 1,707 more persons tested positive taking the tally to 7,64,989 on Thursday. At the same time, seven patients in private hospitals and 12 in government facilities succumbed.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai, and Hyderabad bureaus)
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. issues notice to former Jharkhand MP||The Congress on Thursday issued a show-cause notice to former Lok Sabha member from Jharkhand Furkan Ansari for his outburst against former party chief Rahul Gandhi. Following the Bihar election debacle, where the party contested 70 seats but managed to win only 19, Mr. Ansari said Mr. Gandhi needed “political advisers” instead of the MBA graduates in his office. Stating that he has written to party chief Sonia Gandhi and Mr. Gandhi on the need to revamp the organisation, Mr. Ansari said people who attended Mr. Gandhi’s election rally at Bihar’s Kahalgaon did not understand what he said. The former MP from Godda also attacked the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in charge for Jharkhand, R.P.N. Singh, claiming that he didn’t deserve even to be a block president. Acting against such an outburst, the Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee has asked Mr. Ansari, whose son is an MLA, to explain his remarks that have violated party discipline. The party’s move is aimed at sending a clear message to all the leaders not to speak out of turn on the recent polls as well as the leadership. Soon after the Bihar polls, the Congress again witnessed rumblings, with senior leader Kapil Sibal questioning the silence of the top leadership over the poor show.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||MBBS seats for corona warriors’ wards||The Union Health Ministry has approved a new category of selection and nomination of candidates from ‘wards of COVID warriors’ under the Central pool MBBS/BDS seats for the academic year 2020-21. Five MBBS seats have been reserved for this category for 2020-21, said a release issued by the Ministry. Minister for Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said this move was aimed to dignify and honour the noble contribution made by the COVID-19 warriors. The State/Union Territory governments would certify the eligibility for this category. “The selection of candidates will be made by the Medical Council Committee through online application on the basis of the rank obtained in NEET-2020,” said the Ministry. COVID-19 warriors are public healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact and care of patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by this. Private hospital staff and retired/volunteer/local urban bodies/contracted/ daily wage/ad hoc/outsourced staff requisitioned by States/ Central hospitals/autonomous hospitals of Central/States/UTs, AIIMS and Institutes of National Importance/hospitals of Central Ministries drafted for COVID-19-related responsibilities are all included, the Ministry said.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Central agencies are being misused: CPI(M)||The CPI (M) Polit Bureau in a statement condemned the manner in which the Enforcement Directorate and other central investigating agencies were being “misused” to “destabilise” the democratically-elected Left government in Kerala and target Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “Central investigations into to the gold smuggling case under the UAPA over the allegation that the money received through such smuggling was being used for anti-national activities is instead being used to implicate the political leadership of the ruling LDF government in Kerala,” the statement said. The statement said two of the accused, who are now in custody, have said they were being pressured to name the political leadership in return for being allowed to turn approvers, from being charged as accused. ‘Unconstitutional move’ “This is absolutely atrocious and unacceptable. BJP Central government is using the Central agencies to undermine the basic tenets of the Indian Constitution and grossly misuse them to advance their political interests through such unconstitutional means,” the statement added. The party said it is confident that the people of Kerala will give a befitting reply to the machinations by the BJP. Earlier in the day, in the latest edition of its mouthpiece, People's Democracy , the Communist Party of India (Marxist) alleged that the four central agencies — the National Investigation Agency, Customs, Enforcement Directorate and Central Bureau of Investigation — probing the gold-smuggling case, are “using it as a springboard to extend their enquiries into various government projects and schemes”. The editorial said when the smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage was discovered in July, the Chief Minister had promptly asked the Centre to investigate the case through one of its appropriate agencies, as was necessary since the goods were smuggled from abroad. ‘No case prima facie’ It alleged that the Union Home Ministry entrusted the case to the NIA, even though there was no prima facie ground to suspect any terror funding or national security threat. It then went on to describe the roles played by the other investigating agencies in the case. The editorial further said that the Congress and BJP in the State were working together.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||FASTag mandatory for all four-wheelers||To ensure payment of user fee via electronic means and seamless movement of vehicles through toll plazas, FASTag has been made mandatory for four-wheelers from January 1, 2021. With this decision of the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH), those owning four-wheelers purchased before December 1, 2017 will have to compulsorily procure FASTag. The Ministry has notified that all four-wheelers, regardless of the year of manufacture and age, should mandatorily have it. As per Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, FASTag is mandatory for registration of new four-wheelers since December 1, 2017 and is being supplied by vehicle manufacturers/dealers. The notification making it mandatory for all four-wheelers comes in the wake of the reluctance of owners to go for the electronic means to pay toll charges. The compulsory implementation of FASTags at highway toll plazas last year, with all but one lane dedicated to electronic toll collection, also failed to yield the desired result. For insurance To ensure compliance, MoRTH has made FASTags mandatory for vehicle insurance. New third-party vehicle insurance from April 1, 2021 will be issued only if the vehicle has a valid FASTag. Henceforth, while seeking a new third-party insurance, details of FASTag ID shall be captured through an amendment to on Form 51 (certificate of insurance). As in the previous drive, MoRTH has decided to make available FASTag at multiple channels in the coming days. Banks and online mechanisms are expected to make them available so that owners can purchase and affix them on their vehicles. Prepaid The National Electronic Toll Collection (NETC) programme, the flagship initiative of MoRTH, uses passive radio frequency identification (RFID) technology for collection of user fee. FASTag, a prepaid tag, enables automatic deduction of toll charges and lets the vehicle pass through the toll plaza without stopping for the cash transaction.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Parliamentary panel questions Twitter||The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Data Protection Bill questioned representatives of Twitter on the “selective removal and suspension of accounts”, specifically giving the example of stand-up comic Kunal Kamra’s recent tweets attacking the Supreme Court for granting TV anchor Arnab Goswami reprieve after his arrest in an abetment to suicide case. The panel had asked Twitter to explain their policy regarding suspension of accounts and removing “offensive” tweets. The Twitter representatives were called in on Thursday, after the panel found that their written response was inadequate. Speaking to The Hindu , committee Chairperson Meenakshi Lekhi said, “Twitter, in their written response, claimed that they do not promote obscenity and profanity. We showed them Mr. Kamra’s tweets and asked them how exactly are these tweets still running.” She said that Mr. Kamra’s tweets showed disrespect to the constitutional head of the justice system of the country. Twitter was also asked if it was because of the algorithm or manual intervention that some “content” got promoted over others. According to sources, members across party lines questioned Twitter representatives. Meanwhile, Standing Committee Chairman for Information and Technology, Shashi Tharoor has questioned the mandate of the joint committee to take up these issues. In reply, Ms. Lekhi said, “I expected better understanding of law and jurisdictional issues from someone who is heading the Standing Committee on IT.”
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC defers hearing in Sudarshan TV row||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave parties in a case against Sudarshan TV two weeks to respond to a Ministry of Information and Broadcasting order of November 4, which held that the channel’s ‘Bindas Bol - UPSC Jihad’ programme is “not in good taste, offensive and has the likelihood of promoting communal attitudes”. ‘Bindas Bol’ accuses Muslims of “infiltrating” the civil services with the help of funding from terror-linked organisations abroad. A Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, in a short hearing, acknowledged the filing of the government affidavit, to which the November 4 order was annexed. The Ministry order does not expressly stop the channel from telecasting further episodes. But it insists that the channel should suitably moderate and modify the programme’s audio and visual content to be in tune with the Programme Code. “While freedom of expression is a fundamental right, the tone and tenor of the episodes telecast do indicate that the channel has through the various utterances and audiovisual content breached the Programme Code,” the order said.  Series of directions The Ministry gave a series of directions for future telecast, including that the content aired should not offend good taste or decency. The channel was asked to avoid “attacks on religions or communities or visuals or words contemptuous of religious groups”. The Ministry said programmes should not contain “anything obscene, defamatory, deliberate, false and suggestive innuendos and half-truths”. The order asked the channel to comply and report back to the Ministry before the telecast. The court had stayed the further telecast of the programme episodes on September 15.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Gold trafficking case: row over ‘leaked’ audio||The CPI(M) State secretariat said the statements of the accused pointed to a deep-rooted conspiracy to target Mr. Vijayan. Alleging that the Central agencies had offered inducements to the suspects to depose against Mr. Vijayan, the party said a court in Kochi had also doubted the grounds for the arrest of Sivasankar. The BJP and the United Democratic Front were behind the plot to destabilise the government, the CPI(M) said, adding that it would build a wall of popular resistance against the move to rob the government of its mandate.  However, Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan said the ‘leaked’ audiotape was a bid by Mr. Vijayan’s office to whitewash the ‘sleazy’ record of the government and play the victim ahead of the local body polls. “The tape is an afterthought aimed to benefit the CPI(M) politically,” he said. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran said Mr. Vijayan’s media advisers had scripted the ‘drama’ to divert public attention from multiple scandals that have beset the government. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded an inquiry into the matter.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||4 militants killed in toll plaza gunfight||The police said a large quantity of arms and ammunition, including 11 AK-47 rifles, 29 grenades and three pistols, was recovered from the encounter site. They said that the militants could have infiltrated through the International Border in Jammu very recently. Mr. Singh said the identity andaffiliation of the slain militants were being established. “Two policemen injured in the shootout are stable,” he said. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha visited the injured policemen at the Government Medical College in Jammu. “No outside forces can derail us from our mission of peace and progress in J&K,” Mr. Sinha said. Mr. Singh said the police were receiving inputs about a possible infiltration bid by the JeM and Lashkar-e-Taiba in Jammu, ever since the announcement of the District Development Council (DDC) polls. “We had kept all our teams deployed at checkpoints,” he stated. The truck was heading to Kashmir.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice to Centre on same-sex marriage plea||The Delhi High Court (HC) on Thursday issued notice to the Union government on a petition seeking a direction to recognise same-sex unions under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and the Special Marriage Act (SMA). The court asked the Centre to submit its response within four weeks and listed the case for hearing along with two other pleas seeking similar relief. The petition was filed by members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community and activists Abhijit Iyer Mitra, Gopi Shankar M., Giti Thadani and G. Oorvasi. The plea said that in 2018, the Supreme Court decriminalised consensual homosexual sex. It said there was nothing in the HMA that mandated that marriage should take place only between a Hindu man and a Hindu woman. “Section 5 of the [HMA] Act clearly lays down that marriage can be performed between ‘any two Hindus’ under the Act,” the plea said. While there was no bar under the HMA and the SMA against gay marriages, they were not being registered throughout the country and in Delhi. “As a result of the same, there are many benefits that would otherwise be available to heterosexual married couples that are not available to them,” the plea said. It argued that the prohibition of marriage of LGBT people on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity was violative of the right to equality. The court is also seized of two other petitions. One of them is filed by two women living as a couple for eight years. The other has been moved by two men, who got married in the U.S., but their marriage registration was denied under the Foreign Marriage Act as it excluded same-sex marriage.
20 November 2020||MYSURU,||Man fined and ostracised for offering haircut to SCs||The scourge of social boycott and casteism has reared its ugly head in a village in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru district. A barber reportedly offered a haircut to members of the Scheduled Castes community in Hallare village in the taluk and this has incensed the other villagers. The victim of the social boycott, Mallikarjun Shetty, said that he had been fined and ostracised. He told presspersons in Nanjangud that the village headmen did not want him to give the haircut but he ignored it and complied with government orders, prohibiting the discrimination of such people. So the village officials imposed a penalty and also boycotted him, said Mr. Shetty. Mr. Shetty has already complained to the tahsildar who has promised to initiate action and to also seek police assistance to prosecute the guilty.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Bihar Minister quits hours after taking charge||The Opposition RJD had been questioning Mr. Kumar about his “zero tolerance” for corruption claim following Mr. Choudhury’s induction into the Cabinet. Mr. Choudhury, former Vice-Chancellor of the Bihar Agriculture University of Sabour in Bhagalpur district from 2010 to 2015, was an accused in a scam in the recruitment of assistant cum junior scientists (2012-13). An FIR was lodged against him at the Sabour police station under Sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120(B) of Indian Penal Code. Some accused persons were arrested, but Mr. Choudhury secured bail. ‘Fabricated case’ “Chargesheet against me in the case has not been filed,” Mr. Choudhury told presspersons on Wednesday. The investigation is still on. “It was a fabricated and false case against me…filing an FIR doesn’t mean one is guilty,” he said. JD(U) leader K.C. Tyagi said, “This reflects Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s zero tolerance for corruption and it has set precedent for others.” Party leader and spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said, “Mr. Choudhury’s resignation has shown a mirror to others.” But RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav took a dig at Mr. Kumar. “You made him a Minister and handed him the Education department.. Later you create a drama over his resignation. But, first of all, why did you make him a Minister? You’re the real culprit.” Party spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari, said, “Mr. Choudhury resigns after Opposition’s continuous attack on the Chief Minister’s zero tolerance for corruption… but, the question is how was he inducted into the Cabinet by Mr. Kumar despite knowing about corruption charges against him?” Senior State Congress leader and party spokesperson Prem Chandra Mishra said, “by inducting a person like Mewalal Choudhury into his Cabinet, Nitish Kumar has been thoroughly exposed on his zero tolerance for corruption claim.” Meanwhile, former Bihar Chief Minister and president of the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) Jitan Ram Manjhi was sworn in as the pro-tem Speaker. He was administered the oath of office by Governor PhaguChauhan.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Hashish oil worth Rs. 2 crore seized, 2 held||Excise sleuths on Thursday nabbed two racketeers with alleged possession of 2.25 litres of hashish oil worth Rs. 2 crore from a hideout in Kollam. The breakthrough in the case, which is suspected to be linked to the seizure of 3 kg of hashish and 103 kg of ganga worth Rs. 3.5 crore in Nagaroor in Thiruvananthapuram on October 8, has come at a time when the Excise Department is in the pursuit of a Thrissur-native who is suspected to be the kingpin of the racket and is operating it from Andhra Pradesh. Following leads obtained from the previous case, the excise squad led by State Excise Enforcement Squad Circle Inspector T. Anikumar apprehended Siraj of Thrissur and Akhil Raj of Chavara who allegedly stored large quantities of narcotic substances in a rented house at Chavara. Under surveillance The area had been under surveillance for some days on the basis of information gathered by the sleuths.  The racket is suspected to have been smuggling large quantities of such contraband to the State from Andhra Pradesh. The Excise Department has intensified its crackdown on such lobbies, leading to the seizure of large quantities of drugs within a few months. In a separate case, the team also apprehended Ajimon of Kavanad, Kollam, with alleged possession of 5 kg of ganja. The cases have been registered in the Karunagappally circle and Kollam excise range offices.  Excise team also arrests a man with 5 kg of ganja
20 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Policewomen suspended for assault in U.P.||A gang rape victim in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday accused two woman constables of the Ayodhya police of assaulting her inside a police station when she went to record her statement. Not only did the constables refuse to believe her, they also beat her with boots, hit her with belts and pressured to change her version, she said. A probe was launched and two woman constables — Shikha and Neetu — were suspended.
20 November 2020||Kolkata,||5 killed in Malda plastic factory blast||Five people were killed in an explosion in a plastic manufacturing unit in the Sujapur area of West Bengal’s Malda district on Thursday. Five people were injured.  Alok Rajoria, District Superintendent of Police, said said a heavy machine of about 45 horsepower had exploded. Some mechanical failure may have been the cause, he added.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bypoll to RS seat from Bihar on Dec. 14||The Election Commission announced that the bypoll to fill the Rajya Sabha seat from Bihar that fell vacant on the death of Ram Vilas Paswan will be held on December 14. It said the notification would be issued on November 26 and the last date of filing nominations would be December 3.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Panel mulls if MPs can teach at universities||The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Office of Profit headed by BJP MP Satya Pal Singh on Thursday deliberated on whether an MP can continue to teach at a university and if this draws the provisions of “Office of Profit” rules. Two Rajya Sabha members — RJD’s Manoj K. Jha and BJP’s Rakesh Kumar Sinha — along with the Lok Sabha member Sukanta Majumdar, are full-time academics. So far, the committee has not taken any call on the issue. Representatives of the Ministry of Law and Justice have reportedly sought more time from the panel. The committee has also called representatives from Delhi University, where Mr. Jha and Mr. Sinha teach, and from University of Gour Banga, Malda, West Bengal, where Mr. Majumdar teaches, in the next meeting. Under Article 102 (1) and Article 191 (1) of the Constitution, an MP or an MLA (or an MLC) is barred from holding any office of profit under the Central or State government.
20 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Rs. 8 cr. gold looted from firm in Odisha||In a major robbery at a financial firm, miscreants decamped with gold ornaments worth Rs. 8 crore to Rs. 10 crore from India Infoline Finance Ltd. (IIFL), a gold-loan leasing company, in Cuttack on Thursday. Four persons, wearing helmets, entered the IIFL’s Nayasadak branch around the opening hour and committed the robbery at gunpoint, with only a few customers around. “They took away around Rs. 4.3 lakh in cash and gold worth Rs. 8 crore to Rs. 10 crore. Only a few packets containing gold are lying inside the bank. The exact worth of gold would be known once the audit report is tallied,” said Satya Pradhan, IIFL manager. Cuttack Deputy Commissioner of Police, Prateek Singh, told mediapersons that four robbers had come on motorbikes and fled the spot after filling bags with gold ornaments. “A special team has been formed to nab the culprits. We are examining CCTV footage,” he said. Last February, robbers looted about 30 kg of gold worth Rs. 12 crore from an IIFL branch in Ludhiana.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Oxford vaccine will cost Rs. 1,000’||Vaccine maker Serum Institute of India’s CEO Adar Poonawalla on Thursday said the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine should be available for healthcare workers and elderly people by around February 2021 and by April for the general public, and will be priced at a maximum of Rs. 1,000 for two necessary doses for the public, depending on the final trial results and regulatory approvals. Probably by 2024, every Indian would get vaccinated, he said at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit, 2020. “It will probably take two or three years for every Indian to get inoculated, not just because of the supply constraints but because you need the budget, the vaccine, logistics, infrastructure and then, people should be willing to take the vaccine.”  Mr. Poonawalla said the Oxford vaccine was affordable, safe and could be stored at a temperature of two to eight degrees Celsius, which was an ideal temperature for it to be stored in the cold storages of India. He said the SII planned to make about 10 crore doses a month from February.
20 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Night curfew in Ahmedabad||In the wake of rising COVID-19 cases post Deepavali in a second wave in Gujarat, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has imposed an indefinite night curfew from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. starting Friday to halt the spread of the virus. The severe spike in cases in the city has led to an explosion in demand for hospital beds. All commercial and business establishments, except essential service providers, will be shut from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. Dr. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, Additional Chief Secretary and incharge of COVID-19 management in Ahmedabad, said the civic administration and the State authorities had augmented beds in hospitals to deal with the situation. “900 new beds have been added in various government hospitals and 400 in private hospitals. As on Thursday, 2,237 beds in government hospitals and 400 in private designated hospitals in the city are vacant and available,” Dr. Gupta said in a statement. There are seven government hospitals and 76 private COVID-19 designated hospitals with over 8,000 beds in Ahmedabad. According to Dr. Gupta, 20 additional ambulances have been added to the fleet to take patients to hospitals, while the State government has allocated 300 additional doctors and 300 medical students to help and assist the civic body in handling the rising number of patients. On Thursday, Gujarat recorded 1,340 cases and seven deaths, taking its case load to 1,92,982. The fatality count has risen to 3,830. There are now 12,677 active cases in the State.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Ayurveda can be used in mild COVID-19 cases’||Going back on its order that qualified AYUSH doctors may not prescribe any drug as a cure for COVID-19, the government has now decided to incorporate the National Clinical Management Protocol based on Ayurveda and Yoga, endorsed by the AYUSH Ministry, in the management of mild COVID-19 patients in the State. Accordingly, patients who have tested positive for COVID-19, who are either asymptomatic or have only mild or uncomplicated disease (grouped as Category A patients) may be administered the Ayurveda strategies for the mitigation and rehabilitation of COVID-19, a new order issued by the State Department of AYUSH on Wednesday says. These are patients with mild COVID-19 who are either in home isolation or are housed in the designated first or second line treatment centres. The prior consent of patients is necessary before the Ayurveda or Yoga protocol is administered to them. The order comes soon after the Kerala High Court on Wednesday heard a petition filed by the Ayurveda Medical Association of India (AMAI) challenging an earlier order issued by the AYUSH Secretary on October 20 that qualified AYUSH doctors may not prescribe any medicine for the treatment of COVID-19. Ministry directive The AYUSH Ministry had directed that patients with moderate to severe COVID be given the informed choice of treatment options and that all severe COVID cases be referred. AMAI says that Ayurveda or yoga clinical management strategies for mild and uncomplicated COVID patients may be implemented through the approved organisational framework already in place in the State for the execution of Ayurveda programmes, in accordance with the general guidelines issued by the State Ayurveda COVID-19 Response Cell.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mechanised sewer cleaning in 243 cities by May 2021||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs (HUA) Ministry on Thursday launched a challenge for 243 cities to switch over to mechanised cleaning of sewers and septic tanks by April 30, 2021. Launching the Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge, HUA Minister Hardeep Puri said there should not be any casualty due to manual cleaning of sewers. The Centre, States and private-public partnerships would give funds to municipalities to buy cleaning machines.
20 November 2020||Guwahati,||Editors Guild’s concern about safety of Assam journalists [Or] Ensure safe environment for journalists, Editors Guild tells Assam govt.||The Editors Guild of India has requested the Assam government to ensure a safe environment for journalists to work in. In a letter to Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, the Guild cited the assault on Milan Mahanta, a print reporter and the death of TV reporter Parag Bhuyan, in an accident. While Mr. Mahanta said he was attacked for his reportage against gambling and land mafias in Kamrup, the death of Bhuyan is being probed as a possible murder for exposing illegal activities in Kakopathar.
20 November 2020||Kolkata,||Still a Minister and primary member of Trinamool, says Suvendu Adhikari||Trinamool Congress leader and Minister Suvendu Adhikari on Thursday said he was still a primary member of the party and a Minister in Mamata Banerjee’s Cabinet. His recent utterances and public appearances without party flags and symbols have created discomfort in the party. “I am still a primary and active member of a party. I am still a Minister of the Cabinet. Neither has the Chief Minister expelled me nor have I resigned,” he said at a public gathering at Ramnagar in Purba Medinipur district.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amarinder son Raninder appears before ED in FEMA case||Raninder Singh, son of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, on Thursday appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Jalandhar to record his statement under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), said a senior agency official. The ED probe is linked to the Income-Tax Department’s alleged findings that certain assets acquired abroad were not disclosed in 2005-07. The department had carried out a reassessment of the disclosures and detected the assets located overseas.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Techie jumps to death||A 21-year-old employee of Tech Mahindra was found dead in a pool of blood near her office building in Gopalapuram in Secunderabad here on Thursday. The victim, Susmitha from Chilkalguda ended her life by jumping from the sixth floor of the building, police said. The incident took place around 9.30 a.m. According to police, Susmitha, who worked as associate customer support in the Tele-caller department, reached office around 9.30 a.m., 30 minutes earlier to her regular shift. Her father dropped her. No suicide note "Soon, she went to the changing room on the sixth floor, and leaped from the window, as a result she suffered multiple injuries and died on the spot," police said, adding that no suicide note was found. The exact reason for the extreme step is yet to be known, they said. Tech Mahindra spokesperson, said, “We are deeply saddened by the untimely and tragic death of our valued associate. We extend our deepest sympathies and condolences to the family of the deceased. As a responsible corporate, we continue to provide full cooperation to the authorities concerned during the investigation process.”
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Back to the basics of beat patrolling||To improve the maintenance of law and order and increase the confidence of the public in the police, the city police have reintroduced foot patrolling of streets. The Deputy Commissioners and the Assistant Commissioners are an essential part of this exercise. The Deputy Commissioners and the Assistant Commissioners are now required to undertake foot patrolling to meet the residents living in narrow places, beyond the reach of motorised patrol vehicles. Recently, the police solved a case of theft of cattle following complaints from villagers living on the outskirts. The matter was brought to the notice of Deepa Sathyan, Deputy Commissioner, Ambattur, during foot patrolling. Ms. Deepa said, “The residents now feel that they can access a police officer. We can understand the grievances of the public on the ground and implement suggestions rendered by the public. They can discuss any issue with us directly.” On another day, Kilpauk Inspector K. Murugesan, while patrolling EVR Road, spotted an old man, who was ill, lying on the pavement near the KMC bus stop. He took him to Corporation Hostel after feeding him. Later, he was sent to an old age home. K. Adhiveerapandian, Deputy Commissioner, Kilpauk, said, “This is an opportunity to meet people on the ground. We undertake foot patrol of streets where vehicles cannot reach and listen to the grievances of the public.” At times, even such civic issues as non-supply of drinking water and stagnation of sewage were resolved by police officers on the spot. V. Vikraman, Deputy Commissioner, Adyar, said, “We are sure this will give the people confidence. The conversations during patrolling may bring out more information about crimes and criminals. Besides, the policemen who walk the beat vastly increase their knowledge of the neighbourhoods.” City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said the system had received a positive response from the public. “The present patrolling exercise is to increase more visible policing. People appreciate this exercise and demand that it be done in their areas. At least 100 foot patrols are conducted in each police district. Due to this, incidents such as assaults and skirmishes have come down. At the same time, unsavoury elements were deterred and warned. Basically, it boils down to an interaction with the public and giving them the confidence that the police presence is there. Some issues are being sorted out then and there,” he said. The city police have also spruced up the mobile patrolling system to render quick assistance. They have launched yet another initiative under which the public can convey their grievances to the patrol vehicle stationed in their neighbourhoods. “One patrol vehicle from each station will be deployed at a pre-disclosed location every day for two hours. The public can approach the vehicle and express their grievances. Petty issues will be solved then and there. The community service register receipt will be issued to a petitioner,” Mr. Aggarwal said. An evidence-based patrolling has been introduced in north Chennai under which patrol vehicles will be deployed in areas where the police get more calls from the public or which are more prone to crimes. Patrolling teams have been instructed to reach the spot within five minutes on receiving an emergency call. R. Dhinkaran, Additional Commissioner of Police, South, said, “We have taken steps to increase patrolling. We have found out the reasons for not using patrol vehicles in certain areas — it could be either shortage of drivers or repair. We have addressed those issues.” “Most of the police stations have at least three patrol vehicles. At some stations, we have four vehicles. Their job is to attend to emergency calls and rush to the spot immediately. The patrolling teams have been working on shift round the clock,” said A. Arun, Additional Commissioner of Police, North. The city has 171 police stations, and 355 four-wheeler patrol vehicles and 503 two-wheeler patrol vehicles are in operation. Each police station has a main patrol vehicle, an additional patrol vehicle, a Gypsy patrol vehicle and a special vehicle. In addition to these, over 35 Amma patrol vehicles are being operated by women police personnel in areas where crimes against women had been reported in the past. The mounted police are patrolling the sands of the Marina. However, residents welfare associations want two-wheeler beat patrolling improved. V. Rajagopal, president of the Anna Nagar Western Extension Residents Welfare Association, said: “Earlier, policemen visited the homes of senior citizens in the Thirumangalam and Anna Nagar areas and received signatures on patta books. They enquired about the health of the individuals. This system was discontinued.” Rakesh Ohri, co-founder of the Federation of OMR Residents Associations, said, “A couple of years ago, there were WhatsApp groups for each police station that helped the leaders of the residents’ welfare associations connect with the crime, law and order and traffic police officers at each station. This helped to create a rapport, and the patrol visited if need be... Several attempts to revive these groups have been futile. Hopefully, the new leaders will restart this initiative.”
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNERC gives approval for pilot solar project at Irumbai village||The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) has given approval for a Rs. 2.3 crore pilot solar project at Irumbai village. The project will be undertaken by the Tamil Nadu Energy Development Agency (TEDA) and Tangedco to ensure 24x7 power supply to the village at Vanur taluk in Villupuram district. In its petition, TEDA, the government’s nodal arm for promoting renewable energy, stated that the Irumbai village solar project aims to demonstrate how villages in the State can tap locally available solar resources and thus generate renewable energy. Further, the project will act as a model that can be implemented on a large scale, it added. The State Planning Commission has accepted the proposal of TEDA to install 170 KWp grid connected solar photovoltaic power plants without battery at Irumbai village, subject to the condition that 10% of the project cost has to be contributed by the local body, TNERC noted. The solar energy generated by the village project would be sold to Tangedco and the revenue would be utilised for further research, it noted. TEDA stated that with solar power, uninterrupted power supply will be given to the village. It will study the impact of the project on the village in terms of livelihood, education and economy, TNERC added. TNERC also fixed a levelised tariff of Rs. 0.96 per unit, at which Tangedco will procure the solar power and also gave certain exemptions for building infrastructure for the project. It also directed TEDA and Tangedco to meet all the compliance requirements in terms of the project.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,707 new COVD-19 cases identified in State||As many as 1,707 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Thursday, taking the tally to 7,64,989. At the same time, 2,251 patients were discharged from various health facilities in the State after treatment. So far, 7,39,532 persons have been discharged post-treatment, health officials said. Seven patients in private hospitals and 12 in government facilities succumbed to the virus, taking the toll due to the infection to 11,550. New cases in Chennai Chennai district registered 471 fresh cases and 593 persons were discharged. Four new deaths were recorded by hospitals in the district. As on date, 4,567 persons are under treatment. As many as 2,10,601 persons have been infected in the capital city so far. Of this, 2,02,242 persons have been discharged. The district has recorded 3,792 deaths. Coimbatore, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded over 100 cases in a day. In Coimbatore, 149 more persons were infected, while 119 cases were added in Chengalpattu. The district also recorded three deaths. Tiruvallur recorded 138 additional cases and two more persons died due to the infection. A few districts recorded less than 10 cases. The lowest number of infections were recorded in Perambalur, where two persons were found to be infected. Tenkasi saw five new cases; Dindigul six cases; and Ramanathapuram recorded seven additional cases. In Ariyalur district, eight fresh cases were diagnosed in the last 24 hours. According to the daily bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health, while one person with no co-morbid conditions had succumbed to the infection, 18 others had died due to complications arising from COVID-19. A 62-year-old man from Chennai, admitted on November 11 at the Government Corona Hospital, Guindy, died on Wednesday morning due to severe COVID pneumonia-induced respiratory failure and septic shock. The government has approved the molecular laboratory at the CHILDS Trust Medical Research Foundation in Chennai to test for COVID-19. With this, the State now has 213 testing centres, including 66 in the government and 147 in the private sector.  Govt. has approved the molecular laboratory at the CHILDS Trust Medical Research Foundation to test for COVID-19
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||41 projectors found missing from Anna University||As many as 41 projectors worth over Rs. 15 lakh, stored in a classroom in Anna University, were reportedly stolen. The Kotturpuram police have started investigation following a complaint from the university management. Police said the projectors were missing from a room in the C.V. Raman Science Park building. During the lockdown the building was used as a COVID Care Centre for patients in isolation. The projectors were removed and stored in a room when the building was handed over to the city corporation. The building was handed back to the Anna University administration in October. On Tuesday evening, when Muthukumar, a junior civil engineer, opened room number 101 where the projectors were stored and 41 projectors, which were used for classes, were missing. Based on the complaint from K. Gunasekaran, 55, an estate officer for the varsity, on Thursday, a case was registered and the matter was taken up for investigation.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State EAC feels draft EIA notification weakens its role||The draft EIA notification, 2020, weakens the role of the State Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC) and gives more authenticity to approved consultants, and this may not be good in the long run to preserve the environment, the SEAC-Tamil Nadu submitted to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Submitting its comments and suggestions on the draft notification, the SEAC also raised other issues, while welcoming the proposal to deal with projects that fall in the violation category. The Ministry disclosed details of the SEAC’s submissions in reply to a question under the Right to Information Act raised by an individual in Chennai. Weakened system In May this year, the SEAC convened a meeting of its members through videoconference. It objected to the proposal of the B2 category projects not being required to be placed before the SEAC and said the draft notification diluted the process and weakened the system for implementing innovative/cost-efficient technologies or processes to prevent the degradation of the environment. “For the issue of environmental permission [EP], if the projects are directly considered without an appraisal by the SEAC, the suitability of the proposed site, adequacy of the proposed control/mitigation measures to reduce the impact on the environment, as stated in the EMP [Environment Management Plan] proposed, cannot be verified thoroughly by the respective State Environment Impact Assessment Authority [SEIAA] since it is the approving authority,” it said. The SEAC has been constituted with experts drawn from multiple disciplines to assess proposals in a holistic way, evaluate human health risks and provide appropriate recommendations to the SEIAA. “Thus, our considered opinion is that all the B2 category projects should be appraised through the SEAC, and the recommendations would form the basis for the approval by the SEIAA,” the SEAC said. Cases of violation On the clause to deal with cases of violation, the SEAC said that currently there was no provision to deal with or regulate such cases after April 13, 2018, as per a Madras High Court order. The draft notification, however, provides a provision to deal with such projects that fall in the violation category. “This is a very good move. The MoEF&CC shall impose some stringent conditions, along with the high penalty, so as to avoid the intentional violations,” it said. The SEAC also deliberated on a few other clauses and submitted its recommendations and suggestions, while concluding that the draft notification weakened the role of the SEAC.  All the B2 category projects should be appraised through the SEAC, and the recommendations would form the basis for the approval by the SEIAA
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Section of government employees unhappy about pay revision process||The State government last week issued 24 orders, revising the pay scales of a section of its employees as per the recommendations of the Pay Grievance Redressal Committee (PGRC), 2019. While one section stood to gain with more pay, another alleged lack of transparency and lopsidedness in the process. However, Finance Department officials denied any bias and said all representations were taken into account. Overlooked The ones that gained the most are those in the Revenue and Police Departments, as they get a special pay of about Rs. 2,600, while employees in many other categories claim their rightful representations were overlooked. “All the G.O.s were issued based on the recommendations of the PGRC headed by retired High Court judge Justice D. Murugesan. But, why has the PGRC report not been made public as yet?” asked an employee. The PGRC constituted by the State government following a Supreme Court order in December was supposed to look into the anomalies in only 52 categories. However, the committee went beyond the terms of reference, alleged an employee. Since the PGRC called all associations irrespective of whether they were part of the litigation in the Supreme Court, naturally there was more expectations, he said. Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association general secretary M. Anbarasu claimed the G.O.s would result in further anomalies since the recommendations of the one-man commission by IAS officer M.A. Siddique are yet to be made public and implemented. “What if these recommendations (Justice Murugesan) are contrary to one-man commission’s?” he asked. The pay scales of those in posts such as Inspector of Survey & Land Records and Deputy Inspector of Survey & Land Records were earlier on a par with that of those in Revenue, Rural Development and Police Departments, but not so now. These posts have been downgraded and the PGRC too did not look into this issue, claimed another.  ‘Number Statement’ The ‘Number Statement’ containing the total number of postings along with pay scales in all departments are not being made public by the Finance Department any more and it leads to a lack of transparency, he pointed out. “At the most, there should be just 10 levels when there was only about that many educational qualifications,” he said Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association (TANSA) president S. Peter Antonysamy said: “We are hopeful that our demand to revise the pay scale of Assistant Section Officers and Deputy Secretaries would be solved at the earliest by the Chief Minister.” When contacted, a senior official in the Finance Department said: “There has to be an end to all their representations. It was only based on their pleas, the issue went to the Supreme Court and the State government constituted the PGRC. Only based on the committee’s recommendations, we have issued G.O.s. Now, they can’t keep on giving representations. There has to be a finality to all these.”  We are hopeful that our demand would be met at the earliest by the Chief Minister
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai gets a dedicated reservoir after 76 years||With the commissioning of the Kannankottai-Therovy Kandigai reservoir on Saturday, Chennai will get a dedicated reservoir for drinking water supply after a gap of 76 years. So far, the Satyamurti Sagar at Poondi, built across the Kosasthalaiyar during 1940-44 at a cost of Rs. 65 lakh, has the distinction of being the only storage point formed for water supply to the city. It was named after Chennai Mayor S. Satyamurti (1939-40) in recognition of his efforts to get the dam project implemented amid the Second World War. On June 14, 1944, the then Governor of Madras Presidency, Arthur Hope, declared open the reservoir. Located about 50 km from Chennai, the Kannankottai-Thervoy Kandigai reservoir, costing Rs. 380 crore, will store the Krishna water. This has been made possible through an 8.6-km link canal, which will take off from the Kandaleru-Poondi canal. Around 1,485 acres was acquired for the construction of the reservoir. Through two fillings, the new facility can store 1 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) in a year. It will facilitate the supply of 66 million litres a day (MLD) to the city. The reservoir will also supply water for irrigating 700 acres, according to an official release. The reservoir will be the fifth storage point for Chennai after the Satyamurti Sagar at Poondi, Cholavaram, Red Hills and Chembarampakkam. Though the Veeranam tank in Cuddalore district also feeds to the city supply by way of 180 MLD for a considerable part of the year, it is an irrigation reservoir. The combined capacity of the four reservoirs is 11.25 tmc ft. With the latest one, it will go up to 11.75 tmc ft. If all the five reservoirs are full on New Year Day (January 1), they can take care of the city’s water needs comfortably, as Chennai requires 1 tmc ft of water a month. The balance can easily be provided by Veeranam and two desalination plants of 100 MLD each, apart from groundwater sources. On Thursday morning, the four reservoirs had a storage of 7.097 tmc ft and Kannankottai-Therovy Kandigai had 138 million cubic feet (mcft). The State has received around 3 tmc ft of Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh so far this year. N. Meenakshisundaram, a water activist-engineer, has welcomed the commissioning of the new reservoir. He wants the government to make yet another attempt at building two more reservoirs at Ramancheri and Thirukkandalam, which were mooted in 1983 at the time of the inauguration of work on the Krishna Water Supply Project.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to interfere in deepam curbs||The Madras High Court on Wednesday refused to interfere with any of the restrictions imposed by the Tiruvannamalai district administration with respect to conduct of the Arunachaleswarar temple’s 17-day Karthigai Deepam festival which began on Tuesday and is scheduled to conclude on December 3. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha said it would be very difficult to follow the COVID-19 standard operating procedures during the festival. Disposing of a public interest litigation petition filed by V. Sakthivel, State vice-president of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), the Bench said relaxing any restrictions might make it difficult for the police to control the crowd and lead to other complications. Although the petitioner's counsel insisted that the processional deity must be taken in a temple car on the four Mada Streets around the temple on November 26, the judges said they were not inclined to interfere with the decision taken by the district administration as well as temple management in this regard. Explaining the restrictions imposed, the counsel for the temple management told the court that only 800 devotees would be permitted inside the temple every two hours after insisting on wearing of masks, checking body temperature and so on. The devotees would be allowed inside the temple only till November 28. The Bharani Deepam would be lit at 4 a.m. and the Maha Deepam at 6 p.m. on November 29 when no devotee would be allowed inside the temple. The entire festival would come to an end with the Sandikesavar Utsavam on December 3.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dry weather likely to prevail for few days: IMD||The Northeast monsoon is set to take a short break over the State for the next few days. The Meteorological Department forecasts largely dry weather in most parts till November 22. During the past 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday, Ottapidaram in Thoothukudi district received the highest amount of rainfall of 12 cm. Coonoor in Nilgiris district recorded the next highest rainfall of 9 cm. The Meteorological Department said a low pressure area had formed over central parts of the Arabian Sea and this may intensify into a depression by November 21. However, it might not have much impact. While light rain is possible in one or two places in south Tamil Nadu, dry weather is likely to prevail over north Tamil Nadu till November 22. There may be a slight increase in rainfall around November 23 and the next spell may begin around November 24, officials said. The city may experience dry weather, and the maximum temperature may be around 34 degree Celsius for two days. While many districts are yet to get their seasonal total rainfall, districts, including Ariyalur, Vellore, Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur and Nagapattinam, are among the most rain-deficient, with the shortfall above 45%. Inflow into city reservoirs, like Red Hills and Chembarambakkam, dropped to below 200 cusecs on Thursday. The storage at Chembarambakkam reservoir stood at 2,936 million cubic feet against its capacity of 3,645 mcft. Its water level has reached 21.31 ft against the full level of 24 ft. “We will maintain the level at 22 ft this month and take a decision on opening sluices depending on inflow and rainfall,” said a Water Resources Department official. Of the 909 waterbodies in Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu, nearly 126 tanks have reached capacity as on Thursday, according to the WRD.  The inflow into city reservoirs, like Chembarambakkam and Red Hills, dropped to below 200 cusecs on Thursday
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Today, spend an hour without gadgets||On World Children’s Day, which falls on Friday, ParentCircle is encouraging families to disconnect from gadgets and spend time together as part of their #GadgetFreeHour campaign. Focusing on parents and children in particular, #GadgetFreeHour aims at ensuring that they set aside their gadgets and spend time together — playing, talking, eating, laughing and rediscovering the pleasure of each other’s company. “Last year, when we initiated the #GadgetFreeHour campaign, we realised that spending time with children was the key for parents to build a strong and trusting relationship with them. This year, on November 20, from 7.30 p.m. to 8.30 p.m., we want families to turn off their gadgets for one hour and spend time with each other,” said Nalina Ramalakshmi, founder and managing director, ParentCircle. Stating that while the last few months have seen most families spending a lot more time under the same roof due to COVID-19 restrictions, she pointed out that most of them still sat alone with their gadgets either due to online classes, work or spending time on social media. “This makes the campaign even more important in the current scenario and we feel that it is important to have face-to-face interactions,” she added. The Tamil Nadu School Education Department too has supported the #GadgetFreeHour campaign. For further details, log on towww.gadgetfree- hour.com
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CSIR-SERC develops structure to help in restoration of power lines||Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)’s Structural Engineering Research Centre (SERC) has developed a modular, light weight structure that will help in quick restoration of power supply in case of failure of transmission towers. Santosh Kapuria, director of CSIR-SERC and a member of the team that developed the emergency response system (ERS), explained that it is fabricated using structure-grade aluminium and weighs around two tonnes each. “When transmission towers get bent or uprooted or damaged due to cyclones or earthquakes, the ERS can be installed in under three days and does not require any major construction to hold it up. Transmission towers that carry high tension lines through vast open spaces across the country, usually take a couple of months to construct and weigh between 25 and 50 tonnes each,” he said. The Chennai-based laboratory recently signed an agreement for licensing of this technology with Advait Infratech, Ahmedabad, which manufactures products related to transmission line utilities including optical fibre ground wires that act as earth wires and internet connectivity. Shalin Sheth, managing director of Advait, said that usually such structures are imported from countries such as Germany and Canada and they cost a lot. "The structure developed by CSIR-SERC will cost only 40% of such imported material. It can be scaled up to carry power lines from 33 KV to 800 KV. It can be easily assembled, reused, transported and stored," he said. It can be used as a temporary tower until transmission companies get the right of way for the towers, he said. CSIR-SERC has signed the agreement with Advait following an expression of interest it called for. "We are ready to transfer this technology to other companies too if they qualify. Though there are a few companies making ERS available worldwide, it is the first time this will be manufactured in India," Mr. Kapuria said.  The structure will cost only 40% of such imported material. It can be easily assembled, transported , reused and stored
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Visually-impaired woman gets fresh appointment order||Following repeated appeals about being denied a posting despite holding an appointment order, K. Thamarai, a visually impaired woman who had cleared the TNPSC Group IV exams received a fresh appointment order and took up posting as a junior assistant on Thursday. “I am extremely happy that I have joined work. I was keen on becoming financially stable and helping my family. This is the first step towards that,” said Ms. Thamarai, who hails from Thiruvannamalai. While she had initially received a posting in Chennai, she has now assumed charge at an office of the printing and stationery department in Salem. Ms. Thamarai had cleared the Group IV exams with a score of 202.50 marks. The TNPSC and the Commissioner of the Printing Department had issued appointment orders to her. Not suitable However, when she appeared at the Printing Department in Chennai in August to take up her posting, Ms. Thamarai alleged that she had been told that since she was visually-impaired, the job wasn’t suitable for her. A complaint had been raised regarding this by C. Govindakrishnan, founder, Nethrodaya, with the the State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities. The Commissionerhad also sought written submissions from the Commissioner, Stationery and Printing Department, and the Secretary, TNPSC, based on the complaint Mr. Govindakrishnan had alleged non implementation of the statutory rights granted under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016. “We are extremely happy that Thamarai has received her joining orders,” Mr. Govindakrishnan said.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Russian Tamil scholar is no more||Professor Alexander Dubiansky, a well-known Tamil scholar from Russia, who had visited Tamil Nadu many times and taken part in the World Classical Tamil Conference held in Coimbatore in 2010, died on Tuesday. “He died at a Moscow hospital, where he was admitted for treatment of COVID-19,” said P. Thangappan, secretary-general, Indo-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industries, and a friend of Professor Dubiansky. He worked as Tamil professor at Moscow State University, and his students today work in the field of education and the media. Tamil writer D. Jayakanthan, Tamil scholar Sivathampi and lyricist Vairamuthu are among his friends. “After the disintegration of the USSR, there was a lack of interest in Tamil learning and Dubiansky single-handedly revived the interest. Every year, he organised a workshop on Sangam poetry,” writer and Villupuram MP D. Ravikumar said. Recalling a paper presented by Professor Dubiansky, Mr. Ravikumar said it raised many questions about the contradiction between Tholkappiyam , the Tamil grammar text, and Sangam literature. “He had cited a lot of examples. But the topic remains undiscussed,” he said Mr. Thangappan said Professor Dubiansky was also an accomplished musician. “Once we met maestro Ilaiyaraaja, and the discussion went around music. When Ilaiyaraaja asked whether he had listened to his music, Professor Dubiansky played ‘ Intha minminikku kannil... ’, a song from the film Sigappu Rojakkal . Ilaiyaraaja was immensely pleased,” Mr. Thangappan recalled.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Specialised hospital for geriatric care launched in city||An exclusive, specialised hospital for geriatric care has been launched in the city. The hospital will offer comprehensive assessment of multiple comorbidities with an aim to reduce hospital stay and improve the quality of life of elders. Gericare Hospital was commissioned by senior geriatrician V.S. Natarajan, cardiologist S. Thanikachalam and Kauvery Hospital executive director Aravindan Selvaraj. Geriatricians Srinivas and Lakshmipathy Ramesh, founder director of Gericare, said it was India’s first exclusive geriatric hospital managed by experienced geriatricians adept at managing complex diseases and drug interactions due to an enhanced team approach. The philosophy is to start low and go slow in drug dosing.  An elder-friendly environment including hand rails, wash rooms, anti-skid floors and trained nurses are some of its features. The hospital has 24/7 emergency care, emergency and non-emergency ambulance service, besides providing continuity of care from hospital to home, home care nursing, assisted living and skilled nursing care. It will also offer preventive geriatric check-ups at home, reducing waiting time at the hospital for consultation.
20 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands cancellation of tenders for speed-monitors||Alleging irregularities in the tender process for installing speed-monitoring cameras on national highways, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday demanded cancellation of tenders on the ground that the rate had been increased from Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 900 crore. “The postponement of tenders for ten times without opening them has raised doubts,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said the tenders for installing cameras between Chengalpattu and Tiruchi national highway were called on August 28, 2019 and many corrections were made in the pre-bidding meeting to pave way for irregularities. “New rules were in favour of a few companies. In the beginning it was decided to install 200 cameras and subsequently the numbers were raised to 1,000 resulting in the increase of price to Rs. 900 crore,” he claimed. Alleging that the additions were included in the tender process only to help a new company and a Minister, Mr. Stalin said the decision to bring down the years of experience of the companies was actually to help a particular company. “The cameras are installed to prevent speeding and to save human lives. Irregularities in the tenders are unpardonable,” he said. Mr. Stalin said between 2016 and 2020 the government had changed four secretaries in the Transport department led by Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar and secretaries were used as a puppet.  The postponement of tenders for ten times without opening them has raised doubts M.K. Stalin DMK chief
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot urges PM to help Haj pilgrims||The Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to restore the Chennai International airport as an embarkation point for Haj pilgrims. The city had continued to be an important embarkation point since flights to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, began operation in 1987. However, this time the Haj Committee of India, Mumbai, did not include Chennai as an embarkation centre for Haj 2021. Instead, pilgrims from Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands were clubbed with those from Kochi in Kerala. This would cause difficulties for the elderly and weak pilgrims, he said. The Tamil Nadu Haj Committee and the Tamil Nadu Haj Service Society had an exclusive Haj House for pilgrims, he said, adding that he appreciated the State’s Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami request to Mr. Modi to intervene and restore Chennai as an embarkation point.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elaborate security for Amit Shah’s visit||The city police have made elaborate arrangements to provide security to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who is visiting the city this weekend. Sources said all arrangements are in place to ensure that all functions in which he is participating on Saturday and Sunday pass off smoothly. Over 7,000 police personnel will be on duty. Mr. Shah is under Z-Plus security cover. However, no extensive traffic diversions will be put in place. Traffic will be only stopped briefly to ensure the passage of the Home Minister's convoy, said a senior police officer.
20 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Night duty officers’ phone numbers circulated||The phone numbers of police officers on night patrol are sent to the public daily so that they can contact them in case of emergency. The initiative was first launched at Adyar and T. Nagar and then extended to all police districts in the city. Every day, a night duty roster is prepared by a senior officer and communicated to the control room. The law and order and traffic police release the roster separately. The phone numbers are circulated on social media and WhatsApp groups. A senior officer said, “The idea is to release the list of our officers on night rounds for the public to call up the officers concerned in case of any emergency or disturbance or motor vehicle accident. The officer concerned will quickly render assistance. This facility is in addition to the existing control room numbers.” Two officers of the rank of Deputy Commissioners are deployed to supervise the night rounds every day, and 12 Assistant Commissioners and 35 inspectors are assigned duties, besides other policemen.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M launches training in banking, financial services||The Indian Institute of Technology - Madras’ Digital Skill Academy has launched training courses in banking, financial services and insurance sector. The certified courses are being offered jointly with Infact Pro Trainers. Students and working professionals, interested in a career in the BFSI sector, can take these courses. The certificate courses include digital banking, mutual funds, securities operations and risk management and equity derivatives. The academy is a joint venture of the institute and NASSCOM IT-IT enabled services sector Skill Council of India. Those who complete the course will receive a certificate from the Centre for Continuing Education at the Institute. The course details are available athttps:// skillsacademy.iitm.ac.in. Academy head K. Mangala Sunder said the objective was to provide graduating students and employees in multiple industrial sectors skill for employment or re-skilling in relevant sectors. Those interested may contactmangalas@dth.ac.inormangal@iitm.ac.inand Balaji Iyer atchairman@infactpro.com. The academy is chaired by Lakshmi Narayanan, Founder-CEO of Cognizant Technology Solutions, and M.S. Ananth, former Director of IIT-Madras. The courses provide students a virtual office, giving them a real-life simulation of actual work environment throughout the courses.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DME constitutes panel to deal with nativity claims||The Directorate of Medical Education (DME) has created a five-member expert committee to look into complaints of “false nativity claims” made by aspirants to medical seats in the State. The committee comprises Deputy Directors of Medical Education M. Selvaraj and G. Vimala Devi; P. Parasakthi, Director of the Institute of Forensic Medicine, Madras Medical College; K. Rajasekar, professor of Ophthalmology; P. Thirunavukkarasu, head, Physical Medicine; and V. Avudaiappan, Registrar, Tamil Nadu Homoeopathy Council. Any disputes regarding nativity will be referred to the committee for scrutiny and the committee will give a decision that will be adopted as per the norms listed on the prospectus, said R. Narayana Babu, Director of Medical Education. The DME said the committee had been constituted on Wednesday, the first day of counselling for medical and dental seats under the State quota. Soon after the merit list for the State seats was released by the DME, complaints arose that Mohanaprabha Ravichandran, who had been ranked second, featured on the medical merit list in Kerala State. Concerns were raised that she had claimed nativity in that State as well as in Tamil Nadu.  Another list On Wednesday, as counselling began for seats reserved for government school students, another list of medical applicants emerged — this time a list of 34 candidates who had applied to colleges in Telangana as well as in Tamil Nadu. Ms. Mohanaprabha’s father Ravichandran said his daughter had applied for self-financing and private medical colleges in Kerala under a scheme that permits other State candidates to apply. “We are natives of Namakkal and we have not forged nativity for applications in Kerala. We applied under the non-Keralite II scheme in Kerala, in which those who are not natives of the State can apply for seats in private and self-financed medical colleges, and would be considered if seats are not filled through counselling there,” Mr. Ravichandran told The Hindu.  Since his daughter had scored good marks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), she had appeared for the all-India counselling. Ms. Mohanaprabha had secured All India Rank 62 and is placed second on the State merit list. In the merit list in Kerala, she is ranked fifth among the top 10 candidates. She has since been admitted to JIPMER. Ever since NEET became the qualifying criteria for medical seats, certain kinds of malpractices have crept in. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said the DME had put in place “checks and balances”, and candidates were expected to give a signed affidavit that all information provided by them was genuine. Malpractice would be attributed only if a student had claimed nativity in two different States as part of their MBBS application, he said.  (With inputs from Staff Reporter in Salem)
20 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Idol Wing probing case of missing idol||The Idol Wing CID is probing the case of a missing 10th century idol from Egmore Museum in the city. The stone idol of Maheshamurthi is from Thirumalacheri near Kaveripakkam. This Maheshamurthi, dating back to the 10th century, is said to belong to the Rashtrakuta King Krishna III period, when he ruled the Chola kingdom ( around 960 CE). It was in an open ground when photographed by renowned scholar Gopinath Rao in 1914. The sculpture was photographed and studied in the same place till 1990. It went missing in 1995 and was traced to a godown in Pallavaram during a raid by Idol wing in 1996. It was being prepared to be smuggled abroad under the guise of garden furniture. A case was filed against a village president who claimed to have purchased the idol. The idol was seized and brought to the Madras museum for safe keeping while the case was going on in court. The idol was photographed by various persons, including an eminent archaeologist who has published the photo in his 2006 book, when it was still in the museum. Sources in the Idol Wing CID confirmed that the matter was taken up for investigation. “That such an important sculpture linked to Rashtrakuta ruler Krishna III who fought the Cholas in the famous Thakkolam battle, can be lost from a secure museum is shocking. This was clearly a documented public antiquity of great historical significance,” said S.Vijay Kumar, art enthusiast and founder of India Pride.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK chief demands cancellation of tenders for speed-monitors||Alleging irregularities in the tender process for installing speed-monitoring cameras in national highways, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday demanded cancellation of tenders on the ground that the rate had been increased from Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 900 crore. “The postponement of tenders for 10 times without opening them has raised doubts,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He said the tenders for installing cameras between Chengalpattu and Tiruchi national highway were called on August 28, 2019 and many corrections were made in the pre-bidding meeting to pave way for irregularities. “New rules were in favour of a few companies. In the beginning it was decided to install 200 cameras and subsequently the numbers were raised to 1,000 resulting in the increase of price to Rs. 900 crore,” he claimed. Alleging that the additions were included in the tender process only to help a new company and a Minister, Mr. Stalin said the decision to bring down the years of experience of the companies was actually to help a particular company.   ‘Unpardonable’ “The cameras are installed to prevent speeding and to save human lives. Irregularities in the tenders are unpardonable,” he said. Mr. Stalin said between 2016 and 2020 the government had changed four Secretaries in the Transport Department led by Minister M.R. Vijayabaskar and that they were used as puppets.  Cost of project has increased from Rs. 25 crore to Rs. 900 crore
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SHRC awards relief to retired sub-inspector||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) on Wednesday recommended the Tamil Nadu government to pay compensation of Rs. 50,000 to a retired sub-inspector, who was allegedly assaulted by police personnel at the Valasaravakkam police station here in August 2018, in connection with a property dispute. SHRC acting Chairperson D. Jayachandran also recommended that the sum be recovered from sub-inspector P.B. Theerthagiri, who was then attached to the station, besides recommending initiation of disciplinary action against the latter as per the rules. According to complainant N. Boobalan, he retired as sub-inspector after 32 years of service. He had a property dispute with his younger brother and a civil suit against the same was still pending before a subordinate judge in Poonamallee. While so, the complainant was summoned to the police station on August 27, 2018, where Theerthagiri allegedly slapped him repeatedly, before snatching his mobile phone and some documents. Inspector U. Muthuraja also kicked him, the complainant alleged. “Thereafter, at the instigation of the first respondent, the second respondent registered a criminal case against the complainant under Section 75 of the Tamil Nadu City Police Act, 1888, and after obtaining the signature in the papers he was left off by the respondents...,” the complaint read. Hence, Mr. Boobalan approached the SHRC. The respondents denied all allegations. After hearing both sides, the SHRC said, “Considering the oral and documentary evidence and also the arguments of both parties, this Commission is of the considered view that the complainant has established the fact that he was taken to the police station on the said date and detained there up to 6 p.m.,” and added that it was established that a false case was registered against the complainant. “Therefore, the action on the part of the second respondent is against Article 21 of the Constitution, and thereby the second respondent had violated the human rights of the victim,” the SHRC added.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Projectors stolen from varsity||As many as 41 projectors worth more than Rs. 15 lakh were reportedly stolen from a classroom in Anna University. The Kotturpuram police began investigation following a complaint from the management. The police said the projectors went missing from a room in the C.V. Raman Science Park building. During the lockdown, the building was used as a COVID-19 Care Centre for patients in isolation. The projectors were removed and stored in a room when the building was handed over to the Corporation. The building was handed back to the Anna University administration in October. On Tuesday evening, when Muthukumar, a junior civil engineer, opened the room where the projectors were stored away, he noticed that 41 devices were missing. Based on a complaint from K. Gunasekaran, 55, who is an estate officer for the university, on Thursday, a case was registered and the matter was taken up for investigation.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Workmen special services expanded||While Southern Railway is bringing relaxations for allowing more commuters to use the workmen special suburban trains in the city, it has been simultaneously increasing services. The Chennai division began operating nearly 250 electrical multiple unit trains from Thursday. Southern Railway officials said the workmen special trains had been increased to 244. This is the second instance of service expansion after the first week of November, when the number of trains were increased from 154 to 204. Services to Tiruttani have been introduced and EMUs to Sullurpeta have been increased, taking into consideration a number of commuters visiting the city from far off places like Tiruttani and beyond Gummidipoondi. Since the introduction of the workmen specials from October 5, Southern Railway has been gradually unlocking services for office- goers, staff of educational institutions, workers involved in transport operations and for personnel of print and electronic media. Commuters on the Mass Rapid Transit System stretch between Chennai Beach and Velachery complained about services being inadequate during the evening rush hour.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Arrest, remand BJP cadres organising ‘Vetrivel Yatra’: VCK||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol. Thirumavalavan on Thursday said BJP leaders and cadres, who are organising the Vetrivel Yatra despite the police not giving permission for it, should be arrested and remanded in custody. “There is suspicion that the ruling AIADMK is supporting the Yatra. If the opposition expressed by the government in the court is true, they must arrest the BJP cadres participating in the yatra and remand them,” he said in a statement. Arresting them in the morning and releasing them out in the evening is a mere eyewash. He claimed the AIADMK is gathering crowd for the yatra and the BJP is involved in hate campaign.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 more held in Sowcarpet murder case||The police on Thursday apprehended three accused, including the daughter-in-law of a businessman who was shot dead along with his wife and son in Sowcarpet over marital dispute. Additional Commissioner of Police, North, A. Arun said, “Three accused who were on the run were apprehended by a special team. They will be produced before a local court there and after obtaining a transit warrant, they will be brought here.” Police said the accused were Jayamala, 38, her brother Vikash and another associate. Last Wednesday, Dileep Thalil Chand, 74, who ran a finance firm, his wife Pushpa Bai, 68, and their son, Shithal Kumar, 42, were found dead in their home on Vinayaga Maestri Street in Sowcarpet. The police said they had been shot dead. A special team had earlier arrested three suspects — Kailash, 32, a brother of Jayamala (daughter-in-law of Dileep Chand) and his associates — Ravindranath Kher, 25, of Kolkata, and Vijay Uttam Kamal, 28, of Pune. The police interrogated Kailash and his associates. Sources said Kailash reportedly told the police that his sister was mentally and physically harassed by the family. So he and his associates came down from Pune and gunned them down. He also disclosed where they got the weapons from, police said. Jayamala and Shithal Kumar married 10 years ago. However, they were estranged since last January. Jayamala lived with her two children at her parents’ home in Pune. Both sides preferred criminal complaints against each other in Chennai and Pune over monetary demands.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7.5% quota: 180 students on wait list||As many as 180 candidates were wait-listed for the medical admissions on Thursday, the last day of counselling under the 7.5% reservation for NEET-qualified State government school students. All 227 seats in government medical colleges and 86 seats in self-financing medical colleges were filled under the quota. Similarly, all 12 government dental college seats were filled, whereas 33 seats in private dental colleges were not filled. 123 seats allotted A total of 123 seats were allotted on Thursday. Of the 374 candidates who were called for counselling, 303 attended and 71 were absent. Three seats in government medical colleges and 82 in self-financing medical colleges were allotted, Selection Secretary G. Selvarajan said. As many as 80 candidates opted to be wait-listed. On Thursday, candidates who had been allotted seats in the city colleges completed the paperwork for registering in their respective colleges.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for chit fund fraud||The Sankar Nagar police on Wednesday arrested a couple who cheated several persons after collecting Rs. 2 crore on the pretext of a chit fund scheme. The names of the arrested were given as Anthony Raja, 48, a tender coconut vendor, and his wife Gnana Seline, 45, of Anna Nagar in Anakaputhur. They had collected from Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 15 lakh from neighbours living in the area promising to pay high returns. The couple failed to repay the amount as promised and threatened the people who questioned them.
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. to strengthen drive against illegal electric fencing||The Forest Department has decided to strengthen inspection of farms adjoining forest boundaries to check whether farmers use illegal electric fencing. The step has been taken after a tusker aged around 30 was electrocuted after it came into contact with an illegal electric fencing around a banana plantation at Puthukkadu village at Sirumugai early on Wednesday. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh said that the Forest Department officials have were inspecting farms near forest boundaries periodically. “The department had started special inspections and surprise raids to check poaching when the lockdown started. The field staff were also asked to check the use of illegal electric fencing during such inspections. The farm where the tusker was electrocuted on Wednesday did not have fencing around it when the field staff visited the area a week ago,” he said. Fences powered with direct current (DC) energiser, which leaves mild intermittent shock to scare animals, are allowed. However, some farmers connect alternative current (AC) to the fences which leads to electrocution as the one occurred on Wednesday. The land owner had taken power to the fence from a pump house, officials found during investigation. “It has been observed that farmers fix stumps around plantations late evening and attach thin metal wires to make temporary electric fences. This poses risk of electrocution to the field staff if they do inspections at night. We are also planning to create awareness among the farmers about the risks and legal issues of such fences as they can also kill humans who accidentally come into contact with them,” said Mr. Venkatesh. He added that the Department will also seek the support of Tangedco for joint inspections in farms to curb the use of illegal electric fences.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Nine govt. school students get medical admission on first day||On the first day of counselling for admissions to medical and dental courses on Wednesday, nine government school students from Coimbatore, who cleared NEET, got seats in government medical colleges under the 7.5 % horizontal reservation. Officials from the Department of School Education said on Thursday that 21 students from the district were eligible for the horizontal reservation. The nine students received admissions at Stanley Medical College in Chennai, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore, Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Government Tiruvarur Medical College, Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. J. Dharani, who had the highest NEET mark in the district’s list with 461 out of 720, got admission at Stanley Medical College. Having passed out from the Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School at R.S. Puram in 2017, this was her fourth attempt in NEET. “I was expecting to get admission at Madras Medical College or Stanley Medical College,” she told The Hindu over phone, expressing happiness for securing a seat in the latter. Her father was a goldsmith in Coimbatore and she received coaching at a private institute through scholarship last year, Ms. Dharani said. A. Sridevi scored 450 marks and got admission at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. She passed out from the Government Higher Secondary School, Chettipalayam, in 2019. “I also had the option of Stanley Medical College, but my parents hesitated as it was far away,” she said. Her parents were labourers and she received free NEET coaching for her second attempt through a private study circle, Ms. Sridevi said. First attempt On Thursday, three more government school students from Coimbatore got admission. P. Bistis Prisca and S. Ramya from the Government Higher Secondary School in Velliangadu and V. Poongodi from the Government Higher Secondary School in Arasur cleared NEET 2020 in their first attempt and got admission in three self-financing colleges, officials said. Ms. Prisca (Scheduled Caste) scored 167 marks, Ms. Ramya (Scheduled Tribes) scored 145 marks, and Ms. Poongodi of SC-A (Arunthathiyar) scored 140 marks in NEET 2020.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Devotees not to be allowed for Soorasamharam at Marudhamalai||Devotees will not be allowed to witness the Soorasamharam event at the Subramaniya Swami Temple at Marudhamalai on Friday amid the COVID-19 pandemic, said officials from Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Department. The temple will be closed for devotees between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m., during which the Soorasamharam will be conducted in the presence of the priests and temple staff. Devotees will be allowed from 6 a.m. to 1 p.m. and after 5 p.m. with the standard operating procedures in place on Friday. Similarly, the devotees will not be allowed from 7 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. for the Thirukalyanam celebrations on Saturday. Live broadcast from the temple on Friday and Saturday for the devotees is yet to be finalised, according to the HR & CE Department officials.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  Similarly, devotees will not be allowed to participate in the Soorasamharam to be held at Kailasanathar Temple at the foothills of Chennimalai on Friday. A Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments official said that darshan will be allowed as usual at the Arulmigu Subramanya Swamy Temple at the hilltop.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Medical student found dead at hostel room in Coimbatore||A final year student of a private medical college in Coimbatore district was found dead at the hostel room on Thursday. The police have identified the deceased as Naveenkumar (22), a native of Tiruvannamalai. According to the police, the student came to the college hostel five days ago to prepare for an examination to clear an arrear. Injured in accident His left hand was fractured in an accident a few days ago, the police said. The police, quoting information shared from the the hostel administration, said that student’s mother had visited him on Thursday morning. The mother, who left the hostel in the afternoon, tried to reach her son over phone in the evening. According to the police, as there was no response from her son, the woman contacted the hostel warden, who inspected the hostel room. The warden found the student dead and informed the Chettipalayam police. Post-mortem The body was sent to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem after the inquest.  (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Naval Communication Network Centre inaugurated||Vice Admiral A.K. Chawla, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Naval Command (SNC), inaugurated a new Naval Communication Network Centre at the INS Agrani, the Leadership and Management Training Establishment of the Indian Navy, here on Thursday. The SNC chief reviewed the training infrastructure of the establishment and received the guard of honour, said an official release. He was on a two-day annual inspection visit to INS Agrani which concluded on Thursday. During the visit, he interacted with naval personnel, including defence civilian employees, and highlighted the important role played by the unit in imparting leadership and management skills to the under-trainees, the release said. Sapana Chawla, president of Navy Wives Welfare Association, Southern Region, who accompanied the Vice Admiral, inaugurated the newly constructed multi-purpose audio-visual room-cum-computer lab at the Navy Children School, Coimbatore. Accommodation She also inaugurated the Single Officers’ in-living accommodation at the Naval Officers Mess, Agrani, and interacted with the women of the establishment, said the release.
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman killed in elephant attack||A 70-year-old woman from a tribal settlement near Pooluvapatti in Coimbatore district was killed in an elephant attack on Thursday. The Forest Department said S. Maruthammal of Sarkar Porathi tribal settlement was trampled to death early on Thursday. The field staff, who were on a patrol at Mullankad beat coming under Vellapathy section of Pooluvapatti forest range, found the body around 100 metres away from a bus stop near the settlement. There were elephant footprints around the body. With the help of villagers, the staff identified the deceased. The villagers told them that she was residing alone at the settlement. The Department passed the information to the Alandurai police station for inquest and post-mortem proceedings. In another incident, C. Sakthivel of Mathvarayapuram near Alandurai was injured in the attack of an elephant at Kodungarapallam within the limits of Periyanaickenpalayam forest range. According to the Department, the elephant chased Sakthivel and another person when they were travelling on a two-wheeler through a mud road at Kodungarapallam on Tamil Nadu – Kerala border around 7 a.m. The elephant pushed Mr. Sakthivel while the other person managed to escape. Mr. Sakthivel complained of chest pain apart from the injuries he suffered on legs and hip. He was admitted to the Government Tribal Speciality Hospital, Kottathara, in Palakkad district. Officials said Mr. Sakthivel had been staying at Kallakara near Kottathara for work.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jharkhand woman airlifted for emergency procedure||Doctors at Gem Hospital, Coimbatore, recently performed an emergency surgery to save the life of a 94-year-old woman from Jharkhand who was suffering from chest pain due to the herniation of the stomach into the chest, said a release. The woman, who had a recent attack of COVID-19, was brought to the hospital in an air ambulance after she developed severe chest pain, the release said. A surgical team led by Gem Hospital chairman C. Palanivelu corrected the condition by bringing the stomach back to its position apart from closing a defect in the diaphragm to prevent herniation of stomach in future, said the release. The woman recovered and got discharged seven days after the surgery. Emergency procedure saves COVID-19 patient Doctors at Kovai Medical Center and Hospital successfully treated a 60-year-old COVID-19 patient who had intestinal bleeding. The patient was admitted to the hospital on October 10 after he was vomiting blood besides having presence of blood in stool. The patient had undergone an angioplasty with stenting following a heart attack on September 26, due to which he was on anti-clotting medication. But this increased the risk of intestinal bleeding. As the patient also tested positive for COVID-19, it was difficult to perform the emergency surgery. Also, stopping anti-clotting medication could lead to a block in stent and another heart attack, said a release. The intestinal bleeding was corrected with a surgery on October 12. The patient was given breathing support in COVID-19 ICU. He was discharged from the hospital on October 24, the release said.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw drivers to stage demonstration on Nov. 26||The Coimbatore District Association of All Auto Rickshaw Workers Union said that its members would stage a demonstration outside the Regional Transport Office (Central) on November 26 pressing for a set of demands. In a statement, the Union’s president P.K. Sukumaran said autorickshaws that applied for renewal of fitness certificates (FC) must install reflective tapes. He alleged that the private agents who sold these reflective tapes fleeced the drivers by increasing the cost of tapes. The protesters would urge the State government to cancel the licences of agents who allegedly increased the cost of the reflective tapes, Mr. Sukumaran said. The drivers would also demand adequate compensation for those who were hit by the COVID-19 lockdown and a pension of Rs. 5,000 for all drivers who completed 60 years of age, Mr. Sukumaran said. Transport Department officials said no formal complaint regarding expensive reflective tapes was made to any Regional Transport Officers yet. While the State government had authorised two companies to sell the reflective tapes, which had been made mandatory for all commercial vehicles, it had not fixed the prices, the officials said.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MPs to meet Amit Shah||Members of Parliament from the western districts plan to meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his visit to Chennai on Saturday and seek re-opening of textile mills operated by National Textile Corporation (NTC) in the State. Resume operations Coimbatore MP P. R. Natarajan in a press release said that the spread of COVID-19 seems to be on the decline and following relaxations in lockdown restrictions, industries across the country have resumed operations. Textile units in Tamil Nadu have also re-started production. However, the NTC management is not re-opening the textile mills. This has led to uncertainty of employment for thousands of workers and they were not getting wages regularly. The NTC has seven mills in Tamil Nadu. Protests staged The trade union members were staging several protests to highlight their demands. The members met on Thursday and decided to represent their grievance to the Union Minister.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Apparel exporters want trade agreement with U.K.||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has appealed to the Centre to enter into a preferential trade agreement with the United Kingodm who face tariff disadvantage in that country. Council chairman A. Sakthivel has said in a press release that, “It has been learnt that after the implementation of Brexit in January 2021, 47 Least Developed Countries (LDCs), including Bangladesh, will continue to enjoy preferential trade benefits in the UK. This will be a continuation of the disadvantage to Indian apparels in the important and potential market of the UK. India has been losing out to its competitors in the UK and hence we request to initiate discussions for an early trade pact for apparels in the run-up to FTA,” he said. The AEPC had earlier requested the Central Government to fast track negotiations to enter into a Free Trade Agreement with the UK to boost apparel exports. Tariff disadvantage Apparel exports to the UK, which is India’s third largest export destination after the United States and west Asian countries, have been facing a tariff disadvantage of 9.6 % as against countries such as Bangladesh due to the European Union’s Generalised Scheme of Preferences (GSP). It is learnt that the UK plans to continue offering it to 47 LDCs. Garments export India’s ready made garments exports to the UK fell 0.8 % to $ 1,606 million in 2019 from $ 1,619 million in 2018, cutting the UK’s share in India’s exports to 9.7% from 10.3%, he added.
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||15 students join medical colleges in Coimbatore||Fifteen students joined the MBBS course at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore, under the 7.5% horizontal reservation on Thursday. CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said 10 students from different districts, including two from Coimbatore, joined the MBBS course at the institution on Thursday. Eight of them were girls. CMCH has a total of 150 MBBS seats. At the ESI Hospital, five students joined on Thursday, said Dean A. Nirmala. Of them, three were boys. The Dean and a team of professors welcomed the students, one each from Coimbatore, the Nilgiris and Dharmapuri districts and two from Salem. ESI Hospital has a total of 100 MBBS seats.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||UG counselling at TNAU from November 26||Counselling for undergraduate courses at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) will begin on November 26, Dean M. Kalyanasundaram said on Thursday. For the general quota candidates, the admissions will be held online from November 26 to 28. Following this, offline counselling for special reservations such as ex-servicemen, differently abled, sports and vocational will be conducted on November 30 and December 1, a release said. The TNAU will also conduct offline counselling for diploma candidates from December 3 to 6. After the counselling, the University will call around 600 candidates each day from December 7 to 12 to verify certificates, which will be held as per the COVID-19 standard operating procedures issued by the State government. For the general quota candidates, the seat and degree programme allotment will be informed online on December 2 and the date and time of certificate verification will be intimated to all the candidates through their respective email addresses and mobile numbers, the release said. For details regarding the online and offline counselling processes, log on tohttps://tnauonline.in
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minar Group plans to invest in Coimbatore||Kerala-based Minar Group of Companies plans to invest in a TMT steel products making facility here. A. Mohammed Shafi, Managing Director of the group, told The Hindu on Thursday that it planned to invest Rs. 150 crore in a plant here, depending on the market response to its products. Minar would launch its TMT steel bars here on Friday. It proposed to have 70 to 80 dealers in the district. If the products got encouraging response, the group would invest in a production facility with an annual manufacturing capacity of two lakh tonnes. It would be used to meet the demand in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The plant would come up on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border in Coimbatore district and generate employment for nearly 500 people, he said. Minar has two plants in Kanjikode and a rolling unit in Kozhikode. It plans to expand in Tamil Nadu by extending initially to districts near Coimbatore.
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman dies in accident||An 80-year-old woman from Pollachi was killed when she was knocked down by a speeding car while standing in front of her house on Wednesday evening. The deceased has been identified as P. Kannammal of M.G.R. Nagar at Nallampalli near Pollachi. N. Gunasekar (34) of the same locality drove his car negligently and knocked down the woman, the police said. She died on the spot. The police booked Gunasekar in connection with the accident.  Burglary attempt The Podanur police on Wednesday registered a case in connection with a burglary attempt reported at the Eachanari branch of Manappuram Finance Ltd on Monday night. Sheik Usman Basha, branch manager, complained to the police that the alarm at the office went off and watchman found that a lock of the rolling shutter was broken. The police checked visuals from different surveillance cameras to trace culprits.
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Posters against Stalin resurface||Anonymous posters lampooning DMK president M.K. Stalin resurfaced in many parts of Coimbatore city on Thursday. Senior leaders of DMK in the district condemned the incident while the party’s youth wing leader in Coimbatore district Kottai Abbas petitioned Coimbatore City Police Commissioner to take action against persons who are doing the campaigning. His petition said that such posters, which did not have the name of the printing press where they were printed, had appeared in different parts of the city before and the police should trace the campaigners. DMK MLA from Singanallur N. Karthik said the legal wing of the party in Coimbatore would also approach the police seeking action against persons who pasted the posters. He added that the party’s leadership from the headquarters had taken steps to deal with the ‘hate campaign’ legally. The police said efforts were under way to trace where the posters were printed.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||In The Zone to be launched today||“In The Zone”, a platform to ideate, collaborate, and co-create for businesses, will be launched on November 20. “In the Zone” is a confluence of a diverse set of influencers, innovators, domain experts and professionals who will deliver by collaborating with each other, a release says.www.inthezone.co.inwill also have guest experience videos during the one year trial run by its users. K. Ramasamy, Chairman of Roots Group, will inaugurate the platform. The virtual launch event will have industrialists, business owners, professionals, innovators, technologists and ideation enthusiasts as guests.
20 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sainik school extends last date||The last date to apply for the All India Sainik Schools Entrance Examination (AISSEE) has been extended till December 3, Sainik School Amaravathinagar announced on Thursday. The AISSEE for the academic year 2021-22 will be held on January 10, 2021. Interested students can apply online athttps://aissee.nta.nic.inand visitwww.sainikschoolamaravathi nagar.edu.infor details.   Corporation officials on Thursday removed encroachments on Cross Cut Road in Gandhipuram. They took down banners that were allegedly encroaching the space near Aavin store in Gandhipuram, a release said.
20 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas coming under Peelamedu sub-station on November 21 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Bharathi Colony, Elango Nagar, Burani Colony, Shoba Nagar, Ganapathy Industrial Estate, Police Quarters, Krishnarajapuram, Athipalayampirivu, Ramakrishnapuram, Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, VG Rao Nagar, PSG Estate, PSG Hospital, Kamathenu Nagar, Nehru Street, Anna Nagar, Arumugam layout, Indira Nagar, Nava India, Gopal Nagar, Peelamedu Pudur, Ellaithottam, VOC Colony, PKG Nagar, Agilandeswari Nagar, Puliyakulam, Amman Kulam, Bharathipuram, Pankaja Mill, Damu Nagar, Balasubramaniam Nagar, Balaguru Garden, Sowripalayam, Krishna Colony, Rajaji Nagar, Meena Estate, Udayampalayam, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Parson Apartments, Sreepathy Nagar, Kallimadai, Ramanathapuram, part of Trichy Road, Nanjundapuram Road and Tiruvalluvar Nagar.  Pappanaikenpalayam and Race Course sub-stations (9 a.m. to 4 p.m.): Avarampalayam, Ganesh Nagar, Nava India Road, Ganapathy Bus Stand, Siddhapudur, Pazhayur, PN Palayam, GKNM Hospital, Alamu Nagar, Ramakrishna Hospital and Kalyana Mandapam, Crematorium, Pudivayar Nagar, Sungam to Olampus Trichy Road left side, Thomas Park, Kamarajar Road, Race Course, Avinashi Road from Anna Statue to Collectorate, Trichy Road from Kannan Departmental Store to Ramanathapuram, Puliakulam Road, Ramanathapuram 80 feet Road, Susila Nagar, Rukmani Nagar, Bharathi Nagar 1-6, Pappammal Layout, Park Town, Karunanidhi Nagar and Angannan Street.
20 November 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Wild elephant rescued from well after 14-hour struggle||A female elephant that fell into a well near Palacode in Dharmapuri on Thursday was rescued late in the night, after a nearly 14-hour struggle. According to officials from the Forest Department, the elephant, aged about 25 years, fell into a farm well owned by Venkatachalam in Ellikundanoor around 4.30 a.m. On hearing the cries of the animal from the well, the farmer alerted officials. The water in the well was at a low level. The elephant had been roaming with two other elephants in the area for the past few days, the officials added. District Forest Officers S. Prabhu from Krishnagiri and Rajkumar from Dharmapuri oversaw the rescue operations and over 50 officials from the Forest Department, the Fire and Rescue Services and the police were involved in the process. According to officials, the well was about 55-feet deep and water from the well was pumped out. Two JCB machines, trucks and cranes were used to pull the elephant out from the well. Coconut tree leaves were dropped into the well to feed the elephant. A team, led by wildlife veterinarian Prakash, administered three darts, two of which hit and tranquilised the animal. The personnel then lifted the elephant out. According to officials from the Forest Department, the elephant will be released into the Hosur forest area, from where it had come here.
20 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Arrival of cattle to shandy drops over fear of lumpy skin disease||Incessant rain and spread of lumpy skin disease in cattle in the district led to drop in cattle arrival at the weekly shandy at Karungalpalayam here on Thursday. Weekly market Farmers from various districts bring their cattle to the market that is held on Thursdays and traders from across the State and from Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and a few other States purchase cattle and transport it to their native in vehicles. On Thursday, traders arrived as usual and waited for farmers to bring their cattle. But, less than 600 cattle were brought for sale. Farmers said that they fear that the disease is fast spreading to cattle in the district and hence, many did not bring their cattle. Earlier, veterinarians from the Department of Animal Husbandry screened the cattle for the disease and allowed them to enter the shandy. Corporation officials screened the farmers and traders for fever, and instructed them to wear face masks. Veterinarians said that the disease causes reduction in milk yield and also abortion in cattle. They said that large sized lymph nodes will form in the body of the cattle with fever and it should be treated. If not, the nodes will break open and it will spread to other cattle, they added. They said that cattle affected by the disease should be kept in isolation as the virus could be spread by mosquitoes and flies.
20 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||15 tonnes of cracker waste removed in Erode Corpn. limits||About 15 tonnes of cracker waste generated during Deepavali festival in the corporation limits were removed by workers. After the festival, cracker waste, plastics used for wrapping crackers and boxes piled up in all the 60 wards even as workers began collecting the waste from Monday. Since the turnout of workers was less after the festival, all the waste generated on the roads could not be cleared immediately. Unlike the municipal solid waste which is dumped at a place or collected from residents, cracker waste was spread on the roads and workers had to sweep and collect it. Due to rains, the waste got drenched and workers faced difficulty in removing it. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that waste generated during the festival was removed by workers and additional lorries were used for transporting it. The workers were also involved in the routine garbage collection as city generates over 250 tonnes of solid waste every day.
20 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Give parents time to pay fees: Minister||Private schools should not coerce parents to pay 35% more fees for the current academic year and they should be given time, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan in Gobichettipalayam on Thursday. The Minister said that private schools had already collected 40% of the fees and the Madras High Court had on Wednesday permitted private schools to collect 35% more. “Parents should not be forced to pay the fees,” he said, adding that stipulated time should be given to them to pay. The Minister said that though COVID-19 positive cases had dropped in many districts, the situation was not favourable to reopen schools at present. Mr. Sengottaiyan said that private schools should not conduct special classes before the reopening of schools and warned of action if violations were found. He said that around 18,000 students had applied for the National Eligibility-Cum-Entrance Test (NEET) coaching, and online classes were being conducted for them. The Minister reiterated that seeking permanent exemption for Tamil Nadu from NEET is the policy decision of the State government. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is taking up the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi regularly, Mr. Sengottaiyan added.  Private schools should not conduct special classes before the reopening of schools
20 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Body of man retrieved from river after four days||The body of 30-year-old man, who drowned in River Cauvery at Karuvelampalayam in Kodumudi taluk was retrieved after four days at Nanjai Edayar in Paramathi Velur in Namakkal district on Thursday. Loganathan of Thottiyam in Tiruchi district came to his mother-in-law’s house to celebrate Deepavali with his wife Sumathi and two children. On November 15, he along with Sumathi and relatives entered the river and while taking bath they were told that a body of a child was found on the other side of the river. Loganathan and his uncle swam across the river. While his uncle returned, Loganathan did not. Search efforts by fire-fighters and fishermen failed to trace Loganathan. On Thursday, villagers found a decomposed body of a man on the riverside at Nanjai Edayar and alerted Paramathi Velur police. The victim was identified as Loganathan and after post-mortem, the body was handed over to the relatives.
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||After Deepavali, focus on COVID-19 tests again||Anticipating a rise in COVID-19 positive cases after Deepavali, health officials have planned to return to the pre-Deepavali COVID-19 testing numbers. Deputy Director of Health Services K. V. Arjun Kumar said there was a dip in the number of COVID-19 tests conducted during Deepavali season. “But, we are increasing the testing numbers so that around 3,000 tests are conducted every day,” he said. City Health Officer of Madurai Corporation P. Kumaraguruparan said the testing number in the 100 wards of the city had been increased to around 2,200 post-Deepavali. Despite testing around 3,000 samples every day, the positivity rate of the district was around 1.5, said Mr. Arjun Kumar. “But, post-Deepavali, we are anticipating a rise in COVID-19 positive cases. So we will have focussed testing to contain the spread of the pandemic,” he said. More focus would be given to festival gatherings, markets and crowded places. Fever surveillance would be increased, added Dr. Arjun Kumar. “During monsoon, there will be a rise in flu and fever cases. So swab samples will be collected from those who have influenza-like-illness and severe acute respiratory infections,” he said. A staff nurse of Madurai Corporation said the officials have set a target of collecting at least 85 samples a day from each fever camp in the city. “But residents are not volunteering to get themselves tested. So we are insisting on random testing on residents to give samples for COVID-19 tests as we have to reach the target,” she said. Dr. Kumaraguruparan said more number of symptomatic residents must come forward to get themselves tested. Dr. Arjun Kumar stressed the need for better compliance on the face mask rule and said people must wear it in public places. “Despite officials slapping a fine from those not wearing face masks, the compliance is poor. Traders must insist that all their customers wear face masks inside their shops,” he added.
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai MP miffed over Union Minister’s reply in Hindi||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has taken exception to a reply sent in Hindi by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai, stating that it violates legal and procedural aspects. In a letter, Mr. Venkatesan said the Minister’s letter, dated November 9, was in Hindi. “Since the letter was in Hindi, I was not in a position to understand the contents,” he said. Recalling that he had written to the Minister in October demanding examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for recruitment of CRPF para medical staff, Mr. Venkatesan said he had to assume that the letter in Hindi was his response to his letter. Mr. Venkatesan said the first Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, had assured that Hindi would not be imposed as official language on non-Hindi speaking States, including Tamil Nadu, in 1963. This promise was reinforced by his successors, Lal Bahadur Sastri in 1965 and Indira Gandhi in 1967 through amendments to the Official Languages Act. “These rules may be called the Officials Languages (Use for Official purposes of the Union) Rules, 1976. They shall extend to the whole of India, except the State of Tamil Nadu,” the MP said quoting the Act. Similarly, rules dealing with States grouped under “C” Category, in separate footing with regard to implementation of OL Act, said “Communications from a Central government office to State or Union Territory in Region “C” or to any office (not being a central government office) or person in such State shall be in English.” “Hence, the approach of your ministry giving reply in Hindi is clear violation of the above provisions of the Act,” the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP said. Mr. Venkatesan also quoted an excerpt from an 2011 original circular under official dealings between administration and Members of Parliament and State Legislatures – Observance of Proper procedure issued by Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions. “Wherever any letter from an MP is in English and the reply is required to be given in Hindi in terms of OL Act, 1963, and the rules framed under, an English translation should also sent along with the reply for the convenience of such members from non-Hindi speaking areas,” it said. Mr. Venkatesan said the Minister’s letter in Hindi without English translation was in violation of the latest Office Memorandum which was necessitated only because of such violations in the past. Expressing anguish that the government itself was violating laws and procedures repeatedly, he appealed to the Minister to ensure honouring of unique assurance given to Tamil Nadu on implementation of legal provisions and respond to letters of MPs from the State in English.  The Minister’s letter in Hindi without English translation is in violation of the latest Office Memorandum   Su. Venkatesan  Madurai MP
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||1,296 digitised library books of MKU available online||The Dr. T.P.M Library of Madurai Kamaraj University has digitised 1,296 books which are available for free at the university’s official website. A press release from the university said Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan received the hard disk of the digitised content from S. Kamatchi, Librarian and Information Officer, Anna Centenary Library, Chennai, on Thursday. V.S.Vasantha, Registrar (in charge); Ramaraja Pandian, Head, Department of Tamil; S. Santhana Karthikeyan, Librarian and Information Officer, Anna Centenary Library, Chennai; and S. Yasotha, District Library Officer, were also present, said the release. The Dr. T.P.M. Library, along with the support of Directorate of Public Libraries, Tamil Nadu, initiated the digitisation of rare works of Tamil and English literature that were published before 60 years and were available at the library. University Librarian B. Suresh said that out of the 1,296 books that were digitised, 791 books in Tamil and English were rare ones. The rest of the digitised content includes MKU publications and Directorate of Distance Education lessons. “Anyone can access these digitised content for free at www.mkulibrary.org,” he said.
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 3.36 crore recovered from ineligible accounts under PM-KISAN scheme||A sum of Rs. 3.36 crore credited to the bank accounts of 9,891 ineligible beneficiaries under the PM-Kisan scheme had been recovered in Madurai district as on Thursday, said Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan. He said 12,887 beneficiaries in the district had been identified as ineligible to receive the benefit. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, eligible farmers get Rs. 6,000 per annum in three equal instalments, which is credited to their bank accounts. But, in 13 districts of the State, money had been fraudulently credited to the bank accounts of ineligible persons. Officials of agriculture, police and revenue were at work in all the blocks to identify ineligible accounts and recover money credited to them, said Mr. Vivekanandan. The list of ineligible persons also include those working under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, government servants and non-farmers. “During the recovery process, it was discovered that many beneficiaries have withdrawn the money from their bank accounts and have spent it. But we are insisting them to pay back the money credited to their accounts,” he said. Crime Branch-Criminal Investigation Department had arrested two persons in connection with the fraud in PM-KISAN scheme in Madurai.
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Call for guidelines to prevent custodial torture and death||People’s Watch, a Madurai-based Human Rights Organisation, has condemned the death of under trial Selvamurugan in Cuddalore district and has alleged that it is a case of custodial death. The CB-CID took over the investigation in the case recently. Welcoming the decision to hand over the probe to the CB-CID, the People’s Watch urged the State government to come out with adequate guidelines to avoid such cases of custodial violence, as directed by the High Court in the Sattankulam custodial deaths case. Guidelines have to be issued with regard to the monitoring of CCTV cameras, standards to be adhered to by medical professionals before reporting an accused to be medically fit for remand and standards to be followed during autopsy in cases of custodial deaths. There have been serious discrepancies with regard to the actions of Judicial Magistrates at the time of remand of accused. Cases of police torture and illegal detention in the State have increased in the recent past which is a clear indication of total lack of supervision in all such matters by the Superintendents of Police and Commissioners of Police. The DGP must direct the chief of the Police Intelligence Wing in the State to ensure that the District and the State intelligence wings of the police are instructed to alert the ADGP (Social Justice and Human Rights) in such cases of alleged illegal detention. Tamil Nadu has a well-established Legal Services Authority functioning at State, district and taluk levels. They should be mandated to depute a team of lawyers with experience to undertake a fact-finding exercise whenever such incidents occur. Selvamurugan of Kadampuliyur near Neyveli was booked by the police in a theft case on October 30 and remanded in judicial custody in Viruddhachalam sub-jail. The under trial suffered seizures on November 2 and was taken to the Viruddhachalam Government Hospital for treatment. He suffered seizures again on November 4 and was taken to the GH where he died. The family members of Selvamurugan have alleged that the undertrial died as a result of custodial torture.
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Train stopped after boulders fall on track near Dindigul||An alert loco-pilot of a Chennai-bound express train, Suresh, averted an accident by applying emergency brakes after he found two huge boulders on the track between Ambathurai and Kodai Road railway stations near Dindigul on Wednesday morning. Consequently, the Madurai-Chennai special express train suffered detention for about 30 minutes at the spot. According to railway sources, caution order had already been issued in the section where deep rock cutting was being done for laying the broad-gauge railway track in early 1990s. While the sectional speed on Madurai-Tiruchi stretch is 100 kmph, the permanent caution order of 50 kmph between Ambathurai and Kodai Road had been issued as falling of boulders from the nearby rocky terrain on the track has been a regular feature on this stretch. A railway source said that the crew acted swiftly and applied the emergency brakes immediately upon noticing the boulders on the track. “With poor visibility due to inclement weather, the crew could notice the boulders only ahead of 600 metres. Since the train was moving only at a speed of 50 kmph, upon applying the emergency brakes, the train stopped just a few metres before the boulders,” the source added. The train that was stopped at around 7:45 a m could leave around 8:15 a.m. after officials removed both the boulders from the railway track.
20 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Proper steps taken for conduct of Soorasamharam’||The State government on Thursday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that Soorasamharam festival at Arulmigu Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur in Thoothukudi district would be conducted on the seashore and Thirukalyanam at Thirukalyana Mandapam in the temple precincts. Taking cognisance of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi closed a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate B. Ramkumar Adityan who sought a direction to the State to ensure that Kanda Sasti festival was conducted as per tradition. The judges said the steps taken by the authorities concerned to conduct the festival could not be faulted in view of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. Standard operating procedures had to be followed, they said, adding television channels must be facilitated to telecast the event live for the benefit of devotees. During the course of the hearing, the judges refused to accept the submission made by the petitioner’s counsel that Skanda Purana was originally from Nepal and was translated into Tamil. Lord Muruga was a Tamil god and worshipped in south Indian States, the judges observed.
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC for equal distribution of seats among wards of armed forces personnel||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the Centre and the State governments to come out with a viable scheme to ensure that the wards of serving defence personnel are also ensured of medical seats under the reservation category for wards of armed forces personnel. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that as per the order passed by the Ministry of Defence, admission to medical courses for the wards of armed forces personnel was prioritised under nine categories. If the seats were to be allotted as per the priority category, it will be exhausted by the wards of ex-servicemen. The wards of ex-servicemen were placed higher on the priority category when compared to that of the wards of serving defence personnel. When the number of medical colleges and seats in the State had gone up, it must be ensured that the children of serving defence personnel also get medical seats, the judges said. The court pointed to the fact that as per a notification passed as early as 1979, the six medical seats reserved for the wards of armed forces personnel then was equally distributed among the children of deceased servicemen, ex-servicemen and serving defence personnel in the armed forces. Now the seats have been increased from six to 11 seats - 10 for MBBS and one for BDS. When this being the case, there must be an equal distribution in order to boost the morale of the wards of serving defence personnel and ensure that they are not affected. The case was adjourned to December 3 for filing the responses.
20 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||NTK moves HC seeking permission for yatra||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday sought a response from the State government on a petition filed by Naam Tamilar Katchi (NPK) seeking permission to conduct ‘Lord Muruga yatra’ in Palani in Dindigul district on Saturday (November 21). Justice J. Nisha Banu directed Dindigul police to file their response on the petition filed by A. Kaja, Palani Division secretary of the party, seeking permission to conduct the yatra from Bypass Road Extension to the Palani Dandayuthapani Temple. He said a representation was made to Palani police in this regard on November 5. However, permission was denied in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The petitioner said the party cadre would strictly adhere to COVID-19 safety guidelines that mandated wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing. The case was adjourned till Friday.
20 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP expresses anguish over Minister’s reply in Hindi||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, has taken exception to a reply sent in Hindi by Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai, stating that it violates legal and procedural aspects. In a letter, Mr. Venkatesan said that the Minister’s letter, dated November 9, was in Hindi. “Since the letter was in Hindi, I was not in a position to know the contents,” he said. Recalling that he had written to the Minister in October demanding examination centres in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for recruitment of CRPF para medical staff, Mr. Venkatesan said he had to assume that the letter in Hindi was his response to his letter.  Nehru’s assurance Mr. Venkatesan said that the first Prime Minister of India, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, had assured that Hindi would not be imposed as official language on non-Hindi speaking States, including Tamil Nadu, in 1963. This promise was reinforced by his successors, Lal Bahadur Sastri in 1965 and Indira Gandhi in 1967 through amendments to the Official Languages Act. “These rules may be called the Officials Languages (Use for official purposes of the Union) Rules, 1976. They shall extend to the whole of India, except the State of Tamil Nadu,” the MP said quoting the Act. Similarly, the rules dealing with States grouped under “C” Category said that “Communications from a Central Government office to State or Union Territory in Region “C” or to any office (not being a Central government office) or person in such State shall be in English. ‘Clear violation’ “Hence, the approach of your ministry giving reply in Hindi is clear violation of the above provisions of the Act,” the Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP said. Mr. Venkatesan also quoted an excerpt from an 2011 original circular: “Wherever any letter from a Member of Parliament is in English and the reply is required to be given in Hindi in terms of OL Act 1963, and the rules framed under an English translation should also be sent along with the reply for the convenience of such members from non-Hindi speaking areas,” it said. Mr. Venkatesan said that the Minister’s letter in Hindi without English translation was in violation of the latest Office Memorandum which was necessitated only because of such violations in the past. Expressing anguish that the Government itself was violating laws and procedures repeatedly, he appealed to the Minister to ensure honouring of unique assurance given to Tamil Nadu on implementation of legal provisions and respond to letters of MPs from T.N. in English.
20 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks status of air ambulance facility||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday ordered notice and directed the State government to file a status report with regard to the functioning of air ambulance facility in the State, particularly in hilly regions such as Kodaikanal and Ooty. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that these regions attracted a large number of tourists and given the geographical conditions, it was necessary to have air ambulance to meet medical emergencies. The court also sought to know if the government’s ‘108’ ambulance service was available in rural areas. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by N. Abdul Rahman Jalal from Madurai. The petitioner sought a direction to the State to ensure that the emergency medical services functioned properly in Madurai district. He said that many people could not afford private ambulances and were solely dependent on the ‘108’ ambulance service. He said the State government must ensure that these ambulances were made available at primary health centres so that patients could be transported quickly to bigger hospitals in case of emergency. Apart from this, the petitioner also sought a direction to the State to ensure that the bike ambulance facility was put to use and to deploy the Animal Medical Mobile Ambulance services at the ratio of one unit per every revenue division.
20 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold seized||Air Intelligence unit of the Customs Department seized 1.1 kg of gold from two passengers who arrived at Madurai airport from Dubai on Tuesday . A statement said the passengers were intercepted at the green channel of customs on suspicion of carrying gold. On personal search, four packets of complex gold paste, which they had concealed in their rectums, were recovered from them. The value of the gold is reportedly valued at Rs. 56.69 lakh. Both were arrested and further investigation is on.
20 November 2020||MADURAI/DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||123 new cases reported in southern districts||Madurai recorded 24 new COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, which took the district’s overall case tally to 19,424. A total of 33 persons were discharged, and the district now has 294 active cases. Two fresh COVID-19-related fatalities increased the district’s death toll to 434. The district had added 30 cases on Wednesday. Virudhunagar reported 18 fresh cases, with which its total case count rose to 15,725. With the discharge of 16 patients, the number of active cases stands at 80. The death toll of the district remains at 225. In Theni, 14 persons tested positive, taking the district’s case tally up to 16,479. A total of 32 persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving 42 active cases. Thirteen new cases were registered in three districts – Sivaganga, Kanniyakumari and Tirunelveli. With the new cases, Sivaganga’s tally went up to 6,187. The district, which saw the discharge of 24 persons from hospitals, has 94 active cases. Kanniyakumari’s total case count touched 15,485. After 21 cases were discharged from hospitals, the district has 164 patients. Tirunelveli’s tally went up to 14,663, with 193 active cases. Sixty-three persons were discharged from hospitals in the district. Thoothukudi added 10 fresh cases to have a tally of 15,507, with 160 active cases. The district marked 44 discharges. The total number of positive cases in Ramanathapuram went up to 6,147 with the addition of seven cases. Nine persons were discharged and the number of active cases is 37. Six fresh cases were recorded in Dindigul, which now has a tally of 10,093. The district has 112 active cases after the discharge of 18 persons. A fresh fatality reported in the district raised its death toll to 192. Tenkasi has 59 active cases and a tally of 7,962 after adding five COVID-19 cases on Thursday. Fourteen persons were discharged from hospitals.
20 November 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Rains came late for maize farmers||The abundant rains in Perambalur district has meant precious little for maize farmers whose crops have already withered. They did not have the required water to sustain the crop when there was a dire need. Unfortunately, the timing of the rainfall has also not suited cultivators of shallot, another major crop grown in the district. While shallots are grown around Esanai and surrounding villages, maize is raised in other parts of the district. “This year, cultivation of both maize and shallots has seen a crisis. With rain pouring at an odd time, shallots have become rotten while the maize crop needs no water now as it has already withered,” a farmer said. Maize does not need large quantities of water to grow, but requires rainfall right before the fruiting stage. Last year, the maize farmers had lost their crop to fall armyworm, an invasive pest. K. Rajanandham, a maize farmer in Neduvasal said that he had invested Rs. 25,000 per acre for his four-acre land to raise the crop. “After the crop dried, I had to clear the entire area and plant curry leaves. There is not much we can grow in these dry parts, but we need to eke out a living,” he rued. Deputy director of Horticulture S. Singaram said a total of 60,000 hectares of land was under maize cultivation in the district. While in many parts the maize crop has been harvested, some areas have been affected by irregular rains, he said. If farmers incur any losses, they will be compensated through Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), he added. Each maize farmer had paid Rs. 400 per acre as premium under the PMFBY crop insurance scheme.
20 November 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Arumbavur lake fills up||Arumbavur lake, one of the largest in the district, has reached its maximum capacity, bringing cheer to the farmers. It reached its full capacity of 52.63 mcft at 11 a.m. on Wednesday and subsequently began overflowing. Heavy rain in catchment areas in Pachamalai for the last few days and good flow in Kallar river originating from the Pachamalai hills have resulted in its maximum capacity. The surplus water is being diverted to Perumbavur small lake. T. N. Prabakaran, Assistant Executive Engineer, Marudaiyaru basis sub division, Perambalur, told The Hindu that the Perumbavur big lake had nearly 40% of its capacity in October mainly due to the rain received in south-west monsoon. Moreover, the inlet and outlet channels of the lake was desilted at a cost of Rs. 30 lakh under the kudimaramathur scheme recently. He said that the lake had an ayacut of 565 acres. Besides irrigation, the waterbody fulfils the drinking water requirement of more than 20 villages. There would be no drinking water scarcity in the villages until May next year.
20 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases continue to dip||The number of active COVID-19 cases continued to decline in the Union Territory with 69 new infections reported on Thursday against 102 patients getting discharged on recovery. The Union Territory recorded one more death taking the toll to 609. A 61-year old man from Muthialpet with co-morbidities of diabetes, hypertension and kidney ailment died at Jipmer. The cumulative toll in Puducherry stands at 499 followed by Karaikal (59), Yanam (44) and Mahe (seven). As of Thursday, Puducherry had 670 active cases — 249 in hospital and 421 in home isolation. The overall tally is 36,533 cases and 35,253 patients recovered. Of the new cases, Puducherry region accounted for 32 cases, Mahe 24, Karaikal 11 and Yanam two. The test positivity rate was 1.90%, case fatality rate 1.67% and recovery rate 96.50%. With 3,620 tests conducted on Thursday, the tally of tests conducted to date aggregated 3,70,307. Of this, 3.29 lakh samples returned negative results. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told newsmen that the U.T.’s testing apparatus has been able to cover approximately 25% of the population. “Among patients in institutional care, there are 106 patients in Jipmer and 105 in IGMCRI. We have withdrawn COVID-19 patients from the dental college and private hospitals,” he said. Noting that the COVID-19 cases had fallen below 100 cases over the past several days, the Minister urged the public to maintain safety to sustain the downward trend.
20 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry announces free vaccine for all||The government will provide free COVID-19 vaccine to all people in the Union Territory, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said here on Thursday. The Chief Minister told presspersons that several companies were on the verge of bringing out the vaccine to prevent COVID-19 infection. “Whatever the cost, the government is ready to incur the expenditure to provide free vaccination,” the Chief Minister said. He said the COVID-19 cases were coming down rapidly in the U.T, he said while urging people to continue the vigil against the spread of virus. Despite the decrease in number of COVID-19 cases, the government had decided to maintain the momentum in testing. The Health department would test 3,600 to 4,000 people daily, Mr. Narayanasamy said. L-G’s action criticised On the recent directive of Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to take action against the promoters of cricket stadium at Thuthipet, the Chief Minister said the government was not in favour of protecting anyone. But the Lt. Governor had no authority to initiate proceedings against anyone. The complaint should have been forwarded to the Minister concerned, he added. Reiterating his charge against the Lt. Governor of interfering in day-to-day administration, the Chief Minister said Ms. Bedi had referred around 40 files to the Centre. “When we talk to Union Ministers, they say there was no need to forward these files as the policy matters could be settled in the U.T. itself,” he said. The Chief Minister said there was no necessity to refer the file related to Cabinet decision to provide 10% reservation to government school students in medical admissions. The State government had ensured quota for government school students, he said. “The Lt. Governor is deliberately trying to delay implementation of several schemes,” the Chief Minister added.
20 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK allocates work to Anbalagan, Sekar||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has allocated party work to its leader in the Assembly A. Anbalagan and former MLA Om Sakthi Sekar in Puducherry region. While Mr. Anbalagan has been made secretary (East), Mr. Sekar has been designated as secretary (West). As per the arrangement, 13 constituencies, a majority of them in the town and coastal areas, and Yanam would come under the supervision of Mr. Anbalgan. Mr. Sekar, who assumed charge as secretary (West) on Thursday, has been assigned 11 constituencies and Mahe. He told reporters that he would strive to bring the AIADMK to power in the U.T. The Congress government had failed to fulfill the aspirations of the people, he added.
20 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||In special drive, 3,000 street lights repaired||The Puducherry Electricity Department recently rectified or replaced 3,000 defective street lights across the city during a special drive taken up between November 2 and 12. According to the Superintending Engineer concerned, the campaign to improve the lighting on the city’s roads had been launched ahead of the festival of lights. The department has put in place mechanisms for the consumers to register electricity-related complaints. The newly-launched WhatsApp number (9489080401) will function for voice and video calls every working Tuesday and Thursday from 4.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. A centralised toll-free number 18004251912 (or 1912 from a BSNL landline) is functioning round-the-clock to enable the public to register fuse of call, disruption in power supply or any other power-related issues. Electricity-related complaints are being referred by the police department from their toll-free lines 1031 directly to the Executive Engineer (Operation and Maintenance) concerned. Apart from these, the department accepts consumer petitions at the Consumer Grievance Redressal Forum at No. 6, 17th Cross Street, Anna Nagar, Puducherry 605 005. The public can also lodge complaints with field officials and executive engineers, Superintending Engineers or head of departments.
20 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Cong. leaders remember Indira Gandhi||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy led the birth anniversary celebrations of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi here on Thursday. The Chief Minister, Ministers, MLAs and party workers paid floral tributes to the former Prime Minister at the Indira Gandhi Square. Mr. Narayanasamy later administered the “National Integration Day” pledge to the party leaders. V. Vaithilingam, MP, Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy, Agriculture Minister R. Kamalakannan, Revenue Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan and Government Whip R.K.R. Anantharaman were present.
20 November 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Three feared washed away||Three youths went missing after they had gone to bathe in Peiyanyattru Odai under Mamsapuram police station limits on Thursday. The police identified them as K. Gopi (22), L. Palpandi (23), M. Muktheeswaran (25) of Kottaipatti near Srivilliputtur. The trio along with two others had gone to bathe in the wild stream. However, one of them, P. Sathyaprakash (20) rushed home and told villagers that the trio, who were bathing, were washed away in the stream. With overnight heavy rain in the Western Ghats, the stream was in spate with strong current, according Srivilliputtur Tahsildar R. Saravanan. Revenue officials were supervising the search operation conducted by local police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Meanwhile, a couple was injured when a wet mud wall of their hut collapsed at Devadanam near here. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan inspected the rain-related works being carried out in Watrap, Srivilliputtur and Rajapalayam areas on Thursday. The police said that M. Rajendran (45) and Pattiya Thai of Muppidathi Amman Temple Street under Seithur police station limits were admitted to the Government hospital here. In another incident, K. Ponnuperumal (10) of Valayankulam near Mallankinaru was injured when a wall of a house near his house collapsed. The police said that the rear earthen wall of the house of I. Pandi (60) fell on his leg. The officials oversaw the works to drain the rainwater that submerged the farms in Kansapuram in Watrap Taluk. They inspected the works to remove blockages in Pilavakkal Pattupoochi bridge. They also inspected various water bodies that were getting huge inflow in the western taluks. District Revenue Officer R. Mangalaramasubramanian, Project Director (District Rural Development Agency), V. Jayakumar, Sub-Collector, C. Dinesh Kumar, Executive Engineer, Upper Vaippar Basin (Watrap), Raja, Joint Director, Agriculture, Uthandaraman, were among those who were present. Meanwhile, Kovilar dam recorded the highest rainfall of 104.6 mm in Virudhunagar district in the last 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday. This was followed by Pilavakal dam 69 mm, Srivilliputtur 48.80, Watrap 38.40, Vembakottai 35, Sivakasi 33, Rajapalayam 32, Sattur 26, Kovilankulam 22.80, Kariyapatti 16.80 mm and Aruppukottai and Virudhunagar 8 mm each The rain in Western Ghats brought huge inflow of 320 cusecs into Sastha Koil dam where the water level touched the maximum level of 103.40 metres. With a storage of 36.47 mcft, the entire inflow of 320 cusecs was being discharged. The level in Periyar Pilavakkal dam was 202.60 metres, just two metres short of touching the maximum water level of 204.50 metres. While the inflow as 457.83 cusecs, 200 cusecs was being discharged for irrigation. The level in Kovilar dam was also fast increasing with an inflow of 200.89 cusecs and the level stood at 207 metres (212 metres). Kullur Sandhai dam was getting 46.85 cusecs and the level stood at 28.78 metres (30.20 metres).
20 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villagers seek road to cremation shed||Villagers from Uchinatham near Kadaladi union here urged the Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver on Thursday to immediately set right the road leading to the cremation shed. The Collector went to Kadaladi after reports of heavy rain. It had damaged standing paddy crops. As the rain water could not be drained out, he directed the Agriculture and Revenue Department officials to immediately find ways to let out the water. Once it is drained, the damage could be minimal, he said. Even as the Collector and officials were examining the stretch of rain in the area, a group of villagers from Uchinatham approached them and highlighted the poor condition of roads. Immediately, Mr Ponraj visited the spot and asked the authorities to find ways to lay paver blocks which would last for long. Later, he went to the Primary Health Centre and the veterinary clinic to check for any fresh case from the block. Joint Director (Agriculture) Gunabalan, DD (Agriculture) Sheik Abdullah, AD (Panchayats) V Kesavadasan accompanied the Collector. A PWD engineer said that the average rainfall recorded in the district on Wednesday morning was 46.43 mm and 8.51 mm on Thursday. Disaster management teams have been put on alert to keep a close watch on the low lying areas as inundation complaints were received at the control room.
20 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Salt workers demand bonus||Members of the TN Salt Workers Association here staged a demonstration on Thursday demanding 20 % bonus. They said that they would intensify the stir if the just demand was not granted. CITU district secretary M Sivaji said that the workers would resort to various types of agitations to draw the attention of the government in the coming week.
20 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Sub-treasury staff held||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police arrested a sub-treasury staff identified as Kalanjiam at Uchipuli on Thursday. According to the petitioner, the staff demanded Rs. 1,000 for getting a photocopy of documents from the treasury office. On a complaint, the police team nabbed the staff while receiving the bribe. Further investigation is on.
20 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||7.5% quota is my brainchild: CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday that the 7.5% horizontal reservation in medical colleges for NEET-qualified government school students was his brainchild, and no one else proposed it. Speaking at an event at Vanavasi in Salem, he traced the history of the NEET, which was mooted when the UPA was in power at the Centre, and said the AIADMK government opposed it legally. But it was forced to adopt it following the Supreme Court’s order. The plight of the poor “I thought about the plight of poor children, and of the ways to help them. That is when I got the idea of internal reservation, and we introduced 7.5% reservation,” he said. “No Opposition leader or parties or public had made such a request,” he said. Thanks to the reservation, in Salem alone 21 students had joined medical courses, and the 21st candidate joined with a NEET score of 211. Overall, 313 government school students qualified for medical admissions this year, as against six candidates last year. He said the State created history by opening 11 medical colleges, adding 1,650 MBBS seats. Now, the State has 3,600 seats. Even the gross enrolment ratio in Tamil Nadu was the highest in the country, growing from 32% under the former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. The State also fared well in other spheres, winning several national awards, the latest one being for water management. He accused Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin of spreading false news about Ministers. “He should instead offer constructive suggestions, through which he could at least try and retain his place in the Opposition [after the 2021 Assembly election],” Mr. Palaniswami said. ‘Statement hero’ The Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin would end up being a “statement hero” because every day he was issuing statements against the government. He said public welfare was not promoted when the DMK was in power. The AIADMK government alone was working for the welfare of the people. As for the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Palaniswami said he had toured all but four districts to conduct review meetings with the district administration, and health and revenue officials. “Thanks to this, the spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu has been contained and the positivity rate is coming down,” he said. He laid the foundation for several projects and inaugurated completed works on an investment of Rs. 291.94 crore. He opened the work to desilt lakes and build two check-dams at a cost of Rs. 44.43 crore under the Mettur surplus water scheme. Tamil Nadu Magnesite Limited was reopened for operations, and this benefited 534 persons directly and 2,000 persons indirectly.
20 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu has higher Gross Enrolment Ratio: Minister||Tamil Nadu has a Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) that is higher than the national average, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan said here on Thursday. Speaking at an event at Vanavasi Government Polytechnic College, in which Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation and inaugurated completed works, the Minister said that the New Education Policy targets GER of 50% by 2035. “But, last year itself we (Tamil Nadu) attained 49% and if we check the enrolment this year, we would have crossed 50%,” the Minister said. The GER at the national level is 28.3% only and under the Higher Education Department alone, the Chief Minister has inaugurated 85 colleges. Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami along with Mr. Anbalagan and Minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Sevur S. Ramachandran attended the kumbabishekam at Arulmigu Sridevi Budevi Sametha Sendraya Perumal Temple. The Chief Minister also conducted review meeting with officials on development activities at Edappadi.
20 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DMK behind Karuppar Koottam, says BJP State president||Bharatiya Janata Party State president L. Murugan has said that Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and the DMK-led front were behind Karuppar Koottam, which allegedly portrayed Kandha Sashti Kavasam in a derogatory manner. Mr. Murugan, along with senior leaders, took part in the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’, near Kuranguchavadi, here on Thursday and said that right lesson should be taught to Karuppar Koottam. Addressing party cadres, Mr. Murugan said, “Vetrivel Yatra’ is being taken out to teach Karuppar Koottam a lesson, which spoke low of the Kandha Sashti Kavasam and no political party in the State condemned them. Only BJP condemned them and demanded that Karuppar Koottam members should be booked under sedition.” Mr. Murugan charged that Karuppar Koottam is backed by DMK and demanded that Opposition leader M.K. Stalin should clarify whether members of Karuppar Koottam worked with DMK’s IT wing. Mr. Murugan alleged that DMK has always ill-treated gods worshipped by Hindus and never conveyed wishes for celebrations of the Hindus while they wished for festivals of other religions. Mr. Murugan said DMK claims that there are one crore Hindus with them but they are hurting Hindus through their actions. He appreciated the voluntary work carried out by the BJP cadres during COVID-19 pandemic and said that food packets were distributed to one crore people. He added that the yatra would continue and irrespective of hurdles would conclude in Tiruttani on December 7. Mr. Murugan said that BJP would win maximum number of seats during the Assembly elections. In Namakkal, BJP vice-presidents - V.P. Duraisamy and former IPS officer K. Annamalai - led the yatra in the evening and appealed to the public to vote for the party in the Assembly elections and elect at least four legislators from the constituencies in the district.
20 November 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Prevent child marriage’||Collector P. Madhusudan Reddy said that the district should be free from complaints such as child abuse or child marriage. Setting a goal in this direction, he said that the mission would be possible provided there was a heightened vigil and awareness among the stakeholders. He said that the laws, if enforced strictly, would certainly prevent crimes against the child. ‘Educating the parents about the evils of child marriage would discourage such practice,’ he added. Similarly, he wanted the officials to keep a close tab on homes for the children. Only when the crimes were low, the children would grow in a safe environment. This was essential as the government provided education to all and the children, particularly, girls, should come to the institutions without fear. Government agencies should come together and act in the interest of the girl children, Mr. Reddy said and added that he would be in close contact with the officials for periodic review. The officials said that they have been conducting sensitisation programmes at regular intervals in coordination with the institutions. The police said that swift action was taken against the accused and the child marriage complaints had been discouraged in the recent past due to the awareness programmes. Sub-Judge and District Legal Service Authority secretary R Mohana, ADSP R Rajendran, District Child Protection Officer Prabakaran participated in the meeting.
20 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||‘Traders still reel under COVID-19 impact’||Nearly 40% traders are yet to recover from the adverse impact on their business caused by the novel coronavirus, according to A. M. Vikramaraja, State president, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu. Talking to reporters at Kumbakonam on Thursday, Mr. Vikramaraja said that the financial position of owners of lodges, marriage halls, malls and small business/industrial outlets has deteriorated due to the Standard Operating Procedures stipulated by the government for resumption of business. To help traders to recover from financial distress, the government should come forward to waive the local body cess and allow vegetable markets in major towns to function as usual. Urging the Union Government to revive full-fledged train services, Mr. Vikramaraja claimed that it was vital for the poor and common people to commute from one place to another, and improve the business/industrial activities.
20 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Outsourcing opposed||Members of Democratic Youth Federation of India staged a protest at Pattukottai on Thursday, opposing the practice of outsourcing of workers by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. They raised slogans demanding filling of around 52,000 vacant positions at the field-level with qualified unemployed youth. They also demanded issuance of appointment orders to around 10,000 persons who had cleared the written test for the post of gang-men.
20 November 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Prisoner escapes from custody||A prisoner who was facing charges of stealing two-wheelers escaped from custody of escort police at the New Bus Stand premises here on Wednesday. Rajkumar (51) of Thiruthuraipoondi, Tiruvarur district, had slipped from custody while on the way back to Musiri Sub-Jail after being produced in a Court at Nagapattinam. The police had seized 70 two-wheelers from him following the arrest a few months ago. The Medical College Police have registered a case.
20 November 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Minor landslips at nine places in Megamalai||There was widespread rain in the Western Ghats and in the hilly region in the district and it resulted in minor landslips in at least nine places on the Megamalai Hills near Chinnamanur here on Thursday. After the continuous rain stopped for a while in the morning, forest and highways department officials visited the spots and cleared the road for traffic. A technical team inspected the hills and said that all the 18 hairpin bends were safe and fit for travel. According to a senior engineer, a few trees were uprooted at several points on the ghat section and the parapet wall was damaged at the ninth hairpin bend. Sand bags were placed as a temporary measure. ‘If rain continues, we may have to study the situation after 24 hours,’ he added.  Heavy rain The officials said that there was heavy rain at Manalar, Venniyaar, Maharaja Mettu, Vannathipaarai and Melmanalaru in the region. Normally, vehicles were not permitted to climb the hills during night hours since wild animals used to move in the forest areas. Vehicle movement was fully restricted now in view of widespread rain. Tourists have been advised to stay away from Megamalai for some time. Highway official said that they had set right the damages in about two hours. Vehicles carrying essential commodities and officials on duty were using the road since 10 a.m., he said. The Sothuparai and Manjalar reservoirs reached their full storage level. Collector M Pallavi Baldev said on Thursday that the third and final flood warning was issued after the storage level crossed the 55-feet mark while the maximum level stands at 57 feet. The inflow was 126 cusecs and it was fully discharged. The dam had 435.32 mcft of water as against its full capacity of 487.35 mcft. All residents residing close to the dam and the river had been asked to stay away. The storage level in Sothuparai was 126 feet and the dam had 126.67 feet of water with an inflow of 315 cusecs. The entire inflow was let out and the reservoir had 100.67 mcft of water. Public Works Department officials said that many tanks were fast filling up in and around Bodinayakkanur. Water was gushing into the Kottakudi river. Therefore, locals, who usually go to the river for bathing, were instructed not to venture into the river for the time being. The Kumbakarai Falls in the district remained closed for tourists with the outbreak of pandemic. With the north-east monsoon turning active during the last three days in the region, water flow into the falls had almost doubled. Farmers were in an upbeat mood as many tanks in and around were fast filling up or touched their full capacity.
20 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||MP inspects affected areas||Lack of proper planning in mitigating the rain-related problems is the prime reason behind the woes of the town during monsoons, MP Kanimozhi has complained. After inspecting some of the areas affected by water stagnation on Thursday, she said the underground drainage project, which was started when the DMK was in power between 2006 and 2011, was yet to be completed while construction of the stormwater drain was going on indefinitely even after three years. If these two major projects had been completed and commissioned with proper planning, the town would have in place the right solution for draining stagnant rainwater. The completed stormwater drains had been constructed with improper design and these concrete structures could not serve the purpose. The uncontrolled dumping of waste in the drainage channels and the official machinery’s failure to remove the garbage from the channels had collectively worsened the situation now, she said.
20 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Will Tiruchi get another integrated market?||While the stalemate persists over reopening of Gandhi Market that remained closed since the third week of March in the wake of spread of COVID-19 virus and the subsequent public interest litigation in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking to shift the wholesale traders of Gandhi Market to Kallikudi market, the district administration has begun informal consultation on establishing yet another integrated market. The move comes in the wake of demand from various quarters and traders to set up an integrated market in the close vicinity of the city as an alternative to the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi, where most traders refuse to shift citing long distance. “I have held a preliminary consultation with officials of the Tiruchi City Corporation on the feasibility of establishing one more integrated market on the outskirts of the city. We need to factor in various aspects before coming to a conclusion on the issue,” Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu . There were a few sites available including one at Panjappur. The merits and demerits of the sites would have to be analysed in detail, said Mr. Sivarasu without elaborating further. The move reflects yet another dimension of the issue of shifting of wholesale trading activities from Gandhi Market to Kallikudi, where the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers was constructed on 9.79 acres at a cost of Rs. 77 crore with the funding of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). It was formally opened in September 2017. But contending that the market was located far away from the city, most Gandhi Market traders refused to shift their operations to Kallikudi. In order to make use of the facility, the Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business had decided to allot some of the shops in the complex to Farmers Interest Groups (FIGs), Farmers Producers Groups (FPGs) and Farmers Producers Organisations (FPOs) so as to provide them a marketing outlet. The District Market Committee, functioning under the department, subsequently allotted 104 shops to 52 FIGs, FPGs and FPOs. Each group was allotted two shops at nominal rent. The shops were allotted only to active groups and the allotment was done by a district-level selection committee. They began selling vegetables by bringing their produce from the fields. Though the Kallikudi market is functioning partially with a group of farmer-traders, the purpose of shifting the Gandhi Market to the new market has not yet been achieved due to the stiff opposition of traders, who operate at the temporary market being functioned at G. Corner, which was set up to prevent the people gathering in large number at Gandhi Market to contain the spread of COVID-19. The traders have been urging the district administration to reopen Gandhi Market, citing the dip in COVID-19 cases. However, the district administration has little say as the High Court is seized of the matter.
20 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Police take out flag march||In an exercise aimed at reinforcing public confidence in law and order machinery, the police on Thursday carried out a flag march in the city. The flag march that began at Thennur covered Shasthri Road, Salai Road and Karur Bypass Road before culminating at Annamalai Nagar. Another march was taken out from four pillar mandapam on Sannadhi Street in Thiruvanaikoil to Iraniamman Temple via Kondayampettai and Kumbakonathan Road. A. Bhavankumar Reddy, Deputy Commissioner, Law and Order, inaugurated the march. More than 150 policemen including Assistant Commissioners, Inspectors, Sub-Inspectors took part in the march. J. Loganathan, Commissioner of Police, in a statement said that the march was aimed at increasing the confidence of the people in policing. An established system was in place for taking action on petitions and complaints submitted by the affected persons. Time-bound action was taken against those responsible for causing law and order issues in the city. The flag march also served the purpose of building friendly relations between the police and the public, he said.
20 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||147 new COVID-19 cases in central region||The central districts on Thursday recorded 147 COVID-19 cases, reflecting a slight increase compared to the previous days. The region recorded no deaths, according to the health bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Nagapattinam district reported a slight spike in cases, with 41 patients testing positive for the infection. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 30 new cases. Patients in both districts were isolated cases or were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Tiruchi, a total of 12 patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Meanwhile, in Tiruvarur, 24 patients tested positive. Thanjavur district reported a sharp drop in the number of cases reported for the viral infection with only 17 patients testing positive on Thursday. Pudukottai also reported a decline with 13 cases being reported. In Karur, too, only 12 new cases were reported among whom were patients belonging to Ramanur, Vangal and Kulithalai. Meanwhile, one patient was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur on Thursday after recovering from the infection. Only a total of 19 patients were undergoing treatment at the hospital. A total of 20 active cases are undergoing treatment at the GH. Ariyalur reported a further drop in cases with only eight cases. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, only two patients tested positive. Meanwhile, a total of 451 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for lab tests.
20 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IIIT-Tiruchi convocation tomorrow||The second convocation of Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT), Tiruchi, will be conducted through online mode on November 21 for the second batch of B.Tech students who had completed their degree this year. The IIIT will be conferring degrees on 17 graduands of Computer Science Engineering and 19 of Electronics and Communication Engineering. The student toppers to receive the Institute Gold Medal constitute Mary Priyanka Jacob (ECE) and Rebbapragada V C Sai Ram (CSE). Ms. Mary Priyanka Jacob (ECE) is also the proud recipient of the Presidents Gold Medal, Director of IIIT Tiruchi, NSVN Sarma said. Fifty percent of the graduands have been highly placed with impressive packages ranging between Rs. 4 - Rs. 18 lakh per annum. The IIIT has invited Uday B. Desai, a pioneer in Electrical Engineering, as the chief guest. An alumnus of IIT Kanpur; State University of New York, Buffalo, USA; and the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, USA, Prof. Desai had earlier been the Founding Director of IIT Hyderabad; Mentor Director of IIIT Chittoor, Sri City; and Mentor Director of IIT Bhilai. The Chief Secretary of the Government of Tamil Nadu K. Shanmugam who is the Chairman of the Board of Governors, IIIT Tiruchi, will preside over the convocation ceremony, Prof. Sarma said.
20 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special train stoppages||The Southern Railway has informed that Train No. 06232 Mysuru - Mayiladuturai Superfast Festival Special train that departs at 4.30 p.m. and reaches the destination at 7 a.m. on the following day, will have stoppages at Salem, Erode, Karur, Tiruchchirappalli, Tiruverumbur, Budalur, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Aduthurai and Kuttalam. A stoppage had been erroneously included in the press release issued on October 20. In the return direction, Train No. 06231 Mayiladuturai - Mysuru superfast Daily Festival Special train that departs at 5.50 p.m. and reaches the destination at 8.20 a.m. on the following day will have the same stoppages, in addition to Tiruchi Fort Station.
20 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam on Thursday stood at 96.37 feet against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 11,209 cusecs and the discharge was 1,000 cusecs
20 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Stagnant rainwater causes hardship to residents||Though rain has subsided a lot, the rainwater stagnating at several places gives nightmarish experience to the residents who resorted to road roko in one place after rainwater entered some of their houses. Corporation officials removed the sand deposited in stormwater drainage that chocked water flow in Anna Nagar near High Ground in Palayamkottai. “When the Regional Water Analysis Centre was built across the channel, we informed the officials that it would result in accumulation of sand in the channel and flooding of Anna Nagar. As they did not take the issue seriously, we’re getting affected whenever it rains heavily,” residents said. As rainwater entered some of the houses in Manakaavalanpillai Nagar in Palayamkottai, residents staged road roko on Tiruchendur Road. They alleged that the houses constructed by encroaching stormwater drain were the reason behind the problem. When the officials tried to pacify them, they refused to give up the agitation saying that the officials give only promises to end the agitations. But, they do not remove encroachments. “We will disperse only after the encroachments are removed,” they said. Officials pacified them with the assurance that the issue would be sorted out within a week. Situation in the Aditanar Colony in Ward 18 of Tirunelveli Corporation is worse as the rainwater has scattered the sewage already stagnating in the third street. “The sewage discharged from Srinivasa Nagar, Ayya Mudaliyar Nagar, near marriage hall and the first and the second streets of Aditanar Colony has stagnated in our street. Though we’ve submitted petitions to the officials on various occasions, no action was taken to drain the sewage. Now, the recent rain has worsened the situation further,” complained P. Velkani, one of the residents. After the overnight intermittent drizzle on Wednesday, the district did not experience any rain on Thursday. Rainfall in the district (in mm): Palayamkottai – 72, Nambiyar Dam – 37, Radhapuram – 30, Kodumudiyar Dam – 25, Papanasam Dam – 21, Nanugneri – 20, Ambasamudram – 15.40, Tirunelveli – 15, Cheranmahadevi – 11, Servalar Dam – 9 and Manimuthar Dam – 4. In Tenkasi also, no rain was reported in any part of the district. Flood in all the waterfalls in Courtallam subsided a lot on Thursday. The heavy floods in Main Falls that brought down rocks and huge branches of trees have damaged the floor tiles laid near the waterfalls and the nearby dressing room. The bridge connecting the Main Falls with the Sannidhi Bazaar got submerged on Wednesday. Since the flood subsided considerably on Thursday, the Courtallam town panchayat personnel cleared the branches and the rocks even as Collector G.S. Sameeran monitored it. Rainfall in the district: Gadana Dam – 45, Gundar Dam – 43, Sankarankovil – 36, Shencottai – 31, Sivagiri – 26, Ramanadhi Dam – 15, Karuppanadhi and Adavinainar Dams – 13, Aayikudi – 10.60 and Tenkasi – 8.60. While Tirunelveli and Tenkasi did not experience considerable rainfall on Wednesday night, Thoothukudi experienced widespread rainfall. The recently repaired Public Works Department irrigation tank at Vellaaram near Ottapidaaram that attained its maximum capacity was about to breach. “Since the PWD officials did not inspect the renovation work, the work was not carried out properly. The tank may suffer breach any time now. If it breached, it will seriously affect the nearby villages such as Katcheri Thalavaipuram, Jegaveerapandiapuram, Mela Seithalai and Keezha Seithalai,” alleged the farmers, who mobilized their resources to take preventive measures. Rainfall in the district: Ottapidaaram – 118, Srivaikundam – 78, Maniyaachi – 63, Kadambur – 49, Kaayalpattinam – 46, Tiruchendur – 44, Kayathar – 43, Soorangudi – 42, Vaippaar – 34, Vilaathikulam and Ettaiyapuram – 30, Kovilpatti – 25, Vedanaththam – 20, Kulasekarapattinam – 19, Kaadalkudi – 18, Sattankulam – 17, Kazhugumalai – 16, Thoothukudi – 14.20 and Keezha Arasadi – 8. Barring Mayilaadi, all other parts of Kanniyakumari experienced only drizzle in the past 24 hours that ended at 8 a.m. on Thursday. Rainfall in the district: Mayilaadi – 43, Kottaaram – 19, Aaralvaimozhi – 16, Kannimaar – 14, Chittar I – 12, Perunchaani Dam – 10, Puththen Dam and Nagercoil – 9, Eraniel – 8, Kurunthancode – 7, Aanaikidangu, Adaiyaamadai and Maambazhathuraiyar Dam – 5, Mukkadal Dam, Chittar II, Surulacode and Bhoothapandi – 4, Kozhiporevilai – 3, Petchipaarai Dam and Mullankinaavilai – 2,
20 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister Poongothai admitted to hospital||Former Minister and sitting DMK MLA from Alangulam Poongothai Aladi Aruna was admitted to a private hospital in Tirunelveli Junction on Thursday morning. In a health bulletin issued in the afternoon, Shifa Hospitals medical director Mohamed Arafath said Dr. Poongothai, who was admitted in an unconscious state, “remains awake, responsive and her vital parameters are satisfactory”. She is in the intensive care unit (ICU) and is being continuously monitored by a team of doctors, the bulletin said. Sources in the DMK said Dr. Poongothai, who was not enjoying good rapport with the party’s office-bearers in her constituency, was upset that a family member was also trying to get a party ticket to contest in 2021 from the Alangulam constituency, where she was elected in 2006 and 2016. “When the family member applied for the ticket in 2016 and appeared for the interview conducted by thalaivar [M. Karunanidhi], Dr. Poongothai broke down in front of him. She was upset that a similar situation was likely to repeat,” said a DMK office-bearer in Tirunelveli. According to him, the widening gap between her and some of the party office-bearers came to the fore when a DMK meeting was conducted at Kadayam on Wednesday night. “Besides not giving her a seat on the dais, the questions she had to face from a few there were embarrassing for her and she left the spot immediately,” the DMK leader said. Dr. Poongothai was found to be unconscious in her house at Alangulam on Thursday morning and was rushed to the private hospital. Meanwhile, a group of DMK office-bearers, including Tirunelveli MLA A.L.S. Lakshmanan, Tirunelveli city district secretary Abdul Wahab, former Speaker R. Avudaiyappan and former Radhapuram MLA M. Appavu, visited the hospital. DMK organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi also visited Dr. Poongothai at the hospital. “She will be discharged in a couple of days or tomorrow [Friday] itself,” Mr. Bharathi said.
20 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Six students honoured||Collector V. Vishnu on Thursday honoured six government higher secondary school students from the district, who have cleared NEET to secure admission in medical colleges in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts, with a medical dictionary, stethoscope, coat and other books required for the first year. The students – M. Bhagavathy of Adi Dravida Welfare Higher Secondary School, Nallammalpuram, K. Akhila of Government Higher Secondary School, Marudhakulam, K. Kousalya and K. Priyadharshini of Kallanai Corporation Higher Secondary School, Tirunelveli Town, Sudalai Raja of Government Higher Secondary School, Suththamalli and Anbarasan of Government Higher Secondary School, Vellankuzhi – came to the Collectorate on Thursday. He took them to his chamber and gave away the freebies worth Rs. 60,000. “We’re happy that these students will become doctors which will take their families to the next level,” said Mr. Ganesa Raja, AIADMK’s Tirunelveli district secretary, who sponsored the freebies.
20 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||15-year-old boy electrocuted||M. Gnaneshwar, 15, of Thaazhaiyooththu near here was electrocuted when he tried to take selfie with his mobile phone while standing atop a locomotive on the fourth platform of Tirunelveli Railway Junction on Thursday. He came to the junction along with his father Maheshwaran, who is a ‘quality inspector’ with Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation. Even as Mr. Maheshwaran was inspecting the goods being unloaded from the goods train, Gnaneshwar climbed atop the engine to take selfie without knowing that the power cable carrying 25,000 volt electricity is passing overhead to feed electricity to the loco. As the boy came in contact with the high voltage electric cable, he got charred and fell on the platform. He died on the spot. The body was sent to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. While platform 1 of Tirunelveli Railway Junction would always be busy, the fourth platform would be relatively deserted throughout the day and hence none noticed the boy climbing up the engine.
20 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes unaccounted cash||Sleuths from Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 21,710 during a surprise check at Tiruppur Panchayat Union office on Thursday. Sources at the DVAC said that the team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (DVAC) C. Datchinamoorthy visited the Panchayat Union office at around 7 p.m. The DVAC sleuths along with District Inspection Cell Officer conducted the surprise check for nearly five hours and seized the unaccounted cash. The sources added that the DVAC registered a case against few of the officials at the Panchayat Union office under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act.
20 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Residents stage dharna||Residents of Andipalayam and neighbouring villages staged a dharna on Thursday accusing the police of using a temple land in the village for the construction of police quarters. Police sources said the Tiruppur City Police personnel visited the 11-acre land on which the police quarters building was proposed to be built. Seeing this, dozens of residents gathered on the land and argued with them before staging the protest. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) K. Sureshkumar visited the spot and assured the residents that a meeting would be held with Revenue Department officials on this issue, following which they dispersed, the sources said. On November 2, hundreds of residents staged a demonstration on Mangalam Road condemning the police.
20 November 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ body opposes offshore exploration||The Tamil Nadu All Farmers Associations Coordination Committee has alleged that the Union Government was trying to subvert the Tamil Nadu Government’s announcement that Cauvery delta will be a protected agriculture zone, through its declaration that offshore oil exploration projects will be allowed along the coastline. In a statement, P. R. Pandian, president of the Coordination Committee, pointed out that in order to protect the delta region, the Tamil Nadu government had declared it as a protected agriculture zone. However, three months ago, the Union Government made an announced that permission had been granted for exploration of hydrocarbon and subsequently reiterated that offshore hydrocarbon exploration activities would be allowed along the coastline of the delta districts. This had raised a suspicion that offshore hydrocarbon exploration facilities could be used to extract the hydrocarbon from beneath the agriculture fields by pushing the pipelines from the sea or sea bed, he said. The Union Government has been granting permission for projects that ruin Tamil Nadu, he alleged, citing the Centre’s move to accept Kerala’s proposal to construct a new dam at Mulla Periyar in order to derive political mileage ahead of Assembly elections in that State. He called upon the Centre to clarify its stand on these issues before the end of this month. Else, the Committee would mobilise the support of farmers and fishermen in Tamil Nadu to stage black flag demonstrations while Union Ministers visit the State from January 2021, Mr. Pandian said.
20 November 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Vulnerable low-lying areas identified||Vulnerable low-lying locations that could face inundation during the north-east monsoon in Tiruvarur district have been identified and necessary steps have been initiated to prevent or mitigate the problems caused due to flooding. V. Santha, District Collector, said sandbags have been kept ready near such areas. Adequate numbers of motor pumps and electric saw machines have also been kept ready to pump out water from inundated areas and to clear the trees that might get uprooted and block the carriageways in the district. Further, the drain channels/canals in the region have been cleared to ensure smooth and quick draining of rainwater to avoid flooding or inundation of low-lying areas or carriageways, she added. The Collector had also visited the Munaru head across Vennar river near Needamangalam recently to inspect the regulators. She also took tock of the measures that have been put in place in the region to meet any exigency in the event of flooding in Vennar river and its tributaries during the monsoon.
20 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Dams across the Nilgiris almost full||Following recent spells of moderate rain in the Nilgiris, storage in all dams and reservoirs across the district is at more than 90 %, officials from Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) confirmed. Due to the rain that continued till Thursday morning, water level at the district’s largest dams of Upper Bhavani, Avalanche, Emerald, Pykara, Parsons Valley, Porthimund and Geddai stood at well above 90 %. According to Tangedco officials, storage at Upper Bhavani, Avalanche and Emerald are at between 95 and 98 % of full capacity, while the Parsons Valley Dam, which supplies water to Udhagamandalam town, is at 97 % capacity, with water level at 75 feet at the dam which has a total level of 77 feet. The only dam in the district below 90 % of storage capacity was the Mukurthi Dam at 88 %, the officials said. The Ralliah Dam, which supplies water to Coonoor town, is also almost full. Rain continued across parts of the Nilgiris till Thursday morning, with an average of 17.49 mm of rainfall. The Kundah watershed received some of the highest rainfall, with heavy rain being recorded in Kinnakorai and Geddai. Heavy rain was also recorded in Balocola, Coonoor, Ketti and Kodanad near Kotagiri. Tangedco officials said people living in villages further downstream had already been warned that water might be released from the dams if the rain continued, which would cause a temporary surge in the water level along the rivers, and that the residents had been urged to stay away from the banks of rivers. Due to the good rain over the last few months, it was likely that water supply to the major towns in the district would be assured during the summer this year, the officials said.
20 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||64 new cases reported in Vellore, tally rises to 18,371||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 18,926 with 64 persons testing positive on Thursday. While 18,371 have been discharged so far, the number of active cases in the district stands at 231. The district’s death toll is 324. In Ranipet district, 16 cases were reported taking the total to 15,443. 10 cases in Tirupathur In Tirupathur district, the number of positive cases stood at 7,107 with 10 new cases reported on Thursday. Twenty-four new cases were reported in Tiruvannamalai district on Thursday, taking the total number of cases to 18,392. Of these, 17,865 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 256.
20 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Tubelight pieces found in food at Vellore hotel||The Food Safety officials inspected a hotel on Vallalar Street in Sathuvachari after tubelight pieces were found in the food served to some guests on Wednesday. An improvement notice will be served against the hotel. According to the police, a family function was hosted in the hotel on Wednesday. When people were having food, they alleged that tubelight pieces were found in the food. It is also alleged that some guests went to the hospital complaining of stomach pain. They lodged a complaint with the Sathuvachari police station. Subsequently, the Food Safety officials inspected the hotel. “A tubelight had burst and the staff had removed most of the pieces. However, a few pieces had fallen into white rice and the same was served to the guests. The management admitted the mistake and assured the guests of compensation,” said an official from the Vellore City Municipal Corporation. “We will be serving an improvement notice to the hotel. They have to improve the interiors and fix the defects, failing which we will take action,” said the official. Meanwhile, the Corporation officials inspected the hotel and found 100 kg of banned plastic.
20 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Worker electrocuted, relatives stage protest||A 40-year-old man was electrocuted while working in a farm land at Veppur near Gudiyatham on Wednesday. His relatives blocked the road alleging that he was killed after coming in contact with an electric fence fixed to ward off animals. According to the police, Ravi, 40, a daily wage earner from Olakkasai near Gudiyatham and six others were working in a sugarcane field at Veppur. Ravi reportedly died of electric shock. Suspecting that he might have come in contact with an electric fence meant to prevent animals from destroying the crops, Ravi’s relatives and friends staged a road roko near Veppur bus stand with his body. They wanted the police to arrest the landowner Anbazhagan. However, the police pacified the crowd and told them that it was not an electric fence. They claimed that an electric wire had fallen on a normal fence and Ravi had come in contact with it. Teen electrocuted Meanwhile, a 15-year-old boy was electrocuted after he touched an overhead electric wire while trying to climb atop his relative’s house near Thazhaiyattam on Wednesday morning.
20 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||22 bonded labourers rescued||The Released Bonded Labour Association (RBLA) in Vellore helped rescue 22 bonded labourers from Vellore who were working in a farm and brick kilns in Karnataka. Following reports that 12 adults and 10 children from Anaicut were working in sugarcane farms and brick kilns in Hassan district in Karnataka, the RBLA submitted a petition to A. Shanmuga Sundaram, Vellore Collector and sought help in rescuing them. Mr. Shanmuga Sundaram coordinated with the officials in Hassan district.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Caseload drops below 150 mark in Coimbatore||The daily case load of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district dropped below the 150 mark on Thursday with 149 new cases, taking the district’s tally so far to 47,071. The Health Department said that 183 persons were discharged on Thursday. Tiruppur district reported 93 cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 14,608 cases. With the death of a 68-year-old man, the toll stood at 203. Of the 14,608 cases, 695 are active cases. On Thursday, 72 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 16 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,176. The toll in the district so far was 41. The district administration said that 151 persons were undergoing treatment. The Nilgiris district administration has advised tourists visiting parks and gardens here to wear mask, or risk paying a fine. In order to prevent an outbreak of COVID-19 caused by the increasing tourist footfall in the district, the Collector announced that people not wearing masks while entering the tourist spots would be fined Rs. 200, a release said. In Erode district, the number of active cases dropped below 400 and stood at 399. While a total of 37 new cases were reported, 92 persons were discharged. One person died, raising the toll to 137. A total of 11,780 cases were reported so far in the district. Of the 59 cases reported in Salem, 58 were indigenous and one patient returned from Namakkal. Two persons aged 71 and 72 died of the disease in Salem. In Namakkal, 30 indigenous cases were reported. Dharmapuri reported 16 cases and Krishnagiri 22.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Last date to apply for Sainik Schools entrance exam extended||The last date to apply for the All India Sainik Schools Entrance Examination (AISSEE) has been extended till 11.50 p.m. on December 3, Sainik School Amaravathinagar announced on Thursday. The AISSEE for the academic year 2021-2022 will be held on January 10, 2021. Interested students can apply online athttps:// aissee.nta.nic.inand visit www.sainikschool amaravathinagar.edu.infor further details.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC slams govt. for not setting up planning panels||It was due to such a lackadaisical attitude, numerous cases were being filed in the court leading to docket explosion, they added. Further expressing displeasure over the speed with which the government was declaring every other district headquarters as municipal corporation without creating the requisite infrastructure, Justice M. Sathyanarayanan told an Additional Advocate General that “the day is not far when every other village in the State would also be declared as a corporation”. 74th amendment The petitioner pointed out that Article 243ZE, requiring constitution of committees for metropolitan planning, was inserted through the 74th amendment in 1992. As per the constitutional provision, two-thirds of the members of the MPCs should be elected from among the elected members of civic bodies and the rest could be nominated by the government. The democratic MPCs differ from authorities such as Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority and Local Planning Authorities which comprise only government officials. First State West Bengal was the first State to implement the constitutional amendment by enacting the West Bengal Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 1994, he said. At present, the Kolkata Metropolitan Planning Committee consists of 40 elected members and 20 nominated members. Similarly, the Tamil Nadu Metropolitan Planning Committee Act was enacted in 2009, but so far the MPC had been constituted only in Chennai and not in other metropolitan areas, he said. The 2009 Act defines a ‘metropolitan area’ as the one having a population of 10 lakh or more. “In Tamil Nadu, there are more than 10 corporations which come under the category of metropolitan area as per this Act. In November 2006, the government proposed to constitute a MPC for Coimbatore, but till date that proposal has not been fulfilled,” the litigant complained.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sinister sight||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Controlling the mosquito menace||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Median in bloom||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on health and sanitation||The Bachelor of Vocational Health and Sanitation Department of The American College organised a webinar on health and sanitation on Thursday. Principal M. Davamani Christober said one must stay positive and find out ways to overcome problems that the world was facing since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Awareness of health and sanitation were very important to fight the pandemic, he said. Glory Deborah, Founder, New Creations Trust, the chief guest, said such awareness programmes were aimed at engaging and empowering communities to choose healthy practices. Health and Sanitation Coordinator M. Rajesh spoke. More than 180 students, staff and the public participated in the webinar.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||General||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Professional development programme on “Pearl Scripting Languages”, Google Hangouts Meet, 10.45 a.m.; Motivational Talk by GP Godhanavalli, founder of Thyagi GP Velan Trust, Google Meet, 2 p.m.  Coimbatore Speakers Forum of Toastmasters International: Meeting on the theme “Open the Door”, Zoom Meet, 6.29 p.m.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||City engagements||Tiruchi City Corporation, Gramalaya and HT Parekh Foundation: World Toilet Day 2020, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian inaugurates, Z. Annie Vijaya, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Region, presides and distributes prizes, key note address by S. Damodaran, CEO and Founder of Gramalaya, City Corporation premises, 10.30 a.m.
20 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Post-lockdown, airport in Belagavi first to achieve a turnaround||Belagavi Airport has become the first in the country to achieve a turnaround after the COVID-19 lockdown. It handled more than 23,000 passengers in September 2020, nearly 2,000 more than it did in September 2019. The domestic airport at Sambra (IATA:IXG), which is around 20 km from the city, has seen the arrival and departure of 23,170 passengers in September this year. This is around 9 % more than the 21,339 passengers that entered or left this facility in September last year. All the airports were shut down from the midnight of March 23, following directions from the Union government. The ban was lifted in May 25. However, the number of passengers was markedly reduced in the post-lockdown period as business was down and there were severe restrictions on movement by road between States or districts. However, within a month of opening up, Sambra Airport began handling huge crowds. “Even amid restrictions, there were over 10,200 passengers in June. In July and August, it was handling the third highest number of passengers. Between May and August, the airport handled over 42,700 passengers. In July, there were 14,147 passengers and in August, there were 17,914 travellers,’’ say airport officers. Belagavi retained the lead through July and August. In September, Belagavi was in the third place in terms of numbers, after Bengaluru and Mangaluru. It left behind airports in Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Vijayanagar in Ballari and Bidar. Frequent fliers say that this is due to factors such as proximity to three States, expansion of destinations under the UDAAN Scheme and psychological factors that discourage people from driving for long on roads. “Belagavi is equidistant to several towns and cities in Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra. If you touch down in Belagavi, you could reach your home town in these three States, within a few hours of driving,’’ says Uday Kinjwadkar Abwale, a Belagavi-based businessman and aviation enthusiast. “Secondly, by June-July, private airlines began flying to more cities from Belagavi. Fliers from Belagavi could reach cities such as Tirupati, Mysuru, Kadapa, Hyderabad and Indore. Thirdly, most people are still not comfortable driving long distances or using trains or buses. If this trend continues, Belagavi Airport will be among the busiest in the country,” he said. Airport director Rajesh Kumar Maurya attributes the success to hard work by the airport staff and officers and the drive among citizens to come back to normality.
20 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Toilet Day celebrated||Children of some government schools celebrated World Toilet Day in a unique manner in Belagavi on Thursday. They inaugurated newly built toilet blocks on their school premises. Their schools have toilets for boys and girls, clean water supply, and a sustainable sanitation system. The blocks were built by Belagavi-based NGO Rajalakshmi Children’s Foundation and Bengaluru-based Warrier Bakery. The foundation has built five toilet blocks in two years.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will focus on grassroots-level innovation’||Karnataka will have greater focus on the development of indigenous technology, grassroot-level innovation, and people-friendly policies to contribute to the national goal of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said at the inaugural session of the State’s annual tech exposition, Bengaluru Tech Summit, on Thursday. He said the State was also committed to meaningfully contributing to the Union government’s vision of clocking India a $5-trillion economy by 2025. “To this end, we are in the process of making Karnataka more attractive for investors through the simplification of labour rules, progressive policies, and setting up initiatives such as Karnataka Digital Economy Mission, Karnataka Innovation Authorityetc.,” he said. ‘Beyond Bengaluru’ The Chief Minister said his government was also taking active measures to take the IT industry “beyond Bengaluru” to create over 60 lakh direct and indirect jobs in the next five years. Given the pandemic, digital transformation is now happening at a rapid pace, making programmes such as ‘Make in India’ and ‘Digital India’ more important than ever before, he said. “Over the past months, the government has taken a lead role in utilising technology to combat the pandemic. The Apthamitra app is a classic example,” said Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. Also speaking at the event was MLA for Shivaji Nagar Rizwan Arshad, who emphasised the need to work hard to take technology to the poorer sections of society. For example, in the education sector, when it comes to access to technology, children studying in government schools are left far behind in today’s COVID-19 situation, he argued. “So, it is imperative we make a level playing field for the less privileged children who come from the bottom of the pyramid,” he said. On the first day of the session, Finland announced that an institution-level collaboration had been initiated between Business Finland and the Centre of Excellence for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence. Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, skilling programmes, and startup collaboration will be some of the areas of focus for Karnataka to work together with Finland. Karnataka has developed “Global Innovation Alliances (GIA)” with innovation hubs of the world, through which there are ongoing engagements with over 20 countries on a regular basis, and Finland is a key GIA partner. The UK India Tech Hub initiative was also announced to promote cross-border technology transfer in early-stage businesses and to use digital skillsand enterprise for inclusive and sustainable economic growth.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tiger habitat occupancy unchanged from 1970 to 2015 in Malnad: Study||Documentation of tiger recoveries in the last few decades in Malnad region has shown that between 1970 and 2015, the tiger habitat occupancy remained unchanged at about 14,000 km2 (sqkm), out of the 21,000 km2 of potential habitat. Scientists from the Centre for Wildlife Studies also found that tiger numbers rose from about 70 to 391, primarily in a few wildlife reserves with long histories of law enforcement. The study, ‘Tigers against the odds: Applying macro-ecology to species recovery in India’, which appeared in Biological Conservation , suggests that if future tiger-recovery efforts can be optimised, Malnad can potentially support up to 1,300 wild tigers. The study has been authored by K. Ullas Karanth, N. Samba Kumar, and Krithi Karanth. Anthropogenic pressures According to the study, the animals are in serious decline from anthropogenic pressures: prey depletion by human hunting, killing of tigers for conflict mitigation or for trade in their body parts, and habitat loss or degradation. In spite of conservation efforts over 50 years, wild tigers now occupy less than 7% of their historical range. However, scientists found that over five decades tiger recovery in the Malnad landscape occurred in an overall socio-economic context characterised by significant human population growth, increasing life expectancy, rise in real wages, and overall poverty reduction, which were induced by advancing technology and demographic transition. Reduction in hunting of prey species, regulation of local access to forest product extraction, and in some cases, reduction of human impacts through voluntary village resettlements have underpinned the recovery, they say. “From our analysis, we conclude that despite fragmented habitats, tiger populations have been able to recover in regions of India with high human population densities, economic growth, and development. In contrast, other tiger landscapes in Odisha, Jharkhand, Chattisgarh, and north-eastern India support more extensive, less-fragmented forests, and have lower levels of human population density and development. These regions do not support significant tiger populations, and have shown very little progress in tiger recovery. We believe the failure of tiger recovery across these large regions is due to several historical, cultural, and social factors, which do not promote effective law enforcement that led to the recovery elsewhere,” the study says.  Socio-economic factors The scientists have argued that tiger conservation in India and other parts of Asia must be practised “in the context of people’s aspirations that demand socio-economic development.” Though some factors associated with such development, such as increasing pressures from infrastructure projects such as highways, railways, canals and power lines, have clear negative consequences for tiger habitats, demanding rejection of these projects in every case is a conservation strategy unlikely to succeed, they say. “The key to bringing back tigers and other such threatened species lies in apportioning the land wisely, separating nature preservation and human development, recognising the continual need for effective law enforcement, encouraging rather than stifling non-governmental conservation efforts, and accepting the reality that wildlife conservation must succeed under the broader societal mandate for economic and technological progress,” added Dr. Ullas Karanth, the lead author.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctors: Respiratory-related queries up, but COVID-19 etiquette could help reduce cases||Dip in temperature, fear of COVID-19, the Deepavali season which sees bursting of firecrackers, and fall in air quality in a few cities are propelling queries related to respiratory disorders. Healthcare company Practo said there was 20% growth in respiratory-related queries compared to the previous month. Among the big cities, most queries were from Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Chennai, and Pune. With people increasingly consulting doctors online to ensure that no symptom goes undiagnosed, most patient queries revolved around breathing issues, dust allergy, asthma, respiratory problems, and dry cough. A large number of queries came from people in the 21 to 30 age group (34%) followed by people aged 60 and above (28%). Rajesh Bhardwaj, ENT specialist who consults on Practo, was quoted as saying: “Especially this time when we move from monsoon to winter, the air we breathe begins to get polluted. This happens due to various factors - since cold air is more dense particles remain suspended in it for a long period and remain on the surface. This is also aggravated by low winds, farm stubble burning, construction activity, and cracker bursting.” Hirennappa B. Udnur, consultant pulmonologist at Columbia Asia Hospital, Hebbal, told The Hindu that with COVID-19 cases down, patients who were suffering from problems such as COPD and asthma were shoring up the courage to consult doctors again. “We are also getting patients who have recovered from COVID-19 but with COVID-19 related lung fibriosis, post COVID-19 sequelae, etc.,” he said. Reduced pollution This year, in Bengaluru, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) data of the Air Quality Index (AQI) from November 14 to 16 showed that air pollution levels had reduced by 30.34% when compared with the corresponding festival days in 2019. This was mainly attributed to the rule that only green firecrackers would be allowed (though the effectiveness of its implementation was questioned), as well as muted celebrations due to the pandemic. Analysis of air quality data before and after Deepavali across Bengaluru, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Pune, and Jaipur from November 9 to 18 by Ambee, an environmental intelligence company, showed that Delhi recorded high levels of pollution with average AQI consistently above 250 before and after the festival. On the other hand, Bengaluru remained the cleanest with average AQI ranging between 50 and 70. “It was noted that certain residential areas with large apartments had increased levels of PM2.5 which could be attributed to community cracker burning during Deepavali. Following rain right after the festival, there was some respite for the residents with a 40% drop in PM2.5 levels,” the company said. Better off this year K.S. Satish, president, Karnataka Pulmonologist Association, said increase in respiratory disorders during this time is a usual phenomena all over the world. “Now the season for infections begins. Under the guidelines too, all respiratory disorders are taken as COVID-19 unless proven otherwise. However, fortunately, this year, firecracker bursting has been less than previous years. In addition, people are wearing masks. Though we are not in the peak of winter, we will definitely see fewer cases this time due to masking, cough etiquettes, and social distancing,” he said.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Draft rules for premium FAR unviable, say city’s builders||The city’s builders have dubbed the draft rules for premium floor area ratio (FAR) recently notified by the Urban Development Department as ‘unviable’. The UDD draft rules prescribe premium FAR charges at “50% of the guidance value of the additional (notional) sital area and building area to be constructed using premium FAR” with guidance value of the developed site as the base value. Premium FAR, the maximum limit of which is not specified in the draft rules, will apply in “impact zones of transport infrastructure projects and any other public infrastructure projects within the local planning areas and in other areas of the approved master plans”. FAR is the ratio of the built -up area of the building to the area of the land parcel on which it is built. The Draft Revised Master Plan - 2031 had provided FAR in the range of 1.75 to 3.25 in the city. However, the draft was scrapped among other reasons to accommodate Transit Oriented Development (TOD) policy of Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation, which provides for dense, mixed land use development along transit corridors - Namma Metro, suburban rail lines and bus hubs. The TOD policy prescribed premium FAR up to 5, along the transit corridors and the new draft of the RMP is expected to allow this. This is expected to have a huge impact on zoning regulations in the city. The fee prescribed for the premium FAR has received a tepid response from the industry. Suresh Hari, Chairman, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) - Bengaluru, said the prescribed premium FAR charges made it an unviable proposition for the industry. “The government should not look at this as a money-making exercise, which is what it seems. At 50% of guidance value, given today’s market conditions, it is highly unlikely that any builder will opt for it. Additional development will only lead to more revenue to the government in other forms including property tax and development charges, not just premium FAR charges,” he argued. CREDAI-Bengaluru has also taken objection to guidance value being the sole criteria for the premium FAR charges. “Guidance value has never been reduced and in many places do not reflect the changing market realities. A fair market price should be the basis,” Mr. Suresh Hari said, adding that CREDAI will submit its objections to the draft rules.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kharge criticises attitude of Congress leaders||After the Congress’ defeats in Bihar and in the bypolls in several States, veteran Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member M. Mallikarjun Kharge has hit out at his colleagues for weakening the party from within by blaming the leadership qualities of former party president Rahul Gandhi and interim president Sonia Gandhi. Speaking at an event organised to mark the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on Thursday, Mr. Kharge said that instead of taking responsibility for the defeats, State-level leaders had questioned the leadership of the Gandhi family and blamed them. “Candidates lobby for ticket claiming their popularity in districts and constituencies, but blame the Gandhi family members for defeats. Though 90% of the candidates are selected based on the advice of State leaders, when an election is lost, the Gandhi family is blamed,” he said. “If our ideology weakens, we will be destroyed,” he said, before going on to question the credentials of leaders who could not even ensure the victory of councillors. Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah acknowledged Mr. Kharge’s pain over the party’s defeats in the elections and said the Congress’ failure to convince voters of the party’s programmes could be the reason for it.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC seeks list of political parties to issue notices on COVID-19 norm violations||Taking note of the many instances of violations of COVID-19 norms in wearing masks and maintaining social distancing in the rallies of political parties, their leaders and workers, the High Court of Karnataka on Thursday sought a list of recognised political parties in Karnataka to issue notices to them. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order during the hearing of PIL petitions, filed by Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru, and Sai Datta, a resident of the city, on violations of norms by celebrities, elected representatives, and political leaders. The Bench said that directions are required to be issued to the political parties as a large number of violations are by its leaders while taking note of violations by major political parties during election campaign and a rally by the BJP workers to welcome Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya on his appointment as national president of the BJP Yuva Morcha.  Correcting mistake Meanwhile, the government clarified to the Bench that it never intended to prosecute citizens for not wearing masks and maintaining social distancing as per the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (KED) Act, 2020, while admitting that there was “unintended mistake” in drafting of the Act, which actually prescribes three months to five years of imprisonment and fine of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2 lakh. In a statement, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), said that the “true intention” of the government was to impose only fine for not wearing mask and not maintaining social distancing and this has been uniformly followed in cases of all citizens. The stringent punishment, the government stated, prescribed in the KED Act were for the more egregious violations under the Act and the government is taking corrective measures to ensure that its policy is actually reflected in the legal position, including but not limited to issuance of fresh ordinance to amend the existing positions. Filing FIRs Government counsel Vikram Huilgol told the Bench that if the government had to prosecute citizens for violating the norm of wearing mask and maintaining social distancing, then lakhs of citizens who where fined for violations are required to be prosecuted by registering First Information Reports (FIRs). Stating that government would soon issue an Ordinance to correct the “serious and grave errors” that has crept into law unintentionally, Mr. Huilgol submitted stating that the government had realised the mistake in the law only after the court analysed the provisions of the law and posed repeated questions on why political leaders were not prosecuted for violating these norms.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Returning from a break, truck driver sets off a series of collisions||A container truck collided with a van setting off a chain of collisions involving a motorcycle, a car and other vehicles on B.H. Main Road in Nelamangala Town on Thursday morning. Two people, including the driver of the van, were killed on the spot. Eyewitnesses claimed it was more than an hour before their bodies were recovered. The truck driver, who did not appear to have sustained any injury, fled from the spot immediately after the collision. The truck, which was laden with goods, was coming from Haryana and heading towards Bengaluru. According to the police, the driver had parked the truck on the side of the road to take a break. ‘Moved suddenly’ “After his break, he got into the truck. Without indicating or checking if it was safe to move the vehicle, he suddenly drove onto the road. He did not see the van coming from behind,” said the police. The driver of the van, Suneel, 28, from Binnamangala, was unable to stop in time. “To avoid hitting the truck, he swerved and rammed into a passing car. A man on a motorcycle, which was nearby, got caught in the collision,” the police added. The truck hit the van, killing Suneel on the spot. The motorcycle rider, Paramesh, 29, a resident of Nelamangala Town, also died on the spot. The truck collided with two other cars before coming to a halt. “The driver of the truck jumped out of the vehicle and fled from the spot,” said the police. Traffic was thrown out of gear on B.H. Main Road in Nelamangala Town for some time. The police are yet to arrest the driver of the truck.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man who robbed merchant held||The City Market police on Thursday arrested a man, who, along with his associates, allegedly robbed a fabric merchant. “The accused, Aslam Pasha, 39, and the gang threatened thevictim with weapons and made away with Rs. 39.8 lakh last Monday,” said an officer. The victim managed to note down the registration number of the bike of the accused and filed a complaint, based on which the police tracked down Pasha. They recovered Rs. 30.5 lakh. The accused has been booked for robbery and remanded in judicial custody while efforts are being made to track down the others.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypoll responsibility for Congress leaders||With the Election Commission expected to announce bypolls to Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly seats, the State Congress has given the responsibility of election campaigning to its working presidents Satish Jarkiholi and Eshwar Khandre in the two constituencies, respectively. In Maski, the Congress is expected to field Basanagouda Turvihal, whoswitched over from the BJP. In the 2018 Assembly polls, Mr. Turvihal, contesting on BJP ticket, lost to the then Congress candidate Prathapgouda Patil by a slender margin. Mr. Patil later joined the BJP. In Basavakalyan, the party might give ticket to the wife of deceased MLA Narayan Rao.
20 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Nearly 80% increase in COVID-19 pneumonia cases, say doctors||With the world under the grip of COVID-19, pneumonia has yet again gained centre stage. Doctors, who said they are seeing a rise in COVID-19 pneumonia cases, pointed out that the pandemic is likely to increase all-cause pneumonia deaths by more than 75%. Although there is no data available on the number of COVID-19 pneumonia cases, doctors said nearly 80% of the pneumonia cases they are seeing are due to COVID-19. Pneumonia is caused by multiple factors which can be detected through an X-Ray or CT scan. However, one of the main causes of pneumonia in recent days is COVID-19, said Hirenappa B. Udnur, consultant pulmonologist at Columbia Asia Hospital (Hebbal). “Currently 60%-80% of pneumonia cases are due to COVID-19. Cases have increased compared to last year particularly during the pandemic. Pneumonia during pre-COVID-19 days was mainly community acquired although oxygen requirement and ventilator support was required as well. Today, the most common complication of COVID-19 is pneumonia,” he said. “When a patient develops pneumonia, we first get a COVID-19 test done. There is also a specific pattern for pneumonia which can be detected in the CT scan that is suggestive of COVID-19. It clearly shows if the pneumonia is through COVID-19 or other reasons,” he explained. Vasunethra Kasaragod, consultant chest physician at Vikram Hospital, said as pneumonia is more common among immunocompromised individuals such as those with diabetes, chronic kidney, and cardiovascular disease, it is important to keep these diseases under control to prevent pneumonia. “Early medical attention and diagnosis is imperative for early recovery. Patients are treated with antibiotics, oxygen and nebulisation most of the time,” he said. Sachin Kumar, senior consultant, pulmonology and critical care medicine at Sakra World Hospital, said most pneumonia deaths this year are due to COVID-19. “Uneven healthcare services, lack of right equipment or trained healthcare workers to effectively diagnose and treat respiratory infections in most of the low and middle-income countries are some of the contributing factors. Due to this, COVID-19 could add 1.9 million to the death toll this year. Hence, to minimise the death rate, pneumococcal and influenza vaccination for the vulnerable population is recommended,” he said. Chinnadurai R., consultant in the department of critical care at Aster RV Hospital, said COVID-19 pneumonia has to be treated like any other pneumonia. “Since countries like the U.K. and the U.S. are experiencing a second wave of COVID-19, the government should gear up to handle a second wave if it occurs here. People must continue to follow precautions such as social distancing and wearing a mask,” he said.
20 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM’s medal investiture today||Karnataka State Police is organising the Chief Minister’s medal investiture ceremony on November 20. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will participate as the chief guest. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai will preside over the function. The event will be held at Banquet Hall, Vidhana Soudha at 10.30 a.m., according to an official release.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 1,849 new cases and 26 deaths||Karnataka reported 1,849 new COVID-19 cases and 26 deaths on Thursday. The total number of active cases in the State stands at 25,169, while the overall number of deaths shot up to 11,604. As many as 1,800 people were discharged on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,30,988. A total of 598 patients are in the ICU. The number of tests done was 1,18,474, while the positivity rate was 1.56%. Bengaluru Urban, though witnessing a significant reduction in the number of positive cases, continued to be the highest contributor to the State’s tally with 1,048 new cases. Fourteen new deaths were also reported in the capital. Tumakuru reported 103 new cases, which was the second highest. The number of positive cases in the State so far is 8,67,780.
20 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sadananda Gowda tests positive||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D.V. Sadananda Gowda has tested positive for COVID-19. He tweeted: “After initial symptoms of COVID-19, I got myself tested and the report came positive. I have isolated myself. I request everyone who has come in my contact to be careful and follow the protocol. Stay safe.”
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPSC to hold interviews on November 27||The Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) will hold interviews for the post of drug inspector in the Department of Drugs Control on November 27 in Bengaluru. According to an official release, letters to the eligible candidates have been despatched. For details, visit http://kpsc.nic.in.lists_provisional selection list.
20 November 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reservation set aside||In a setback to the State government, the High Court on Thursday set aside the October 18 notification issued by government reserving posts of presidents and vice-presidents of all City Municipal Councils, Town Municipal Councils, and Town Panchayats. The court held that the notification was “a blatant violation of the rules of reservation and rotation, extenuated by oblique motive and malice”.
20 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Handing over acacia plantations to private investors opposed||A group of environmentalists of Shivamogga, on Thursday, alleged that the State government was planning to handover acacia plantations developed by Mysore Paper Mills Pvt. Ltd. in forest land to private investors. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and his son B.Y. Raghavendra, Lok Sabha member, have a special interest in handing over the forest land to private people, alleged K.P. Sripal, a leader of Nammurige Accacia Beda, a forum fighting against planting acacia in Shivamogga. The organisation has been demanding that acacia plantations, developed by MPM in over 20,000 ha, be withdrawn from the company and the place converted into a natural forest. At a press conference in Shivamogga, Mr. Sripal and said the representatives of the forum recently met the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests in Bengaluru with an appeal not to renew the lease of forest land to MPM. “The officer spoke in favour of continuing the lease and asked us to talk to the Chief Minister and his son on our demand. This shows the father and son are in favour of handing over the precious forest land to private people”, he alleged. ‘Board keeps silent’ Mr. Sripal also criticised Karnataka State Biodiversity Board chairman Anant Hegde Ashisar for maintaining silence on the issue. “If he is committed to conserving forest land, he should resign the post and join our efforts. So far he has not spoken on this issue.” Mr. Sripal said the committee would intensify its protest if the government did not fulfil the demand. The committee would travel across the district to spread awareness among the public on the issue. “We will take over the land and distribute it among the landless people, if the government does not withdraw the land from MPM”, he said. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha leader K.T. Gangadhar said the government had brought in “anti-farmer” policies. “The amendments to the Land Reforms Act did show its true intentions. Concerning acacia plantations, the government has done the same. The land should be returned to the Forest Department”, he demanded. Rajendra Chenni and others were present at the press conference.  The Nammurige Accacia Beda forum has been demanding that the acacia plantations, developed over 20,000 ha, be withdrawn from Mysore Paper Mills Pvt. Ltd. and the place be converted into a natural forest.
20 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Revanna complains of corruption||Former Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Revanna has alleged that there had been large-scale corruption in Hassan district since he stepped down as Minister in charge of the district, after the JD(S)-Congress coalition government came to an end. He said at a DISHA meeting in Hassan on Thursday that a private educational institute near KSRTC new bus stand had been allowed to encroach upon one-and-a-half acre of government land. The district administration had failed to withdraw the land from the institute. B.A.Jagadish, Assistant Commissioner of Hassan sub-division, said the administration had issued a notice to the education institute to recover the land. However, the institute had moved the Court challenging the notice. The matter had been posted for November 28 in the court, he added.
20 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Samples being collected||The Shivamogga district administration has made arrangements for collecting samples from students and teachers of degree colleges for COVID-19 test. The government has made the RTPCR test compulsory for all students and teachers. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar said those who have given samples could access the laboratory reports by visiting https://covidwar.karnata ka.gov.in/service1 K.C. Veerabhadraiah, Joint Director of Department of Collegiate Education, said the colleges had taken measures to avoid the spread of the infection as per the guidelines issued by the government. Students and teachers have to wear masks and maintain social distance in college.
20 November 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Artist Thippanna Basavanneppa Solabakkanavar passes away||Artist Thippanna Basavanneppa Solabakkanavar, best known for his cement sculptures, passed away at a private hospital in Hubballi after a brief illness on Thursday. He was 73. Mr. Solabakkanavar, who was serving as chairman of the Karnataka Bayalata Academy at Bagalkot, is recipient of several awards including the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award and the Karnataka Lalitkala Academy Award. A teacher and ardent follower of Mahatma Gandhi, Mr. Solabakkanavar worked passionately for creating a sustainable model where both art and artists prospered. Born in Hulasogi village in Haveri district, Mr. Solabakkanavar had his fine arts education at D.V. Halabhavi Fine Arts School in Dharwad and taught fine arts for two decades at Kuvempu University’s Fine Arts College in Davangere before taking voluntary retirement in 1990. He then dedicated his life to fine arts and o the promotion of Bayalata, for which he set up the State’s sole research institute in Bayalata, the Karnataka Doddata (Bayalata) Trust. His passion took him to places and he was instrumental in setting up several open museums across the country. He was the brains behind the Almatti rock garden, the Krishna garden, the Lava Kush garden, and the folk museum at Almatti. Together with son Rajaharsha, daughter Vedarani, and son-in-law Prakash Dasanur, he created the Utsav rock garden at Gotagodi in Shiggavi taluk of Haveri district, which has found a place on the tourist map of Karnataka. An ardent fan of Kannada matinee idol Rajkumar, Mr. Solabakkanavar, created the Raj Circle at the rock garden as a tribute. He was invited by the governments of Jharkhand, Orissa, and West Bengal for setting up open museums in their States. Mr. Solabakkanavar was responsible for training over 3,000 artists and for creating over 10,000 cement sculptures through his institution the Shilpakala Kuteera. He believed in the model of Gandhiji’s self reliance and worked towards providing a regular network of markets for the artists. At the Utsav rock garden, which has found place in eight various books of world records, he has recreated village life through cement sculptures. Apart from providing a regular source of income for artists, he also began the initiative of daily performances of Bayalata. He was honoured with the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award in 2005, the Karnataka Lalita Kala Academy Award in 2006, and an honorary doctorate from Karnataka Folklore University in 2018, among others. The funeral was held at Gotagodi with full state honours on Thursday.
20 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||82 to share 175 gold medals at Gulbarga University’s 38th convocation today||As many as 82 meritorious students will share 175 gold medals and nine students will share cash prizes at the 38th annual convocation of Gulbarga University scheduled to be held at the Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan on the main campus here on Friday. Releasing a list of meritorious students who will be awarded gold medals and cash prizes, Vice-Chancellor of Gulbarga University Chandrakant Yatanoor told presspersons here on Thursday that a total of 157 persons — 110 women and 47 men — would be awarded Ph.Ds. A total of 15,029 students, including 7,751 girl students, were eligible to get university degrees. Prof. Yatanoor said that Director of the Institute for Social and Economic Change S. Madheswaran would be delivering the convocation address and Governor Vajubhai R Vala, who is the Chancellor of the university, would preside over the function. The Governor will give away the gold medals and Ph.Ds to the meritorious students. Pro Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan is likely to participate in the convocation. Gold medals Jayashree Shivasharnappa of the Kannada Department has topped the list of gold medal winners bagging 11. Shweta Doddamani of the Zoology Department has secured nine, Soumya Biradar from Management Science Department has won eight and Arunjyothi of the Microbiology Department has bagged seven. Basavalingappa (Political Science), Almas Mohammad Usman Ali (Social Work Department), Juhi Simran (Biology), Meghna (Biochemistry), Priyanka (Mathematics), and Sridevi (B.Com), have bagged five gold medals each for securing top ranks in their respective departments. Yasmeen Banu (Urdu), Renuka (Social Science), Nikita (Biotechnology), Prajakta (Chemistry), Syeda (Mathematical Science), and Harshita (Physics Department) have bagged four gold medals each for securing top ranks in their respective departments.
20 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Ballari to lose Hampi and more||The State Cabinet’s decision to carve out Vijayanagara district from Ballari means the latter is set to lose out on several of its iconic associations. Most importantly, the new Ballari district will no longer be on the world map of tourism as the historic Hampi, the capital the Vijayanagara empire, will be part of the new district. The UNESCO World Heritage Site of Hampi, Karnataka’s crown of cultural heritage situated on the bank of river Tungabhadra that attracts thousands of history and culture enthusiasts from across the globe every year, will soon be part Vijayanagara district. It is a loss of not just cultural image, but also tourism revenue for Ballari. Ballari will also lose the Tungabhadra reservoir, a major irrigation project and tourist destination in the State. Politics and mining The old district will no longer have a large chunk of the mining area. For reasons good and bad, mining, especially iron ore mining, has been a part and parcel of Ballari district. It has played an important role in the State’s politics too, transforming the very nature of Karnataka’s political landscape on more than one occasion. Interestingly, Minister Anand Singh, one of the key persons driving the division of the district, is a mining baron himself. Mining activity is mainly concentrated almost equally in Sandur and Hosapete taluks, and the latter will now be part of Vijayanagara district. Except for JSW, one of India’s steel giants located in Toranagallu, near Ballari, all the other major mining-related industries such as BMM Ispat Ltd. and Sandur Manganese and Iron Ore Ltd. (SMIORE) will now be part of Vijayanagara district. The rice belt Ballari is also set to lose in terms of its agricultural output and allied industries. Rice industries, at present concentrated in Kampli and Siruguppa taluks, are thriving on the superior Sona Masuri rice grown along the Tungabhadra irrigation belt in the district. This variety has great demand across not just India, but also different parts of the world. Now, Kampli will be part of Vijayanagara district.
20 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Action to be taken against those forcing a bandh on people||Referring to the Ballari bandh call given by a few Ballari-based organisations to oppose the State government decision to bifurcate the district to form a new Vijayanagara district, Forest Minister and Ballari in-charge B.S. Anand Singh has said that stringent action will be taken if anybody or any organisation forced people to observe a bandh. Speaking to media representatives who met him at Amaravati Guest House in Hosapete on Thursday, Mr. Singh, however, clarified that the administration would not come in the way of the protesters if the bandh, scheduled for November 26, was observed or a protest staged without disturbing routine life. “Keeping people’s interests in mind, Ballari district is going to be divided into two for administrative purposes; just as it was done in the case of Ramanagaram and Yadgir districts. The formation of the new Vijayanagara district by carving out the western taluks of Ballari district is a long-standing demand and the government has positively responded to it by giving approval to the proposal in a recent Cabinet meeting. Those who oppose the decision have every right to register their discontent through peaceful protest and demonstration. The government would not, however, allow any kind of disturbance to public life in the name of protest or bandh,” he said. Asked about Ballari city MLA G. Somashekhar Reddy’s opposition to the bifurcation of the district, Mr. Singh blamed the media for instigating the MLA against the decision. “Which taluk in undivided Ballari would go to the new Vijayanagara district and which will remain in Ballari is yet to be determined,” he said. Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar and others were present. Later, at the All India Cooperative Week celebrations organised at the Municipal High School Grounds in the city, Mr. Singh again appealed to the people to support the bifurcation decision.
20 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Hon. doctorate for Mallikarjun Korwarkar opposed||A controversy erupted on Wednesday over Gulbarga University’s decision to confer honorary doctorate on artist Mallikarjun Korwarkar at a convocation ceremony scheduled for Friday. Mr. Korwarkar is said to have plagiarised the painting works of renowned artist S.M. Pandit. Krishnaraj Pandit, son of late Dr. S.M. Pandit, and artists from Kalaburagi have strongly opposed the Syndicate’s decision recommending Mr. Korwarkar’s name for the honorary doctorate in the field of painting. Mr. Krishnaraj Pandit has, in a letter addressed to Governor Vajubhai Vala, urged him to stop the honorary doctorate from being conferred on Mr. Korwarkar. Mr. Krishnaraj Pandit told The Hindu that Mr. Korwarkar’s claim that he studied art under Dr. Pandit’s guidance is completely false. He said that the Syndicate members have been wrongly influenced by a person who claims himself to be an artist. He said that Mr. Korwarkar has never been a professional artist. Mr. Korwarkar has no record of art studies nor has he participated in any exhibition or art camp, he added. Mr. Krishnaraj Pandit also showed a few original paintings of Dr. S.M. Pandit and also those said to have been copied by Mr. Korwarkar. “His works are not original but digital canvas prints overlapped by oil paint, and, they bear his signature; this is a sheer case of plagiarism of fine art,” he said. “Mr. Korwarkar can be sued in a court of law under the Copyright Act 1957 by our [Dr. S.M. Pandit’s] family,” he added.  The Hindu tried to contact Mr. Korwarkar for his views but his phone was not reachable. According to sources, the university received 20 applications for honorary doctorate of which nine names were finalised and sent to the State Selection Committee.
20 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Induct more MLAs from KK region into Cabinet’||Hyderabad Karnataka Janapara Sangharsha Samiti has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to maintain regional balance by inducting more legislators from the six districts of the Kalyana Karnataka region into the Cabinet during the forthcoming expansion. Honorary president of the samiti Lakshman Dasti (in photo) has in a release here stated that the Yediyurappa-led government has neglected the backward region when the Cabinet was expanded earlier by inducting only a single legislator from the region. The Kalyana-Karnataka region comprising six districts accounts for 23 % of the State’s geographical area and it should get at least seven or eight ministerial berths in the Cabinet. And, this time the people of the region expect that the Chief Minister will maintain regional balance by inducting more representatives from the region. Mr. Dasti accused the BJP-led government of neglecting Kalaburagi, Raichur, Yadgir and Koppal districts.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Corporation to soon launch mobile app for managing trade licence||Mangaluru City Corporation will soon launch a mobile application (App) to enable people to apply online for trade licence and receive it online itself. The App is in the final stages of its making and is expected to be available for download from Google Play Store next month. According to corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, even after the App is launched, the off-line system of issuing trade licence will continue to work till the time people get used to the mobile application. Once the on-line system is in place, people need not come to the corporation office for applying, submitting documents or to receive licence which can be downloaded online. The Commissioner said that as there will be geo-tagging provision, there will not be any duplication in issuing licence. Environment Engineer of the Health Department (which issues the corporation trade licence) Madhu S. Manohar said that people can apply for renewal of licence and cancellation using the App. Once they apply, they can pay licence fee and upload documents online, check status of applications and download licence and take a print. The final version of the App will have digital signature. He said that the civic body has categorised 10 types of main trade with sub-categories. The main categories are general, food and beverages, boarding and lodging; automobile, showrooms, spare parts and service centres, offices, industries, hospitals, markets, halls and temporary licence. The temporary category comprises licence issued to exhibitions, festivals, street vendors, tender coconut sellers, vegetable and fruit vendors and the like. The general category comprises 20 trades such as coaching centres, courier services, stationery centres, laundry shops, garment shops, jewellery shops and the like. He said that in addition to the App meant for the people, the civic body simultaneously will launch an App for health inspectors and officials of the corporation to manage online applications filed by people and issue licence. Higher officials in the corporation can monitor the status of applications filed through the portal. A database will store the applications received, documents and photos uploaded. “It will provide a secured gateway for all trade licence,” he said. Mr. Manohar said that all the door numbers issued by the revenue section in the corporation will be available in the online system. Hence, whenever an applicant mentions the door number, the area of the trade is immediately identified.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP district chief says Billavas will not fall for Congress plan||By demanding re-naming the international airport here after Koti Chennaya — revered twin heroes of Tulu tradition, the Congress is sowing the seed of hatred among Billavas, said BJP district president Sudhershan Moodbidri here on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Moodbidri said that by raking up the issue of re-naming the airport after Koti Chennaya, the Congress is trying to appease the Billava community. “Billavas know how the Congress has made use of the leaders of that community. People of the community will not fall for this Congress plan through an ongoing agitation,” he said. Mr. Moodbidri said that the Congress failed to speak a word when Deyi Baidethi, mother of the revered twins, was humiliated in the social media in the past. The ongoing agitation by the Congress does not hold water as its own MLA has demanded re-naming the airport after Rani Abbakka. Another Congress leader is demanding re-naming the airport after U. Srinivas Mallya. “There is no unanimity in their demand,” he said. The BJP district chief said that Koti Chennaya are revered in society and they should not be confined to the community they belonged to. Dakshina Kannada MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel is actively pursuing with the Union government to re-name the airport after Koti Chennaya. Mr. Kateel will look into the matter of the airport authorities removing some murals related to Dakshina Kannada culture installed at the terminal building recently, he said and added that the MP will examine whether they can be restored. The airport, he said, still remained as Mangaluru International Airport and only the name of the Airports Authority of India has been replaced with Adani Airports after the latter took over the operations and maintenance of the airport recently. The Congress is crying hoarse over privatisation of Mangaluru airport when it was the Congress-led government that privatised operations of airports in New Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru. Asked about the soaring price of sand in Dakshina Kannada, Mr. Moodbidri said that licence will be issued shortly for extraction of sand and this will bring down the price to Rs. 2,000 per lorry load as stated by Mr. Kateel. The MP will pursue with Indian Railways about re-naming the Jokatte Railway Station after late Vishwesha Thirtha Swami of Udupi Pejawar Mutt. The State government will give grants for the Narayana Guru Chair set up at Mangalore University, he said.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold chains snatched from women in city||Gold chains were snatched from two women in as many incidents reported in the city on Wednesday evening. Rashmi, a resident of Urandadigudde of Panjimogaru, lost her gold chain near Raghavendra Mutt in Kavoor Police limits at around 7 p.m. According to a complaint, Rashmi, an employee of a two-wheeler showroom in Shantinagar, was walking towards her house. At around 7 p.m., she saw two persons following her on a motorcycle. An anxious Rashmi called her mother and informed her about it. Soon after, the two motorcycle-borne men came near her and snatched away her 22 gram gold chain worth Rs. 80,000. In the second incident, complainant Geeta lost her two gold chains in Vyas Nagar near Karnataka Polytechnic. In her complaint to the Mangaluru East Police, she said that she saw a person repairing a motorcycle on Vyas Nagar Road at around 6.30 p.m. Soon after she went past him, the accused snatched her two gold chains worth Rs. 1.54 lakh and sped away, she said. Special teams have been formed to trace the accused, the police said.  Missing A 36-year-old woman and her 13-year-old son have been reported missing from their house in Kuthethur village of Surathkal Police limits since November 17. The police said that Shabeera left the house along with her son Shamlan at around noon on that day and is yet to return. Shabeera’s brother Mohammed Ansar filed a complaint on Wednesday evening.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank donates hi-tech ambulance to district admn.||Karnataka Bank as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) has donated a hi-tech ambulance priced at Rs. 20 lakh to Dakshina Kannada district administration. Managing Director and CEO of the bank Mahabaleshwara M.S. handed over the ambulance to the Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra at the bank’s head office here on Thursday. The Deputy Commissioner, while thanking the bank for the gesture, said, “This is a huge support and morale booster for the district administration to fight COVID-19 as well as to provide emergency health services to the needy. Karnataka Bank has always been in the forefront in extending support and to partner with the district administration for development programmes. This initiative is yet another testimony to its commitment to the welfare of society and I laud its social commitment.” Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Mahabaleshwara said that the ambulance is fully loaded with all necessary life supporting emergency medical accessories such as auto loading system, a medical cabinet, jumbo oxygen cylinders and a driver cabinet. In the past also, the bank has extended a financial aid of Rs. 15.39 lakh to the district administration when the pandemic was at its peak. The bank immediately stepped in to procure digital oxymeters, face masks and 1,000 PPE kits for medical practitioners and healthcare workers who are fighting the dreaded virus. Also, the bank has extended financial assistance of Rs. 5 lakh to the Mandya district administration and sponsored 3,000 units of PPE kits to the district administrations of Udupi, Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru at a total cost of Rs. 10.50 lakh, he said. “We believe our contribution will set the right example to inspire all stakeholders to work towards strengthening the medical infrastructure of public health institutions so as to equip society to face such contingencies in a still better way,” he said. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy, Chief Business Officer of the bank Gokuldas Pai, General Manager Manjunatha Bhat B.K. and Assistant General Manager of the bank Srinivas Deshpande were present, according to a release issued by the bank.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New district hospital building should meet the needs of a government medical college: MLA||Udupi MLA K. Raghupati Bhat said on Thursday that the new building of the government district hospital in Udupi should be constructed in such a way that it should meet the needs of a government medical college in the coming days. Speaking at a meeting held in connection with the construction of the new hospital building in Udupi, the MLA said that the new building should have all infrastructure facilities supplementing the needs of a medical college. The MLA said that if the emergency ward, outpatient ward, surgery units, laboratory, intensive care unit and dialysis facilities are provided in the ground floor, it will help many a patient. Priority should be given to house them in the ground floor while preparing the blueprint of the building. The cellar should have parking facility for vehicles of patients and staff of the hospital, he said. He said that the new 250-bed capacity building which will come up on 27,375 sq ft area at an estimated cost of Rs. 115 crore should be completed within the time-frame and the construction works should begin at the earliest. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the new building will be constructed in the vacant land which is behind the existing hospital building which will not be demolished now. Hence, treatment for patients in the existing building can be continued. The existing building can be used for any other purposes of the hospital in the later days, he said. Mr. Jagadeesha said that if some small buildings inside the compound wall of the hospital are demolished, more land will be available to construct the new building. Chief Executive Officer Y. Naveen Bhat, Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu, District Surgeon Madhusudan Nayak, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Sudhirchandra Sooda participated in the meeting.  Work is likely to begin soon for the new 250-bed capacity building which will come up on 27,375 sq ft area at an estimated cost of Rs. 115 crore  Treatment for patients will continue to be provided in the existing building for now
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Railways to operate two fully reserved special trains via Mangaluru Jn.||The Railway Board has approved of trains 06312 Kochuveli-Sri Ganganagar and 06311 Sri Ganganagar-Kochuveli as fully reserved specials, said a release from Southern Railway. Train No 06312 Kochuveli-Sri Ganganagar weekly special will leave Kochuveli at 3.45 p.m. on Saturdays from November 21 and reach Sri Ganganagar at 2.15 a.m. on Tuesdays.It will stop at Kollam, Kayamkulam Jn, Chengannur, Thiruvalla, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrissur, Shoranur Jn, Tirur, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasargod, Mangaluru Jn., Udupi, Kundapur, Byndoor, Murdeshwar,Kumta,Madgaon, Thivim, Kudal, Ratnagiri, Mangaon, Panvel, Vasai Road, Boisar, Vapi, Surat, Ankleshwar Junction, Vadodara Jn., Anand Jn., Ahmedabad Jn., Mahesana Jn., Palanpur Jn., Abu Road, Marwar Jn., Pali Marwar, Jodhpur Jn., Merta Road Jn., Nagaur, Nokha, Bikaner Jn., Suratgarh Jn., Rai Singh Nagar, Sri Karanpur. Train No 06311 Sri Ganganagar-Kochuveli weekly special train will leave Sri Ganganagar at 12.30 p.m. on Tuesdays from November 24 and reach Kochuveli at 7.10 p.m. on Thursdays. The train will stop at Sri Karanpur, Rai Singh Nagar, Suratgarh Jn., Bikaner Jn., Nokha, Nagaur, Merta Road Jn., Jodhpur Jn., Pali Marwar, Marwar Jn., Abu Road, Palanpur Jn., Mahesana Jn., Ahmedabad Jn., Anand Jn., Vadodara Jn., Ankleshwar, Surat, Vapi, Boisar, Vasai Road, Panvel, Mangaon, Ratnagiri, Kudal, Thivim, Madgaon, Kumta, Murdeswar, Byndoor, Kundapur, Udupi, Mangaluru Jn., Kasargod, Kannur, Koilandy, Kozhikode, Tirur, Shoranur Jn., Thrissur, Aluva, Ernakulam Town, Kottayam, Thiruvalla, Chengannur, Kayamkulam Jn. And Kollam Jn. The trains will have two 2-tier AC coaches, three 3-tier AC coaches, 11 sleeper class coaches, three general second class coaches (reserved) and one pantry car and two generator car/luggage-cum-brake van coaches.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Post-Covid Ayush Care Centre opened||The Sharada Ayurdhama on Wednesday opened a Post-Covid Ayush Care Centre on its campus in Talapady here. In a press release, the Ayurdhama said that patients who have recovered from COVID-19 have been found to have health issues such as fatigue, body ache, breathlessness, stress, anxiety and depression. The Post-Covid Ayush Care Centre integrates Ayurveda, Naturopathy and Yoga techniques to address these issues faced by such patients, the release said. Inaugurating the centre, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that the traditional Ayurvedic medicine and Naturopathy treatment techniques will help in building immunity. The lifestyle changes brought by the practice of Yoga help in keeping the body in a fine shape, he added. President of the Sharada Group of Institutions M.B. Puranik said that having been infected by COVID-19, he has personally experienced the effectiveness of Ayurveda, Naturopathy and Yoga techniques in regaining health. For more details, call 0824-2281231 or 8971153232, the release said.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Drugs seized in raid in Manipal||In continuing action against sale and consumption of illegal drugs in Manipal, a special team led by Additional Superintendent of Police Kumar Chandra on Thursday seized 462 MDMA tablets and 15 grams of hydro cannabis. This is the fifth raid by the special team so far in the last two months. The police said that the special team acted on a tip-off and raided a place where the narcotic drugs had been stocked. The total value of seized narcotic drugs was put at Rs. 15 lakh. The raiding team comprised Deputy Superintendent of Police Bharat S. Reddy, Police Inspector Manjunath M. Gowda, Udupi Assistant Drug Controller Nagaraj, Shankar and Pradeep Kumar from the Education Department and personnel from Manipal Police Station.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two die in road accidents in Udupi||A 34-year-old lorry driver and a 32-year-old engineer of a private telecom company died in two motor vehicle accidents in Udupi district on Wednesday. The police gave the names of the victims as Rajesh, 34, of Gokula Compound House in Udupi and Raj Deep Gope, 32, of Kolkata. The Udupi Traffic Police said that Rajesh was returning home on his scooter. A goods van, which was going towards the city bus stand, hit the scooter at around 2.30 p.m.. The Udupi Traffic Police have registered a case against van driver Nagaraj. In the other case, the Padubidri Police said Raj Deep Gope was riding pillion on a scooter that his colleague Ranjan Tiwari was riding. T Ranjan Tiwari lost control over the vehicle as a dog crossed the road. A case under Sections 279, 338 and 304 (A) of IPC was registered, the police said.
20 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Free Yakshagana training class||Panambur Venkatraya Aitala Samskrutika Pratishtana, Udupi, will launch free Tenkuthittu Yakshagana dance training classes on Sundays in Udupi from December 6. Yakshagana teacher Rakesh Rai Adka will be the instructor. He has trained over 70 students in the Udupi Sode Mutt in the last three years. For the convenience of school and college students and others in general a new class will start from next month. The schedule is: 3 p.m. to 4 p.m. Sode Mutt swamiji Vishwallabha Sripada has provided space in the mutt for the class. Interested people, with no bar on age, can join the class. Call Ph: 9844212104, 9663424981 or 9845150802 for details, a release said.
20 November 2020||Mini Tejaswi,KARNATAKA||Growth of bioeconomy||Karnataka is well on its path to growing and accounting for 50% of the national bioeconomy, which is expected to cross the $100-billion mark by 2025, according to Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, chairperson of Biocon. Speaking at the opening session of the State’s annual tech event — Bengaluru Tech Summit — on Thursday, she said the State’s bioeconomy is estimated to have contributed $22.6 billion to the country’s bioeconomy in 2019, accounting for 10.2% of the Gross State Domestic Product. “This is of immense importance when compared to the valuation of the national bioeconomy, estimated at $62.5 billion at present. That means that Karnataka already accounts for one-third of the national bioeconomy. We want to rapidly scale this up and aim to account for 50% of the $100-billion bioeconomy by 2025,” she said. In her commentary on the State’s bioeconomy landscape, Ms. Mazumdar-Shaw said that Karnataka, in fact, was the first State in the country to introduce a policy on biotechnology at the turn of the millennium, when the sector was still in its infancy. Within a span of two decades, she said, the State has emerged as the preferred destination for biotech investments in India. Today, it hosts 60% of the biotech companies in the country and employs 54% of the country’s total biotech workforce. The State is home to as many as 380 biotech companies and over 200 startups, representing 18% of the total registered biotech startups in India, she said.
20 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Farmers oppose changes in land re-sale norms after acquisition||Farmers in the region will seek restoration of land acquired from them if it is not utilised for the original purpose within 5 years of acquisition. This is consequent to large swathes of land remaining unutilised for more than two decades after which it changes hands to a third party for a far higher rate. In recent years, the land acquisition that takes place ostensibly for industrial development is followed by an assurance given in writing that the individuals who sell their land will be provided a job once the factory is established. But in most cases either the factory does not materialise or there is a change of land use from industrial to non-industrial purpose paving way for new housing colonies, choultries, educational institutions etc. As a result farmers feel cheated on two counts: the land acquired from them is resold for higher rate and they are also deprived of a job due to the change in land use pattern from industrial to non-industrial purpose. Though the State government introduced a law to lease the land for 99 years instead of outright sale to prevent such conversions, it was withdrawn. Badagalpura Nagendra of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) pointed out that scores of farmers in Kochanahalli near Nanjangud were promised land in addition to compensation paid for land acquisition. This was almost 12 to 15 years ago and a greenfield golf course was supposed to be created and each of the farmer was promised job in maintenance. The land was acquired at a throw-away rate of Rs. 1.5 lakh per acre. But neither the golf course materialised nor did the farmers get any job, said Mr. Nagendra. Self-reliant and independent farmers overnight turned into daily wagers and began to work on what was their own land till the sale was completed. But after a few months even the daily wage was stopped and there was no sign of the golf course. Subsequently it transpired that the same land was offered for sale to the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) at the rate of nearly Rs. 50 lakh per acre. “The farmers have not given up the physical possession yet but the land is no longer in their name’’, said Mr. Nagendra who said that the farmers’ outfit will take up the struggle for land restoration. The KRRS and Hasiru Sene also cited another example wherein a major private company acquired about 175 acres of land at the rate of Rs. 27 lakh per acre. In addition the farmers were promised a job as part of the compensation package by the KIADB. However, the farmers learnt to their chagrin that the job on offer was not locally but in the Hebbal industrial area in Mysuru. “Though the distance may not seem much, the farmers prefer to work in Nanjangud area as most of them have retained a small bit of land to cultivate crops for self-sustenance. Travelling to and from Mysuru regularly will force them to abandon agriculture altogether’’, said the farmers.
20 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Congress says power tariff hike is another blow in the midst of pandemic||Congress workers staged a demonstration in the city on Thursday to protest against the power tariff hike approved by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC). The hike in tariff was sought by the electricity supply companies (ESCOMS) citing increase in expenditure and cost of power procurement consequent to which the hike was approved after a series of public hearings. The Congress said the hike of 40 paise per unit across all categories would hit the commoners who are already reeling due to the pandemic-induced economic crisis, job loss, pay cut and other problems. The farmers were in dire straits and the traders and commercial establishments are down in the dumps due to the lockdown and contraction of the economy. Such being the case the approval for power tariff hike betrayed insensitivity to the crisis being faced by the people, said the agitating Congress workers. The District Congress Committee President B.J. Vijaykumar said the move was anti-people and amounted to inflicting further hardship on the people of the State and wanted the hike to be rescinded with immediate effect. He said when the Congress was in power it introduced a series of pro-people programmes and flayed the present BJP government for remaining ‘insensitive’ to the predicament of the people. The protest, held in front of the Congress Bhavan, saw the party workers raising slogans against the government.
20 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kushalnagar to get new industrial township||An industrial township is coming up at Kushalnagar in Kodagu district at a cost of Rs. 9.50 crore. The Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) is establishing the industrial estate at Kudloor, near Kushalnagar town. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy on Thursday visited the area and inspected the works that are underway for the formation of the township for industrial development in the town. During her visit, she learnt that 114 industrial units that are planning to set up their operations owe Rs. 1.09 crore in tax to the local gram panchayats. Based on the government instructions, she told the KIADAB to collect the prescribed taxes from the units and ensure they are promptly paid to the respective gram panchayats. Assistant Commissioner Eshwar Kumar Kandhu, Joint Director of Industries Lingaraju, officials from the KIADB, Karnataka Small Industries Development Board, and the taluk authorities were present.
20 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Nadabrahma to resume concerts||Nadabrahma Sangeetha Sabha on JLB Road in the city will resume classical music concerts after the unlocking and the first in the series will be held on Friday. The organisers said they conducted two trial concerts on October 31 and November 1 which was attended by about 70 people. Sabha secretary K.S.N. Prasad said that they can accommodate 50 per cent of the actual seating capacity. “The auditorium can accommodate 600 people but the numbers don’t go beyond 200 to 300 for classical music concerts and hence we will be within the limits stipulated by the authorities’’, Mr. Prasad said.
20 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Take govt. schemes to the common man’||The Yuva Morcha of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) organised a conference at Basaveshwar Kalyan Mantap here on Thursday. State president of Yuva Morcha Sandeep Kumar, who inaugurated the function, appealed to the youth party workers to take government programmes to the common people as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa have announced many pro-people programmes for the welfare of the poor and backward communities to help improve their financial and educational status. Stating that the BJP was a common workers party, he said that it has become the world’s largest party because of its commitment and concern for the poor. He said that the BJP is not anti-Constitution and it will take all people together on the path to development. The former MLA Veerabasant Reddy Mudnal, district unit president Sharanabhupal Reddy and Devendranath Nad also spoke. They all exhorted the youth to participate actively and help the party achieve victories in all elections to come. Earlier, the youth wing activists took out a bike rally on the main streets of the city.
20 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Protest staged against Ajit Pawar’s statement||Karnataka Rakshana Vedike, a pro-Kannada organisation, has strongly condemned the statement of Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra Ajit Pawar over Belagavi, Karwar and Nippani and demanded action in the matter. Members of the vedike staged a protest at Subhas Chowk in Yadgir on Thursday, to express their ire against the merger statement.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP to launch dashboard to track status of trade licence applications||The pandemic has made people wary of launching new businesses in the city. The civic body has received just around 5,646 applications for new trade licences in the current financial year. This, despite the fact that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had simplified the process to apply for and renew trade licences. In the 2019-20 fiscal, a total of 51,563 trade licences were issued, bringing the BBMP revenue of around Rs. 47 crore. Of these, as many as 13,171 were new trade licences and 38,392 were renewed. In the backdrop of this poor response, the BBMP has decided to further simplify the process in a bid to cover more trades and encourage traders to renew their licences. BBMP’s Chief Health Officer (Public Health) Vijayendra said a dashboard is also being developed, which will reflect details in each zone, the number of new applications received, and the number of pending applications. This will not only bring transparency, but help hasten the licence issuing process. It is expected to be up and running in a couple of weeks. With the whole process now online, without any physical touch points, the BBMP already has a database of medical stores and pharmacies, hotels and grocery shops. Dr. Vijayendra said that a decision to do away with spot inspection before issuing new licences, for some trades, had also been taken. “Small trades, such as provision or grocery shops, pharmacies, vegetables or fruit shops, do not warrant spot inspection. However, when there is an inspection and health officials find any violation, the licence issued will be cancelled,” he said. Traders have to make e-payment of the prescribed fee through the department’s portal for auto-renewal of their licences. They can then download the digitally signed approval certificate in minutes. He added that even the application of new licences had been simplified. Traders need to submit just two documents – rent or lease agreement and electricity or telephone bill. Applicants can choose the duration of validity of these licences, from one to five years, make payments online and also track the status of their application. Civic officials hope that these measures will help the BMMP cover more trades in the city and issue licences. The number of trade licences issued is a small fraction of the commercial power connections in the city, a matter that came up for discussion during a recent review chaired by BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Conducting practicals will be a challenge’||With most colleges recording low attendance by student on the third consecutive day, principals and managements are considering holding only practical classes on campus and continuing with the remaining lectures online. Principals expressed concern over convincing students to physically attend practicals. “Conducting practicals will be difficult if attendance remains low,” said a faculty member of a college in Bengaluru. P. Ishwara Bhat, Vice-Chancellor, Karnataka State Law University, said that very few students turned up on campus on Thursday. “This has been the case with most of the 106 colleges affiliated to our university. Only a few colleges in cities like Bengaluru are seeing some student turnout,” he said. He added that if this trend continues in December, they will have to look at alternative ways to ensure that final year students get the training they need for placements. “The mandatory COVID-19 negative certificate and lack of transport facilities may be contributing to the low attendance,” he added. Principals are hoping that attendance will increase in the month of December. C.B. Annapurnamma, principal, National College, Basavanagudi, said that to maintain social distancing and avoid crowding in laboratories, they had extended college hours. “Even then, very few students turned up on the first day. On Thursday, 68 students reported to the campus, but most of them did not have a COVID-19 negative certificate. We had to make arrangements for testing on the premises,” she said. Faculty at National College hope to complete practicals within the first week of December. “But it will be a problem if only a few students turn up for the practicals,” she said. Students, especially those residing in the outskirts of the city, blamed the lack of coordination between government departments, which they said is making it difficult for them to go to college. “From transport to testing facilities, even if we want to come to campus, we can’t because either result of the test is delayed or there isno proper public transport. Students who don’t live in the city can’t return because many hostels are closed,” said Yashwanth N., a student. Bucking trend However, a few colleges are bucking the trend, and reported a rise in attendance. T.M. Manjunath, president, Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association, said that more students turned up on Thursday when compared to the past two days. “Around 40 % of students have started coming to the college now. We will get to know the real picture in a few days. If some opt for online classes and others offline, then the workload on teachers will increase. The government has to take a call on the issue,” he said.  On Thursday, 68 students reported to the campus, but most of them did not have a COVID-19 negative certificate. We had to make arrangements for testing on the premises C.B. Annapurnamma, principal, National College, Basavanagudi,
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘High Court proposal to use A4 paper awaiting nod from State government’||The full court of the Karnataka High Court had on August 22, 2019 passed a resolution proposing amendment to the court’s rule of allowing use of A4 size paper for all proceedings instead of the existing use of foolscap or legal size paper. However, this proposal is awaiting approval and issuance of a formal notification by the government for its implementation. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty noted these aspects while disposing of a PIL petition filed by a group of law students, who in their petition filed in August 2020 sought a direction to the court’s registry to amend Rule 2 of Chapter XII of the High Court of Karnataka Rules, 1959 to allow use of A4 size paper. Meanwhile, the bench directed the High Court’s Registrar-General, who had submitted a report on the full court’s proposal to amend rules, to place before the concerned committee of the High Court the plea made by petitioner’s counsel for issuing administrative orders to all the district and taluk courts in the State for using A4 size papers. The petitioners have been campaigning for uniform use of the widely available A4 paper in all the courts across the country. The Supreme Court and three High Courts have issued notifications doing away with the British-era practice of using foolscap paper.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pandemic drives teachers to take up farming||Lokesh Talikatte, State unit president, Recognised Unaided Private School Association, Karnataka, said that the government had not released any relief package for school managements or teachers who were in financial distress. “Some managements are now selling their schools and movable assets such as school buses,” he said. Drying fish Ranganath, a management member at Educare English Medium, Amadalli, Karwar, said that he had been using his school campus -- spread over 1.2 acres -- to dry fish. “So far, only 50 out of 389 students have paid a portion of the school fees. While their annual fee is Rs. 8,100, some of the parents have paid fees ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 5,000. If we force parents to pay up, they may pull their children out of our school and enrol them in government schools,” he said. RTE Students and Parents Association chief secretary B.N. Yogananda said that the State should reimburse schools for students admitted under the RTE quota so that they could survive. Fall in student strength Another worrying trend for private schools is the growing popularity of government schools, especially among families who can no longer afford the fees. Christopher Cheriyan, secretary of Emmanuel Mission School, Holalkere Rural in Chitradurga district, has converted a portion of his school into a workshop where he does some welding work to earn additional income. Jobs lost “As many as 60 of the 180 students in the primary school have taken transfer certificates. Their parents have enrolled them in government schools as they themselves have lost their jobs or are making do with lower salaries,” he added.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ex-mayor in custody of CCB for one more day||A court on Thursday extended the Central Crime Branch’s custody of former mayor R. Sampath Raj by a day. The police will continue to interrogate him on his role in the violence at D.J. Halli and and K.G. Halli on August 11. He has been accused of instigating violence against Pulikeshinagar MLA Akhanda Sreenivasa Murthy over a derogatory social media post against Islam by the legislator’s nephew. Special Public Prosecutor P. Prasanna Kumar said that the CCB is probing the link between the Facebook accounts of Sampath Raj and that of Naveen Kumar, who put up the post. ‘People helped accused’ Sampath Raj was on the run for more than 20 days, and there were many people who sheltered him. Harbouring an accused is a criminal offence. The people who helped him are yet to be identified and arrested, said Mr. Kumar. He added that Sampath Raj is not cooperating with the CCB, and hence more time is need to question him. The court, admitting the plea, allowed one more day of custody and directed the CCB to produce him in court on Friday afternoon. The former mayor’s bail plea will come up after the custody is over.
20 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||UDF finalises all candidates for Alappuzha municipality||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has announced all 52 candidates for the Alappuzha municipality. The Congress will contest in 43 seats and Indian Union Muslim League in six seats. Besides, the Kerala Congress(M) (Joseph faction) and RSP will contest one seat each. The UDF has fielded an independent from the Nehru Trophy ward. The Congress candidates are Rojomol C.P. (Thumboli), Lekha Sarju (Kommady), Tomy Kallarakkal (Poonthoppu), Kunjumon Mathew (Kalath), Thomas Joseph (Kottamkulangara), Sreelekha (Punnamada), Sholi Sidhakumar (Pallathuruthy), Yesudas Thomas (Kalarcode), Sajesh (Kaithavana), Faisal P.S. (Palace), Surumi Basheer (District Court), Kochutressa (Thathampally), Ambily Arvind (Karalakam), Biji Shankar (Avalookunnu), Joseph [Kunjumon (Karukayil)], Sandhya R. Nair (Thondankulangara), Gigi Santhosh (Asramam), Suma Skandan (Mannath), P.S. Sasilal (Kidangamparambu), K. Noorudeen Koya (Municipal Office), Kumari R. Baby (A.N. Puram), Jyothimol C. (Housing Colony), Sreekutty S. (Sanathanapuram), Basheer Koyaparambil (Eravukadu), Zeenath Nazar (Valiyamaram), Sunil George (Municipal Stadium), Illikkal Kunjumon (Vattayal), Laila Beevi (Kuthirapanthy), R. Raji (Gurumandiram), Nirmala Albert (Vadackal), Molly Jacob (Beach), Shyja J. (Railway Station), Reego Raju (Sea View), Reji Emerson (Vada Canal), Rajeena Thaju (Power House), B. Rafeek (Chathanad), Elizabeth (Kanjiramchira), P.A.Kunjumol (Kalappura), Madhusoodhanan Pillai (Pazhaveedu), Thomas Kuruvila (Vazhicherry), Aneesha N.R. (Thirumala), A. Jayakumar (Thiruvambady) and Jessy Benedict (Mangalam). The IUML candidates include Tarish Mohammed (Mullathuvalappu), Shafi Rahmathullah (Alissery), Neenu (Lajneth), Babu Sheriff (Valiyakulam), A.M. Noufal (Zacharia Bazar) and H. Libi (Civil Station). A.N. Puram Sivakumar of KC (M) will contest from Mullakkal, while Rameshan of RSP will be in fray from Arattuvazhi. Ratheena Sethunath, a UDF independent, has been fielded from the Nehru Trophy ward.
20 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||NH widening a threat to 800-year-old church||Protest is brewing against the move to demolish the St. George’s Orthodox Church, Cheppad, to enable widening of the National Highway (NH) 66. A relay hunger strike demanding the protection of the 800-year-old church completed 11 days on Thursday. Recently, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had finalised a new alignment for the road development, which will flatten part of the church. The church, known for its antiquity and the mural paintings on the walls of the sanctuary (madbaha), is estimated to have been built in the 12th Century. Though it was rebuilt in 1952, the sanctuary at the eastern end of the church was left intact to preserve the murals. “The authorities have laid stones marking the new alignment of the NH. Half the church building will have to be demolished and it will not be possible to retain the rest of the structure, including the sanctuary. The authorities fixed the initial alignment avoiding the church. But they changed it, we think, under pressure,” says Fr. Alexander Vattakkattu, vicar of the church. Forty-seven murals are arranged in three rows on three walls of the church. The paintings include those of St. Paul with a sword, the nativity of Jesus Christ, resurrection of Lazar by Christ, the kiss of Judas, the Last Supper, Christ bearing the cross and being flogged by soldiers, other scenes from crucifixion, Adam and Eve eating the forbidden fruit, and Noah’s Ark. These paintings, a blend of Persian art and Kerala’s mural artwork, have drawn enthusiasts from far and wide. 600-year-old murals “According to a report of the Archaeological Survey of India, the murals are around 600 years old and were drawn using extracts from green leaves and fruits. Efforts were on to enlist the church as a heritage monument under UNESCO when the parishioners received information that the church will have to be demolished,” says J. Philipose, a senior member of the church. Parishioners say an earlier alignment of the road proposed to acquire land on the opposite side of the church. “Buildings on the opposite side are all less than 75 years old. Their owners exerted influence on the authorities to redraw the alignment. At a time when there is renewed awareness all over the world about preserving heritage structures, it is ironic that the ancient church has to face this ordeal,” Mr. Philipose says. Court ruling, says NHAI NHAI officials say that changes in alignment were made based on a court order and after getting the nod from the State government. “Some people had lodged complaints against the initial alignment. The court directed to acquire land equally on both sides,” says an NHAI official.
20 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Gap Road work may resume next week||The road-widening works of the Gap Road stretch of the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway is expected to resume next week, with the contractor agreeing to the compensation demanded by farmers who suffered damage in the landslips triggered by the blasting of rocks as part of the work. Vast areas of cardamom cultivation, owned by 30 farmers, on the lower side of the Gap Road stretch were destroyed in the two landslips on June 17 and August 6. The earlier compensation offered by the contractor was not acceptable to the farmers. Rs. 8 lakh for an acre District Collector H. Dinesan said the contractor would provide the compensation amount after the survey of the affected land. A survey team would be deputed soon, he added. Kunnel Baby, an affected farmer, that the contractor had given an undertaking to pay them Rs. 8 lakh for an acre of land as compensation. The first instalment, 25% of the amount, would be given by next week, he added. An official of the National Highway Authority of India said the road-widening works would be resumed next week and a retaining wall would be constructed. In the landslip on June 17, about 200 metres of the road got washed away. Twenty landslips were reported in the area after the road widening works were launched. It was alleged that rocks were blasted simultaneously at different spots, triggering landslips. ‘Unscientific’ Earlier, a report by the Devikulam Subcollector said that unscientific road construction had led to the landslips and recommended an expert team from IIT, Kozhikode, to survey the area. The team recommended resumption of the road widening works after ensuring safety aspects, including the construction of a retaining wall.
20 November 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Agriculture innovators’ meet to be held online||M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) in association with the Department of Science and Technology will organise a rural agriculture innovators’ meet online in the first week of February, 2021. Pest management The meet envisages to address issues such as pest and disease management, man-animal conflict, nutrient management and irrigation, according to organisers. For details, contact- 04936 204477 or 9388020650.
20 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||MLA’s secretary interrogated||The office secretary of K.B Ganesh Kumar, MLA, was on Thursday interrogated and later released by the police in connection with the charges of threatening an approver in the actor assault case. Pradeep Kumar was interrogated for five hours at the office of the Kanhangad Deputy Superintendent Police.
20 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Kamaruddin shifted to ICU||Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin, who is in remand in connection with a gold jewellery investment fraud case, was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit of the Government Medical College Hospital, Kannur, on Thursday. He was hospitalised on Wednesday evening after he complained of uneasiness. Abnormalities were found in his ECG, blood pressure, and sugar level. He also complained of backache. According to K. Sudeep, Medical Superintendent, MCH, an angiogram has been taken and an angioplasty cannot be ruled out. Dr. Sudeep said the MLA was diabetic and three years ago he had developed cardiac problems. However, he had refused to undergo treatment then. The MLA’s condition was normal now, he added. On Monday, the MLA was examined by doctors at General Hospital, Kasaragod.
20 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||NGT pulls up District Collector over Brahmapuram fiasco||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has expressed its dissatisfaction over the government’s response to the problem legacy (old) waste at Brahmapuram. The Bench comprising justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta has also warned the District Collector that he will have to face the consequences for non-compliance of the directions given by the tribunal under Section 25 of the National Green Tribunal Act 2010, for not filing reports on the legacy waste issue under the provisions of the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Asking the Kochi Corporation to implement the SWM Rules in its letter and spirit, the Bench said that the action taken by the government was not encouraging. Even though the government had taken over the legacy waste management as per the provisions of Disaster Management Act, it had to be done in a swift manner to meet the disaster caused on account of the non-disposal of the legacy waste in the dump yard, it said. The tribunal pointed out that a large extent of the 100-acre land could be utilised for profitable purposes by the corporation, if the authorities had disposed of the old waste through biomining and by ensuring proper segregation. The Bench said that the District Collector had not filed a report even after it had directed him to explain the steps taken as District Magistrate under rule 12 of the SWM Rules. Further, he had not filed a separate report on the steps initiated to resolve the nuisance caused by the large-scale accumulation of waste without proper disposal as the officer responsible for implementing the Disaster Management Act, it said. The Bench said that it did not plan to issue further direction as the Principal Bench in New Delhi had already taken cognisance of the issue, besides issuing directions to the Chief Secretary to take remedial measures on a war footing.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CSML concerned over hiccups in sewage treatment plant project||The Rs. 166 crore that was earmarked by the Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) to establish a modern, multi-storey sewage-treatment plant (STP) near the taluk hospital at Kunnumpuram in Fort Kochi might lapse if the opposition to the plant continues from a section of the people living in the region. This was the biggest among the 82 projects envisaged by the CSML in phase one development works, for which 16% of the total funds of Rs. 1,000 crore was set apart by the agency. This huge amount was aimed at tackling sewage in five corporation divisions in the area. It may simply lapse if not used. All that the plant needs is 45 cents of land and will not in any way inconvenience people in the locality, Jafar Malik, CEO of CSML and KMTA and the MD of RBDCK said here on Thursday. He said everyone was for the plant, but did not want it anywhere in their vicinity. Subsequently, most people let out untreated sewage into drains and canals, in violation of the norms of the Pollution Control Board and National Green Tribunal. Hefty fines may be imposed on them for this. These bodies might take suo motu action or direct the corporation to impose the fine, he warned. Ernakulam market Referring to the Rs. 68-crore project to build a modern four-storey structure to house the Ernakulam market, he said a temporary shed to relocate merchants would be readied by January 2021. The multi-level market and parking space would be readied in another two years. A skywalk had been envisaged from the market to the road in phase two, for which permission was awaited. Cycle tracks planned Mr. Malik said that all smart roads being built by the agency would have cycle tracks, aimed at promoting non-motorised transport. The tracks could be hewed out of four-lane roads, as for example, the Kaloor-Kadavanthra Road. The aim was to have an inclusive, accessible, safe and green city. Efforts were on to develop corridors such as P.T. Usha Road into walking streets. Over 75% of projects taken up by CSML were in different stages of completion. The pandemic had contributed substantially to the delay. A total of 8.50 km of smart roads in the city would have ducts to carry utilities, including power cables. Smart LED lights were being installed in even other road development works that were underway. Solar panels had been installed atop 28 government offices to produce 1 MW of power, he said. KMTA proposals Elaborating on proposals that the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) is considering, Mr. Malik said there was a demand that the agency ready a parking policy wherein owners of premises could volunteer to spare their premises as pay and park lots. These spaces could be mentioned in an app aimed at guiding motorists who wanted to park their vehicles. An automated system could be installed in each such facility to levy parking fee, a part of which could go to the KMTA. The entry of buses from Goshree Islands into the city too was a long-pending demand. A common multi-modal card and upgradation of pollution-testing centres too were on the anvil, he said.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||17,265 nominations for three-tier polls||When filing of nominations for the local body polls ended on Thursday, the district had 17,265 nominations. There were 253 nominations to the district panchayat, 835 to the city corporation, 3,586 to the 13 municipalities, 1,405 to the block panchayats, and 11,186 to the grama panchayats in Ernakulam district. A total of 4580 nominations were filed on the last day, Thursday. The scrutiny of nominations will take place on Friday. Nominations to the district panchayat will be scrutinised at the collectorate conference hall at 11 a.m. Nominations can be withdrawn till November 23.
20 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Clarification on environment compensation norms sought||The State Pollution Control Board has sought the response of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) on the guidelines to be followed while fixing the environment compensation on cities coming under Class II and below categories for violation of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Board in a fix  The Hindu had earlier reported that the board was in a fix over imposing the compensation on local bodies including Aluva, Angamaly, Kalamssery, Thrikkakara and Thripunitura for their failure to comply with rules citing the confusion over norms to be followed for assessing the compensation as they came under this category. The environmental compensation is estimated based on the sum of capital cost and environment externalities. For Class I cities, the minimum capital cost prescribed by a joint committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal is Rs. 1 crore and the operational cost is Rs. 1 lakh per day. But the minimum capital cost and operational cost are not prescribed for cities coming under the Class II and below categories. So, it is not possible to estimate the environmental compensation for these cities, according to a letter sent to the CPCB by the Chairman of the State board. A methodology The board recalled that the joint committee had come up with a methodology for assessing the percentage of achievement in solid waste management by considering factors like formation of Haritha Karma Sena and door-to-door collection. A total score of 100 is given for different activities. The percentage of achievement is calculated based on the data sheet on solid waste management submitted by the local body. The board has requested the central board to approve the methodology prescribed by the committee. The CPCB had set up a division to look into the matter of modification of guidelines on the assessment of environmental compensation. The State board will act based on the recommendations given by the division on how to estimate the capital/operational cost component for cities in Class II and below categories.
20 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC: Make roads, footpaths accessible to differently abled||The roads and footpaths under the control of the Kochi Corporation, its nodal agencies and the Public Works Department shall be maintained and repaired and made accessible to differently abled persons within three months, ordered the Kerala High Court. It was on a Public Interest Litigation filed by the Chairperson of Centre for Empowerment and Enrichment, an NGO, that the Division Bench of the court consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly issued the order. The court held that the corporation and the department were duty-bound to make necessary arrangements to enable differently abled persons access footpaths and roads at their convenience. The agencies shall secure necessary reports from the officers concerned and nodal agencies, and file a comprehensive report before next March, the court held. The petitioner had contended that the agencies had failed miserably to protect the rights and interests of differently abled people due to the poor maintenance of footpaths within the limits of Kochi city. It had affected their fundamental right for free movement and to practice any profession or to carry on any occupation, trade or business and right to livelihood, the petitioner submitted. The court held that differently abled people, like any other citizens, were entitled to enjoy the fruits of life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. They were also entitled to enjoy other fundamental rights guaranteed to citizens under the Constitution to the extent possible for them, the court noted. The State has a duty to secure a social order for the promotion of welfare of people, which includes special and essential requirements of differently abled citizens. It was the inevitable function of the State and local bodies to look after the affairs of differently abled citizens also, the judgement pointed out.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A staunch ‘independent’ take on fronts||Shaji George’s philosophy about the functioning of local self-government bodies is quite simple; be free of all political and communal pulls and pressures. Translated into electoral parlance, that means contesting as an independent and that is what the 48-year-old political science graduate with a postgraduate diploma in journalism has been doing for a decade now. Mr. George emerged victorious in his maiden electoral battle from his home ward of Vadayambathumala in Vadavucode-Puthencruz grama panchayat in 2010 when he beat both major fronts. He shifted to ward 6, Rajashi, when that ward got reserved in 2015. He tied votes with the LDF and UDF candidates and lost out in a flip of the coin. “It was an achievement since I was away from my home turf without the assured votes of my family and friends,” said Mr. George, who drawing from that confidence, has thrown his hat into the ring from ward 11, Puttumanoor, this time. He drew quite a few eyeballs by turning up in a Personal Protection Equipment kit to file his nomination. This, he said, was a safeguard against potential infection of electoral officials as he had been visiting households for campaigning besides being a reminder of having to co-exist with the virus. He counts on his achievements from his first, and hitherto sole stint as a ward member to romp home yet again. Issue of job cards under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme to all Scheduled Caste households in 2012, facilitating 168 welfare pensions and construction of five roads figure prominently among his report card. “I have the acceptance of at least 80% of the electorate in the ward and even if mainstream political parties were to prise out 10-15% of the voters, I will still manage a handsome victory,” Mr. George claimed.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Follow Central norms on last rites: HC||The Kerala High Court has refused to entertain a public interest litigation seeking to issue directions to the State government to follow the norms set by the World Health Organization (WHO) in the management of bodies of persons who died of COVID-19. Refusing to accept the contentions of the petitioner, a Division Bench of the High Court consisting of Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chaly directed the State government to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the Central government in this regard and to make necessary arrangements for the performance of the last rights in accordance with the guidelines. The writ petition was filed by members of the Muslim community, seeking directions to the State to follow the WHO guidelines than the one framed by the State and Central governments. The court noted that the State government was duty-bound to follow the guidelines issued by the Union government by invoking the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and Rules and the State or the Central government cannot be directed to follow the WHO guidelines.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Agency seeks medical report of Ebrahim Kunju||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) has sought the formation of a medical board to ascertain the health condition of former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, who was arrested on Wednesday in connection with the Palarivattom flyover construction scam. The VACB, which sought the custody of the legislator till November 21 before the court of the Enquiry Commissioner and Special Judge, Vigilance, Muvattupuzha, wanted his health condition to be evaluated as Mr. Kunju was admitted to a private hospital for medical treatment. ‘Refuses to cooperate’ Mr. Kunju was intentionally refusing to cooperate with the investigation and reluctant to reveal the information in his personal knowledge. Hence, his custodial interrogation was inevitable for the investigation of the case, the agency submitted. Sumeet Goyal, managing director of RDS Projects Limited; V.V. Nagesh of Nagesh Consultancy, Bengaluru; T.O. Sooraj, former Public Works Secretary; and officials of Kitco and the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation, Kerala; are the other accused. ‘Criminal misconduct’ The allegation against the accused is that they conspired and committed criminal misconduct by abusing their official positions as public servants. They, by corrupt or illegal means, acted without any public interest causing pecuniary advantage to RDS Projects Limited and corresponding loss to the State government. The accused compromised on the quality and quantity of the materials used for the constriction of the flyover, thereby jeopardising public safety. Counsel for Mr. Kunju, who denied the allegations of corruption, sought time for submitting more documents in the case. The agency wanted the custody of the accused till November 21. The court will consider the custody application on November 24.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cinemas to remain shut||The State government on Thursday informed Malayalam film trade bodies that reopening of cinemas would be delayed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic crisis. A meeting of representatives of the industry was convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan after the Kerala Film Chamber submitted a memorandum seeking a relief package following the financial crisis induced by COVID-19. Minister for Cinema A.K. Balan attended it. Kerala Film Chamber president K. Vijayakumar termed the meeting a farce while stating that the government failed to come up with any concrete solutions to the worst-ever crisis faced by the film industry. The agenda of the meeting was set by the government and the industry representatives did not receive adequate time to present their problems, he said. Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala general secretary M.C. Bobby said the Chief Minister made it clear that any decisions on reopening theatres could be taken after the pandemic situation improved. On the chamber’s plea to reduce the entertainment tax and a waiver on the electricity charges while remaining shut, Mr. Bobby said the government remained tight-lipped in view of the code of conduct in force owing to the civic body elections.
20 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||936 recoveries, 423 new COVID-19 cases in district||Ernakulam district recorded 423 new cases of SARS-CoV-2 infection on Thursday, with the source of infection of 121 remaining unknown. A total of 936 patients recovered. Among the newly infected were 12 health workers and 14 migrant workers. Edathala (21), Maradu (15), Thripunithura (14), and Kothamangalam (13) recorded most number cases in the district on Thursday. The district has, as on Thursday, 29,193 people under disease surveillance. The total number of active patients was 9,245. A fresh lot of 6,031 samples were sent from the district for testing.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Held on charge of stealing ornaments||The Kunnathunadu police on Thursday arrested a person on the charge of theft. The arrested was identified as Biju aka Acid Biju, 48, of Nellimattom. The accused is infamous for his ability to steal gold ornaments of those sleeping without their knowledge, through the window. The arrest was in two different cases in which he allegedly stole gold chain worth over one soveriegn of a woman in Chelamattom and gold ornaments weighing two-and-a-half sovereigns belonging to another woman at Kaithakkad. A special investigation team led by Inspector V.T. Shajan, sub inspectors K.T. Shaijan and O.V. Sajan has been probing the case since then. The accused had been arrested by the Pothanikkad police in another case and his role in the thefts came to light during interrogation.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Elected reps bound to obey laws of their party: HC||A candidate of a political party who is elected to any statutory institutions shall always bear in mind that his political activities and his functions in the institution are regulated and guided by the laws of his party, and his continuance as a member depends on his continued unflinching loyalty to his party, ruled the Kerala High Court on Thursday. Dismissing a writ appeal filed by K.V. Varghese, former chairperson of the Thiruvalla municipality, against his disqualification by the State Election Commission (SEC), the Division Bench noted that if a member or group of elected members of a political party took a stand contrary to that of the political party and acted against its directions and policies, it amounted to disloyalty. Congress moved SEC The Congress had moved the State Election Commission against Mr. Varghese after he refused to step down from the chairmanship on completion of two-and-a-half years in office. A single judge of the High Court had also upheld the decision of the SEC. The moment an elected member became disloyal to the political party to which he belonged, the inference was that he had voluntarily given up his membership. It was the duty of an elected candidate to retain the confidence reposed so by his electorate, the court noted.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Two held in abandoned ganja packets case||Nearly a month after 13 kg of ganja was found abandoned in two separate lots in as many locations near Pattimattom, the Kunnathunadu police on Thursday arrested two persons in this connection from Pattambi. The arrested were identified as Devadas, 45, of Tirur in Malappuram, and Muhammed Shafi, 36, of Nilambur. The police also allegedly seized 3 kg of ganja from them.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man accused in 10 criminal cases held under KAAPA||The Ernakulam rural police on Thursday arrested a person under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA). The arrested man was identified as Lalu, 27, of Kombanad. The police said that he was an accused in 10 criminal cases in the past six years, leading to the invocation of KAAPA on a report by K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural).
20 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam’s tally is 338||The district reported 338 new COVID-19 cases and 596 recoveries on Thursday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 331 contact cases, three NRIs, one person with no known source and three health workers. A 37-year-old Sooranadu resident is the case with no known source. The health workers who tested positive include a 23-year-old Adichanallur resident, 20-year-old Chathannur resident and 34-year-old Piravanthur resident. The district currently has 19,096 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,21,279. While 1,570 persons completed home quarantine on Thursday, the Health Department has traced 1,05,590 primary and 8,372 secondary contacts of the patients.
20 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||In Kottayam, LDF, UDF rush with candidates’ list on final day||As the window for filing of nominations to the local body polls closed on Thursday, an extra-cautious approach to keep a check on rebels and friendly fights resulted in a last-day rush for the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to announce their list of candidates to the Kottayam district panchayat. The National Development Alliance (NDA) led by the Bharatiya Janata Party, however, did not have much of a problem in finalising their list with most of them filing their nominations well ahead of the deadline. While the confusion over the sharing of seats following the vertical split of the Kerala Congress (M) [KC(M)] caused much of the delay for the UDF and the LDF, candidates in unchallenged seats had already completed their first round of electioneering. Barring a handful of seats in certain local bodies, including the Pala municipality, the political fronts could complete the preparation of final list in the municipalities, block panchayat divisions, and grama panchayat wards without major hiccups. Difficult selection The UDF, which had taken an early advantage by sealing a seat-sharing agreement between the Congress and the KC(M) faction led by P.J. Joseph, struggled when it came to the fielding of candidates. Though the Congress had made a desperate attempt to take back the Vaikom division from the KC(M) citing group equations, it did not materialise. The disputes were settled following talks led by All India Congress Committee general secretary Oommen Chandy. There is, however, still discontent among the lower ranks, especially over the ‘undue importance’ to the Joseph group. Elusive consensus Contrary to practice, seat-sharing talks in the LDF too faced an inordinate delay following its expansion with the inclusion of the KC(M) faction led by Jose K. Mani. Though the LDF leadership agreed for a seat-sharing pact with Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the KC(M) sharing nine seats each and four divisions going to the Communist Party of India, consensus continued to elude over the allotment of certain divisions such as Vakathanam, Poonjar, and Puthuppally. The issues in Pala municipality and some other panchayats were also settled through talks. The NDA had completed its deliberations by last week and decided to share the seats between the BJP and the Bharat Dharma Jana Sena. The coalition released its list of candidates to all 22 divisions while the candidates filed their nominations together on November 18. The Janapaksham led by P.C. George, MLA, has fielded candidates in four divisions, including Poonjar and Bharanganam.
20 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||At 342, Kottayam sees a slight dip in cases||Kottayam on Thursday recorded a slight decline in the number of new COVID-19 cases. When the results of 4,764 samples were released on the day, as many as 342 persons tested positive for the virus infection, with a test positivity rate of 7.18%. Among the new cases, 340 persons contracted the virus through local contact, while two persons tested positive after returning from outside the State. With 402 recoveries during the day, the number of active cases further came down to 3,578.  Meanwhile, spread of the disease continued at an alarming level in Kottayam municipality, where 73 new cases were detected on the day. With 35 fresh cases, Changanassery reported the second highest number of cases on the day. As many as 23 wards across 25 local bodies have been declared as containment zones in Kottayam.
20 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||807 in fray for Kozhikode Corporation Council seats||A total of 807 persons have filed their nomination papers to contest the elections from 75 divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation as filing of nominations to the local body polls ended in the district on Thursday. Some 344 persons filed their nomination papers to contest for the civic body polls on the last day. Many of them were dummy candidates, namesakes and rebel candidates. The candidates of mainstream political parties had filed their nomination papers earlier. Tokens were issued to the aspiring candidates till 3 p.m. However, long queues were seen at the Kozhikode Corporation office, seven municipalities and 70 grama panchayats till evening. The process of collecting the nomination papers at some local bodies continued up to 7 p.m. Candidates of almost all parties have already filed their papers to contest from the 27 divisions of the Kozhikode District Panchayat. As of now, there are 238 candidates. Panchayat polls A total of 13,260 have filed their nominations in the three-tier panchayat elections in the district. Incidentally, rebels are giving jitters to both the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front in Kozhikode district. The squabbles among the constituents over seat-sharing within the coalitions have almost been solved. But the rebel menace will make or mar the prospects of the official nominees. The scrutiny of the nomination papers will be carried out jointly by the returning officers and assistant returning officers on Friday. The last day for withdrawing the nominations is November 23.
20 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call for developing Beypore port||A delegation of major exporters and various chambers of commerce from the northern Kerala region on Thursday met senior Customs Department officials and Cochin Steamer Agents Association seeking better support on their part to promote Beypore Port to further heights. Foreign cargo vessels The visit was part of their continuing efforts to attract more foreign cargo vessels to the developing seaport and facilitate the speedy cargo clearance service for making it a favourable destination among national and international stakeholders. Beypore Port Officer Ashwini Prathap also took part in the discussions. The team comprising the representatives of major exporters and importers of rice, plywood, footwear, fruits, vegetables and general cargo pointed out that the huge amount being paid for the on-road transportation of shipments could be reduced to a great extent with the strengthening of services at Beypore. According to them, the majority of the exporters and importers in the northern Kerala districts remained disconnected or failed to explore the benefits of inland shipping with the limited facilities in their nearest port. As a result, they were being compelled to depend on other distant ports and the shipment of cargo by road. Additional cost They said the worst-hit were those operating in the field of exporting handloom products, spices, perishable goods, and footwear items from the Malabar region. In the absence of better seaport connectivity and service, they were mainly using trailer trucks at a huge cost to continue in the business, they said. Crew exchange A functionary of the Kerala Exporters’ Forum said the Beypore port would be able to facilitate the crew exchange of international liners as it would naturally attract more business. Discussions were also held with the operators of Vallarpadam container terminal for fruitful association in every possible areas, they said.
20 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ex-servicemen stage protest against pension reforms||The district unit of the National Ex-Servicemen Coordination Committee on Thursday staged a protest in front of the Income Tax office, alleging that the new proposals made by the Department of Military Affairs in the name of administrative reforms were meant to curtail the rights of defence personnel. Pension benefits The protesters who observed the day as ‘Sainik Raksha Din’ as part of a nation-wide campaign claimed that the new recommendations would result in the extension of service period and the reduction of eligible pension. “If it is implemented, it will end up reducing the pension benefits of those having 20 to 25 years of service by 50%. Only those who complete more than 35 years of service will be able to claim full pension,” they said. According to them, the new proposal suggested the total denial of pension for those with less than 20 years of service. It should be opposed, they added. Welfare schemes Expressing dissatisfaction over the “poor implementation” of various welfare schemes, the coordination committee leaders said their concerns regarding the One Rank One Pension scheme were yet to be addressed. Calls for ensuring transparent operation of the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme (ECHS) and the introduction of better rehabilitation support for deserving veterans too fell on deaf ears, they alleged. A. Viswanathan, organising secretary of the coordination committee, inaugurated the protest, which was chaired by district president P. Purushothaman. District secretary M.V. Jose and north zone leader V.P. Chandrasekharan were present.
20 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A litmus test for Surendran||For a party that is striving hard to end the bipolar politics in Kerala, it will be a litmus test for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its State president K. Surendran in the coming three-tier local body polls. Perhaps the Central leadership appointed the 50-year-old Mr. Surendran in February this year, the youngest leader to hold the post till now, to break the jinx that the party has been facing for a long time. That Mr. Surendran emerged the top choice for the Central leadership is no guess. He had the solid backing of Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan, who leads one of the factions in the party, despite the opposition from a powerful Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) lobby. Intra-party squabbles Today he faces a barrage of issues ranging from local rebellions and allegations from senior leaders, including a strong challenge from the faction led by former president and national executive member P.K. Krishnadas. Mr. Surendran, who has been taking on the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front government, is to a small extent striking a chord with the young brigade in the party. Nevertheless many believe that it is the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that is saving the day for BJP candidates in the faction-ridden party. Electoral strategy So far the State leadership of the party has not been able to build an electoral strategy and political gravitas to challenge its rivals in the State. Like his prominent presence in the protests against the Supreme Court declaring unconstitutional the custom of prohibiting women in their ‘menstruating years’ from entering the Sabarimala Lord Ayyappa temple, Mr. Surendran has been raking up issues against the LDF government. However, his real task will be to revive the fortunes of the party in three-tier polls either by capturing the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation or a few municipalities and improving its presence in grama panchayats across the State. The BJP is in power in the Palakkad municipality and is the principal Opposition in the Thiruvananthapuram city council, and the Kasaragod, Shoranur, Tripunithura and Kodunganloor municipalities. Elsewhere, the party is putting up formidable challenges in several Corporations and municipalities, including Kozhikode, Ottappalam, Tanur, Kottayam, Mavelikara. Pandalam, Varkala, and Nedumangad. Real test The three-tier polls will only be a semifinal. The final will, of course, be the Assembly polls slated for April-May next year. But before that Mr. Surendran may have to mend his ways with the RSS and take into confidence various groups before taking on the political opponents.
20 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Kozhikode records 575 more COVID-19 cases||The Health Department on Thursday confirmed COVID-19 in 575 more people in Kozhikode. With this, the number of active cases in the district reached 7,538. Of the newly confirmed cases, 540 people contracted the virus through local transmission. The source of infection was unknown in 19 cases. There were six health workers and two Gulf returnees among the infected. Fourteen new patients had recently returned from other States. Officials said 894 people recovered from the disease on Thursday. The total number of people under observation is 25,391. On Thursday, 6,892 more samples were sent for lab tests. In Wayanad A total of 114 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 1,000. As many as 110 patients, including three health workers, were infected through local contact while four persons came from other States. A total of 118 recoveries were recorded on the day. The district has so far reported 9,180 COVID-19 cases, while 8,118 people have recovered. There are 11,653 persons under observation.
20 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Karat Faisal to contest poll as Independent||Controversial businessman and politician Karat Faisal filed his nomination papers to contest as an Independent candidate from the Chudappuram ward in the Koduvally municipality in Kozhikode district. In 2015, Mr. Faisal had won from the Parambathu ward of the municipality as an Independent candidate with the backing of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF). However, this time the CPI(M) leadership took a decision not to support him after the Customs Commissionerate (Preventive) in Kochi questioned him in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case last month.  LDF candidate Now, Indian National League (INL) nominee O.P. Rasheed will contest from this ward on the LDF platform.
20 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||C.K. Rajendran: polls a political referendum||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) said the upcoming local body polls in the State would be more than a mere election to the local bodies. “It will rather be a political referendum of people,” Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary C.K. Rajendran has said. Addressing a meet-the-press conducted by Palakkad Press Club here on Thursday, Mr. Rajendran said the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party had joined hands in attacking the LDF. “The UDF says its motto is ‘a vote against corruption’. It will be apt if it changes it to ‘a vote for corruption’. The UDF has no moral right to speak against corruption,” said Mr. Rajendran, hinting at the corruption charges being faced by some UDF leaders in the State. “No LDF Minister is facing any charges of corruption after four-and-half years of rule in the State,” he said. Welfare projects Rejecting the allegations levelled by the UDF and the BJP, Mr. Rajendran said the Palakkad district panchayat was uniquely ahead of several others in implementing a wide variety of welfare projects. Palakkad was the only district panchayat in the State to implement a mini-hydroelectric power project at Meenvallam. “Work on another project at Palakkuzhi is on,” he said. He said the UDF and the BJP had failed to address the waste management issue of Palakkad municipality because of their inefficiency. “The CPI(M) has not scuttled the municipality’s waste treatment project. The party, through its effective intervention in neighbouring Kodumbu panchayat, where the municipality’s dump-yard is located, has helped the municipality resolve its issues,” he said. Mr. Rajendran challenged the BJP claims of development in the municipality. “The work of the municipal town hall could not yet be completed after several years. The BJP has messed up with the AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) project. It failed to execute any of the promises it made in the last election manifesto,” he said.
20 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Cong. faces rebel threat in Palakkad||The Congress is facing a serious threat from rebels after several were denied opportunities by the leadership in some local bodies, including the Palakkad municipality. Several local leaders of the Congress filed nomination as Independent candidates here as the last day of nomination closed on Thursday. The party is facing rebel issue after it resolved to rest those who had been elected four times. District Congress Committee vice president Sumesh Achuthan had raised allegations of caste discrimination in the selection of candidates. He accused DCC president V.K. Sreekandan, MP, of favouritism in candidate selection. The denial of a seat for senior Congress leader K. Bhavadas too had raised a banner of protest. Mr. Bhavadas has filed his nomination as an independent candidate. In Chittur Thattamangalam municipality too the UDF is facing a serious rebel threat. The Youth Congress has fielded its candidates in all wards in apparent protest against denial of a seat to former municipal chairman Madhu. The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has fielded several candidates in protest against denial of a seat to the party. IUML workers have given nomination in six wards when the party was officially given only one seat. The Left Democratic Front and the Bharatiya Janata Party have fielded candidates in all seats, and the Social Democratic Party of India in three seats in Chittur Thattamangalam municipality.
20 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||‘Keep Sangh forces out of power’||The Dalit Human Rights Movement (DHRM) led by Saleena Prakkanam and the Dalit Adivasi Munnani led by Mariyappan Neelippara have called upon the people to keep the Sangh Parivar forces out of power by carefully exercising their voting rights in the local body elections. Ms. Prakkanam and Mr. Neelippara said here on Thursday that the Sangh Parivar had begun to tighten its “evil grip” over the country and it was time to vote for those upholding humanity.   “The Sangh Parivar has become the gravest malady of the country. Use your vote to defeat the Sangh forces,” they said. Ms. Prakkanam said that Dalits, Adivasis, religious minorities and backward communities were increasingly being pushed out of the mainstream. “Both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) have been responsible for providing a fertile ground for the Sangh forces to strengthen their base in Kerala,” she said.  ‘Planned moves’ She pointed out the Citizenship Amendment Act, attempts to do away with Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, lynching of people across the country in the name of cows, caste and religion, and portraying of tribal activists as Naxals and Maoists as planned moves by the Sangh Parivar forces to destroy the Dalits, Adivasis and minorities.  The LDF and the UDF have been responsible for providing a fertile ground for the Sangh forces Saleena Prakkanam Dalit Human Rights Movement
20 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Strict monitoring at Sabarimala||To make sure that the pilgrims who depart Pampa by 7 p.m. are reaching the Sannidhanam before the hill temple closes at 9 p.m., the police will monitor the movement of pilgrims along the trekking route using CCTVs. A decision to this effect was arrived at a high-level committee meeting convened by the Sabarimala Special Officer B. Krishna Kumar at the Sannidhanam on Thursday. The meeting also decided to deploy COVID-19 protocol-cum-line officer in all the departments functioning at the Sannidhanam. These officers will lead the follow-up action in case of the employees at their respective departments are confirmed of the virus infection. Accordingly, a COVID-19 coordination committee comprising protocol officers from each department was formulated, which has also been empowered to inspect the Sannidhanam and surrounding areas and take action. The meeting also decided to arrange a space for the pilgrims on the eastern track of the flyover to unlace their Irumudikettu in adherence to COVID-19 guidelines. Steps have been also made to ensure that restaurants are using disposable plates and glass for supplying food and the distribution is being carried out in accordance with COVID-19 protocol. The Health Department will provide face-masks and gloves to the Ayyappa Seva Sangam workers on duty at the emergency centres at Marakoottam, Charalmedu and Sannidhanam. Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) executive officer V.S. Rajendra Prasad, festival controller B.S. Sreekumar, executive magistrate P.V. Sudheesh, medical officer Mrithul Murali Krishnan were present. Meanwhile, the authorities will soon open two more shower sets comprising 20 each at Pampa, taking the total number of shower units to 60. While the first set of showers installed in October cost Rs. 7.25 lakh, the remaining two sets are coming up at a cost of Rs. 20 lakh. The shower unit, coming up near the TDB toilet block along the main road, are being installed by the Major Irrigation Department The water to these units, supplied by the Kerala Water Authority, is diverted to the sewage treatment plant.
20 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Battle lines drawn in Pathanamthitta||With the last date for the filing of nominations ending on Thursday, battle lines have been drawn for the local body polls in Pathanamthitta with all the three major coalitions going full throttle to capture the maximum number of seats. As per preliminary estimates, the district election authorities received as many as 7,844 nominations till Thursday evening. Of these, 147 nominations were for district panchayat, 605 for block panchayat, 6,164 for grama panchayats and 928 for municipalities. The actual number of contestants, however, will be known only after the scrutiny of nominations, which is slated to be held on Friday. Barring the UDF, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the National Development Alliance (NDA) completed their seat-sharing talks in majority of the local bodies well ahead of the deadline. Though the Congress, the lead partner of the UDF, could prepare its list of candidates much earlier, the confusion over seat-sharing within the UDF in several local bodies still remain. Rebel factor “The nominations have been filed but a clear picture will emerge only after the scrutiny of nominations are complete,” said a top UDF leader. Some rebels, who were protesting over not being renominated, still remained in the fray and the matter would soon be settled through talks. In district panchayat The picture, however, was much clearer in the Pathanamthitta district panchayat, where all three coalitions sealed their seat-sharing agreements and released the list of candidates in a time-bound manner. The NDA was the first to come out with a list of candidates to nine out of the 16 divisions, followed by the release of lists by both the LDF and the UDF. Of the 16 seats in the district panchayat, the Congress will contest from 14 seats while the KC(M) has got two seats. In the LDF, the CPI(M) will contest from 10 divisions while the CPI has received three seat. The KC(M) led by Jose K. Mani has been allotted two seats, while the remaining one seat has been given to the Janata Dal. The NDA has shared the seats in the district panchayat between BJP (9) and BDJS (4). Key divisions According to observers, the battle is slated to be intense in the divisions of Enathu, Kulanad, Pramadam, Elanthur and Malayalappuzha divisions where key figures from the three coalitions are contesting.
20 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Mar Thoma Church to reach out to transgender people||Spelling out the direction he wants the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church to take, Theodosius Mar Thoma Metropolitan has acknowledged the need for the Church to leverage its privilege, abilities and resources to embrace those who are left out, forgotten and abused in society. ‘‘Jesus Christ always had a preferential option for the poor and marginalised and this makes the Church duty-bound to reach out of its normal cycle.’’ Having engaged with people on the margins, including the transgender people, he regards it the duty of every Church to acknowledge the real possibility of alternative societies. Hence, reinvigorating the Church's project for the mainstreaming of the transgender community and expanding its scope of operation across Kerala have been among the top priorities of the new high priest of the Mar Thoma Church. Successful intervention During an interaction with The Hindu , the Metropolitan said plans are afoot to reconstitute the Church-level committee for empowering the transgender community under a bishop. The programme, according to him, takes a cue from the successful intervention of the movement in Mumbai during his tenure as head of the Mumbai diocese. The Metropolitan estimates the actual number of transgender people in Kerala to be around 40,000 as against the official statistics of 25,000. ‘‘Understanding the social relations of the transgender community requires a deeper research and empowering them through outside interventions is easier said than done.’’ As part of it, sensitisation programmes will be organised in institutions like schools and hospitals and churches and counselling and support services provided for the transgender people and their families. The Church will also work with various government and non-government organisations for the protection of the human rights of the community.
20 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||200 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 200 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. Of them, 173 persons contracted the virus through local contact. The source of 48 persons were untraced. With 148 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1879 active cases.
20 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Certificate course on renewable energy||The Department of Physics in Mar Thoma College, Thiruvalla, in association with the Agency for Non-conventional Energy and Rural Technology (ANERT) has launched a three-month -long certificate programme in Renewable Energy. Amit Meena IAS, Director, ANERT inaugurated the programme at a function chaired by the College principal Varughese Mathew. As part of it, an awareness campaign on renewable energy has also begun in the college.
20 November 2020||R.K. RoshniThiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tapping social media to get the message across||As social media play a strategic role in influencing voters in the local body elections in view of the COVID-19 situation, it is also the district administration’s go-to option to reach out to people, candidates and political parties over and over again. District Collector Navjot Khosa says it is important to push out consistently the message of observing COVID-19 protocols during electioneering. Posters The Collector’s Facebook page is already posting such content through posters designed in light of the guidelines issued by the State Election Commission. Ms. Khosa says the district administration wants to remind everyone about the things to keep in mind such as the model code of conduct since the campaigning and nomination phase is on. As polling comes nearer, they will touch upon it too. No initiative has yet been taken to reach out to people through WhatsApp. Good reach Facebook, she says, has a good reach going by the response to the messages already posted. “That has been the experience during the floods and my personal experience during COVID-19 management. Given the time and circumstances right now, we will be using Facebook.” The Collector also plans to make a video this weekend with an appeal to the people and post it on her official page. The focus is now on election-related directions issued against the backdrop of COVID-19. These guidelines are transformed into catchy posters by a team of volunteers on COVID-19 duty at the Collectorate. The team is also working on a series of posters based on directions related to green elections issued by the State Election Commission and the Suchitwa Mission. A couple of posters on dos and don’ts, how to avoid plastics and so on categorised as per what voters, political parties, and candidates need to do are set to be issued daily. Twitter, Instagram soon The Collector has also given directions for more focus on Instagram and Twitter. These two platforms of the district administration will likely become live soon. The District Information Office also posts election-related news and other content on its Facebook page regularly to ensure accuracy in information dissemination.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Scrutiny of nominations today||The scrutiny of nomination papers filed for the December 8 local body elections in the district will begin at 9 a.m. at the offices of the returning officers on Friday. Special arrangements have been made at the offices situated at the Civil Station at Kudappanakunnu and other locations, the district administration said. COVID-19 containment measures would be strictly enforced at the offices, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. The offices of 16 returning officers function at the Civil Station alone. Entry is restricted through three gates. Only three persons — the candidate, proposer and the agent — will be allowed inside the hall. Not more than 30 persons will be allowed to be present inside the scrutiny hall at a time.  Vehicles of persons who arrive for the scrutiny of papers will not be allowed to be parked on the Collectorate campus. The candidate, proposer and the agent should arrive in a single vehicle. It should be parked outside the campus after dropping them off at the office, the Collector said. Election duty list The list of officers on election duty assigned from government offices in the district and other designated offices should be uploaded on the e-Drop website by 5 p.m. on Friday, the Collector said.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Over 1.68 lakh file nominations for local body elections||The number of nominations filed in the State for the local body elections to be held in December has crossed 1.68 lakh, the State Election Commission has said, citing data uploaded from the districts till 9 p.m. on Thursday. As per the latest update from the commission, 1,68,028 candidates have filed their nomination papers across Kerala, of which 1,23,858 are for the elections to grama panchayats. A total of 14,195 nominations have been received for the block panchayat polls and 2,830 for district panchayats. Also, 22,798 nominations have been received for municipalities and 4,347 for Corporations. The scrutiny of the nominations will be held on Friday. November 23 is the last date for withdrawing the nominations. Malappuram leads list Among the districts, Malappuram tops the list with 20,183 nominations followed by Ernakulam (17,266), Thrissur (17,012), Thiruvananthapuram (14,247), Kollam (13,237), Kozhikode (13,260), Alappuzha (13,013), Palakkad (12,575), Kottayam (11,921), Kannur (10,417), Pathanamthitta (8,560), Idukki (6,405), Wayanad (4,631) and Kasaragod (5,301). In the six Corporations, 1,016 nominations have been filed in Thiruvananthapuram, 556 in Kollam, 835 in Ernakulam, 690 in Thrissur, 807 in Kozhikode and 443 in Kannur.  The local body elections, postponed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, are scheduled to be held in three-phases. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki will go to polls on December 8; Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad on December 10; and Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod on December 14.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Protective gear for election officials||Elaborate arrangements are being made in the district to combat the COVID-19 pandemic during the upcoming local body polls. The district would require 26,600 litres of hand sanitiser, 85,300 N95 masks, 1,12,600 gloves, 20,800 face shields and 250 reusable face shields. The protective gear would be distributed to polling officials and other staff who will be deployed for various election-related duties, including counting of votes. Safety boxes Teams deployed in each polling station will be issued boxes containing masks, gloves, sanitiser and face shields. Steps have been initiated to distribute the boxes to the returning officers at the block panchayat level. The boxes, prepared by the State Election Commission, are being distributed from the District Collectorate. Four officials, an attender and a police officer will be deployed in each polling booth. Every box would have 18 N95 masks, 12 pairs of gloves, seven litres of sanitiser in a five litre can and four half-litre cans, and six disposable face shields. The district will have, in total, 3,281 polling booths this time. On the eve of election day — December 8 in Thiruvananthapuram — all polling booths will be disinfected. On the day of voting, sanitiser will be issued to voters when they enter and exit the booth. Compulsory The State Election Commission has made it compulsory for polling officers to wear face shields, gloves and sanitiser. Polling agents also should use masks and sanitiser. On December 8, elections will be held to 1,727 wards in 90 local bodies in the district. The district has a total of 28,26,190 voters. On various duties The election-specific COVID-19 containment measures in the district also cover officers assigned to accept the nomination papers, scrutinise the nominations, packing staff, officials at various distribution centres, sectoral officers and staff, drivers, election observers and route officers.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Test positivity rate falls to 8.54%||Kerala registered 5,722 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday when 67,017 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, to show a significant dip in test positivity at 8.54%. The State for the 12th consecutive day recorded more recoveries than new cases with 6,860 people under treatment leaving hospitals. The active case pool in the State, which has been on a steady decline for the past several days, went down further to 68,229 on Thursday. The cumulative case burden of the State rose to 5,45,641 cases, whereas the cumulative recoveries went up to 4,75,320 cases. The Health Department recorded 26 more deaths in the State on Thursday, which were classified under COVID deaths. With this, the official cumulative toll of the State now stands at 1,969 deaths. Of the active cases , 864 COVID patients are critically ill and being treated in ICUs in various hospitals. Among districts, Malappuram topped the chart with 862 cases, Thrissur 631, Kozhikode 575, Alappuzha 527, Palakkad 496, Thiruvananthapuram 456, Ernakulam 423, Kottayam 342, Kollam 338, Kannur 337, Idukki 276, Pathanamthitta 200, Kasaragod 145, and Wayanad 114 cases.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||14,416 file nominations in district||Submission of nomination papers for the local body elections concluded on Thursday with a total of 14,416 candidates filing their papers in the district. The nominations will be scrutinised on Friday. A major chunk of the nominations — 10,772 — has been filed for the elections to the 73 grama panchayats in the district. While 1,160 nominations were received for the 11 block panchayats, 232 for the district panchayat. As many as 1,034 persons have submitted their nominations for the elections to the Thiruvananthapuram city Corporation. The four municipalities have received 1,218 nominations in all. Recording the highest to be filed on a single day in the district during the ongoing exercise, a total of 5,348 nominations were submitted for polls to local self-government institutions across Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital adds 456 cases||The COVID-19 case graph in the district went up on Thursday with 456 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 when 5,747 samples were tested in 24 hours. The COVID-19 test positivity rate remained steady at around 8. With 658 persons recovering from the illness, the number of active cases stood at 5,745. The district has so far reported 67,992 confirmed cases and 61,844 recoveries. Among the newly diagnosed cases, all, except two imported cases, have been attributed to local transmission. These included 106 cases having unknown sources of infection. Five health-care workers are among those who have been diagnosed with the disease.  The death toll has mounted to 510 with three more deaths being attributed to COVID-19. The deceased included a 98-year-old woman from Nedumangad, a 56-year-old man from Venganoor, and 75-year old woman from Tholicode. The district administration placed 1,444 people under quarantine on Thursday. With this, the number of people being monitored has gone up to 25,387 in houses and 136 in various institutions.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Police warn of action against misuse of candidates’ photos||The Kerala Police on Thursday warned of stern action against those insulting and portraying candidates in the upcoming local body polls, especially women, in bad light on social media platforms. State Police Chief Loknath Behera gave strict instructions to District Police Chiefs in this regard, an official statement said here. The directive was given in the light of widespread misuse of candidates’ photographs, including those used for campaigning and their private ones, on social media. Election cell Action initiated in such cases should be informed to the election cell at the police headquarters here at the earliest, the State Police Chief added. The photographs of many women candidates, including those they had posted on their personal Facebook profiles and other such social media accounts, were widely seen circulated on various platforms with objectionable captions recently. The three-tier local body polls are due next month in Kerala.  Photos of many women candidates widely circulated on various platforms with objectionable captions recently.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Only rapid antigen test for retesting||The Health Department has issued new guidelines clarifying that a person who has recovered from COVID-19 and tests positive again on a subsequent RT-PCR (reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction) test within three months of recovery should not be considered as an infectious patient. Such PCR positivity on a retest, in an asymptomatic individual who had recovered from COVID-19 earlier, is just a case of persistent viral RNA (ribonucleic acid) shedding and should not be equated with infectivity, the department says. The clarification follows a lot of confusion from the field over COVID-recovered patients turning positive again in subsequent PCR tests. The identification of SARS-CoV-2 RNA through the PCR test in an individual who has recovered from COVID should not be seen as the presence of viable, infectious virus. In mild cases, virus with a capacity to replicate cannot be cultured after 10 days and in moderate-severe cases, replicable virus cannot be cultured beyond 20 days. Within three months of recovery, PCR positivity does not indicate reinfection. The department says retesting is not recommended within three months for persons who have recovered from an episode of the disease and who have been remaining asymptomatic. If at all a person who has recovered is required to undergo testing again within three months – prior to a surgery, prior to election duty or prior to undergoing a dialysis – the test performed should be the rapid antigen test and not PCR. The guidelines underline that surgical procedures should not be deferred just because the PCR test of an asymptomatic individual who had previously recovered from COVID-19 turned positive again. The department says prolonged and persistent viral RNA shedding had been documented in some patients for as long as 104 days from symptom onset. Persons who develop new symptoms consistent with COVID-19 within three months of recovery may warrant retesting if an alternative clinical reason cannot be found or if they had contact with a COVID-positive person in the past 14 days. Such persons should go into isolation while the test results are being evaluated.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Preliminary inquiry finds voice on tape is that of Swapna||A preliminary inquiry by the Prisons and Correctional Services has reportedly concluded that there is a high chance that the voice on the ‘leaked audio recording’ seemingly critical of the Enforcement Directorate's methods of investigation belongs to UAE gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh. However, authorities rule out the possibility that the cell phone recording occurred after Swapna arrived at the Attakulangara Women's Prison here as a COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities) detainee. Voice recognised An official said here on Thursday that Swapna seemed to recognise the voice on the tape as her own. But, she could not state clearly to whom she had spoken or when she had made the particular statement. Director General of Prisons and Correctional Services Rishiraj Singh told The Hindu that he had tasked the Cyber Investigation Unit of the State police to verify the genuineness of the voice in the audio clip. Simultaneously, the Prisons Department has launched an internal inquiry to get to the bottom of the controversy. Mr. Singh said the prison authorities had allowed only Swapna's mother, children, brother and husband to visit her. They had met Swapna in the presence of jail wardens and Customs officials. The Prisons Department sends applications that seek to visit Swapna to the Customs for vetting before granting permission. Jailers did not allow cell phones inside the prison precincts. The internal probe would also attempt to find out if any persons or officials had sneaked in a cell phone into the prison for the COFEPOSA detainee to communicate with the outside world slyly.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three held on charge of bike theft||The Mannanthala police on Thursday arrested three youngsters in connection with a motorbike theft. The police identified the accused as Rishin, alias Appu, 19, of Chavadimukku; Sreeraj, 20, of Mudakkal; and Akhil, 19, of Ayirooppara. They were arrested in connection with a motorbike theft that was reported last month. The gang allegedly stole a motorcycle owned by Subin of Kottamugal at Mannanthala from his house on October 31. Following the incident, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, Traffic) Divya V. Gopinath assembled a special team led by Mannanthala station house officer G.P. Sajukumar to nab the accused. Many cases The gang apparently are habitual bike lifters and has several cases registered against them in Kollam and Pathanamthitta, the police said.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Absconder held in murder attempt case||The City police have recorded the arrest of an absconding person who had fled the country to evade prosecution in a murder-attempt case here two years ago. Beemapally East native Arshad Khan, 25, was apprehended at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi following his arrival from Saudi Arabia on November 14. He is the fourth accused in a case relating to an attempt to murder Shamnad of Manikyavilakom in 2018. Four others While four accused had been nabbed soon after the incident, Arshad had managed to flee to Saudi Arabia. The investigation team had submitted the charge-sheet in the case, Thiruvananthapuram City Police Commissioner and Inspector General Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Red Corner Notice The City police subsequently intervened to get a Red Corner Notice issued against the accused. This paved the way for his detention soon after his arrival in the New Delhi airport. Officers from the Poonthura police station gained custody of the accused and formally recorded his arrest on Tuesday. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody after being produced in a local court.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||History-sheeter held with marijuana||The Poonthura police on Thursday nabbed a habitual offender who has been accused of supplying marijuana in large quantities to various parts of the city, especially Muttathara and Poonthura. Binu, 43, of Muttathara was caught by the police with assistance from officials attached to the District Anti-Narcotic Special Action Force (DANSAF). He had been under surveillance following information gathered by Assistant Commissioner, Narcotics, Sheen Tharayil and was apprehended with alleged possession of 250 gm of the contraband from Poonthura. He had undergone jail terms in various cases.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Attempt to murder: one held||The Attingal police on Thursday arrested a youth in connection with an alleged murder attempt occurred over a month ago. The police identified the accused as Smrithin, 21, of Venjaramoodu. He was arrested for allegedly attacking Aravind, 25, of Edackode on October 4. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chicks given to 50 students||Fifty select students from among those who had taken part in an online livestock management programme organised by the National Service Scheme (NSS) of the Vocational Higher Secondary Education wing of the State were presented with five chicks each for practical training. The programme was held in association with the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) as part of the ‘Jeevanam Jeevadhanam’ project. The chicks, four females and one male, were given at the initiative of the professors on the university campus at Mannuthy in Thrissur on Thursday.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KAS main test from today||The descriptive examination for Kerala Administrative Service (KAS) officer-trainee (stream 1 and 2) posts will be held from 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon (first session) on Friday. The second session will be held from 1.30 p.m. to 4 p.m., and the third session the next morning from 9.30 a.m. to 12 noon. A total of 3,190 candidates are eligible for the main examination. Nineteen examination centres have been arranged across the State, with at least one in each district. Admission tickets have been made available in the candidates’ profile. On-screen valuation As the answer scripts will be valued on-screen, directions for candidates have been made available in their profile and also on the website of the Kerala Public Service Commission. Candidates will not be allowed inside the examination centre once the examination is under way. Only admission ticket, original of identity document, and blue or black ballpoint pen only will be allowed inside the exam hall. Sanitiser and drinking water can be carried in clear bottles. If they are found to be in possession of watch/smart watch, calculator, mobile phone and other communication equipment or other electronic gadgets, steps, including barring the candidates permanently from the PSC’s selection process, will be taken. COVID protocols Candidates should follow all the COVID-19 safety guidelines issued by the government. They should wear masks and maintain physical distancing. Candidates in quarantine and those who test positive should appear for the examination in separate rooms in the exam centres as per the chief superintendent’s directions. All arrangements for the examination have been completed. Monitoring mechanisms, including a squad comprising top officials, have also been put in place for the examination.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Paid holiday declared on local body election day||The State Election Commission has issued orders declaring the day of the local body elections a paid holiday for employees of private establishments so that they can vote. The order is applicable to employees of shops and commercial establishments and other private institutions.  Special permission Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts go to polls on December 8; Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts on December 10. Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod districts will go to polls on December 14. Special permission may be given to employees who work outside their home districts to travel to the polling stations to cast their vote.
20 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special trains||Railways will operate two more pairs of fully reserved superfast special trains — Kanyakumari-Hazrat Nizamuddin via Chennai Egmore and Thiruvananthapuram Central-Veraval Junction. Kanyakumari-Hazrat Nizamuddin bi-weekly superfast special train (06011) will leave Kanyakumari at 7.05 p.m. on Wednesdays and Fridays from November 25 to reach Hazrat Nizamuddin at 6.35 p.m. on Fridays and Sundays, according to Railways. Hazrat Nizamuddin-Kanyakumari weekly special train (06012) will leave Hazrat Nizamuddin at 5.20 a.m. on Saturdays and Sundays from November 28 and reach Kanyakumari at 4.45 a.m. on Mondays and Tuesdays. Thiruvananthapuram Central-Veraval Junction weekly special (06334) will leave Thiruvananthapuram Central at 3.40 p.m. on Mondays from December 7 and reach Veraval Junction at 3.45 p.m. on Wednesdays. In the return direction, Veraval Junction-Thiruvananthapuram Central weekly special (06333) will leave Veraval Junction at 6.40 a.m. on Thursdays from December 10 and reach Thiruvananthapuram Central at 4 a.m. on Saturdays.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Low pressure: ban on fishing in Arabian sea||Following the formation of a low-pressure area over the central parts of the South Arabian sea early Thursday morning, the government has barred fishermen from venturing out to sea from the Kerala coast till further notice. Fishers who had gone out for deep sea fishing have been directed to seek shelter at the nearest coast. A weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department said the low-pressure zone was likely to move west northwest and concentrate into a depression over the southwest Arabian sea over the next 48 hours. Warning The Met Office here has forecast squally weather with wind speed reaching 40 to 50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph along and off the Kerala coast and the Lakshadweep.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Baby girl at Ammathottil||The electronic cradle ‘Ammathottil’ of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare here received an infant early Thursday morning. The nearly two-week-old girl child was taken to the Women and Child Hospital, Thycaud, for medical examination and COVID-19 test. The infant has been named Jacinda after New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern who has won plaudits for her efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19, her vision and message of secularism, a statement issued by the the council said.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala calls for inquiry against KITE CEO||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has sought an anti-corruption inquiry against Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) chief executive officer Anwar Sadat. In a complaint to the Director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, Mr. Chennithala said news reports accusing the agency of according the contract to procure digital teaching aids for government school students had prompted him to demand an inquiry into KITE and its CEO.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Last date extended||The last date for students appearing for the Plus One higher secondary improvement/supplementary examinations, beginning December 18, to submit fee along with stipulated fine has been extended to 1 p.m. on Friday.
20 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sainik School admission||The last date for submission of online application for admission to Class VI and Class IX for the academic year 2021- 22 in the Sainik School here has been extended up to December 3. The correction window will be open from December 5 to 9. The entrance exam will be held on January 10, Sunday. Candidates will be able to view, download, and print admit cards from December 23 onwards. Candidates are to apply online at aissee.nta.ac.in.
20 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||631 new cases, 836 recoveries in Thrissur||As many as 631 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Thursday while 836 people recovered from the disease. There are 7,599 active cases in the district and 87 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various districts. As many as 53,397 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the district so far and 45,395 people recovered. According to official statistics, 614 people, including eight health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. Source of infection for five people is not known. The patients included 97 people above the age of 60 and 51 children below the age of 10. As many as 5,100 people are under home observation. In all, 211 people got admitted to various hospitals for treatment on Thursday. As many as 8,425 samples have been taken for tests on Thursday. So far, 4,14,099 tests have been conducted in the district.  406 recoveries  As many as 496 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Thursday. Health officials said that 277 of them had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. However, there were 206 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Among the new cases were three health workers in Palakkad. Ten cases had come from across the borders. Officials said that 406 infected persons recovered in the district on Thursday.  So far, 4,14,099 tests have been conducted in Thrissur distric
20 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Calicut University campus a haven for jumping spiders||The vast campus of Calicut University is a haven for a large diversity of jumping spiders, according to a recent study. A ten-month-long study conducted on the lush green campus found 46 species of jumping spiders coming under 33 genera. It is for the first time in the country that the presence of such a variety of jumping spiders was detected from a particular area, say scientists. According to them, spider diversity and density are directly related to the structural complexity of the environment. Highly varied habitats provide a greater array of microhabitats, microclimatic features, alternative food sources, and retreat sites, all of which encourage colonisation and establishment of spiders. The study was conducted by Athira Jose, research scholar in Zoology under the leadership of E. Pushpalatha, Head of the Zoology Department, University of Calicut, and Dr. Sudhikumar A.V., Centre for Animal Taxonomy and Ecology (CATE), Christ College, Irinjalakuda. This study was funded by the University Grants Commission (UGC) as Maulana Azad National Fellowship (MANF) to Athira for the project entitled ‘DNA barcoding of jumping spiders of Kerala’. Findings of this study appeared in the latest volume of Serket , an international scientific journal published from Egypt. Eight eyes These non-web builders usually capture their prey by a sudden jump over it, so these are known as jumping spiders. These spiders possess eight eyes in three rows. The last pair is located on the back of their head that enables vision of back side without having to turn their head. The big pair of eyes at the central position of the first row helps recognise these spiders in the field. These eyes help them to judge the distance to prey and also facilitate accurate jump. Its exceptional eyesight enables it to prowl round the clock.  Colourful males Body of male individuals possess attractive colour pattern. They attract females for mating by their specific dancing act by the characteristic movement of legs and abdomen, which is known as nuptial dance. Since many members of the family mimic venomous wasps, it is very helpful to escape from enemies. Family Salticidae is the biggest spider family in diversity and there are 6,175 varieties of jumping spiders under 644 genera so far reported from all over the world. The study was conducted in 500 acres of Calicut University campus, which is rich in acacia trees, teak plantations, mango orchards, scrub jungles, and grasslands. The study reported the presence of a pirate spider named Portia (moustached spider), which intrudes into the web of other spiders and feed on the owner of the web. Muti-coloured peacock spider ( Chrysilla ), minute dark jumper ( Harmochirus ), crescented spider ( Hasarius ), scorpion spider ( Indopadilla ), red ant mimicking spider ( Myrmaplata ), red eyed spider ( Phidippus ), fly catcher ( Plexippus ), fly mimicking spider ( Phintella ), yellow wasp spider ( Rhene ), and rusty headed spider ( Tamigalesus ) are the other important spiders reported from the campus during this study, according to Dr. Sudhikumar.
20 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Youth held with synthetic drugs||Thrissur excise special squad has seized synthetic drugs that were smuggled in a car. During a raid conducted on a tip-off received by Thrissur Assistant Excise Commissioner V.A. Salim, the squad busted an attempt to distribute synthetic drugs among youths in the Chavakkad area on Wednesday night. The anti-narcotic squad nabbed Afsal, 28, son of Mohammadali of Enamakkal, in this connection. The squad seized 40 MDMA Ecstasy tablets, 17 LSD stamps, one g crystal — a popular party drug — and ganja. These drugs, smuggled from Goa, were meant to be distributed at some parties here at high rates, according to excise sleuths.  More raids A team comprising excise inspector G. Krishnakumar, assist inspector Jean Simon, preventive officer T.S. Sureshkumar, and other officers participated in the raid. More raids will be conducted in the area, said circle inspector Jiju Jose.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Going down the drain||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a university for Arabic||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Together we fight||
20 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmers’ registration at RBKs remains low||Even as the groundnut farmers in the Anantapur district have suffered a major loss with the reduced yield, the number of growers keen on selling their produce through the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) is very less. Around 3.9 lakh farmers sown groundnut in 4.75 lakh hectares in the district during the kharif season, but only 15,139 growers who grew the crop in 19,762 hectares have registered through e-Panta in the 851 RBKs in the district thus far. Joint Director of Agriculture Y. Ramakrishna, who visited the RBKs in Hinudpur region, said for the past 10 days, the number of registrations had been very low. Quality norms relaxed Even for maize, the registrations have been done by 18,690 farmers who have grown the crop in 12,210 hectares, he said. The State government has relaxed the quality norms and announced Rs. 5,275 per quintal as the price for procurement of groundnut by the Agriculture Marketing Department, with 65% shelling against the earlier norms of 70%. Even if the size of the kernel is smaller, it would be accepted. For the crops with 60% to 65% shelling, the price has been fixed at Rs. 4,500 per quintal. With the overall yield coming down, the availability of produce in the open market is also low. And this has pushed up the demand. Many farmers, who have graded their produce, sold them in the open market even before the government announced the MSP. The Rythu Sangham leaders said the registration with RBK remained low as farmers sold their produce irrespective of the prices offered to them so that they would not have to wait for payment. “While the DRC meeting recommended a special package for the loss of groundnut crop, there has been no response from the government,” says district secretary R. Chandrasekhar. No input subsidy “With no compensation or input subsidy for the damaged crop, we have decided to get some cash in hand so that we can meet the expenses related to preparations for the rabi crop, with a hope that this year the second alternative crop would bring some luck,” said Beedappagari Mahesh a groundnut farmer from CK Palli mandal.
20 November 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gold sales glitter during Dasara and Deepavali||The gold showrooms and malls in the city were buzzing with people during Dasara and Deepavali. The yellow metal has been the favourite of Indians, be it for special occasions like weddings and festivals or as a safe investment option. The outbreak of the novel coronavirus, followed by the lockdown in March and the subsequent restrictions on movement of people, loss of jobs and economic crisis made gold merchants wonder whether there would be any sales during the festival season. “While we cannot say that there was a surge in sales, the rush of customers from Dasara festival to Deepavali was encouraging. Though there is a temporary lull during the past few days, we expect good demand till January 2021. This is because there are no wedding ‘muhurtams’ after January,” says J. Raghunath, General Manager (marketing) of Vaibhav Jewellers. “Due to the COVID-19 impact, there were hardly any sales during the past several months. Customers had postponed their purchases. The opening up of the economy, festival season and more importantly, most of the wedding ‘muhurtams’ falling during the Karthika masam, seem to have contributed to the rise in sales,” he says. “We (gold merchants) were worried as there were barely any customers for several months as most people remained indoors and went out only for their daily needs like vegetables and provisions. This Dasara and Deepavali revived our hopes and we are optimistic that the wedding season will ensure the growth in sales till January 2021,” says Ranjit Kumar, MD of Sanghvi Jewellers. “Most of the gold showrooms in the city are selling hallmarked gold ornaments. Hallmarking is a safeguard for consumers. Though it is voluntary at present, with effect from June 1, 2021, hallmarking is made mandatory for all gold ornaments,” says B. Sandhya, Head, Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), Visakhapatnam.
20 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A day of surprise for men||The medical and paramedical men staff of the Primary Health Center (PHC) were a surprised lot when all of a sudden they found themselves surrounded by women employees with a cake, sweets, shawls and garlands. It took a few seconds for them to realise that the occasion was International Men’s Day. Medical Officer (Karveti Nagaram) Srilatha planned the fun involving about 40 paramedical women staff members. COVID-19 special officer and Nagari Assembly constituency nodal officer P. Ravi Raju and the men staff of the PHC were to attend an awareness meeting for the field paramedical staff on post-COVID complications at the hospital at noon. After finishing the morning session, the women employees from all over the mandal, led by Dr. Srilatha, gathered at the meeting hall at the hospital. Dr. P. Ravi Raju initiated the awareness meet and formally explained to the paramedical women staff about the steps to be taken with regard to post-COVID complications among patients with serious ailments. After the address, the meeting organisers surrounded the men staff with a cake and material meant for felicitation. Soon, they realised the relevance of the occasion. A cake was cut and the male staff members were accorded a felicitation. Dr. Srilatha said: “Women’s Day has become very popular in recent years. Unfortunately, very few people know that there is also an annual International Day for Men. Every year, men at offices and in social groups take the lead to celebrate Women’s Day for us. The idea of reciprocation stuck me this morning “We want to give our male colleagues a surprise. And it worked well and happy moments prevailed for all of us,” she Dr. Srilatha, Air of camaraderie Dr. Ravi Raju said that though he was aware of the day such as International Men’s Day, he never took it seriously or experienced it. For the first time in Chittoor district, “our women colleagues have organised the function in Karveti Nagaram PHC.” Functions like this would help blooming of camaraderie and friendly working culture not only in hospitals but everywhere, covering all work stations, he said.
20 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ambulance drivers save boy||The prudence of two ambulance drivers resulted in saving the life of an 11-year-old boy who was injured in a road accident on Thursday. A family of three -- a couple and their son -- was returning to Puttur by a two-wheeler from Chennai, when it had a brush with another motorbike which tried to cross the road at a petrol pump at Narayanavanam Cross, 5 km from Puttur. The impact left the boy grievously injured and a middle-aged local man of the other motorbike losing a couple of teeth. The profusely bleeding boy fell unconscious on the road, while the two sides indulged in wordy duel. Within ten minutes, ‘108’ ambulance from Government Hospital at Puttur reached the spot, and picked up the boy. It hardly travelled 200 meters when it broke down due to puncture in the rear wheel. Seeing the vehicle down with puncture, parents start wailing, Oxygen support Its driver, T. Shanmugam, contacted the driver of an ambulance at the Primary Health Centre at Narayanavanam mandal headquarters, just three km away. The ambulance from there came to the spot in a couple of minutes. The boy was shifted to the second vehicle with its life support system. Before the boy could reach the Government Hospital at Puttur, he was given oxygen support, and first aid for head injury. In another 10 minutes, the boy was at the referral hospital. After attending on the boy, the duty doctors said that he was brought to the hospital at right time, and they could tackle the blood loss. Ambulance driver of Narayanavanam unit, Rajan, said that when he got the call from his Puttur counterpart, he was very much on the wheel to proceed towards a nearby village to attend an emergency case. “In two minutes, our vehicle reached the spot of the breakdown ambulance,” he said. The boy’s father, Krishnaiah, a goat herder,said he was thankful to the drivers.
20 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. Amul Dairy to launch operations in Chittoor today||After a six-month-long study at the field level, the AP Amul Dairy, a joint venture of the State government and the Amul Dairy in Gujarat, is scheduled to launch its operation on pilot basis in 50 villages of Madanapalle and Ramasamudram mandals of Chittoor district on Friday. Chittoor Collector Narayan Bharat Gupta on Thursday inaugurated the first phase of training programme for the digital surveillance and data staff of the 32 Mahila Pala Utpattidarula Sanghams (Mahila Milk Production Associations) attached to the select Rythu Barosa Kendras of various mandals in Chittoor district, at Madanapalle. Remunerative price “The State government’s tie-up with the Amul Dairy will boost the dairy sector in Chittoor district, with its record collection of more than 40 lakh litres of milk per day. The venture with the Amul Dairy, with its 2.5 crore litre record per day in Gujarat, is projected to galvanise the dairy farmers in Chittoor too. The objective of the A.P. Amul Dairy venture is to provide remunerative price to farmers by weeding out the role of middle-men in the system. The initiative intends to produce a healthy number of women entrepreneurs in the dairy sector,” the Collector said. District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) Project director D.M.K. Tulasi said that the pilot project would commence its operations of collecting milk from 50 villages in Chittoor from Friday. The other two districts selected for the operations are Prakasam and Kadapa. “It is optional for dairy farmers to supply milk to the A.P. Amul Dairy association,” she said, adding that based on the results of the pilot project, future course of action pertaining to targets on various fronts would be finalised.
20 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to distribute milch cattle to beneficiaries on Nov. 26||The State government will kick-start a programme to distribute milch cattle, sheep and goats to the eligible beneficiaries on November 26 under the YSR Aasara and YSR Cheyutha schemes, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said. Addressing a review meeting on the Animal Husbandary Department on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said his government wanted to ensure sustainable livelihood for the people of the State. Under the YSR Aasara and YSR Cheyutha schemes, 4.86 lakh milch cattle and 2.49 lakh sheep / goats would be given away to the beneficiaries. While the cost of each animal is expected to be Rs. 75,000, the State government will incur an expenditure of Rs. 5,386 crore for the programme. Medical tests “I want you to ensure that the animals are physically verified and all medical tests done under the expert guidance of veterinary doctors before handing them over to beneficiaries. Care should be taken to avoid unnecessary chemicals in cattle feed, and organic feed should be encouraged,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Chief Minister also suggested that representatives of insurance companies and banks should be included in the purchase committee. Under the two schemes, the State government is planning to distribute 2.11 lakh cows, 2.57 lakh buffaloes, 1.57 lakh sheep and 97,480 goats to the beneficiaries. Initial phase In the first phase, Prakasam, Kadapa, and Chittor districts will be covered. The remaining districts will be covered in the second phase. Minister for Panchayat Raj P. Ramachandra Reddy, Minister of Fisheries and Animal Husbandary S. Appala Raju, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah, and officers of the Agriculture and Animal Husbandry departments were present.
20 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur division makes strides in freight loading||Lockdown in the wake of COVID-19 and the restrictions on road transport have given an opportunity for the railways. South Central Railway, Guntur Division, registered a freight loading to the tune of 1.56 million tonnes, an increase of 102% when compared to the corresponding period in 2019. The division also surpassed the previous year’s total freight loading of 1.551 million tonnes. While appreciating the initiatives taken by the Guntur division, Gajanan Mallya, General Manager, South Central Railway, advised the officials to continue the same pace till the end of the financial year to record the best figures in freight loading. Indian Railways has focussed on freight loading with the reduction in the operation of passenger train services in the current financial year. Freight concessions and incentive schemes are being announced by the Ministry of Railways for the benefit of freight customers. In addition, the Business Development Units, an initiative of Divisional Railway Manager Mohan Raja have assisted freight customers in easing their hardship. As a result, the foodgrain loading has been registered as 0.726 million tonnes which is almost 300% more than the previous year (0.178 MTs). The Guntur Division has also significantly contributed to Prime Minister Gareeb Kalyan Yojna by transporting FCI rice to Tamil Nadu, Kerala and West Bengal during the pandemic times. During the current year, 5.3 lakh tons of rice has been loaded additionally over the last year. Clinker loading to the tune of 0.398 MTs has been done by the division which is 203 % more than the previous year (0.129 MTs). Container traffic to the tune of 0.117 MTs has been registered by the division which is 66 % more than the previous year (0.070 MTs). For the first time, dry chillies have been exported to Bangladesh through Indian Railways’ International Time Tabled Parcel Cargo Express from Reddipalem to Bangladesh. So far, 12 freight rakes and 11 parcel rakes of dry chillies have been despatched to Bangladesh. Greenfield terminal In addition, a new greenfield private freight terminal served by Nagireddypalli station has been commissioned in the month of May 2020 with a view to ensuring essential supplies of foodgrains. So far, 51 rakes of foodgrains have been loaded from this terminal. So far, 12 rakes of maize have been loaded from Nandyal, Nadikude and Reddipalem stations.
20 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Noted mathematician Chandrasekharan’s birth centenary fete tomorrow||The Forum For Better Bapatla will celebrate the birth centenary of mathematician Komaravolu Chandrasekharan on Saturday. Chandrasekharan, a native of Bapatla, is considered as a leading mathematician of the 20th century. A well known personality in the scientific community, Chandrasekharan’s contributions to the mathematics has an international dimension. He had served for 24 years in the executive committee of the International Mathematical Union. Born on November 21, 1920, Chandrasekharan had received plaudits from many national and international research organisations. His research areas were classical analysis and number theory. He was the first recipient of Bhatnagar Prize for Mathematics in 1959. He was also awarded Padma Shri in the same year. As a member of the Scientific Advisory Committee, he was instrumental in formulation of the Science Policy Resolution of the Government of India. He had played a key role in setting up of the Department of Mathematics in University of Mumbai. He headed the School of Mathematics at Tata Institute of Fundamental Research.
20 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘AP Police has shown that all are equal before law’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that the Police Department has sent a strong message that everyone is equal before law by booking cases against officers in some cases. “It takes a lot of courage, and the department is high on esteem, credibility and reputation. I am proud that the police have shown such calibre and it takes a lot to live up to it,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy during a video-conference with district Superintendents of Police on Thursday. The AP Police had stood as a role model in the country by sending a clear message that everyone was equal before law by pressing charges against the police who committed mistakes, he said.
20 November 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bheemili police constable completes Ironman Triathlon||It was in December 2017, a police constable from Bheemili police station, P. Krishna, was eagerly waiting for his visa to go to Australia to take part in the ‘Ironman Triathlon.’ His joy knew no bounds, when he got an SMS on his mobile phone just one day prior to the event, that his visa was granted. While other participants reached Busselton, the venue, three days ahead of the competition, Krishna had reached just 17 hours before the event. By the end of the competition, Mr. Krishna had become the first man from Andhra Pradesh to complete the ‘Ironman Triathlon’, which included about 4 km swimming, 180 km cycling and 42 km running, in just 13 hours, 40 minutes. Again, in 2018, Mr. Krishna took part in another Ironman Triathlon in Barcelona in Spain. This time, he had completed the triathlon in 11 hours, 25 minutes. This made him winner of the Ironman title twice. In 2019, Krishna was the only one from the State police to represent the country in World Police Games, China. He along with his team had won Gold in the Olympic Triathlon. Krishna (33) says his colleagues have started calling him as ‘Ironman’. At 14, he was inspired to learn swimming, after seeing his brothers, who were both swimmers. He also used to practise cycling and running and represent various teams right from his school days. He had also represented the national games both individually and on behalf of the department. He used to practise for nine hours a day during his free time. During his preparation for the World Police Games in China, he had managed to find time after duty hours for almost three to four months. “I used to start from my home to Bheemili PS on cycle. After finishing my morning shift at 12 p.m., I used to borrow a bike from my colleagues and practise at gym from 12.30 p.m. to 2.30 p.m. I used to attend the second shift duty from 4 p.m. Late at night, I used to go for swimming,” he adds. He gives full credit to the department, his friends and family members for their cooperation in achieving his goal. Right now, Krishna is gearing up to prepare for the Ironman World Championship, USA, and World Police Games, Netherlands, tentatively scheduled in 2021. The best of 40 in the Ironman Triathlon would be picked up for the World Championship. In order to be in the best of 40, the competition should be completed within 10 hours, he said. Mr. Krishna says that he needs six months of practice to attend the qualifying trial. “If the department gives additional time, I can concentrate more on the forthcoming events,” he adds.
20 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LIC staff to go on strike on Nov. 26||The Insurance Corporation Employees Union (ICEU) Cuddapah division has demanded that the Central government drop the proposed move to get the LIC of India listed in the stock markets and called for a nationwide strike on November 26 on the issue. At a demonstration in front of the corporation’s divisional office here on Thursday, union leaders A. Raghunatha Reddy, A. Srinivas, Veera Pratap, Paramahamsa and Sankar Rao condemned the move to amend the Acts pertaining to the corporation, which they said would harm the interests of the 40 lakh policyholders across the country. “Stock listing the company having Rs. 32 lakh crore worth of assets, 76% market share and an enviable claim settlement record of 98% is not in the interests of the company or the public,” Mr. Raghunatha Reddy observed.
20 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meet discusses irrigation facilities in East Godavari||About 6.75 lakh acres of the total cultivable land of 9.67 lakh acres has the irrigation facility in East Godavari district. Over 3.98 lakh acres of land is being irrigated only by the river Godavari through various minor and major irrigation projects in the entire delta area. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, officials from the revenue, irrigation and agriculture departments on Thursday finalised the reconciliation report on the irrigation facilities in the district during a meeting held at the Collectorate here. According to an official release, the total area of 2.29 lakh acres of cultivable land is yet to get irrigation facility in the district. Some 1.75 lakh acres of land is being irrigated through the agriculture borewells, while 40,620 acres of land through the lift irrigation schemes and 58,598 acres of land through the ponds. Accordinto the release, 1,584 acres of land gets the irrigation facility through various sources and barely 69 acres of land is under the irrigation through the wells across the district. “The reconciliation report on the irrigation facilities and agriculture scenario will be submitted to the State government. It will help prepare an action plan to develop the irrigation facilities in future,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. Joint Collector (revenue) G. Laskhmisha, Dowleswaram Barrage authorities and irrigation officials were present.
20 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector receives Swacch Bharat Award||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Thursday received Swacch Bharat Award-2020 from Jal Shakthi Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat during a virtual meeting for making East Godavari district as ‘Open defecation-free district’ in the State. East and West Godavari are the two among the 20 districts from Andhra Pradesh which selected for the award for the year 2020. According to an official release, Mr. Shekhawat lauded the efforts of Mr. Muralidhar Reddy with regard to the activities being taken up under the Swachh Bharat Mission in the district.
20 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains delay tobacco cultivation in Prakasam||The recent rains ahead of Deepavali has turn out to be a bane for the farmers in the traditional tobacco growing region in Prakasam district. It was unseasonal rains in January this year that put paid to the hopes of tobacco growers to get a good grade out-turn, the current wet spell has submerged the crops in among other areas of Ongole, Vellampalli, Tangutur, Kandukur and Kaligiri. As a result, the farmers will have to go for fresh plantation in the areas where rejuvenation of the crops has been ruled out. The rain during the peak sowing season of tobacco seedlings has damaged the crops in more than 250 hectares in the Southern Light Soil(SLS) as also Southern Black Soil region(SBS). The downpour has delayed the sowing of other rabi crops as the farmers have adopted a wait-and-watch policy. Tobacco, the principal commercial crop in Prakasam district, have been planted in about 20,000 hectares in SLS and SBS regions thgus far, hen compared to the 27,000 hectares during the corresponding period last year, SBS Regional Manager R. Srinvasulu Naidu said, after taking stock of the seasonal condition in the areas coming under the SBS auction platforms. “Farmers could take up tobacco cultivation only in about 40% of the intended area in the two regions. The sowing of seedlings in other areas may be delayed by another two to three weeks as the farmers have to wait for the excess water to drain especially in the SBS region,” Mr. Srinvasulu Naidu told The Hindu . Expenses to go up Meanwhile, tobacco farmers have their fingers crossed. “The incessant rains have flooded my fields a few weeks after I completed sowing operations to recoup the losses incurred during last cropping season when coronavirus-induced lockdown coincided with the peak marketing season. Now, I have no other option than replantation, which involves additional expenses,” lamented V.V.Prasad, a tobacco farmer from Chekurapadu village near N.G.Padu. The steady showers has also delayed the sowing of chillies, black gram and bengal gram and others in the district. Low acreage Rabi crops has been taken up only in 31,345 hectares as against the target of 2.56 lakh hectares fixed by the Agriculture Department. Sowing of bengal gram, the principal pulse crop, has been completed only in 2,545 hectares as against the normal extent of 95,554 hectares,” said Agriculture Joint Director P.V. Sriramamurthy, adding that the overall crop acreage has been only 13% thus far. Standing crops in 3,142.60 hectares belonging to 3,252 farmers in 98 villages were damaged by November 18, said a preliminary report compiled by the Agriculture Department. Cotton crops in 1,349 hectares suffered a damage, followed by black gram in 654 hectares, said Mr. Sriramamurthy, adding that a detailed enumeration is on across the district.
20 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh cases dip further in South Coastal A.P.||Health situation improved further in South Coastal Andhra Pradesh as more number of patients got cured, while fresh cases declined further in Prakasam and SPSR Nellore districts in the last 24 hours ending Thursday morning. Prakasam district registered nil deaths during the period, while one patient died in SPSR Nellore district taking the toll to 1,068 in the region, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. So far, 576 patients in Prakasam district and 492 in SPSR Nellore district so far succumbed to the virus. The cumulative confirmed cases rose to 1,23,659 in the region.
20 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Proposal to bifurcate GUDA under study, says Rajamahendravaram MP||Rajamahendravaram Member of Parliament Margani Bharat has said that the State government is examining the proposal to bifurcate the Godavari Urban Development Authority (GUDA) to create a new authority with headquarters in Rajamahendravaram city. In 2017, the GUDA was constituted with jurisdiction of 2183.02 square km with headquarters in Kakinada. The GUDA consists of Rajamahendravaram and Kakinada Municipal Corporations, apart from 280 villages in 26 mandals in East Godavari district. Speaking to the media during the inspection of various developmental works in the city on Thursday, Mr. Bharat said: “The bifurcation of Rajamahendravaram city from the GUDA is need of the hour to give a fillip to the city as well as its neighbouring towns of Kovvuru and Nidadavolu, which would be part of the new district to be headquartered in Rajamahendravaram.” Mr. Bharat said the proposal of creating a new urban development authority with Kovvuru and Nidadavolu towns is being studied by the State government. The proposed area for the new urban development authority will witness a rapid growth with more infrastructure facilities in future. Once the exercise of creation of new districts is completed, the proposed urban development authority will have opportunities to develop and get more financial aid from the government. “I have already explained the prospects of the region for development after bifurcation of the existing GUDA during the interaction with Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” said Mr. Bharat. Cricket stadium The Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation has proposed to construct a cricket stadium on the campus of Government Arts College in the city. “A request has been made to the Chief Minister to grant Rs. 200 crore for construction of the stadium and an indoor stadium in the city. An athletic track is also being proposed in the city,” said Mr. Bharat.
20 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CITU leader slams Centre’s ‘anti-people’ policies||CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao has urged the people from all sections to participate in the nation-wide strike on November 26 to register their protest against ‘anti-people and anti-labour’ policies of the Narendra Modi government. To garner the support of all sections for the strike, Mr. Govinda Rao on Thursday formally launched ‘jeepu-jaata’ a week-long tour programme at 7Road junction in Srikakulam district. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Govinda Rao charged that people’s purchasing capacity had come down significantly with the loss of jobs in the last six years. He alleged that the NDA government was taking decisions to favour the corporate sector of the country instead of concentrating on the welfare of the people. CITU leaders K. Nagamani, T. Tirupati Rao urged the government to announce financial assistance for the workers who had lost jobs due tolockdown. CITU leaders Ch. Ammannaidu and N.V. Ramana told the media that the tour would cover all industrial areas of Palasa, Itchapuram, Rajam, Etcherla, Ranasthalam and Pydibhimavaram.
20 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord’s ‘sare’ presented to goddess at Tiruchanoor||Religious fervour marked the presentation of ‘Sare’ to Goddess Padmavati at Tiruchanoor in connection with Panchami Theertham on Thursday. The Sare is a set of propitious gift articles consisting of a silk sari, tulasi, turmeric and vermilion among other things and is customarily presented by Lord Venkateswara to his consort Goddess Padmavati on the final day of Karthika Brahmotsavams. The articles were carried down to Alipiri along the footpath from where they were carried on the back of elephants in a procession and handed over to the temple authorities at Tiruchanoor. Vishnu Saligrama Puja The month-long Sri Maha Vishnu Saligrama Puja took off to a ceremonious start on Thursday at TTD’s Vasantha Mandapam on the southwest corner of the temple at Tirumala. The objective behind the new religious initiative is to promote Vaishnavite culture under the banner of Karthika Masa Deeksha during the auspicious month of Karthikam (according to the Hindu almanac) and also propitiate the Lord to save the humanity from the dreaded pandemic. The priests ceremoniously carried out Panchamruta Abhishekam to the saligramams under the supervision of the chief priest Venugopala Deekshitulu.  Speaking books TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy released speaking books on Sampoorna Hanuman Chalisa and the Bhagawad Gita.
20 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Panchami Theertham’ brings curtains on Padmavati temple fete||‘Panchami Theertham’, which used to be the grand finale to the nine-day annual Karthika Brahmotsavams at the Tiruchanur Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple, turned out to be a low-key affair on Thursday, owing to the COVID-19 regulations. The prolonged ritual was conducted in a makeshift pond developed exclusively for this purpose, instead of the sprawling ‘Padma Sarovaram’, the tank in which the Goddess is believed to have manifested in a golden lotus. Amid chanting of the mantras, the priests immersed the idol of ‘Sudarsana Chakra’ into the tank in a simple event, much against the ado when one lakh and odd devotees take a dip simultaneously in the temple tank. The holy event was conducted at the tank at 11.52 am in the auspicious hours when ‘Kumbha Lagnam’ was in vogue. Glittering ornaments As part of the tradition, an 112-gram gold medal, a 249-gram platinum ‘Lakshmi’ medal and a platinum chain with ‘Dasavathara’ icons were brought in a procession for decorating the deity. Garlands made of pine apple, blackberry, tulasi and orchid flowers and floral crowns prepared by artistes from Salem and Tiruppur in Tamil Nadu turned out to be an attraction. The TTD’s gardens department decorated the Vahana Mandapam with lotus, apple, green apple, roses, ‘sampangi’ and other cut flowers. The TTD’s senior and junior pontiffs, Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, Joint EOs P. Basant Kumar and Sada Bhargavi, local MLA Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy, board members V. Prashanti Reddy, Sampat Ravi Narayana, Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti took part. TTD Chief gifts ‘haram’ Meanwhile, Mr. Subba Reddy and his spouse Swarnalatha Reddy presented a ‘Lakshmi Kasula Haram’ weighing 55.150 gm worth Rs. 3 lakh to the presiding deity, a release said. The couple handed over the offering to the Executive Officer inside Ammavari temple. The necklace was later decorated to the Utsavamurty (processional deity) of Ammavaru during Snapana Tirumanjanam.
20 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||RARS gets device to test chemical residues||A gas chromatography device has been installed recently at the ANGRAU’s Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS) at Tirupati, which can help detect traces of pesticides in farm peroduce. The device is capable of testing not only the quantum of pesticide residue in crops, but also the likely quantity left over in the farm produce, thereby helps calculate the impact of the chemical sprayed on the field cops. This helps farmers fix the harvest time after the chemical residue loses its impact. The device can be used by students and researchers in various universities and higher research institutes for study purposes. The food processing industry can get their products checked for chemical residues. For details, dial 89857 00447, 98660 21755 or 0877 – 2248739.
20 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Face masks distributed||The Sri City Foundation distributed reusable face masks to the students and teachers of the government high schools functioning in the villages in its vicinity on Thursday. In all, 350 students and 50 teachers of the ZP High Schools at Madanapalem, Irugulam and Chinmaya Vidyalaya received the face coverings, as part of the effort to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The foundation’s manager Surendra Kumar and security head Y. Ramesh explained to the students the importance of wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing and hand hygiene. Headmasters Kasi Madhu (Irugulam) and K. Munimohan (Madanapalem) were present.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic curve takes a further dip||The State reported 1,316 new COVID-19 infections and 11 deaths in the 24 hours ending Thursday morning, taking the tally to 8,58,711 and the toll to 6,910. At 1.75%, the single-day positivity rate of the 75,165 tests conducted during the period was the lowest in several months, and the overall positivity rate of the 94.08 lakh tests was put at 9.13%. Recoveries As many as 1,821 patients recovered during the past one day and the total number of recoveries increased to 8,35,801, taking the rate of recovery to 97.33%. The number of active cases had come down to 16,000, which was only 1.87% of the total infections reported so far. Meanwhile, Chittoor and Krishna districts continued to report highest number of deaths. Both the districts reported two deaths each while Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Vizianagaram reported no new deaths. The remaining seven districts reported one death each. West Godavari reported the highest number of new infections and was followed by Guntur with more than 200 new infections. Three districts reported more than 100 new cases while the remaining eight districts reported only 306 new cases. The district-wise new infections are as follows: West Godavari (227), Guntur (206), Chittoor (198), Krishna (196), East Godavari (183), Anantapur (60), Kadapa (58), Visakhapatnam (45), Prakasam (43), Nellore (40), Srikakulam (28), Vizianagaram (18) and Kurnool (14). Kurnool, which had been witnessing the lowest number of new infections, crossed the 60,000 tally. It was the eighth district to cross the case load of 60,000. The district-wise tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,21,123), West Godavari (91,168), Chittoor (82,641), Guntur (71,632), Anantapur (66,344), Prakasam (61,085), Nellore (61,008), Kurnool (60,012), Visakhapatnam (57,493), Kadapa (53,851), Srikakulam (45,160), Krishna (43,923) and Vizianagaram (40,376).
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No plan to hand over RTPP to NTPC, asserts official||Energy Secretary N. Srikant on Thursday asserted that the government had no plan to hand over the Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTTP) to the NTPC and that it had communicated in writing its opposition to the Electricity (Amendment Bill), 2020. Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy had already clarified that the government wanted to have the power utilities in the public sector to safeguard the interests of the consumers and employees, Mr. Srikant observed. Subsidy arrears In a review meeting with the officials, Mr. Srikant said that out of the subsidy arrears of Rs. 13,391 crore pending disbursal to the Discoms as on March 31, 2019, the government released Rs. 8,655 crore in 2019-20 and Rs. 9,249 crore towards the subsidy announced in 2019-20 and other charges. The government also released Rs. 20,384 crore to the Discoms for clearing the power generator bills pending as on March 31, 2019. The total bills cleared by the Discoms amounted to Rs. 34,384 crore in 2019-20. Mr. Srikant further said the government intended to set up the 10,000 MW solar power plant to ensure free power supply to the agriculture sector for the next 30 years. It would be bearing the entire expenditure as it did not want to impose fresh burden on the ailing utilities. “The government has recruited 7,000 junior linemen and 172 assistant engineers to provide better services to the consumers,” Mr. Srikant added. AP-Transco Joint Managing Directors K. Sreedhar Reddy and K. Venkateswara Rao and CMDs of Dsicoms S. Naga Lakshmi, H. Haranatha Rao and J. Padma Janardhana Reddy were among those present.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TPA opposes property tax based on capital value||The Tax Payers’ Association (TPA) has urged the State government not to levy property tax based on the capital value of the property as introduced by the Central government, saying that the move would become a huge burden on the taxpayers. Appeal to Minister “The State government is reportedly considering toeing the line of the Central government on taxation. We have made an appeal to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana not to do so,” TPA president V. Sambireddy told the media here on Thursday. TPA secretary M.V. Anajaneyulu said that the Centre had insisted State government on imposing tax per floor rate and local bodies have to follow it as per the government’s directions. “Property tax is levied as per the rental value of a property and with new taxation method, the tax based on the value of the property will increase manifold, adding burdern to the common man. Also, the tax will increase every time the registration department revises the land and property value across the State,” said Mr.Anajaneyulu.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP: fear of people’s rejection behind YSRCP opposing polls||TDP national spokesperson K. Pattabhiram on Thursday said the ruling YSRCP was using COVID-19 as an excuse to postpone the local body elections while it was actually afraid of drubbing at the hustings. Courts’ directives Addressing the media here, Mr. Pattabhiram said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should allow State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar to carry out his constitutional duty, and cited the examples of Rajasthan, Kerala and Karnataka, where the High Courts had welcomed the decision to conduct elections. The Karnataka High Court had clearly said that the conduct of local body elections was the prerogative of the State Election Commissioners, independent of the stand of the State governments, a view endorsed by a Division Bench of the Supreme Court, the TDP leader said. Similarly, the Kerala High Court had directed that elections be conducted by December 31, he added. Mr. Pattabhiram said the Chief Minister should follow suit and allow constitutional bodies to function independently and smoothly. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy may now start blaming the judiciaries of others States also like he has been criticising the A.P. High Court,” he said. The process to conduct elections to the local bodies, which had tarted in March, had to be stopped due to the outbreak of the pandemic. This was done after consulting the Centre as there was panic in the absence of awareness about the virus that rapidly spread thereafter. But the SEC’s decision had upset the YSRCP government. “Now that the virus is on the decline, the SEC is ready to conduct the elections, and even called for an all-party meeting. The YSRCP skipped the meeting. The government now claims it has not been consulted,” he said. Mr. Pattabhiram said the reluctance of the YSRCP to go to polls at this juncture was born out of fear of being rejected by the people. Referring to the Chief Secretary’s letter to the SEC stating that conditions were not conducive, the TDP leader said it was far from reality. With the decline in number of positive cases, there should be no problem.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Effective strategy kept positivity rate low’||Only 1,491 persons, who included students and teachers, tested positive for COVID-19 out of 5,12,890 people tested ahead of reopening of schools and colleges in the State, registering a positivity rate of 0.3%, the government claimed on Thursday. “This is a reflection of the government’s effective strategy,” an official release said. Andhra Pradesh was one of the very few State to reopen schools and colleges post the COVID-19 outbreak, the release said. Teachers and students in as many as 39,111 schools had been tested. Out of 1.29 lakh teachers who were tested, 1,023 turned positive. Similarly, out of 2.08 lakh students who were tested, 458 turned positive. Early detection Also, in 5,515 colleges, 1.40 lakh students were tested and only eight of them were infected. Among the 34,056 lecturers who were tested, only two tested positive, the release said. “We went for large-scale testing, early detection and early treatment despite the numbers increasing as we believed in our strategy. The reason for such low positivity rate in educational institutions is because we tested as many as 93,33,703 people, detected 8,57,395 people, and successfully treated 8,33,980 people. The infection levels in the State in general are not as high as they are in a few other States. We will continue to work towards winning the way against the virus and not let complacency seep in at any point,” said Health and Family Welfare Commissioner K. Bhaskar. Tests per million A.P. topped the tests per million charts for over six months, and such large-scale testing caused rise in the cases detected to a peak of 10,000, it was stated. At present, the tests per million ratio was at 1,74,788, which was highest among the States.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC’s move to contain pollution||The AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has become the first State transport undertaking customer of Tata Motors in the country to use a unique concept of refill model of Diesel Exhaust Fluid (DEF) for BS4 and BS6 vehicles to control pollution as per government norms in an Intermediate Bulk Container (IBC). Speaking after inaugurating the new facility, APSRTC Executive Director (administration) A. Koteswara Rao said the DEF, also known as AUS 32 and marketed as Ad Blue, was a liquid used to reduce the amount of air pollution created by a diesel engine. “Specifically, DEF is an aqueous urea solution made with 32.5 % urea and 67.5 % deionised water. DEF is consumed in selective catalytic reduction (SCR) that lowers the concentration of nitrogen oxides in the diesel exhaust emissions from a diesel engine, he explained. Bulk containers He said a 2,000 litres of DEF has been set up with a metering unit and a pump. “When the fluid is nearing completion, order will be placed and the existing tanks will be filled by a refill vehicle.” These bulk containers would be installed at 19 locations across the APSRTC depots in the State. The benefits include more saving, 40 % less space, convenient to use and refill, prevents contamination, spillage and wastage, retains product efficiency, prevents tampering and is eco-friendly as it reduces the use of plastic. The supplies would be made through Sahni Automotives Private Limited, distributors for Tata Motors spare parts for Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, he said. Officials of APSRTC and Tata Motors were present on the occasion.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna awarded ‘Best Marine District’ in country||Krishna district has been selected for the ‘Best Marine District’ award in the country by the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. Krishna Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, in a press conference here on Thursday, said that it was a proud moment for the district to be recognised at the national level and the award would be presented at the World Fisheries Day 2020 celebrations on November 21 at New Delhi. He said that the marine development programmes, aqua farmer welfare programmes and other initiatives being implemented were studied across the country and three ‘Best Districts’ were announced. Krishna had been announced as the Best Marine District while Kalahandi of Odisha as Best Inland District and Nagaon of Assam had been declared as Best Hilly and North Eastern District. Mr. Imtiaz said that Union Minister Giriraj Singh would present the award and a cash prize of Rs. 3 lakh. The district has 111 kilometre of coastline and freshwater fish is cultivated in 49,000 hectares while saltwater fish and shrimp are cultivated in 19,000 hectares. He said aqua farmer welfare and aquaculture development schemes being implemented by the State government have helped the district bag the award and recognition. Two more awards On the other hand, Vaisakhi Bio Marine Pvt. Ltd, A.P., has been announced as one among the three Best Shrimp Hatcheries and Sai Aqua Feeds, A.P. has been named one of the three Best Fisheries Enterprises.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lokesh recalls NTR’s services in Diviseema cyclone||Telugu Desam Party national general secretary Nara Lokesh on Thursday recalled the trail of disaster left behind by the 1977 Diviseema cyclone 43 years ago on this day (November 19) and the pivotal role of the party founder N.T. Rama Rao in reaching out to the people in need of relief and rehabilitation. Through his Twitter handle, Mr. Lokesh recounted how the island of Diviseema, hit by a storm surge, experienced a loss of life running into thousands, landslides ripped off railway lines, buildings collapsed, fields submerged and villages marooned under the cyclone impact. “Despite his busy film schedule, the late NTR rose to the occasion, collected donations from people besides taking active part in relief and rehabilitation measures,” said Mr. Lokesh, adding that such humane gesture is a great source of inspiration for the TDP even to this day. He further said that the party would forever preserve and practice this humanitarian approach.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||City college faculty get Wipro awards||Three faculty members of P.B. Siddhartha College of Arts and Science (PBSCAS), V. Jhansi Lakshmi, K. Sudheer and D. Vijay Kumar, of the Computer Science Department have won the Wipro Certified Faculty Award conferred by Wipro Technologies, said principal M. Ramesh. College director V. Babu Rao said the company had shortlisted 30 faculty members across the country to train them on cutting edge technologies . President of Siddhartha Academy N. Venkateswarlu congratulated the faculty members.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panchayat secretary held on graft charge||Prakasam district ACB officials caught a panchayat secretary at Donakonda village and mandal while he was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 25,000 from a citizen on Thursday. According to a release, Dasari Chinna Koteswara Rao of Donakonda approached the ACB alleging that Sk. Mahaboob Basha, the panchayat secretary, was demanding a bribe to issue a housing plan. Following the complaint, a team of ACB officials laid a trap and caught Basha in his office while accepting bribe from Mr. Rao. Basha was arrested and produced before the Court of Special Judge for ACB cases in Nellore.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two held at airport for gold ‘smuggling’||The customs officials arrested two people who landed at Vijayawada International Airport in an Air India flight from Kuwait on November 17 and seized 1.865 kgs of gold from their possession. In a release, Vijayawada Additional Customs Commissioner V. Nagendra Rao said that the passengers were carrying three lady handbags with metal rings, belts with metal buckles and a tool kit besides a metal jar. Growing suspicious, the customs officials examined the items and found that gold buckles, rings and rods in the tool kit were coated with other metal. The market value of the seized gold items would be around Rs. 95.11 lakh, the customs officials said. Further investigation is on progress.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enforce layout rules strictly: Minister||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (PR&RD) Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy has instructed the officials to strictly implement the rules governing layouts and to duly focus on the collection of property tax. The District Panchayat Officers (DPOs) and Zilla Parishad CEOs should explore means for the village panchayats to become financially self-sustainable. Addressing a review meeting on Thursday, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy called for thorough checking of the layouts in municipalities and major panchayats in order to enforce the relevant laws. He ordered that the officials should take stock of the compliance with rules once every fortnight, and ensure proper utilisation of the funds given by the government for sanitation and drinking water supply. A sanitation drive should be conducted from December 2 to 21, the Minister ordered.
20 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan, party leaders discuss Tirupati bypoll||Chief Minister and YSRCP president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday discussed with party leaders about the candidate for the by-election to the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency. The seat fell vacant due to the demise of YSRC MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayana Swami, Ministers Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao, P. Anil Kumar and Botcha Satyanarayana, MPs M. Venkata Ramana and Vemireddy Prabhakar Reddy, and Adviser Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy were among those present.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hope Hall Girls’ School cries for govt. attention||A 150 years ago, education for girl children in Visakhapatnam was a forbidden affair. It was considered taboo and the elders in the family questioned the necessity of educating a girl child. People who tried to start a school faced resistance and left disappointed. But all did not lose hope. In 1853, Harriet Mary Hay, the wife of Rev. John Hay, who was then managing the London Mission High School for boys, started a school for ‘native caste girls’. The move was questioned, and caste prejudices entrenched at that time prevented people from upper castes sending their daughters to school. Thus began the only school launched exclusively for girls, which still stands tall on its foundations but is in a shambles due to want of repairs. The school was started in Chengalrowpeta by Mary Hay, and braving resistance, the then woman missionaries went from door-to-door urging parents to send their daughters to school. Apart from getting small funds from the London Mission, the school was supported by the Godey family, said Edward Paul, a chronicler of local history. The school began functioning with just two admissions, and in 1898, Rev. Morris Thomas, with funds from the London Mission, built a hall and named it ‘Hope Hall’. The school then came to be known as ‘Hope Hall London Mission Girls’ School’. In 1911, the school with 40 students was taken over by the Canadian Baptist Mission (CBM) and in 1914, it was raised from primary to a higher elementary school with government recognition. Till date, the school is housed in the hall that was built by Morris, and is called CBM Aided Hope Hall Upper Primary School. Twilight years Today, the school that was started in Old Town area with a mission to educate local girls, is tucked away in a slum and is in bad shape, a far cry from its glorious history. Till 20 years ago, there were about 650 students in the school, but at present, the number has dropped to 42. No aid from govt. The teachers’ strength was around 20 till a decade ago, but now there are only two teachers, including the headmistress. All are aided teachers and with retirements over the years, the government has failed to recruit or develop this historic school. Though the 15-inch brick-and-mortar wall and the cobbled-stone flooring stand the test of time, the old tiled roof gave way during Cyclone Hudhud in 2014. The tiles have been replaced by asbestos sheets and apart from the salaries of the two teachers, the school receives no aid from the government. Even the watchman’s salary, the family which has been on the campus for the last 50 years, is borne by the teachers from their salary. The teachers bear the stationery costs and depend on donations from alumni, philanthropists and NGOs. “Many of our students have become doctors and are in good jobs. They come to our rescue at times,” said Mr. Krishna, who has been teaching at the school for the last 25 years. “The endeavour to start schools for girls started in 1867, with G.L. Narasinga Rao’s daughter Godey Surya Prakasha Rao, starting a school, but they are non-existent today. Only Hope Hall still stands tall, but for how long?” lamented Mr. Edward Paul.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door delivery of veggies becomes popular in city, thanks to COVID||Door delivery services have witnessed a spike in demand during the pandemic, with people preferring to shop from the comfort of their homes without needing to step outside. The biggest reason for the rise in patronage of door delivery services was due to the fear of visiting crowded marketplaces. This is where the online platforms came as a boon for citizens. While established players like Big Basket, Jio Mart and Swiggy were already popular, other local players such as Lalitha Greens also managed to do good business. “Whatever one may say, it is difficult to maintain physical distancing at vegetable shops. One may wait patiently for his/her turn to pick up vegetables but someone else may break the queue or stand too close for comfort, ignoring the threat of the pandemic,” said D. Naga Jyothi, an insurance agent living in MVP Colony. “Vendors do not let you select the fresh vegetables and you have to grudgingly take what they give. On the contrary, one can see the list of vegetables available, their prices and also the new varieties of fruits and vegetables available on the website or app of the store concerned,” she says. “We can see the day’s price and availability of various varieties of vegetables and new varieties of fruits. The transport charge is free for orders worth more than Rs. 300. We get our needs for the week and a few kilograms of tomatoes, onions and one or two other varieties will cost more than Rs. 300,” said Ms. Naga Jyothi, who orders her requirements from Lalitha Greens. “Customers are happy to get good quality and do not seem to mind paying a little extra as it saves them the hassle of commuting to the bazaar and back and the prospect of contracting the virus in the crowded places. We have around 5,000 online customers,” said K. Lalitha, proprietor of Lalitha Greens. “We get around 70 online orders a day on an average and deliver through our four stores in the city. Customers place their orders a day in advance for delivery on the next day,” said Raghu, store manager of Jio Mart, Santhinagar. Even elderly people who are not accustomed to online shopping have adapted to the trend, keeping in view the health risks associated with going to crowded vegetable markets. “With a little help from my neighbours, I have learnt how to place orders online,” said M. Narasimha, a resident of Seethammadhara.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic chief inspects work on WTE plant||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana inspected the progress of work on the Waste to Energy (WTE) recycling plant, being set up by the Jindal Group at Kapuluppada, on Thursday. The Jindal management explained the status of various works. Speaking to the representatives, the civic chief asked them to finish the project by December-end. Weekly review Ms. Srijana directed the Engineering Department officials to review the progress every Monday. It may be remembered that in February 2016, the GVMC had entered into an agreement with the JIFT Urban Infrastructure Limited for the project. In 2018, the civic body has given 17.08 acres land at Kapuluppada on lease for a period of 25 years. The civic body will supply 900 to 1,000 tonnes of Municipal Solid Waste (MSW) gathered from the households to the facility on a daily basis and also bear the transportation costs. The company would generate 15 MW of power from solid waste. Discoms will procure power from the plant. Dogged by delays The earlier scheduled commercial operation date was July 2020. The project was delayed due to the lockdown and labour issues. The new deadline has been fixed for December, 2020.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||608 liquor bottles seized||Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raids at several places and arrested three persons who allegedly stored 608 liquor bottles illegally, at Reddipalle of Padmanabham mandal, in Visakhapatnam city on Wednesday night. The accused were identified as A. Srinivas, K. Mohan, and J. Gurumurthulu. Based on credible information, the SEB teams including Inspector (in-charge) L. Anuradha Devi and Sub-Inspector G.V. Ramana and others conducted raids at several places at Reddipalle village and seized the liquor bottles, which were found in 13 cases. The arrested persons were sent to remand on Thursday.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag reports fewer than 100 cases for 11th day in a row||The district’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 58,000-mark, with 45 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours as on Thursday evening, taking the total caseload to 58,005. One more person succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 499. As many as 65 persons who were undergoing treatment have recovered from the infection. For the 11th day in a row, the single-day COVID-19 tally remained below 100. In these 11 days, fewer than 50 cases were reported on three occasions. The average number of cases reported per day since the last one week stands at 61.4. Active cases have come down below 1,300 and stand at 1,284 as of Thursday. Recoveries have also further increased to 56,222, which is 96.9%. There are no ‘very active’ clusters, and only 11 active and 318 dormant clusters in the district.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC edged out in finals of World Smart City Awards contest||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) was close to winning the title at the World Smart City Awards competition organised recently by the Smart City Expo World Congress in Barcelona, Spain. After a gruelling round with 46 countries, the GVMC was one among the three participants from three countries to reach the finals, where it was inched out by a whisker. According to GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, the World Smart City Awards is a prestigious international competition that seeks to recognise pioneering projects, ideas and strategies that make cities around the world more liveable, sustainable, and economically viable. The GVMC and the Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited (GVSCCL) participated in the competition and submitted the project — Social integration through creation of all-ability public spaces – parks for all abilities — under the Living & Inclusion Award category. “The Visakhapatnam Smart City project was selected for the finals. Also, it was the only project from the country to be selected to the final list,” she said on Thursday. Visakhapatnam competed with Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, Turkey, and the Government of the State of Alagoas, Brazil. However, the award was bagged by the Government of the State of Alagoas for its project ‘A new life in the Grotas: evidence based slum improvement and urban development’. “We are happy that Visakhapatnam made it to the finals by competing against 46 countries. It gives us encouragement to take up such projects and win awards,” Ms. Srijana said.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications invited from minority candidates||The A.P. State Minorities Finance Corporation will sanction 14 mini-trucks, each costing Rs. 5,81,190, under a self-employment scheme to 14 beneficiaries from Muslim, Jain, Buddhist, Sikh and Parsi communities in the district, in association with the Civil Supplies Department and bank linkages, according to V.S.S. Sastry, Executive Director of the corporation. The corporation will provide 60% of the cost as subsidy, while 30% would be given as loan by the banks and 10% would have to be borne by the beneficiary. The applicants should be aged between 21 and 45 years, should have passed at least Class VII and should hold an LMV license. They should produce a proof of residence like Aadhaar, rice card or a certificate issued by the tahsildar concerned and caste certificate. They should also satisfy the prescribed income and other parameters. Eligible candidates should apply to the respective village/ward secretariat along with the requisite documents by November 27. Applicants will be called for an interview by the mandal/municipal/zonal commissioner offices on December 4.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC gets 3 sewer cleaner machines||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has acquired two high-power jetting machines of 6,000-litre capacity, and a high-power sewer cleaner jetting machine of 1,000-litre capacity at a budget of Rs. 1.25 crore for underground drainage works. GVMC Commissioner Srijana flagged off the vehicles here on Thursday.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DLS comes out with yet another innovation||Diesel Loco Shed (DLS), Visakhapatnam, has come out with yet another innovation for contact-less operation of hand wash, thermal scanning and hand sanitiser dispensing to combat the spread of the novel coronavirus infection. DLS, Visakhapatnam, has fabricated these dispensers based on sensor operation with in-house expertise to avoid physical contact among the users. DLS has already developed a ‘Med-robot’ to assist hospital staff to serve COVID patients, a sensor-based sanitising tunnel, Ultra Violet-radiation based disinfection sanitisers for currency notes, paper sanitisers and tool sanitisers and room sanitisers among other things. The auto-handwash booth is made up of a 12-Volt DC solenoid, valve, ultrasonic sensor with control unit and Switching Mode Power Supply (SMPS) unit for getting regulated 12 V DC supply. The unit is kept at the DRM Office at Dondaparthy for use of the staff and visitors. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava and Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer (Diesel) Santosh Kumar Patro commended the employees staff of the DLS for their innovation.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gandhi’s ideology to help reform prisoners in U.S.||A web interaction session on ‘Gandhian Resonances in a US Federal Prison’ was organised by GITAM School of Gandhian Studies as part of a supplementary lecture for a course on Forensic Psychology here on Thursday. Duke University Religious Studies Associate Professor, Fulbright-Nehru Fellow Leela Prasad shared her experiences with American prisoners on how Gandhian ideology and methods have inspired prison inmates who have committed crimes, to consider the path of peace, discipline and non-violence, after their release from jail. Prof. Prasad stated that she too was transformed by her experience interacting with the inmates and felt humbled by the realisation that prisoners too were human beings, whom society tends to dehumanise. She said that those prisoners who were serving life sentences too could imbibe and voluntarily practices methods like Satyagraha and Brahmacharya as a result of the teachings and readings of Gandhi including his autobiography: The Story of My Experiments with Truth. GITAM School of Gandhian Studies In-Charge Director Nalini Bikkina, who is also a Fulbright Fellow and a winner of the Fulbright Alumni Award for the year 2019-20, hosted this session online.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ways to prevent human trafficking discussed||Dr. Durgabai Deshmukh Centre for Women’s Studies at Andhra University in association with A.P. Mahila Commission and International Justice Mission organised a symposium on ‘Human Trafficking: Preventive Measures’ and launched ‘Anti-Human Trafficking Club’ at Andhra University. AP Mahila Commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma inaugurated the programme. In the inaugural address, Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy stressed that dignity and rights of women are highly important. He assured that AU administration will give full support for the activities of the anti-human trafficking club which would be run by Dr. Durgabai Deshmukh Centre for Women’s Studies in association with AP Mahila Commission and International Justice Mission. Ms. Padma recalled the services rendered by the government to curb trafficking and promised to support AU in the future endeavours of the AHTC. Rector of AU, Prof K.Samatha, Director of AP Mahila Commission, and Ravuri Suez, HOD of Social work, Maris Stella College and a few others spoke.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New SpiceJet flights to Bengaluru, Kolkata soon||SpiceJet has opened bookings for daily flights from Visakhapatnam International Airport to Kolkata and Bengaluru. The flights will be operated to the two destinations on a daily basis with effect from December 6, 2020 till March 27, 2021, according to K. Vijay Mohan, president of the Tours and Travels Assocation of Andhra. Flight SG 2508 will leave Kolkata (CCU) at 7.30 p.m. and arrive in Vizag (VTZ) at 9.10 p.m. In the return direction, SG 2509 will leave VTZ at 9.40 p.m. and reach CCU at 11.30 p.m. SG 1035 will leave Bengaluru (BLR) at 6.40 a.m. and arrive in VTZ at 8 a.m. SG 1027 will leave VTZ at 8.40 a.m. and reach BLR at 10.25 a.m. SG 3714 will leave from BLR at 7.15 p.m. and land in VTZ at 9.15 p.m. SG 3715 will take off from VTZ at 9.45 p.m. and reach BLR at 11.20 p.m.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT-19 seeks suggestions from public||The Special Investigation (SIT) – 2019, constituted by the Government of A.P. to investigate alleged land scams in Visakhapatnam, has invited suggestions/opinions from members of the civil society and the general public in order to suggest/recommend to the government for ensuring citizen-friendly governance. Vijay Kumar, head of SIT-2019, Visakhapatnam, said in a statement on Thursday that suggestions/opinions should be sent through email atsit19suggest@gmail.comstarting from November 21 and ending on the midnight of November 22. Only suggestions should be mailed and no individual and specific grievances should be sent as they have already been obtained and addressed by way of petitions received at VMRDA Auditorium during November 2019. The suggestions should be precise and brief. The SIT-2019 is looking into the following issues: change of classification of government lands without fulfilling the due procedure and also identification of officials/non-officials, who are benefited by such tampering.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Sathya Sai Samithi’s gesture||The Mahila wing of Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi donated essential items to women sanitation workers for their services during the COVID-19 pandemic, at Aganampudi on Thursday. They were given a sari with a blouse, blanket, sanitiser, masks, lunch packets, buttermilk, laddu and vibhuthi prasadam at the programme organised by the Mahila wing as part of the forthcoming 95th birth anniversary of Sri Sathya Sai Baba. At another programme, the mahila wing of Simhachalam Samithi provided sweaters, masks, sanitisers, gloves, fruits and vibhuthi to senior citizens.
20 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pedestrian hit by city bus dies||A 41-year-old man was killed after reportedly being hit by a APSRTC city bus at Pendurthi in Visakhapatnam city on Thursday. According to reports, Satyam, a daily wager and a resident of Sujatha Nagar, was crossing the BRTS corridor at Pendurthi area. An RTC city bus heading towards Sujatha Nagar from Chinnamushivada hit him. Sources said that Satyam suffered severe head injuries and succumbed while being taken to hospital. Police sent his body for post-mortem. Pendurthi police registered a case.
20 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP-JSP combine will form government in State: Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Thursday exuded confidence that the party, along with its alliance partner the Jana Sena Party (JSP), would form the government in the State in the future. Mr. Veerraju was speaking at various programmes and training sessions at Cheepurupalli in Vizianagaram district and at Srikakulam, Rajam and Etcherla in Srikakulam district. “The TDP has lost its relevance. The BJP-JSP combine has emerged as the only formidable alternative in the State,” he observed. The State’s growth was hampered with little utilisation of Central government schemes and support, he observed. He lauded former Cheepurupalli MLA Gadde Baburao for his initiatives to strengthen the party in all the mandals of the constituency despite joining the BJP two weeks ago. Former TDP Mandasa mandal parishad president Kotla Revati, her husband, and trader Korla Kannarao joined the BJP at a function organised at the party office in Srikakulam. BJP leader B. Umamaheswara Rao, who helped them join the party along with 300 other TDP workers, said many more would join the saffron party in the days to come. BJP Srikakulam Parliamentary Party president Attada Ravi Babji was among others present.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scenic ride||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP Mahila chief dares CM to hold local body elections||Telugu Mahila, the women wing of Telugu Desam Party, president Vangalapudi Anitha has dared Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to hold local body elections in the State, if he is confident about his administration and welfare schemes. “Though the YSRCP government cites coronavirus pandemic as the reason, the ruling party, in fact, is fearing defeat in the elections,” Ms. Anitha, who was in Vizianagaram on Thursday to strengthen the TDP women wing, told The Hindu . Arguing in favour of holding the local body polls, Ms. Anitha said, “The Central Election Commission conducted the Assembly elections in Bihar. Bypolls are being held in different States. The Telangana government is conducting the GHMC elections. . What stops the YSRCP govt. in conducting the local body elections in the State?”
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cattle way||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strong message||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Scenic ride||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strong message||
20 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Special bus services for Vaikunta Ekadasi||Anticipating a steady increase in footfall of devotees to Bhadrachalam, the abode of Lord Sitaramachandra Swamy, during the upcoming Vaikunta Ekadasi festivities next month, the TSRTC has revived the special bus services between Bhadrachalam town and Parnashala, the holy site in Dummugudem mandal. The annual fete “Vaikunta Ekadasi Prayukta Adyayanotsavamlu” is scheduled to be held from December 15, 2020 to January 4, 2021 at the famous Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple in Bhadrachalam.  Special programmes It will feature the Teppotsavam, the celestial boat ride, and the Uttara (Vaikunta) Dwara Darshanam, on December 24 and 25 respectively. The temple town, popularly known as south Ayodhya, is expected to witness a large turnout of devotees from within the State and neighbouring States during the two major events of the annual fete at the fag end of the year. The TSRTC has deployed four special buses for ferrying passengers from Bhadrachalam to Parnashala, the famous religious site located about 35 km from Bhadrachalam on the banks of the Godavari, TSRTC sources said. The historic shrine in Bhadrachalam witnessed a low turnout of devotees in the initial couple of weeks after the temple was reopened for darshan in adherence to physical distancing norms on June 8 after more than two-and-a-half months of coronavirus-induced lockdown period.  Increasing demand The gradual rise in the number of devotees visiting the temple in the past few weeks prompted the authorities to reintroduce the special bus services between Bhadrachalam and Parnashala, famous for its intricately carved sculptures illustrating the main episodes of Lord Sri Rama’s “vanavasam” (exile in Dandakaranya). According to legends, Parnashala served as the hermitage of Lord Rama during his vanavasam along with Sita in Dandakaranya forest region.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KTR rules out alliance with MIM for GHMC polls||The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) will not have any electoral alliance with the All India Majils-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the GHMC elections and the party will contest in all the 150 divisions in the city. ‘In fact, we will win in at least 10 seats in the old city,” the TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao said in an apparent move to dispel the rumours that it will have a friendly fight to benefit the MIM in its stronghold of old city. Mr. Rao said, “Just because AIMIM supports some of our decisions it doesn’t mean we are working together. We also have supported several decisions of the BJP at the Centre.” He also reminded that in the 2016 elections the TRS had won 5 seats in the old city and lost one with a narrow margin. Lady Mayor Mr. Rama Rao also brushed aside the allegations that it would offer the Mayor post to the MIM and said, “Mark my words the city will see a Lady Mayor of the TRS,” further adding why would they even think of offering the post to some other political party. Countering the BJP president Bandi Sanjay’s statement that the saffron flag will flutter over the Golconda Fort, the TRS working president said, “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had unfurled the national flag on the fort after Telangana was formed.” Loaded with sarcasm, KTR said people should realise that only the national flag will unfurl on the fort and not any party flag. “However, the pink flag will flutter over the GHMC,” he said in a retort to Mr. Sanjay’s claims. Giving a bit of Telangana tinge to the elections, KTR described it as a fight between ‘galli party’ (local party) and ‘Dilli party’ (Delhi party). He also reminded people that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been harping on ‘Vocal for Local’ and TRS is the party that is associated with the locals.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP lashes out at KCR for comments on Prime Minister||Bharatiya Janata Party Telangana unit has announced that every household affected in the recent floods in the twin cities will receive Rs. 25,000 each and property loss will be fully borne by it if the Mayor is elected from the party in the GHMC elections. “We will get funds from the Central government to rebuild houses, replace furniture lost and give money to buy new two-wheelers and cars if they are damaged in the floods,” declared party president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Thursday. Addressing a press conference at the party office, the BJP chief said the party will also pay all the challans being issued to the youngsters by the police once it comes to power in GHMC. “For development of the city and keeping it secure, I appeal to the people to elect our candidates and throw out the corrupt TRS-Majlis combine,” he appealed. However, a significant portion of the press meet was Mr. Sanjay Kumar’s launching a broadside against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for his comments on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) governance at the Centre. “KCR lowered his own dignity with his rubbish criticism of Modi. Since he has set the tone of the debate with his intemperate remarks, we are going to reply in the same manner. We will expose his deeds and his government’s corruption,” he cautioned.  ‘Arrest for slander’ The BJP leader recalled that the CM directed the Director General of Police to arrest those slandering the PM in social media earlier and wanted the police to do the same now. “Is this the way to talk about the PM? Why is he not concerned about the communities that are in a minority in the neighbouring countries? What does he intend to do with the majority community in Hyderabad and Telangana after handing over power to Majlis,” he asked. Mr. Sanjay Kumar challenged KCR to come to the Bhagyalakshmi Temple at Charminar on Friday afternoon and swear about the authenticity of the purported letter written by him to the Election Commission seeking halting the ex gratia of Rs. 10,000 to the floods affected. “I will be there and ready to swear the letter is fake and my signature has been forged. This has been produced under the direction of the CM to mislead the people. I have already asked the police to probe into it and arrest those responsible. I request the State Election Commission (SEC) to investigate into it,” he said.  Ready for debate The BJP leader demanded that the TRS government explain what it has done for the city in the last six years. “What have you promised and what have you given to the people? We are ready for democratic debate but will not keep quiet if he (KCR) keeps on uttering lies and falsehoods as we have the TRS manifesto with us even if they had deleted from the party website,” he said. He pointed out that KCR’s earlier bid to form a Third Front before the general elections has been a damp squib and it was not going to be different now. The BJP has finalised almost all its candidates for 150 divisions save for a couple of places where discussions are on. There has been no word from Pawan Kalyan’s party Jana Sena about having an alliance for the GHMC polls, he added. Party leader D.K. Aruna too faulted KCR for his remarks on the PM.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS, BJP and MIM are friends under the guise of foes: Revanth||Malkajgiri MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that TRS, BJP and MIM are enacting a political drama while secretly helping each other to consolidate their voters using each other. Speaking to reporters along with former Ministers, Mohd Ali Shabbir and Chinna Reddy, he said all the three parties were working with the sole intention of weakening the Congress party using communalism as their tool. Accusing them of fake criticism against each other, he said Mr. Kishan Reddy accuses the MIM of having connections with terror organisations but despite being a Union Minister he doesn’t order for an enquiry. Mr. Revanth Reddy also alleged that BJP's newly elected MLA Raghunandan Rao had arranged bail for Mr. Owaisi when he was arrested by the then Congress government on the charges of hate speeches. He dared BJP leaders to suspend Raghunandan Rao from the party if they were genuinely opposed to the MIM. Similarly, BJP MP from Nizamabad D. Arvind had accused Jupally Rameshwar Rao of My Home group of indulging in illegal mining but Mr. Kishan Reddy ensured no action was initiated against the group’s irregularities, Mr. Reddy claimed. In fact, Mr. Kishan Reddy ensured that Mr. Rameshwar Rao met top Union Ministers, he claimed. He also charged that the BJP government is shielding Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao from the CBI probe into ‘ESI and Sahara scandals’. He ridiculed the claims of BJP leaders of being defenders of Hindutva and asked as to why Mr. Kishan Reddy or Mr. Bandi Sanjay did not visit the Secretariat when the TRS government demolished the century-old Nalla Pochamma temple. The Congress leader said the Congress party would contest the GHMC elections with the slogan 'Basti Hamara, Baldiya Hamara', and reminded that it was the Congress which brought all existing development and infrastructure in Hyderabad. He said right from a new international airport, Outer Ring Road, PVNR Expressway, Metro Rail, flyovers to other infrastructure, everything came into existence during the Congress rule. He alleged that the TRS government could not even maintain the civic infrastructure and sabotaged the city's brand image. Mr. Shabbir Ali said that Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao cheated Muslims on the promise of giving 12% reservation and always supported the BJP government in decisions on Triple Talaq Bill, NIA Amendment Bill, National Register of Citizenship (NRC) and Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Postal ballot facility for the 80+ voters||Electors who tested positive for COVID-19 after November 1, those who are marked as persons with disabilities (PwD), and those who are 80 years and above, can use postal ballot to cast their vote in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections to be held on December 1. However, they have to apply for the facility at least seven days prior to the day of poll. The Telangana State Election Commission, which extended the postal ballot facility to electors belonging to the three categories, has issued list of instructions about the forms and documents that need to be submitted to avail the facility, how to cast their vote, and other details. This would also help in curbing spread of coronavirus. According to the instructions, the electors can apply by downloading Form-XXII-A from tsec.gov.in - or physical copy of the form available at the Returning Officer’s or Deputy Municipal Commissioner’s office. Along with the application form, the electors have to enclose either self-attested Aadhaar, or EPIC card, or passport having photograph, address, identity and age proof. Along with this, electors belonging to the three categories have to submit a few more documents. In case of voters who are detected with COVID-19 after November 1, recent medical test certificate has to be enclosed. And voters marked as PwD have to enclose their disability certificate issued by competent authority. “Signed physical application Form-XXII-A along with enclosures for proof of identity, age, address etc., as the case may be sent to concerned Returning Officer’s office, C/o Deputy Municipal Commissioner’s Office by post only. If an elector of above categories has opted for postal ballot, and once a postal ballot is issued to him or her, he or she has to cast vote through postal ballot only. He or she cannot be allowed vote in polling station on the day of poll,” as per the instructions issued by the commission. After scrutiny, the returning officer will send the postal ballot through post to the eligible voters at the address mentioned in the address proof attached to Form-XXII-A. An elector will receive sealed packet sent by the returning officer, containing postal ballot paper, declaration in Form-XXVI-A, smaller cover marked ‘A’ (Form-XXVII), larger cover marked ‘B’ (Form-XXVIII) and instructions for the guidance of voters in Form XXIX-A.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Infinity Ride 2020’ starts from Kashmir||Hyderabad-based Aditya Mehta Foundation launched on Thursday ‘Infinity Ride 2020’ from Kashmir to Kanyakumari featuring country’s first para cyclist and founder Aditya Mehta, Asian para cycling championship bronze medallist Harinder Singh and the Asian Games track cycling bronze medallist Gurlal Singh along with other para-cyclists. “This Infinity Ride aims to create awareness and reach out to para talent from across the country even while discovering budding para sporting talent across the country and groom them to compete at the highest level,” says Aditya Mehta. Key objective The AMF had instituted Asia’s first Infinity Para Sports Academy and Rehabilitation Centre in Hyderabad last year with this specific objective. “India has no dearth of talent. My goal is to scout young talents and train them with the right training and facilities that is needed to become a competitive para athlete with world class abilities,” says Aditya. “We are hopeful that Infinity Ride 2020 will ensure the required awareness among people and we will be able to get many aspirant sports persons who we can work with and make future ready,” he said. The ride, a brain-child of the AMF and supported by Border Security Force (BSF), took off from Nishant Bagh, Srinagar, on Thursday. Director General of BSF Rakesh Asthana flagged off the journey which will end at Tirunelveli, Kanyakumari on December 29. Sixth edition The sixth edition of the Infinity Ride will be covering 34 cities in 41 days covering 3,801 km long route comprising treacherous mountain terrains as they embark on this strenuous and challenging journey. “I had ridden this route alone seven years back when no one thought it was possible for a person like me to come here and seven years later when I see so many riders alongside me, I believe if one can infuse the spirit of challenging to attempt the unthinkable, everything is possible,” Aditya said. The AMF has also successfully touched the lives of more than 1000 injured jawans and civilians, who have not only been rehabilitated but also motivated to excel as Indian athletes to win laurels for the country.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Number of COVID-19 tests crosses 50 lakh||The number of tests to detect coronavirus have crossed 50 lakh in Telangana. With 38,757 tests on Wednesday, the total stands at 50,11,164. Till mid-June, only around 1,000 samples were tested in a day. The State Health Department gradually increased the numbers at government health facilities from June 15. At the same time, private labs too were allowed to conduct tests. By the end of June, a maximum of 4,100 samples were examined in a day, which increased to around 21,000 a day by July-end. A sharp spike in the daily tests was recorded from August 25 when around 60,000 people were examined in a day. This continued till September 11 and started to gradually decrease. In November, around 40,000-45,000 samples were tested in a day. On Wednesday, out of the 38,757 samples, 1,058 tested positive for coronavirus. Results of 542 are awaited, while four more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases include 168 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 93 in Medchal Malkajgiri, 91 in Rangareddy. The lowest of two cases were detected in Jogulamba Gadwal, four in Adilabad. From March 2 to November 18, out of the 50,11,164 samples which were tested, 2,60,834 were detected with coronavirus. Of the total cases, 12,682 were positive cases, 2,46,733 have recovered, while 1,419 people have died. While the recovery rate in India is 93.6%, it is 94.59% in the State.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State directed to ramp up COVID-19 tests to 50,000 a day||Expressing concern over the ‘low number of COVID-19 diagnostic tests’ being conducted in the State, Telangana High Court on Thursday directed the State government to step up the tests from the average of 40,000 to 50,000 a day. Gradually, the number of tests should be taken up to one lakh a day, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. Hearing a batch of PIL pleas on COVID-19 pandemic, the bench also instructed the government to introduce tests, which were newly accepted by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) for diagnosing coronavirus, in the State. The kits to conduct RT-PCR test should be made available in all district headquarters, the bench said. It directed the government to furnish a report on the action initiated against private hospitals charging excessive amounts for treating COVID-19 patients. Referring to Lockdown.4 relaxations, the court said the possibility of crowds gathering at marriages or other functions cannot be ruled out. Hence, the government should ensure, by deploying police personnel at such places, that people maintained social distance and wore masks.  ‘Creating impression’ Expressing dissatisfaction over the less number of COVID-19 confirmation tests in the State vis-a-vis other States, the bench said more tests were being held two to three days ahead of the HC hearing the PIL pleas connected to coronavirus to create an impression of ‘more tests’. Reports on COVID-19 matters were being presented to the court only 15 minutes in advance making it difficult for the court to assess the actions taken by government. The bench observed that failure of the government to present the State Disaster Management Plan to the court despite repeated direction by the latter suggested that it did not have any such plan. While Maharashtra and Karnataka States were conducting one lakh tests a day on an average, Telangana was boasting of 40,000 tests a day. Citing media reports, the bench said that second wave of coronavirus was reported in some countries and even in the country’s capital of Delhi. While Delhi government was mooting the proposal of second lock-down, the Telangana government appeared to be retreating from the battle against coronavirus, the bench remarked. The bench said people were seen gathering at eateries and hotels without wearing masks and not maintaining social distance. It sought to know what action was taken against food-joints not adhering to COVID-19 restrictions. Public Health Director in-charge Srinivas told the bench that action was initiated against such persons. It directed the government to file a detailed report on COVID-19 by November 24. The pleas were posted to November 26 for next hearing.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Social media giants’ hands full as civic polls get under way||Social media giants will have their hands full as the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections will get underway in over a fortnight. While Twitter has a no-political ads policy since November 2019, Facebook has a policy which requires transparency. Bonthu Sridevi, the wife of Bonthu Rammohan Rao, who nursed hopes of becoming a corporator and perhaps the mayor (Rani Kumudini Devi began the tradition in 1962) has been promoting her account on Twitter. But on Thursday, the Ads Transparency Centre had a message for Bonthu Sridevi’s account: “This tweet is not available because it includes content that violated Twitter Ads Policies.” During the US elections, Facebook put up a one-week ad restriction period to limit spread of fake news and propaganda. “Facebook will not allow any new ads about social issues, elections or politics in the final week of the campaign…but in the final few days, there may not be enough time to counter new claims,” was the reasoning given by the social media giant. A similar policing policy is unlikely in Hyderabad though the stakes are high for citizens. Days to go for the polling date, multiple accounts have started criticising and praising various parties and their activities with obvious political goals. On Wednesday, a letter purportedly written by a BJP leader to the Election Commission demanding stoppage to disbursal of flood-relief money began circulating online. Within no time another message became viral proving that the letter was a fake. This circulation of unverified or unverifiable messages in closed groups will prove to be a challenge in the short time before the polling day. But the lure of online campaign would be immeasurable in a cityscape blighted by the fear of COVID-19 and recent floods. Many candidates and aspirants for party tickets from the 150 wards have started buying up ad space. One BJP candidate from Vanasthalipuram is promising ‘Progress is possible only with change’. “Offline campaigning is slightly difficult for political parties. I’ll promote candidate profiles and activities through social media,” says Sandeep Sandagalla, a digital marketeer.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC polls: BJP releases second list of 18 candidates||Bharatiya Janata Party Telangana unit has released the second list of 18 candidates late on Thursday. The candidates are: Ghansibazar - Renu Soni, Ziaguda - B. Darshan, Mangalhat - Shashikala, Dattatreyanagar - M. Dharmendra Singh, Golconda - P. Shakuntala, Gudimalkapur - D. Karunakar, Nagole - Ch. Aruna Yadav, Mansoorabad - K. Narasimha Reddy, Hayatnagar - K. Navjeevan Reddy, B.N. Reddy Nagar - M. Lachi Reddy, Champapet - V, Madhusudan Reddy, Lingojiguda - A. Ramesh Goud, Kothapet - N. Pavan Kumar Mudiraj, Chaitanyapuri - Ranga Narsimha Gupta, Saroornagar - A. Sreevani, R.K. Puram - Radha Dheeraj Reddy, Mairaldevpally - T. Srinivas Reddy and Jangamet - K. Mahender. The list has candidates for five BC seats including three reserved for women, one SC general and one women general. The party had earlier released the first list of 21 candidates including 10 BC seats with four reserved for women among them. Earlier, party leaders — Nizamabad MP D. Arvind, official spokesmen A. Rakesh Reddy, N.V. Subash and others claimed that the fight in the GHMC elections will be between the BJP and MIM since the TRS appears to be determined to make the Majlis candidate as the next Mayor. “People of Hyderabad will teach a fitting lesson to the TRS as they are angry over the neglect of the city in the last six years. The living conditions have only worsened with pollution increasing and water bodies vanishing,” they claimed. The minority communities have been benefiting from the NDA government schemes including the PM Awas Yojana of construction of houses and free insurance cover under the ‘Ayushman Bharat’. Those likely to cause religious strife are more aligned with the TRS, they added.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Contestants should declare their criminal antecedents||Candidates contesting the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections have to disclose information about their criminal antecedents, assets and liabilities, and educational qualifications along with their nomination papers. Telangana State Election Commission officials who issued the instructions taking cue from a similar step taken by Election Commission of India, have prescribed revised formats for disclosure of the information by the candidates. It is done to effectively give information about the candidates’ background to the electors. According to the revised format, every candidate shall, along with his or her nomination paper, file an affidavit in the format prescribed sworn before a Notary Public or a Magistrate of the First Class on a stamp paper of the value of Rs. 20. “Failure on the part of the candidate to file affidavit or filing incomplete declaration make the nomination of the defaulting candidate liable to be rejected by the Returning Officer concerned as per relevant rules,” according to the instructions. The returning officer concerned shall display a copy of the declaration on the notice board of his or her office. The copies will be available to other candidates on demand, and to representatives of electronic and print media.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||An exercise to weed out bogus voters||During elections, people who do not cast their vote for various reasons despite their names being in the electoral rolls worry if somebody else votes on their behalf. To avoid impersonation by people who want to vote in place of an elector who is absent, or has shifted from the locality, or who has died, Telangana State Election Commission has instructed Deputy Commissioners and Returning officers to prepare a list of Absentee, Shifted, and Duplicate or Dead (ASD) electors according to each polling station. Presiding Officers should be provided with the list. The Commission’s secretary M Ashok Kumar has issued a circular which details the procedure that needs to be followed if anyone from the list turns up to cast vote. When such a voter produces EPIC or other photo document permitted by the Commission for his or her identification, the presiding officer shall personally verify the identification document, ask polling agents about the identity, and the details of the documents should be registered by the polling officer concerned on the counterfoil of the ballot paper. “Thumb impression of such electors shall also be obtained in addition to signature against the column ‘Signature/thumb impression’ of the counterfoil of the ballot paper,” the Commission’s secretary said. A record of such voters has to be maintained which should be submitted to the returning officer. Wherever possible, such electors have to be photographed.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Will release the details of funds spent on GHMC: KTR||Stating that the TRS government has spent Rs. 67,000 crore for the city’s development, the TRS working president and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said he would release a detailed account of the spending. Mr. Rama Rao claimed no other government has spent so much on improving the city’s infrastructure and developmental activities and said this was done without burdening people with taxes. The Municipal Minister assured that a new GHMC Act will be brought to deal with illegal constructions on the nalas (drainage lines). The Act would empower officials to demolish illegal structures without any notice. After the Strategic Road Development Project (SRDP), he said the government is working on the Strategic Nala Development Plan (SNDP) to improve the drainage system in the city.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Brief/space filler||The Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) with the support of Telangana Industries and Commerce Department is organising a certificate course in Export Import Management from December 5. The course will provide information on foreign trade policy, reforms, business opportunities and help in identifying new markets. For details, call 8008700257; email: ankithasai@ftcci.in.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Make use of free legal aid||Nizamabad Principal District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairperson of District Legal Services Authority Sai Rama Devi on Thursday appealed to people to make use of free legal aid through DLSA and Mandal Legal Services Committee. Addressing a gathering at the ‘Legal Awareness Programme for Women’ - jointly organised by DLSA and the National Commission for Women, the judge said women should be aware of the legal remedies available to them.
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five parties allotted common symbols||Five parties which have registered with Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) without a reserved symbol were allotted common symbols to contest in the local bodies elections. The Commission has allotted Jana Sena Party with a common symbol ‘Glass Tumbler’, Hindustan Janata Party got ‘Coconut Farm’, India Praja Bandhu Party got ‘Trumphet’ as common symbol, Marxist Communist Party of India United is allotted ‘Gas Cylinder’ and Indian Praja Congress with ‘Whistle’. “The concession of allotment of common symbol to the candidates of above political parties shall be for a period of five years from the date of issuance of this order. If the party fails to contest in 10% of total seats in any subsequent ordinary elections, including these ordinary elections to GHMC, the party will lose its common symbol for further elections notified by the SEC within that five years’ period and also cannot apply afresh till the completion of five years period from the date of this order and also forfeit its deposit amount,” as per an order issued on Thursday. The free symbols allotted as common symbols to the candidates of the five parties shall be available for allotment to the candidates of other registered parties without reserved symbol or independent candidates in those constituencies where the five parties did not field their candidates.
20 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam IT Hub inauguration on December 2||The much awaited IT Hub near the two-town police station and the Road Over Bridge (RoB) at Dhamsalapuram in the town will be inaugurated on December 2. Announcing this at a press conference here on Thursday, Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar said the IT Hub will be inaugurated by Information Technology and Municipal Administration Minister K T Rama Rao. Roads and Buildings Minister V Prashanth Reddy will inaugurate the RoB to be named after Telangana ideologue late Prof K Jayashankar at Dhamsalapuram here on the same day. The new office building of the Khammam Police Commissionerate will be inaugurated by Home Minister Mahamood Ali on December 2. The IT Hub will give an impetus to promotion of IT sector in the tier-II city of Khammam by serving as a hub for skill and entrepreneurship development besides creating employment opportunities to the local youth, he noted. The RoB at Dhamsalapuram is all set to ensure hassle free travel for motorists on the Khammam-Bonakal-Vijayawada road finding a lasting solution to the traffic chaos on the busy road. A vaikuntadhamam with electric crematorium and other amenities will be inaugurated at Ballepalli here on the same day, Mr Ajay said, adding that the beautified walkway along the NSP main canal crisscrossing various localities of the town will be thrown open for public. The mini-tank bund encompassing an open gym, a walking track, and lush green space developed along the Ooracheruvu in Khanapuram will also be inaugurated by Mr K T Rama Rao.
20 November 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Panchayat secretaries stage protest||Members owing allegiance to the District Junior Panchayat Secretaries and Panchayat Secretaries Association staged a demonstration at the Dharna Chowk in pursuit of their charter of demands here on Thursday. Several junior panchayat secretaries from different parts of the district staged a sit-in demonstration demanding that the government reduce their probationary period from three years to two years for early regularisation of their services. They displayed placards highlighting their multifarious services in implementation of sanitation and green drive, maintenance of nurseries and streetlights, among other crucial tasks at the village level. They urged the government to reduce the excess workload, provide equal pay for equal work and other statutory benefits.
20 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Meet on reducing highway accidents||Not just the police department or its traffic wing, but Panchayati Raj and Roads & Buildings departments with the coordination of sarpanches of villages along the State and National Highways, should step up measures to reduce accidents, District Collector Prashant J Patil said on Thursday. Instructing officials for a more coordinated work, he said immediate attention should be on rectifying identified ‘black spots’ on the highways for accident-free passage of traffic. He said the damaged highways, in the recent rain and flood, must be repaired and sufficient lighting should be available around the ‘black spots’. Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said the department has been working on various ways to reduce accidents near ‘black spots’, and requested participation from all the stakeholders. suggested that the panchayats supervise lighting arrangements at the spots.
20 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||2BHK houses ready for inauguration||The stage is set for inauguration of double bedroom, hall and kitchen (2BHK) houses at Narsapur on the outskirts of the district headquarters town. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is expected to participate in the house warming ceremony of the double bedroom houses, new Collectorate complex and the Commissionerate. However, the dates are not yet finalised for the programme as the process for election to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has begun. As many as 2,460 double bedroom houses on G+2 model are being constructed here as a gated community and the government has been trying to showcase this as the model for the nation to provide accommodation for the poor. From the very beginning, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao personally supervised the construction of these houses. The construction of these houses was almost completed about a year ago but selection of beneficiaries was completed recently. About 1,800 beneficiaries were selected in a transparent manner The construction of these houses was taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 130 crore and already 2,200 houses are completed. “All infrastructure facilities like roads, underground drainage, drinking water, power supply and other amenities have been provided. These houses were built on 35 acres and are ready for occupation,” said an official involved in the process. Construction of integrated Collectorate and residential quarters was taken up on about 48.15 acres at an estimated cost of Rs. 62.6 crore. The work was awarded to Ms. Chabra Associates and work on it began on October 30, 2017. The building was constructed in G+2 model with residential quarters for Collector, Joint Collector, DRO and other officers and the total built up area is 1.78 lakh square feet. The Commissionerate was constructed on about 20 acres with an estimated cost of Rs. 15 crore.
20 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Siddipet bags Swachhata Award||The Siddipet district was selected for national-level Swachhata Award and it was presented to Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy at a virtual event by Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Thursday. Siddipet was one among the 20 districts selected across the nation for this award on the occasion of ‘World Toilet Day’ for creating awareness on use of toilets, segregation of wet and dry garbage and their maintenance and campaign on Swachh Bharath in rural areas. Peddapalli district from the State was also selected for the award. The Union Minister has congratulated the Collector for receiving the award. “We have taken up the programmes as per the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao. Under Swachh Bharat Mission Phase one we have constructed as many as 34,480 toilets, out of which we built 27,000 toilets in 2017 May alone. Palle Pragati prorammes were taken up in 499 villages. Community toilets are being constructed, dump yards and segregation sheds are constructed with the funds under National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (NREGS). Further, 42,800 individual and 600 community soak pits were constructed in the district. Haritha Haram programme is being run for the past five years,” the Collector said.
20 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||Close to 1.45L MT cotton expected to reach market in Yadadri district||Cotton was grown in 1,81,147 acres in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri in the Vaanakalam agriculture season, and according to official estimates 1,44,914 metric tonnes of produce is estimated to reach the market. Already, the 14 Cotton Corporation of India Limited operated centres in the district have commenced procurement, and till date 84,690 quintal cotton has been purchased, District Marketing Officer Md. Aleem informed on Thursday. Farmers with ready harvest have to approach the nearest CCI centre and verify their details using their Aadhar credentials and book a date to bring the produce. The department has also arranged printed tokens for farmers, to be distributed through Agriculture officials, so that procurement glut is avoided at the ginning mills. Mr. Aleem also said tenant farmers would be allowed to participate in the procurement and relevant measures were put in place. He said such farmers need to obtain a letter from the agriculture officer concerned certifying their produce. He also said the sale proceeds were being released to farmers within five days from the date of purchase.
20 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Three held in Gurugram woman murder case||Three persons have been arrested by the Gurugram police on Wednesday in connection with the murder of a woman employee of a multinational company earlier this month. Acting on a tip-off, the accused, Irshad, Hari Om and Jitender, were arrested by the Sector 40 Crime Unit of the Gurugram police in Bhondsi village. The police claim to have recovered the car used in commission of the murder of the woman and other crimes. The car belonged to Irshad, a resident of Nuh. Hari Om is from Madhya Pradesh and Jitender resides in Sector-10, Gurugram. Signalled to stop During interrogation, the three told the police that they were roaming on Golf Course Extension Road in Sector 65 on November 3 night looking for a potential target when they spotted the woman, Pooja Sharma, 26, and her friend, Sagar Manchanda, 30, in a car and signalled them to stop to rob them. The accused asked them to roll down the window, and opened fire when the duo did not heed. Manchanda ducked and escaped unhurt, but a bullet hit Pooja in the head. She died at a hospital two days later during treatment. The accused fled the spot but returned a little later to check on the victims. On November 14, the trio shot dead Gaurav, 22, over personal enmity. “The three confessed to their involvement in around 100 incidents of snatching, robbery and theft of mobile phones across the district. They were produced before the court and remanded in four-day police custody,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime) Preet Pal Sangwan.  The three confessed to their involvement in around 100 incidents of snatching, robbery and theft of mobile phones across the district  Preet Pal Sangwan ACP (Crime)
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. denies ex gratia to kin of another policeman||The family of a Delhi Police Head Constable, who died of COVID-19 in July, has been denied ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore by Delhi government. The rejection letter stated he was not on COVID-19 duty. Head Constable Leela Dhar was posted in south Delhi’s Defence Colony police station and was mostly on picket and patrolling duty, his family, which resides in Srinivaspuri, said. Dhar’s son Chandrashekhar said that his father fell sick on July 10 and complained of fever and body ache after coming back from work and he was tested for the virus the next day. “After his result, he was quarantined near Mandoli jail but we didn’t like the facilities, so we got him shifted to a quarantine centre in Shahdara. But he fell severely sick and had breathing problems. He was then shifted to Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital where he passed away on July 31,” Mr. Chandrashekhar said.  He said that his father’s ex gratia file with all the required documents was prepared by the department and sent to the government department concerned. However, on November 6, they were informed that the ex gratia has been denied. The letter, signed by the Sub Divisional Magistrate, read: “I am directed to inform you that the above case has been examined and is not found covered under the Cabinet decision No 2835 dated 13.05.2020 as the deceased was performing his routine duty assigned to him and was not deployed for COVID-19 duty, which is a mandatory condition to become eligible for grant of ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore”. No income The son said that the family had earlier received the amount due to them by Delhi Police but the pension is yet to commence as the procedural work is under way. They currently do not have a source of income, he said. “My employer has sent me on leave without pay. My sister is pursuing her Masters in Arts and my mother is a housewife. As of now, we are managing with the savings and what we get from police society,” Mr. Chandrashekhar said. Disappointed, he said: “Every officer who is on the field is on COVID-19 duty. This is just the government’s way to escape from giving the money”. Earlier, families of Assistant Sub Inspector Shesh Mani Pandey and Constable Yogender, both of who died of COVID-19, were denied ex gratia.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Bengal tiger dies in Delhi zoo||A 15-year-old male Bengal tiger, ‘B-2’, died at the National Zoological Park, also known as the Delhi zoo, on Thursday morning, according to zoo officials. The Director of the zoo, Ramesh Pandey, said that the tiger, also known as Bittu, was suffering from kidney ailment since July and was under treatment. “In July, during an inspection, it was found that the tiger’s creatinine levels were high and since then he was under treatment by experts from Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly. We had given the tiger fluid therapy, special food and he was under intensive care. His condition had not been good since the past few days and he died at 9.25 a.m. on Thursday,” Mr. Pandey said. The zoo now has a pair of Bengal tigers, which was acquired on Wednesday from the Kanpur zoo under ‘Conservation Breeding Programme’. Also, there are three pairs of white tigers. The tiger’s autopsy has been done and viscera samples have been sent to the IVRI for further examination.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man involved in armed robbery case arrested||A 22-year-old man, who was involved in an armed robbery followed by firing at Deputy Commissioner of Police, has been arrested by Special Cell, they said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah said that the accused has been identified as Nadeem, a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur, who was arrested late Wednesday night after a brief exchange of fire. Police said that the operation was undertaken by Inspectors Shiv Kumar and Karamvir Singh under the supervision of Assistant Sub Inspector Attar Singh around 11.40 p.m. in Ghazipur. “In the exchange of fire, Nadeem got injured in his right leg. A semi-automatic pistol and six live cartridges were recovered from his possession,” Mr. Kushwah said, adding that seven rounds were fired from both sides. More charges During interrogation, police said, it was revealed that he was wanted in two sensational cases of attempt to murder and robbery in Tilak Nagar and firing at police in Ranjeet Nagar in July.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||AQI likely to be ‘very poor’ in Delhi today||The air quality of Delhi and Noida deteriorated slightly and continued to be in ‘poor’ category on Thursday and Gurugram’s fell to ‘poor’ category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The air quality of Delhi is predicted to be in ‘very poor’ category on Friday. Also, the Capital recorded a minimum temperature of 9.4 degrees on Thursday night, which was three degrees colder than the average for the season. The minimum temperature, which has been consistently below normal this month due to the absence of any cloud cover, was kept in check due to the influence of a western disturbance on Monday, but then started falling again. The Met department forecast shows that it is likely to fall further as clear skies are likely to continue. The maximum temperature settled at 25.6 degrees celsius, which was also two degrees below normal. “The AQI is set to deteriorate and is forecast to be in the ‘very poor’ category for tomorrow [Friday]. However, from Sunday, AQI is forecast to marginally improve but remain in the lower end of ‘very poor’ category on Saturday and Sunday. It is mainly due to accelerated local surface winds, with slight lowering of inversion layer height leading to relatively better ventilation conditions,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. The AQI of Delhi was 283 on Thursday, worse than 211 on Wednesday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 253 and 284 respectively.  The air quality of Delhi worsened on Thursday as the surface winds were calm and boundary layer wind direction was north-westerly. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi was estimated to be only 20% on Thursday. AAP leader Atishi, meanwhile, on Thursday said that there is not enough staffers or even a room for the newly formed Commission of Air Quality Management and requested the Centre to provide facilities for the same.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Three robbers’ gangs busted, eight arrested||Delhi Police has busted three lifafa (envelope) and robbers’ gangs and arrested eight members from the national capital, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Israr (23), Pradeep (35), Kamal (32), Aman (23), Uma Shankar (56), Nazim (23), Ankit (29), all residents of Trilokpuri, and Monu (30), a resident of Geeta Colony, they said. The police said it was found that the accused used to target commuters by offering them lift in their car and later on the pretext of police checking, they would ask the commuters to put their belongings in a lifafa . They used to play pre-recorded voice messages on their communication devices which looked like walkie-talkie. After taking their cash, ATM and its PIN, they used to deboard victims at isolated places, the police said. When the victims checked their envelopes later, they would realise that their valuables had been replaced, they said.  The police recovered three cars used in the crime, jewellery, communication devices, 30 cards cut in the shape of credit or debit cards, 100 envelopes, Delhi Police masks and other things from them.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||MPD-2041: consultation scheduled for Nov. 27||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Thursday said that a public consultation pertaining to the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) 2041, with industry associations will be held on November 27. “The objective of the meeting is to understand and discuss challenges and possible solutions with respect to industrial development in Delhi. The public consultation will be held with representatives from industries, chambers of commerce and industry associations comprising manufacturing, services, construction and hotel industries among others,” the DDA said in a statement. Participation invited The statement also read: “We also invite participation from industries within planned areas, like Udyog Nagar, Okhla Industrial Area (Phase I, II and III), Mayapuri Industrial Area, Bawana Industrial Area and so on apart from industries within unplanned areas like Rithala, New Mandoli, Mundka and so on.” The urban body has been conducting a series of public consultations in the run-up to the preparation of the new master plan for Delhi. Meetings with RWAs, market trader associations, real estate sector and the city’s youth have already been held.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Three held for duping people by promising jobs via portal||Three men were arrested for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing jobs by posing as executives of online job portal, police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Gaurav Sharma (41), Sonu Jaiswal (28) and Harish Kumar Gupta (31), all residents of Shakarpur. Police said that one Sunny Sharma lodged a case at Govindpuri police station where he alleged that in June, he registered on an online job portal. On June 15, he received a call regarding the job as a ground staff in a airline. The alleged person asked him to send his documents and Rs. 3,000 for registration, a senior police officer said. The complainant transferred the money and sent his documents. Later, he transferred Rs. 45,000 in four different transactions, police said. But when no job letter or intimation arrived, he sought refund. However, the accused convinced him that the money will be refunded as they are the sister concern of the job providing firm, the police said. During prove, police found that the account was registered in the name of Gaurav and not the airline as stated in the emails. “It was found that there were five complaints against the bank accounts of Gaurav,” DCP (South East) R.P. Meena said.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribute in tricolour||
20 November 2020||Mumbai,||Community Cord Blood Banking saves child with aplastic anaemia||Community Cord Blood Banking, a stem cell banking initiative introduced by LifeCell in 2017, has helped save the life of a seven-year-old girl from Nashik in Maharashtra who was suffering from aplastic anaemia. A team of senior doctors from LOTUS Institute of Haematology, Oncology and Bone Marrow Transplantation, recently conducted India’s first dual cord blood transplant through an unrelated donor. The transplant was challenging because no apt bone marrow donors were available and the cost of retrieval of matching units from public cord blood banks would have been high. The girl’s parents placed a request for two matching cord blood units after the child’s sibling was found to be only a 50% (4/8) match. Two high-quality matches (7/8) were found in the registry, which fulfilled the requirement for umbilical cord blood transplantation. The parents could withdraw the matched units at no extra expense, which would have cost around Rs. 45 lakh per unit. While stem cells from the umbilical cord blood can be procured from global public banks, the probability of finding a match for a patient of Indian origin is less than 10% because of the low inventory of available units plus the big issue of donor dropouts. Mayur Abhaya, MD, LifeCell International said, “Luckily, since the family was a part of LifeCell’s community banking programme, they could gain quick, free access to the huge inventory of over 50,000 qualified units, which provides greater than 97% probability of finding a match.” In majority of blood-related disorders, patients’ own stem cells are not suitable. Hence, the best donor is a close family member. However, in this case, there was only a 50% match with the sibling, thus needing a match from an unrelated donor, LifeCell said in a statement. While a regular stem cell transplant requires a dose of 25 million cells per kg of the patient’s weight, for aplastic anaemia, the recommended minimum dose is 40 million cells per kg, which is not easy to find. “The community banking model made it possible and the child received a timely transplant. Just 18 days after the transplant, white blood cells were completely engrafted, and platelets and red blood cell production also increased drastically,” the statement added.
20 November 2020||Mumbai,||BJP, Sena politics over ‘Hindutva’ hots up||As the tripartite Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government nears one year in office, the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has intensified its anti-government stand with focus on Hindutva and attempts to paint its former ally Shiv Sena as anti-Hindu. Unperturbed by these attacks, Sena on Thursday said people in Mumbai and Maharashtra know who is the flag-bearer of ‘pure saffron’. Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, while launching the BJP’s Mission Mumbai on Wednesday, had said that his party will turn the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) into ‘pure saffron’ by dethroning Sena in 2022. For months now, the State unit of the BJP has been targeting Sena over issues related to Hindutva. Controversy over name Meanwhile, the video of a little-known Sena leader Nitin Nandgaonkar, asking the owner of the famous Karachi sweet shop in the western suburbs of Mumbai to remove the word Karachi from its name, went viral on Thursday, kicking up a row in political circles. The Sena was quick to distance itself and said this was not the party’s official stand. Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Raut took to Twitter and said, “Karachi bakery and karachi sweets have been in mumbai since last 60 years. They have nothing to do with Pakistan. It makes no sense to ask for changing their names now. Demand for changing their name is not shivsena’s official stance.” Two months back, it held protests across the State demanding reopening temples. A newly-formed spiritual front of the BJP alleged that the Sena-led MVA government wants to open wine shops but not temples. The government’s decision to not allow chhath puja amid the corona pandemic is also being labelled by the BJP as anti-Hindu. The Sena on the other hand has chosen not to counter the BJP except occasionally. Mr. Raut on Thursday left it to the people of the State to decide who carries the pure saffron flag. “Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj and late Balasaheb Thackeray were sensitive about saffron flag. Adulterated saffron flag will never fly high on the BMC,” said Mr. Raut.
20 November 2020||Mumbai,||MNS threatens to protest over inflated power bills||A day after Maharashtra Power Minister Nitin Raut announced that no relief could be extended to domestic power consumers in case of inflated electricity bills during the three months of lockdown, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) on Thursday announced to hold State-wide agitations. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) too has decided to jump into the fray. “We would give time till Monday within which the State government must declare a relief package for power consumers. If it fails to do so, the party will organise protests in every district and the government will be responsible for the consequences,” MNS leader Bala Nandgaonkar said. Mr. Nandgaonkar said that the Power Minister had announced relief up to 100 units. “The MNS delegations have held meetings with the State government, BEST, and private power companies. It was the State’s responsibility to keep the promise. But instead the minister said that no relief could be extended. The government has betrayed the people of Maharashtra,” the MNS leader said. Meanwhile, the main Opposition BJP held protests at different locations in the State against the minister’s statement.
20 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Nepali man held for killing woman near Taloja quarry||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested a man from Nepal for killing a 65-year-old woman in Taloja. According to the police, Shakunthala Thakur, a resident of Nagjhira village in Taloja, used to go to wash her clothes at a pond at a nearby quarry. On November 15, she left home as usual in the morning. But when she did not return after a long time, her family began a search and later found her body in bushes near the quarry. “We started looking for people who frequented the pond. We found a witness who had seen one Vijaykumar Muneshwar Mandal going to the area on the day of incident. We then nabbed him and on interrogation, he revealed that he had murdered the woman,” a police officer privy to the investigation said. The 30-year-old Mr. Mandal, a scrap dealer, told the police that around 15 days ago, when he had gone for a swim to the pond, the victim who was washing clothes had fought with her. The issue was about why he came to the quarry area if he was not working there. At the end of the fight, Mr. Mandal claimed, the woman abused him and also pelted stones at him. Angered, the accused wanted to take revenge and hence he had been keeping a watch over her. On November 15, when he found her alone, he killed her by hitting on the head with a stone. Mr. Mandal then robbed the woman of her gold chain and fled. The accused was arrested on November 17 by police inspector Giridhar Gore and his team from Unit II of the Crime Branch. The stone used in the murder was found near the quarry. The accused has been charged with murder and robbery. He was produced before a court, which remanded him in police custody for seven days. The case is being further investigated by the Taloja police with whom the case is registered.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajasthan govt. launches maternity benefit scheme for second child||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday launched a maternity benefit scheme for four districts under which mothers will get Rs. 6,000 for the second child. This will supplement the Centre's Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana (PMMVY) under which mothers get Rs. 5,000 for their first child. The scheme is being implemented in Udaipur, Pratapgath, Banswara and Dungarpur on pilot basis for five years. These districts were selected because nutrition indicators among children and anaemia levels among mothers are worse than the average for the State. On Thursday, two mothers from each of these four districts received the first instalment of Rs. 6,000. “We have a target of reaching 70,000 pregnant women and lactating mothers per year over the next five years,” Secretary of Women and Child Development of Rajasthan, K.K. Pathak, told The Hindu . “The UPA government passed the National Food Security Act, 2013, to ensure food for all and today we are launching the programme on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. Our administration and police worked hard to ensure food was available during lockdown. These display our commitment to fight hunger,” the Chief Minister said in his address. He also interacted with various beneficiaries and their families through video- conferencing. The Rajasthan government scheme is called Indira Gandhi Matritva Poshan Yojana and was announced by Mr. Gehlot during the Budget Session in the State Assembly in March. The objective is to compensate mothers for the loss of wages during pregnancy and after childbirth and to curb wasting and stunting among children as well as anaemia among mothers. Beneficiaries will receive cash in five instalments upon meeting certain conditions. However, unlike the Central scheme they will not have to submit an Aadhaar card for the State scheme and the money will be transferred directly to their bank accounts.
20 November 2020||Pune,||BJP MLA from Aurangabad booked for embezzlement||An FIR was registered by the Aurangabad rural police late on Wednesday against BJP legislator Prashant Bamb and 15 others for alleged embezzlement of funds from the Gangapur Cooperative Sugar Factory. Mr. Bamb, the BJP’s MLA from Gangapur in rural Aurangabad, has been accused, along with the others, of defrauding committee members of the Gangapur sugar factory of up to Rs. 15.75 crore by allegedly using fake documents. Mr. Bamb, a three-time MLA from Gangapur, who has won consecutive State Assembly elections since 2009, was chairman of the now-dysfunctional Gangapur sugar factory. According to the complaint filed by Krushna Patil Dongavkar, the State government had taken control of the factory, which had been shut since 2008 for defaulting on its loan payments. Following this, the then board of directors had rushed to the local court to prevent the sale of the sugar factory by the bank concerned. The directors had managed to raise the loan arrears (exceeding Rs. 15.75 crore) while the court proceedings were on and the sale of the factory was subsequently cancelled. The court had directed the amount to be credited to the factory’s account. However, a section of the factory’s committee members alleged that Mr. Bamb and the working director, B.M. Patil, had embezzled the fund amount by showing that the factory was a partnership. The committee members further alleged that Mr. Bamb and Mr. Patil used fake documents to prove their ‘partnership’ and had opened illegal accounts with a local bank to deposit the fund amount.
20 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports more recoveries, but Pune, Mumbai see post-festivity case spike||Maharashtra’s recoveries barely outpaced its case surge with just 5,860 patients being discharged on Thursday as opposed to 5,535 new COVID-19 cases. Pune district and Mumbai city, which had been reporting low case surges for some weeks, saw a noticeable rise in fresh cases post-Deepavali. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 16,35,971 with the State’s recovery incrementally increasing to 92.79%. The total case tally stands at 17,63,055 while the active cases have come down to 79,738. With 154 deaths, the fatality toll has climbed to 46,356. “Of a total 99,65,119 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,63,055 (case positivity rate of 17.69%) have returned positive with nearly 65,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.63%. Pune district reported an alarming spike of 789 new cases to take its total tally to 3,44,002 while 11 deaths saw its toll climb to 7,206. As per Pune district administration figures, the active cases have shot up as compared with Wednesday’s figure, rising to 9,349 while its recovery rate has come down to 94.75%. The higher-than-usual case spike reported in the district during the last 48 hours has caused a tremor of alarm among district administration authorities fearful of a possible second wave of the virus post-Deepavali festivities. However, speaking to The Hindu , Pune district Collector Rajesh Deshmukh quashed any immediate cause for concern, stating that the district’s medical infrastructure and manpower in hospitals was more than adequate to cope with any crisis. “Furthermore, Pune’s sample testing has been drastically increased to 8,000 per day,” he said. An advisory issued by the State Directorate of Health Services last week, which predicted a possible second wave of the pandemic in January-February next year, has asked authorities to increase testing capabilities. It has further directed authorities to identify potential ‘super-spreaders’ which include grocers, labourers, security guards in housing societies, police personnel, and home guards. The circular has also instructed authorities to keep up the survey of people with influenza-like illnesses, while ensuring that house-to-house surveys and contact-tracing processes be carried on a war-footing with emphasis on the screening of a co-morbid population. Along with Pune, Mumbai city, too, reported a heightened post-festivity spike of 924 cases to take its total tally to 2,72,455 of whom 11,694 are active. As many as 12 fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,627. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 369 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 1,09,631 of whom just 2,619 are active. Seven deaths saw the fatality toll reach 2,896.
20 November 2020||COLOMBO,||What are Sri Lanka’s prospects with RCEP in India’s absence?||Sri Lanka’s growing emphasis on tapping the emerging Asian market would make theChina-led Regional Cooperation Economic Partnership(RCEP) agreement seem an ideal forum to build trade ties in the region. But given the island nation’s current economic challenges and India’s decision to opt out of the grouping, the road is far from easy for Sri Lanka, according to economists. Few would dispute Sri Lanka’s distinct advantage, thanks to its strategic location in the Indian Ocean, along one of the busiest shipping routes in the world. “We must develop the [southern] Hambantota and Colombo Ports together with the Airports to be a centre in the international commercial processes,” Prime Minister and Finance Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said on November 17, unveiling his government’s maiden Budget. He also underscored his government’s priority to swiftly developing the China-backed $1.4 billionColombo Port Cityas a hub for international business and investment. “I believe that our neighbouring India will be a powerful economy in the world in the next decade. I also believe China, together with several other Asian countries, will be amongst the five most powerful economies in the world,” Mr. Rajapaksa said, of the “high growth Asian Market”. Trade vision While he made no direct reference to the RCEP that was signed just days prior to his speech, his message reiterated the President Gotabaya Rajapaksa administration’s stated trade vision, as well as former Prime Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe’s passionate argument that Sri Lanka needed to turn more eastward in its economic and trade diplomacy. While it is unclear if the Sri Lankan government is considering seeking RCEP membership, Colombo seems open to the idea. “In the current situation amid a global pandemic, no country can stick to an isolationist policy. Countries have to work together, putting aside their political differences. Sri Lanka is pro-trade and we will explore all multilateral arrangements, including the RCEP to explore what they can offer,” Tharaka Balasuriya, State Minister of Regional Co-operation, told The Hindu . However, even if Sri Lanka were to make overtures or tap at the RCEP’s door, “there may well be a queue”, said Dushni Weerakoon, economist and executive director of the Colombo-based Institute of Policy Studies. “Given Sri Lanka’s emphasis on Asia-centred trade, RCEP would seem a natural choice. But it is not that straightforward,” she said, pointing to at least three main factors. To start with, Sri Lanka’s current trade policy “remains unclear”. Following the coronavirus outbreak early this year, the government slapped significant import restrictions to conserve its draining foreign reserves. Moreover, the government’s position on Free Trade Agreements (FTA) has not been consistent. For instance, the proposed Economic and Technology Cooperation Agreement (ETCA) with India is “in limbo”, while Colombo has expressed interest to revive FTA negotiations with China. “Had the Sri Lanka-India ETCA agreement been in place already, and had India also been part of RCEP, it would have made life a lot easier for Sri Lanka,” Ms. Weerakoon noted. The government is also re-examining the FTA signed with Singapore. Further, while the U.S. and the EU are Sri Lanka’s two largest export markets, India and China are the two biggest sources of imports, and Asian countries have largely engaged as sources of imports, development financing and FDIs, she added, pointing to Sri Lanka’s challenges in navigating a complex trade terrain. Lessons for Sri Lanka In terms of overall economic strategy, the RCEP offers lessons to Sri Lanka, according to Indrajit Coomaraswamy, a Sri Lankan economist and former Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka. Colombo is seeking to diversify its export basket and markets by looking to expand trade with, among others, countries in the Asia-Pacific region. “RCEP would make it more difficult for Sri Lanka to compete with the likes of Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos, not to mention the wealthier ASEAN countries, in the lucrative markets of China — unless a bilateral agreement is finalised quickly — Japan, South Korea as well as Australia and New Zealand,” he said. Further, if India was to eventually become a member of RCEP, there could be a boost to Sino-Indian economic relations within a rules- based framework that could potentially reduce bilateral tensions, in his view. Sharing a broader reading of the development, Mr. Coomaraswamy observed that the immediate aftermath of the pandemic, marked by the disruption to global supply chains, led to a critique of globalisation and a case was made for greater autarky. “The age of hyper-globalisation with one hegemonic power has probably ended to be replaced by a more multipolar world. At the same time, RCEP demonstrates that the world is not retreating to a new era of fortress like inward looking economies. It is noteworthy that the 15 countries in what has been the most dynamic sub-region in the world have come together to drive growth, employment generation and higher incomes through increased integration of their economies on the back of reduced tariff,” he said.
20 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump campaign targets vote certification||Getting nowhere in the courts, President Donald Trump’s scattershot effort to overturn Joe Biden’s victory is shifting toward obscure election boards that certify the vote as Mr. Trump and his allies seek to upend the electoral process, sow chaos and perpetuate unsubstantiated doubts about the count. The battle is centred in the battleground States that sealed Mr. Biden’s win. In Michigan, two Republican election officials in the State’s largest county initially refused to certify results despite no evidence of fraud, then backtracked and voted to certify and then on Wednesday, flipped again and said they “remain opposed to certification”. Some Republicans have called on the GOP statewide canvassers to do the same. In Arizona, officials are balking at signing off on vote tallies in a rural county. The moves don’t reflect a coordinated effort across the battleground States that broke for Mr. Biden, local election officials said. Instead, they seem to be inspired by Mr. Trump’s incendiary rhetoric about baseless fraud and driven by Republican acquiescence to broadsides against the nation’s electoral system as State and federal courts push aside legal challenges filed by Mr. Trump and his allies. ‘No precedent’ Still, what happened in Wayne County, Michigan, on Tuesday and Wednesday was a jarring reminder of the disruptions that can still be caused as the nation works through the process of affirming the outcome of the November 3 election. There is no precedent for the Trump team’s widespread effort to delay or undermine certification, according to University of Kentucky law professor Joshua Douglas. “It would be the end of democracy as we know it,” Mr. Douglas said. “This is just not a thing that can happen.” Certifying results is a routine yet important step after local election officials have tallied votes, reviewed procedures, checked to ensure votes were counted correctly and investigated discrepancies. Typically, this certification is done by a local board of elections and then, later, the results are certified at the state level. But as Mr. Trump has refused to concede to Mr. Biden and continues to spread false claims of victory, this mundane process is taking on new significance. Among key battleground States, counties in Michigan, Nevada and Wisconsin have all made it through the initial step of certifying results. Except for Wayne County, this process has largely been smooth. Arizona, Pennsylvania and Georgia still haven’t concluded their local certifications. Then all eyes turn to Statewide certification. In Wayne County, the two Republican canvassers at first balked at certifying the vote, winning praise from Mr. Trump, and then reversed course after widespread condemnation. A person familiar with the matter said Mr. Trump reached out to the canvassers, Monica Palmer and William Hartmann, on Tuesday evening after the revised vote to express gratitude for their support. Then, on Wednesday, Ms. Palmer and Mr. Hartmann signed affidavits saying they believe the county vote “should not be certified.” Time is running short for Mr. Trump. Across the nation, recounts and court challenges must wrap up and election results must be certified by December 8. That’s the constitutional deadline ahead of the Electoral College meeting the following week. Matt Morgan, the Trump campaign’s general counsel, said last week the campaign was trying to halt certification in battleground states until it could get a better handle on vote tallies and whether it would have the right to automatic recounts. Right now, Mr. Trump is requesting a recount in Wisconsin in two counties, and Georgia is doing an hand audit after Mr. Biden led by a slim margin of 0.3 percentage points, but there is no mandatory recount law in the State.
20 November 2020||BEIJING,||Face reality on HK, Beijing tells ‘Five Eyes’||China on Thursday rejected the latest attack on its Hong Kong policy by the U.S. and several of its allies, saying they “should face up to the reality” that the former British colony has been returned to China. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian was responding to a statement on Hong Kong issued by the U.S., U.K., Australia, Canada and New Zealand, which together make up an intelligence partnership known as the Five Eyes. “No matter if they have five eyes or 10 eyes, if they dare to harm China’s sovereignty, security and development interests, they should beware of their eyes being poked and blinded,” he said at a daily briefing. The Foreign Ministers of the five nations said that a new Chinese government resolution that led to the disqualification of four pro-democracy lawmakers in Hong Kong appears to be “part of a concerted campaign to silence all critical voices.” The joint statement called the resolution a breach of China’s international obligations and its commitment to grant Hong Kong a high degree of autonomy and freedom of speech. Mr. Zhao said Hong Kong is an inalienable part of China and that public officials must “be loyal to the motherland. This is a basic political ethic in every country in the world, right?” The four disqualified lawmakers were earlier barred from running for reelection because of their calls for foreign governments to impose sanctions on China and Hong Kong. They had remained in office because elections were postponed for one year.
20 November 2020||KABUL,||In visit to Afghanistan, Pak. PM vows to help stem bloodshed||Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan visited war-torn neighbour Afghanistan on Thursday, where he vowed to help reduce spiralling violence and push for a ceasefire between the Taliban and Afghan forces. Mr. Khan’s maiden visit to Kabul comes amid surging violence across Afghanistan that has worsened despite Afghan government negotiators and the Taliban launching peace talks in the Qatari capital Doha in September. “We notice with concern that the level of violence despite the talks in Qatar... is rising,” Mr. Khan told reporters after meeting with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani. “Pakistan will do everything, whatever is possible, we will do to help reduce this violence and in fact move towards a ceasefire.” Mr. Khan said it was Pakistan that first persuaded the Taliban to talk to Washington in 2018 for negotiations that eventually yielded a withdrawal deal for all foreign forces. He also credited Islamabad’s efforts in helping start the peace talks in Doha. “We the people and government of Pakistan have only one concern, and that concern is... that we want peace (in Afghanistan),” Mr. Khan said. Diplomatic ties between Pakistan and Afghanistan have long been strained. Many Afghans are furious with their eastern neighbour, which they accuse of meddling in domestic affairs, aiding the Taliban and deliberately destabilising Afghanistan.
20 November 2020||Kuala Lumpur,||In APEC speech, Xi touts China’s economy as base of free trade||President Xi Jinping hailed China as the pivot point for global free trade on Thursday, vowing to keep its “super-sized” economy open for business and warning against protectionism as the world battles the COVID-19 pandemic. Buoyed by the signing of the world’s largest trade pact over the weekend, Mr. Xi said the Asia-Pacific is the “forerunner driving global growth” in a world hit by “multiple challenges.” He vowed “openness” to trade and rejected any possibility of the “decoupling” of China’s economy, in his only nod to the hostile trade policy of U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration, which has battered China with tariffs and tech restrictions. Mr. Xi was speaking at the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, held online this year because of the pandemic, which brings together 21 Pacific Rim countries, accounting for about 60% of global GDP. It was not immediately clear if Mr. Trump, wounded by his election loss to Joe Biden, would take part in the two-day gathering or send a high-level delegate in his place. In a speech that veered into triumphalism over China’s economic “resilience and vitality” in bouncing back from the virus, which first emerged in the central city of Wuhan, Mr. Xi warned countries who insist on trade barriers would suffer self-inflicted wounds. “Openness enables a country to move forward while seclusion holds it back,” he said. “China will actively cooperate with all countries, regions and enterprises that want to do so. We will continue to hold high the banner of openness and co-operation.” Bargaining chip But Mr. Xi’s rhetoric may raise eyebrows in capitals where China has either restricted trade or used its giant economy as a bargaining chip in wider geopolitical disputes. Australian exports of beef, wine and barley to China — their biggest market – have been restricted. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, which excludes the US, is viewed as a major coup for China and further evidence that Beijing is setting the agenda for global commerce as Washington retreats.
20 November 2020||Canberra,||Australian special forces ‘killed’ 39 in Afghanistan||Australia’s elite special forces “unlawfully killed” 39 Afghan civilians and prisoners, including summary executions as part of initiation rituals, according to evidence in a searing military inquiry now being referred to a special war crimes prosecutor. An internal investigation into military misconduct was released on Thursday, prompting the Chief of the Australian Defence Force to admit a “destructive” culture of impunity among special forces, leading to a string of alleged murders and cover-ups spanning years. “Some patrols took the law into their own hands, rules were broken, stories concocted, lies told and prisoners killed,” General Angus Campbell said, apologising “sincerely and unreservedly” to the people of Afghanistan. Shameful record “This shameful record includes alleged instances in which new patrol members were coerced to shoot a prisoner in order to achieve that soldier’s first kill, in an appalling practice known as ‘blooding’.” The report also reported evidence that troops were engaged in “body count competitions”, and covered up unlawful killings by staging skirmishes, planting weapons and adding names to target lists retrospectively.
20 November 2020||Riyadh,||Riyadh to invest $20 bn in AI by 2030||Saudi Arabia announced on Thursday it will invest $20 billion in artificial intelligence projects by 2030, as the oil-rich country seeks to diversify its economy amid slumping crude prices. The kingdom, the Arab world’s biggest economy, launched an artificial intelligence strategy last month to attract investors as part of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s ambitious “Vision 2030” plan to wean the kingdom off oil. “Saudi Arabia will invest $20 billion from now until 2030,” said Abdullah al-Ghamdi, head of the Data and Artificial Intelligence Authority, which was established in 2019. “We aspire to have artificial intelligence as a component of an alternative economy through startups and innovation companies... and view artificial intelligence as a source of savings and additional income,” he said during a G20 media briefing. 300 startups Mr. Ghamdi added that shares will be open to both foreign and local investors, as the country seeks to establish more than 300 startups in artificial intelligence sector by 2030. Like most countries in the energy-rich Gulf, Saudi Arabia has been trying to diversify its economy which has been hit by the double whammy of low oil prices and the pandemic. Riyadh is struggling to fund Prince Mohammed’s ambitious diversification plan, as it seeks to repair its image after the 2018 murder of journalist Jamal Khashoggi inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. The G20 summit in Riyadh at the weekend is set to bring together the leaders of the world’s 20 richest nations but has been overshadowed by human rights group calls for the kingdom to release jailed activists.
20 November 2020||NAIROBI,||Ethiopia claims WHO chief is backing Tigray without evidence||Ethiopia’s Army chief Gen. Birhanu Jula has accused WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, a fellow Ethiopian, of lobbying neighbouring countries to provide arms to the Tigray region. He, however, did not cite any evidence.AP
20 November 2020||Paris,||Paris, Nov 19, 2020 (AFP) -||In a ruling hailed by campaigners as “historic”, France's top administrative court on Thursday gave the government a three-month deadline to show it is taking action to meet its commitments on climate change.AP
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Is India facing a two-front threat?||While the India-China stand-off continues in eastern Ladakh, the Line of Control (LoC) is yet again on the boil. Lieutenant General D.S. Hooda and Harsh Pant discuss whether India faces the prospect of a two-front war, in a conversation moderated byDinakar Peri. Edited excerpts:  The possibility of a two-front war with Pakistan and China has been debated in the past. The ongoing stand-off with China in eastern Ladakh has brought India closer to that reality. Are we really staring at such a prospect? Lt. Gen. D.S. Hooda:I don’t think a two-front war is a prospect in the near future, but a two-front threat has become more real. Earlier, the military and political establishment felt that we could stave off any military action from China through political and diplomatic action. That if conflict was imminent, it was most likely to happen with Pakistan. And because of our conventional superiority, we could handle that front quite easily. I think that notion has now been disabused by Chinese actions in eastern Ladakh. The threat from China has become more real than it was in the past. Experts have said in the past that a two-front war would mean a failure of Indian diplomacy. Where does the current stand-off put that situation? Harsh V. Pant:This is a structural problem: two major nations with whom you don’t have good relations straddling you on two sides of the border. There has always been an assumption that we may manage the Line of Actual Control (LAC) better than the LoC because of certain factors. We have now come to a phase where disengagement is not possible because of what the Chinese are doing. And clearly for a while, they have been signalling that they will be more coordinated in their response to India. This is also because India has become more assertive and vocal in terms of what it believes to be its own role in the region, how it defines its parameters, the debate on Article 370, Aksai Chin, etc. So, for the first time, we are seeing China reacting to something that India is doing. That back and forth means that both the LoC and the LAC will be equally volatile. I don’t particularly see this as being a problem — that Indian diplomacy failed and therefore this happened. I think Indian diplomats and military strategists recognise the challenge. The issue is that we now have in China a regime that believes its time has come and also believes that India is taking certain steps that are important to be countered in real time. The combination of these variables means that Indian diplomacy and military thinking will have to evolve more rapidly than we had earlier assumed. While deliberations continue on a possible proposal for disengagement and de-escalation to end the stand-off, the close proximity of deployments leaves a possibility for escalation. If so, what are India’s strengths and weaknesses? LGDSH:In case there is a two-front conflict or threat, we will need to designate a primary and secondary theatre based on who presents the greater danger. We can’t have matching strengths on both the fronts. If the primary threat is from China, that presents a much greater challenge to India. So, when talking about strengths and weaknesses, I’ll talk about China being the sort of primary theatre of operations. India and the Indian military have some distinct strengths. Over the years, we have built extremely strong defences along the border. These high altitude areas are not easy for the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to apply major force because of logistical and terrain constraints. The Air Force has a geographical advantage over the PLA Air Force and has also built a fairly strong strategic airlift capability. Our Navy has a significant edge over the PLA Navy in the Indian Ocean and there is pretty good maritime domain awareness. Having said that, there are also some weaknesses. China has a much greater military potential. And if they’re able to bring this military potential to bear, we could have a big challenge, even in the Indian Ocean. The PLA also has a technology edge in some very critical areas like ballistic missile, electronic warfare, cyber, air defence, etc., which are going to play a significant role in future warfare. And finally, despite all our efforts, there are shortfalls in infrastructure along the northern borders. Army Chief General M.M. Naravane had termed Siachen as the closest point of ‘collusivity’ between China and Pakistan. And Chinese troops continue to block Indian Army patrols in the Depsang Plains. How detrimental would a setback in Depsang mean and will Siachen now be a bigger flashpoint? LGDSH:When we talk of Siachen, we are talking of the Saltoro ridge with heights ranging from 18,000 ft to more than 20,000 ft. This is a geographical barrier that is not going to be easy to breach. We should not look at ‘collusivity’ of China and Pakistan purely in geographic terms but in strategic terms. Siachen is important but geographically it is very difficult to carry out major military operations there. Depsang is strategically important to us not just because it gives access to Siachen, but because it’s an area where we have the DS-DBO road which is a vital link to the northern areas of Ladakh and to the DBO airfield. The terrain in Depsang lends itself to fairly large mechanised manoeuvres. It’s an area where an attacking force has an advantage. When we are looking at resolving the current crisis and the focus is on the North and South Bank of Pangong Tso, strategically Depsang is more important. Therefore, it must be a part of our disengagement process. A few days ago, Pakistan accused India of supporting terror attacks on the China–Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Will the CPEC emerge as a major point of friction with Pakistan and China? HVP:Yes, it has already emerged as a major variable in terms of how we define our relationship with both Pakistan and China. We always knew that China and Pakistan were getting closer, but with CPEC, a new dimension has been added to that relationship. And the more China feels vulnerable in the CPEC, the more open and explicit its policies have become vis-à-vis India. This has also allowed India to be more open about its policies with China. So, it’s not all negative. And if the CPEC is the fulcrum around which a China-Pakistan collusion is emerging or will emerge in the future, then India knows the challenge is emanating from a particular pressure point and needs to have countervailing mechanisms in place. But the larger idea at one point that many in India had — that it is possible to disentangle China from Pakistan — that should now be put to rest because India doesn’t have instrumentalities to make it possible. In Indian foreign policy and policymaking circles, we do see Pakistan as part of a larger China problem. In the evolving security and diplomatic architecture in the Indo-Pacific, how will the geopolitics of the three play out? HVP:China is now a very important player in the global matrix. So, India will have to take that factor into account. However, we are also seeing that China is facing an intense backlash across the world post COVID-19, post the kind of aggressive postures it has adopted. So, there are opportunities there as well for India to build relationships with countries, which perhaps look at the world through a similar prism. That seems to be happening: Quad has been revived, the Australians have been invited to Malabar, the U.S.-India relationship has achieved a new dynamic with all the foundation agreements now being signed. So, we are looking at global geopolitics evolving in a certain direction because Chinese actions have made it virtually impossible for several major powers to have a normal relationship with China. Now that is a challenge that not only India faces, but also countries like Japan, Australia, the U.S. and Europe. So clearly, the Indo-Pacific seems to be becoming very contested. Ultimately, India will have to fight its own battles. But if you have partners that are out there to support you, that always is a value add. Chinese actions, interestingly, have played a very, very important role. Where in the past, India was hesitant in articulating some policies, it is less hesitant today. Now that India is coming out very vocally about where it stands on a number of these issues, perhaps we will see a greater degree of alignment among major powers. Do measures like increased military cooperation, exercises, logistic agreements have a bearing on the ground situation or dissuade China from doing something more aggressive? HVP:The attempt from the Indian side diplomatically was to have these bilateral engagements and agreements with major powers it felt very comfortable with, partly because India has been reluctant to join any alliance framework. Unlike in the past, where relationships were seen as constraining India’s strategic autonomy, now the argument is that these relationships enhance India’s space to manoeuvre vis-a-vis China in particular. I don’t think the challenge of China and how it needs to be managed is going to go away soon. So, we are looking at some of these partnerships that India had now getting operationalised in real time. That will have a bearing on how China views the world. The Chinese have been very sensitive about the Quad and Indo-Pacific. They were insistent that Indo-Pacific as a narrative should not really catch up. Now they have lost that battle, because the Indo-Pacific is widely accepted as a framework through which you look at the region and at the maritime dynamic. And Chinese behaviour itself is a major driver of the challenge. There is now a new dynamic and a new normal on the LAC. How is it going to go forward once this stand-off is over? LGDSH:Even if the current crisis is resolved peacefully, I don’t think we are getting back to the status quo as it existed. We are going to see greater militarisation along the LAC, if I may use the word. The old protocols and agreements that guided the conduct of soldiers on both sides have all broken down. So, greater distrust is going to now be the new normal for the next few years, at least until such time, if at all, we can put in place new protocols, new agreements, get a degree of trust again between the two militaries. Not only in Ladakh, we will see it all along the LAC in Sikkim and even Arunachal Pradesh. At the larger level, we were conscious that at some stage China will emerge as the greater military threat, as far as India is concerned. And that moment seems to have sort of come now. We also must be conscious of the fact that the power differential between India and China is only set to grow in the future. At the strategic level, there needs to be greater dialogue between the civil and military leaderships to see how this can be bridged. Unfortunately, our state of civil-military relationship and the structures that are in place don’t really encourage an open dialogue between the military leadership and the political leadership. That’s something the government needs to look at and see how it can be changed. Even our strategic and doctrinal thinking of how we are going to handle a two-front threat if it comes requires very extensive debate between the political leadership and military leadership. The size of the defence budget is decreasing, which is also a challenge.  The idea that it is possible to disentangle China from Pakistan should be put to rest because India doesn’t have instrumentalities to make it possible. Harsh Pant
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A world in chaos and a moment of truth||Change is the essence of time. We have been fed on stories on how men in authority take critical decisions after deep and deliberate introspection. Recent events, however, are testimony to the fact that this is no longer true in today’s world. This is possibly the 21st Century’s ‘moment of truth’.  America’s divide and beyond The presumption that existence of acutely sharp divisions between liberals and conservatives, and competition between ideologues and hardcore practitioners alone are endangering democracy in today’s world would hardly be correct. The shenanigans currently taking place in the world’s oldest democracy, and efforts by the U.S. President, Donald Trump, to negate the verdict of the recently held presidential elections, partake of a new set of tactics, previously seen only in dictatorships. The extent to which Mr. Trump has been willing to go in his attempt to negate the election, and the fact that a very sizeable segment of the U.S. population seems to be backing him in this attempt, suggest that this is the ‘new reality’, which not only the U.S., but also the world, may have to reckon with in times to come. The lack of shame-facedness on the part of the U.S. authorities even as they engage in this, while lecturing the world about the virtues of democracy, represent a new pole in the utilisation of fake news.  The spectre that confronts democracy today is a grave one. In the case of the U.S., one of the world’s oldest democracies, what we are witnessing is a deep divide, one that is equally true of many other democratic nations today, even if fingers are not being pointed at them. Bridging the divide between Mr. Trump’s entrenched supporters and the victorious camp of President-elect Joe Biden will, hence, be difficult. If the size of a vote bank is an index of an individual’s popularity in an election, it will be difficult to wish away the 70 million and odd votes that Mr. Trump has secured in this election — way higher than what he obtained in 2016. Clearly, his support comes from a segment that has serious grievances against policies favoured by so called ‘liberal segments’, and in turn, the neglect of their interests. This is true of many other democracies as well and must be viewed as a wake-up call.  What is evident is that issues of identity, or threats to identity, are becoming an important issue in elections across democracies. Democracies already confront such problems, but it will become still more evident as time passes. Manipulation of grievances by using psychometric techniques ( a la Cambridge Analytica), and the use of ‘deep fakes’ made possible through Artificial Intelligence, further enhances the threat to current notions of democracy.  Europe’s problems Meanwhile, much of the world is equally beset by other problems of no mean magnitude. Europe, grappling with a resurgent COVID-19 pandemic, will need for instance, to reckon with the reality that, notwithstanding any change in leadership in Washington, it is destined to recede further in terms of importance in global politics. An uncertain Brexit will further damage the prospects of both the United Kingdom and Europe. Russia, under Vladimir Putin, remains an enigma, for despite its military strength and strategic congruence with China, its future appears increasingly uncertain.  France displays even greater fragility than many other European nations. French values, for instance, appear to be undergoing major changes. All embracing secularism, with overweening emphasis on social cohesion, seems to be going out of the door in the face of new social and political challenges, much of it coming from the actions of a growing Muslim population in France. The recent wave of terrorist attacks, beginning with the beheading, recently, of a Paris schoolteacher by an Islamic State (IS) supporter, followed by IS violence in Nice, have been a major trigger, raising questions about long-held secular beliefs. Recent terrorist attacks coming on top of other events in recent years do appear to have shattered France’s vaunted claim of being different from most other European and world powers. French President Emmanuel Macron and French leaders have been openly railing against radical Islam, causing Muslim world leaders and Turkish President, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, to accuse Mr. Macron of Islamophobia.  Terror is returning Other issues exist which act as catalysts to this emerging situation. Terrorism is resurfacing, and with renewed vigour. The al-Qaeda is again becoming prominent. The IS, which many thought had been vanquished following the victories achieved in Syria and Iraq towards the end of 2018, has returned in full force. In recent weeks, it has carried out spectacular attacks in France — Paris and Nice — and in Austria (Vienna), a reminder of the transnational character of the threat it poses to democratic countries. The newer IS recruits are in many ways an even great threat than their predecessors. They combine symbolism with spectacular violence. The intent is to shock the public at large, and produce a reaction across the entire Muslim world, reigniting the fading embers of a religio-cultural conflict.  Alongside this, is the growing concern across the globe about increasing efforts to manipulate information in order to perpetuate power. Dictatorships and authoritarian regimes were previously accused of resorting to such tactics, but these tactics are no longer confined to repressive regimes. Manipulation of information — and also events — to achieve certain desired ends, is becoming the stock-in-trade of many a democratic regime as well. Mr. Trump’s claims while still in office, that he is the winner in the just concluded U.S. presidential elections and that a fraud had been committed on the voting public by his opponent, have a great deal of resonance given his status and authority. Many democratic nations today resort to manipulating data to support or prop up the government’s version of events. Informational autocracy is, hence, the latest danger that threatens democracies.  The issues in India India’s democracy has its own problems, though of a dissimilar kind. In some regions, specially where mid-term elections are scheduled, as in West Bengal, the atmosphere today is highly polarised. Meantime, while the COVID-19 pandemic might have reduced the intensity of protests, the ghosts of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens have by no means been laid to rest. Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) is witnessing a kind of surface calm, but beneath this there are evident tensions. Aggravating this situation are Pakistan’s efforts to push in terrorists in ever larger numbers, leading to large scale casualties, specially among the Indian Army and security forces personnel. At the political level, in J&K, new equations are being forged for further confrontation, as evidenced by the setting up of the seven party People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration. India’s external environment remains uncertain. The downward spiral in its relations with China has not been arrested. A misplaced belief is being perpetuated that the display of military strength, vis-à-vis China in the Ladakh heights, has greatly increased our bargaining power. On the other hand, as is evident from the announcement made on November 15, that 15 Asia-Pacific nations, including China, had signed on to the world’s biggest trade bloc, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) — from which India has been excluded — this seems hardly true. The RCEP, which covers almost a third of the world’s economy, is perceived as the springboard for future economic recovery across the region. Among the key signatories (along with China), are Japan and Australia, who are members of the Quad. Whatever be the reasons adduced by India for this, it does represent not only a cardinal failure of India’s bargaining strategy but, equally, a true reflection of the current economic and political power equations in Asia and the Asia-Pacific region.  Confirming India’s isolation is the fact that even a weak Pakistan, currently wracked by internal problems, is pursuing a policy of provocation vis-à-vis India confident that the latter is in no position to impose its will — the latest provocation being the holding of Assembly elections in Gilgit-Baltistan. India is again being steadily marginalised in Afghanistan, where the control of the Taliban is increasing, with all other players in the Afghan imbroglio, acquiescing in this situation.  China’s goal A contrast to the prevailing near disruption among the democracies of the world would be China. No disruptive leadership changes are likely here in the near future. If anything, Chinese President Xi Jinping is expected to emerge stronger after the 20th Party Congress, in 2022, giving a further impetus to the transformation of China into a superpower by 2035. While new foreign policy initiatives may be few, major reform initiatives will be confined to the economy, the energy sector and new innovation systems. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s mask of economic liberalism is off||India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar recently disapproved of free trade and globalisation. Sounding like a politician of the bygone era where the government shielded the domestic industry from competition by putting up protectionist barriers, he said, “in the name of openness, we have allowed subsidi[s]ed products and unfair production advantages from abroad to prevail... justified by the mantra of an open and globali[s]ed economy. It was quite extraordinary that an economy as attractive as India allowed the framework to be set by others.” He was speaking at a “dialogue” (https://bit.ly/3nAqFTe). Taking a dig at free trade agreements (FTAs), the Minister said, “the effect of past trade agreements has been to de-industriali[s]e some sectors.” The fact that these observations were made just a day after 15 countries of the Asia-Pacific region signed, on November 15, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) agreement, the largest regional trading arrangement, is no coincidence. The Minister tried hard to rationalise the government’s decision to walk away from RCEP last year. However, there are several flaws in Mr. Jaishankar’s arguments. Rhetoric versus reality First, by refusing to sign RCEP — a sign of weakness, not boldness — India is now truly at the margins of the regional and global economy. With trade multilateralism at the World Trade Organization (WTO) remaining sluggish, FTAs are the gateways for international trade. By not being part of any major FTA, India cannot be part of the global value chains. India’s competitors such as the East Asian nations, by virtue of they being embedded in mega-FTAs, are in a far superior position to be part of global value chains and attract foreign investment. Second, has India embraced the economic openness that Mr. Jaishankar laments about? While India is surely a much more open economy than it was three decades ago, globally, India continues to remain relatively closed when compared to other major economies. According to the WTO, India’s applied most favoured nation import tariffs are 13.8%, which is the highest for any major economy. Likewise, according to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, on the import restrictiveness index, India figures in the ‘very restrictive’ category. From 1995-2019, India has initiated anti-dumping measures 972 times (the highest in the world), zealously endeavouring to protect domestic industry (https://bit.ly/3nGfUz0). Third, in blaming FTAs for the woes of India’s manufacturing, the External Affairs Minister is contradicting his own government’s economic survey presented earlier this year, which concluded that India has benefitted overall from FTAs signed so far. Moreover, impugning FTAs for deindustrialisation means being oblivious to the real problem of the Indian industry — which is the lack of competitiveness and absence of structural reforms. Fourth, the External Affairs Minister , following the finest traditions of the Narendra Modi government, criticised the past governments for compromising India’s interests by doing business as per the ‘framework’ set by others. However, he did not share why his government utterly failed in the last six years to convince 15 other RCEP nations about a framework that would be advantageous to India. Finally, in criticising economic openness and globalisation, the External Affairs Minister wholly ignored the fact that India has been one of the major beneficiaries of economic globalisation — a fact attested by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Post-1991, the Indian economy grew at a faster pace, ushering in an era of economic prosperity. According to the economist and professor, Arvind Panagariya, poverty in rural and urban India, which stood at close to 40% in 2004-05, almost halved to about 20% by 2011-12. This was due to India clocking an average economic growth rate of almost 8% with international trade being a major engine of progress (https://bit.ly/39atner). Economic illiberalism The comments of the External Affairs Minister give us a window to understanding the larger ideological moorings of the Narendra Modi government on free trade. When Mr. Modi became the Prime Minister in 2014, it was widely perceived that while his government might be socially conservative, it would be economically liberal and advocate globalisation and free trade. This was even though all ideological gurus of the Sangh Parivar, whether Deen Dayal Upadhyay or Dattopant Thengadi, championed swadeshi (indigenous products) over videshi (imports). Over the last few years, the Narendra Modi government has started walking on the path shown by its ideological gurus. Tariffs have been increased, FTAs are being demonised, and ‘vocal for local’, which strikes at the heart of international trade and globalisation, is the new mantra. The Prime Minister’s desire to make India a global destination for foreign investment is a pipe dream because it is naive to expect foreign investors to be gung-ho about investing in India if trade protectionism is the government’s official policy. The mask of economic liberalism is finally off and the real ideological colours are there for everyone to see. Prabhash Ranjan is a senior assistant professor of law at South Asian University. The views expressed are personal
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Reading the Bihar verdict||In Bihar, the NDA is back, though with lower numbers for Nitish Kumar’s party. He may have returned as the Chief Minister but his wings are clipped, for as the largest party in the coalition, the BJP may now be expected to call the shots. The main constituents of the Mahagathbandhan — the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Congress — finished with even fewer seats than in the last assembly. So it is a vote for status quo in the State. This is surprising. Mr. Kumar has been in the saddle for 15 years. Despite claims made of high economic growth, the State remains among the poorest in the India. Its people are forced to migrate long distances across the country to find work, live under precarious conditions when they reach their destination and walk all the way back home during an emergency. Mr. Kumar has provided an explanation for the economic condition of his State in it being land-locked, without access to ports. There are, however, States in India such as Punjab and Haryana which are among its richest despite being land-locked. We see television visuals of poor conditions in Bihar’s hospitals and the inability of the State government even to conduct fair school examinations. These are governance issues having little to do with economic capacity. So, why despite 15 lacklustre years have the people of Bihar voted back the government? No credible challenge to the BJP A kind of lazy theorising popular with sections of the commentariat would put the outcome down to the opiate of Hindutva politics offered by the BJP, but it would be without traction. The BJP was turned out of the assembly in the last election in Rajasthan despite having a strong and self-assured Chief Minister. This shows that there is nothing invincible about the BJP at the level of the States even when it is firmly entrenched at the Centre. As in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, now in Bihar, the verdict reflects only the Opposition’s inability to mount a credible challenge to the BJP. What would constitute such a challenge? It would be a comprehensive programme and evidence of substantial leadership capacity. As Mr. Kumar’s economic record is not remarkable, the outcome in Bihar boils down to how its electorate viewed the leadership promise of his opponents despite their promise of development. Surely, the electorate sees both Tejashwi Yadav and, especially, Rahul Gandhi as inexperienced scions of political families, who have not had to earn their mantles. In the new India, with a preponderance of youth, filial entitlement, once the norm, is now looked at askance. Course correction Recently, India’s democracy has been decidedly weakened by a state violating civil liberties and established parliamentary procedures. Moreover, the national economy is performing poorly for the majority. In both Bihar and at the Centre, the ruling dispensation has survived only because of a weak Opposition. India needs course correction in several spaces. As we have just seen in the U.S., this can be brought about by democratic means. However, of late, India’s democracy appears unable to course correct despite repeated elections. It is important to recognise that it was not always so. In a spectacular course correction, the Indian electorate had defeated Indira Gandhi after the Emergency in 1977. Unlike in Bihar this time, the Opposition then had included stalwarts of Indian politics such as Morarji Desai, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and George Fernandes. They may have benefited from the tailwind of the Jayaprakash Narayan movement but they were recognisable as politicians with long experience in public life. A necessary element in the course correction Indian politics needs would be inner-party democracy within the Opposition parties. After all, democracy can be restored only through democracy. Inner-party democracy alone can ensure that parties promote the ablest and seek accountability from their leaders. A hopeful reading of the Bihar verdict would be that India’s democracy is maturing. The demos has shown its impatience with family rule. Pulapre Balakrishnan teaches at Ashoka University, Sonipat
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Curbing on-air bigotry||The Supreme Court’s posers to the Union government on the measures it can and is willing to take against communally slanted television coverage should not end in undesirable consequences. The questions appear to be an attempt to elicit a commitment to a course of action that will curb inflammatory journalism on broadcast media. However, the Court’s warning that if the government fails to explain its mechanism to deal with the problem, it would create one on its own may take the debate down a slippery slope. The Court is hearing petitions against the communal colour given by some channels to the incidence of large clusters of COVID-19 infections among those who attended a Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi. The portrayal of the participants as intentional super-spreaders was vicious and motivated. Curiously, the Centre seems reluctant to intervene, while the Court seems to be batting for greater media regulation. The Centre’s affidavit stated that media coverage “predominantly struck a balanced and neutral perspective” and that it was open to the viewers to choose from a number of varying perspectives given by different media channels. However, the Court is keen to know what action has been taken under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act against offending broadcasters. One hopes that the Centre’s position arises from a commitment to media freedom, and is not based on a partisan leniency towards channels that peddled a certain narrative that suited its interests. The Court appears unconvinced that the present mechanism of self-regulation, the National Broadcasting Standards Authority, is effective. It would be in order if the self-regulation mechanism deals with departures from normative journalism. And the government is, in any case, empowered under the Act to prohibit transmission of programmes that violate the programme or advertising codes (Section 19) and even an entire channel, in public interest (Section 20). In the past, channels have been asked by the I&B Ministry to take some programmes off the air. There is no doubt that egregious violations of norms are not uncommon. Depending on the damage done to individuals or institutions, or even society at large, there is enough scope for action under the penal law. However, there is a class of violation of norms in broadcasting that stands apart. The case of Sudarshan News, which began a series that propagated hate against Muslims, is a flagrant example. The government has merely administered a ‘caution’ to the channel and asked it to moderate the content of future episodes and avoid breaching the Programme Code. In September, while ordering the suspension of further episodes, the Court distinguished between free speech and ‘hate speech’. The distinction should be at the heart of any order creating a new mechanism, if at all one is needed, to deal with broadcast media excesses.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Another bailout||The RBI’s decision to recommend the imposition of a one-month moratorium on Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) and almost simultaneously announce a draft scheme of amalgamation that entails the Indian unit of the Singapore government-controlled DBS Bank taking over the capital-starved private lender marks a welcome intervention by the banking regulator. The well-choreographed move will protect the interests of depositors and employees, while shareholders will see the value of their holdings written off once the merger is operationalised. Coming just about eight months after another flailing private lender, Yes Bank, was rescued by an RBI-orchestrated capital infusion, the Karur-based bank’s proposed bailout signals that the regulator is keen to proactively step in to ward off risks to wider financial sector stability. That the LVB had become a candidate for regulatory intervention was evident after its continuous losses, steady erosion of its net worth and inability to raise fresh capital to bolster its balance sheet. Despite being placed under the RBI’s Prompt Corrective Action framework in September 2019, the lender’s finances deteriorated to the point where its gross ratio of non-performing assets to advances shot up to 25.4% in March 2020 and the Tier 1 Capital ratio turned a negative 0.88% at the end of that quarter. The capital ratio subsequently worsened to -4.85% by the end of September, tipping the central bank’s hand. Overall banking sector health, however, remains a significant concern notwithstanding this latest rescue effort. On Wednesday, Gita Gopinath, the IMF’s chief economist, flagged the wide-ranging damage the COVID-19 pandemic had inflicted on the global economy and warned of deeper legacy scars — more stress on corporate balance sheets and governments burdened with large debt. For all its liquidity bolstering measures since March, the RBI now faces the prospect of having to maintain a heightened vigil over scheduled commercial banks, as well as non-banking financial companies and mortgage lenders, given the threat of contagion from a failure here. The RBI had in its Financial Stability Report in July pointed out that its stress tests indicated that the gross NPA ratio of commercial banks could worsen to 14.7% by March 2021, from 8.5% a year earlier, if the pandemic’s adverse economic impact caused the GDP to contract by 8.9% in the current fiscal. In October, the bank forecast India’s GDP would shrink by 9.5% and earlier this month cautioned that “lurking around the corner” was the major risk of stress intensifying among households and firms that could spill over into the financial sector. The RBI has its task cut out in ensuring it keeps the crucial engine of credit ticking over as the economy strives to revive.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Looking for greatness in small gestures||If I had blinked, I would have missed the gesture. The crowd in the East Room of the White House grew more hushed, as it became clear that U.S. President Barack Obama and Prime Minister Manmohan Singh would be coming out any minute now. The room had an equal mix of officials and journalists, both Indian and American, waiting to record their initial remarks of the visit, which was the first state visit the Obamas had hosted since Mr. Obama’s swearing-in that year (2009). I found myself jostled into a corner that would allow me to see only the backs of the leaders when they came out, and resigned myself to getting no great pictures. But what I saw instead gave me a glimpse of the small gestures that go into being great. As Mr. Obama finished speaking, he stepped back to make way for Dr. Singh, but not before putting out one shoe, and neatly pulling out a footstool that would allow the considerably shorter Prime Minister Singh to stand at the podium with the mike at the right height for him. The move was done with respect and a smile for Dr. Singh, and it showed a leader not unwilling to carry out a task normally handed to staff or security officers. I covered Mr. Obama a few more times after that, during subsequent visits to Washington by Prime Minister Singh (2013) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi (2014), and two visits to India by President Obama (2010 and 2015), but that small gesture is the first thing that comes to mind. In a similar way, when leaders write their post-retirement memoirs, it is the small details that remain. The focus of most readers of Mr. Obama’s memoir, A Promised Land , released this week are on his presidential decisions, and political summits with various world leaders. But the best bits in any leader’s autobiography are often the human stories that flesh out a character more than the cut-out figures we see addressing the media, giving grand speeches or signing major agreements. In Mr. Obama’s book for example, it is his brutal honesty about Michelle Obama’s distaste for politics, and his description of the tensions over his decision to run for office, that make the book relatable. His relationship with his daughters, who he fears are growing up too fast, or moments with his dogs; the mementos Mr. Obama holds most dear (a magazine cover of the Selma March, a brick out of Lincoln’s legal office, a pair of Muhammad Ali’s boxing gloves); or the ordinary emotions like fear and nervousness he feels when taking major decisions on the campaign trail, the invasion of Libya, or ordering the raid that killed Osama bin Laden make the experiences memorable. The President himself ends an account of his visit to the pyramids in Egypt just after his famous Cairo address, where he finds a rock carving of a man with big ears “like handles” quite like his own. Comparing his plight to those of the Pharaohs, Mr. Obama recounts how the ruins made him realise the impermanence of his actions. “Just as every speech I’d delivered, every law I passed and decision I made would soon be forgotten. Just as I and all those I loved would someday turn to dust,” he writes.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||National forgiveness (From an editorial)||The call for truce is still going on. The advice to forgive and forget the wrongs inflicted on the nation during the Punjab disturbances is being insistently pressed upon the Indian public with an almost Christian fervour by those who are themselves responsible for the ignoble tragedy. But national and international wrongs cannot be so easily forgotten or forgiven without due regard for future safety. The necessity for discretion in the exercise of these virtues in national affairs is only increased when the appeal for peace comes from the erstwhile wrong-doers themselves, without any of the assuring manifestations of a repentant mind. No doubt a section of our countrymen, enamoured of the new dispensation, have shown only a too ready willingness to forget the insult and join in the chorus for an unreal peace. But the nation at large have awakened to the fundamental issues involved in the question and realised the serious dangers of passing lightly over such significant episodes in foreign domination. Hence it had refused to forgive or forget the memory of the Punjab until sufficient reparation for the past and adequate guarantees for the future are made by the grant of Swaraj.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Question on sex in advertisements||A question on nudity and sex appeal in newspaper advertisements gave the Lok Sabha today [November 19, New Delhi] an opportunity to burst into peals of laughter. Mr. Raghuvir Singh Shastri, who asked the main question, flourished newspapers which, he said, were copies of a Bombay weekly containing photographs of nude women. He quoted from another Bombay weekly in which three girls had demanded publication of photographs of nude males and not the photographs of glamour girls alone. The Minister of State for Information and Broadcasting, Mr. I. K. Gujral, said the Centre was examining the question in all its aspects with a view to evolving suitable measures in consultation with the interests concerned to curb the tendency of exploiting sex appeal in advertisements. While Mr. Raghubir Singh Shastri complained of an advertisement showing a boy and a girl under one blanket, Mr. Janeshwar Mishra said these advertisements were mostly seen by people above 50 (Laughter).
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Oxford Economics cuts India’s 2020-25 growth average to 4.5%||Global forecasting firm Oxford Economics on Thursday revised downwards its India growth forecast over the medium term to an average 4.5% over 2020-25, from its pre-pandemic projection of 6.5%. In a research note, it said India’s post-COVID-19 scars could be among the worst in the world. “We forecast India’s growth equilibrium to worsen substantially over the medium term, with potential growth averaging just 4.5% over 2020-2025 in our latest baseline, as opposed to our pre-virus forecast of 6.5 %,” Oxford Economics said. It said an adequate and well-designed fiscal stimulus would halve this impact by limiting deterioration in pre-COVID-19 headwinds. “But, given the low likelihood of such a comprehensive response, we project India’s GDP per capita to be 12% below our pre-virus baseline even in 2025,” Oxford Economics said. It added that the Indian government has announced various schemes and reforms this year, with an eye on the medium-to-long-term growth. “However, its policy implementation track record is mixed and is likely to have been weakened further by recent social and institutional developments that detract from its capacity to focus on economic policymaking,” the forecasting firm said. “It’s likely that headwinds already hampering growth prior to 2020 — such as stressed corporate balance sheets, elevated non-performing assets of banks, the fallout in non-bank financial companies (NBFCs), and labour market weakness — will worsen,” it noted.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Moody’s narrows FY21 GDP outlook to 10.6% contraction||Moody’s Investors Service has revised its GDP projection for India in 2020-21 to a 10.6% contraction compared with a 11.5% drop it had estimated. The rating agency also marginally raised its forecast for 2021-22 GDP growth to 10.8%, from 10.6%. “Consumer confidence remains relatively low amid a continued elevated number of daily new COVID-19 cases, although this has come down from a peak in September,” Moody’s wrote in a note. “Estimates from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy show that unemployment remains high, although both urban and rural unemployment rates have recovered from peaks in April and May during the nationwide lockdown,” it noted. Moody’s termed the Centre’s November 12 package of stimulus measures ‘credit positive.’ Potential upside It said they present ‘a potential upside to our current growth forecasts.’ “We currently expect India’s growth to reach 10.8% in the fiscal 2021 [ending March 2022], compared with our earlier forecast of 10.6%, and to settle around 6% in the medium term. We have revised our real, inflation-adjusted GDP forecast for fiscal 2020 to a 10.6% contraction, from a 11.5% drop previously. “The latest measures aim to increase the competitiveness of India’s manufacturing sector and create jobs, while supporting infrastructure investment, credit availability and stressed sectors,” it said on the package estimated to be worth about $36 billion, or 1.4% of Moody’s GDP forecast for this year. “Stronger nominal GDP growth over the medium term would make it easier for India’s government to address its weak fiscal position, which the coronavirus has exacerbated. We forecast government debt to increase to 89.3% of GDP in fiscal 2020 and decline to 87.5% in fiscal 2021, from an already elevated 72.2% in fiscal 2019,” it stated.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Centre keen to grow India as a large data economy: Prasad||The government plans to cultivate India as a large data economy and as a precursor, the country will soon have its Data Protection Law in place, said Union IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. “We are keen to promote India as a large centre for data economy and we will also finalise the data protection law very soon,” he said while speaking at the inaugural session of the Bengaluru Tech Summit, the annual tech exposition here on Thursday. He further said data would drive the digital economy and international commerce, and that it offered ‘a great opportunity for India to emerge as a data economy’, supported by innovation and data refining. In a data economy, the raw material was data. India produces a ‘humongous’ amount of data in its digital ecosystem, be it mobile phones, Aadhaar database, e-commerce transactions, or e-payments. “During the pandemic, the communications sector saw growth of over 7% and received significant investments from major global firms,” he said. During the pandemic, the Centre had received requests from Apple to shift nine of its units (components and manufacturing) from China to India. He added that both Indian and global firms had committed Rs. 11 lakh crore in investments in the next five years in areas related to mobile and component manufacture.
20 November 2020||MUMBAI,||IFIN to sell external corporate loan book||IL&FS Financial Services (IFIN), a 100% subsidiary of scam-hit IL&FS, has decided to sell its external corporate loan book. As per the decision, corporate loans of Rs. 5,000 crore would be auctioned through a bidding process, IL&FS said in a statement. “The book includes loans to over 70 companies that have turned NPAs. The public process of inviting bids will be start this week,” the company said. The sale would be concluded on cash consideration basis, IL&FS added. IFIN has an asset under management (AUM) of approximately Rs. 18,000 crore involving external and internal loans as well as investments. The sale of external corporate loans is a part of the resolution process to address overall debt of the infrastructure and lending firm. IFIN is registered with the Reserve Bank of India as a ‘systemically important non-deposit accepting non-banking finance company’.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Investments in data centres grow to $396 mn’||Data centres in India are emerging as an alternative real estate asset and have attracted investments of $396 million from January to September 2020, Anarock-Mace said in a report. The report — Navigating the India Data Centre Lifecycle – Trends & Perspectives — noted that data centres are now the hottest alternative real estate asset and with focus shifting to large hyperscale developments, the underlying property is becoming more valuable. “Approximately $9.5 billion of capital is in various stages of being announced, committed or waiting to be committed into Indian data centres,” it added. “Data localisation policy has paved the way for hyperscale data centres to handle the increasing data consumption,” Anuj Puri, chairman, Anarock Group, said. At least 28 large hyperscale data centres are expected in India over the next 3 years, the report said. Mumbai has remained the most popular location for data centres given the undersea cable landings.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||RBI move on LVB to aid sector stability: S&P||S&P Global Ratings on Thursday said the Reserve Bank of India’s ‘swift’ move to help resolve the woes of troubled Lakshmi Vilas Bank would keep ‘contagion at bay and help maintain stability’ in the banking system. The Reserve Bank has proposed merging Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India Ltd. (DBIL). As part of the proposal, DBIL, the wholly owned subsidiary of Singapore-based DBS Bank, will inject Rs. 2,500 crore into the merged entity to support its financial position. S&P said the deal was positive for India’s banking sector and would bring much-needed relief to LVB, which has been struggling for many years. The Reserve Bank had placed the private-sector lender under prompt corrective action (or under watch) in September 2019, and the search for a white knight had been on since then.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||PM moots closer fintech ties with Luxembourg||Asserting that there was a huge potential to further ramp up economic engagement between India and Luxembourg, the third largest source of Foreign Portfolio Investments (FPI), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday pitched for strengthening ties in areas such as financial and digital technologies. “There is a huge potential to expand economic engagement,” Mr. Modi said, addressing the first bilateral summit in two decades via videoconferencing with his Luxembourg counterpart Xavier Bette. Luxembourg is one of the most important financial centres globally. Several Indian companies have raised capital by issuing Global Depositary Receipts at the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Luxembourg-based investment funds hold substantial banking and asset management market share in portfolio investments in India. Mr. Modi spoke about possible cooperation in dealing with the economic and health challenges posed by the pandemic, and invited Luxembourg to join the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI).
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||DRL probing graft plaint in Ukraine||Drugmaker Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories (DRL) on Thursday said it was probing a complaint that improper benefits were extended to healthcare professionals in Ukraine. A detailed investigation has commenced into an anonymous complaint that alleged “healthcare professionals in Ukraine and potentially in other countries were provided with improper benefits in violation of U.S. laws,” DRL said. The investigation is being conducted by a reputed independent U.S. law firm, it said in a filing. Ukraine is a part of the emerging markets for Dr. Reddy’s and the company has an office there. Shares of DRL closed little changed at Rs. 4,707.30 on the BSE on Thursday.
20 November 2020||Mumbai,||Harsh Lodha removed from 4 Birla firms||Amid the decade-long legal battle between the Birlas and the Lodha Group, Harsh Vardhan Lodha has been removed as a director from the boards of four MP Birla Group investment firms. Mr. Lodha has challenged the move terming it “illegal”. Harsh Lodha has ceased to be a director on the boards of four MP Birla Group investment companies — East India Investment, Baroda Agents & Trading Co, Punjab Produce & Trading Co, and Punjab Produce Holdings — according to information available on the corporate affairs ministry’s MCA21 portal as of November 18.
20 November 2020||Chennai,||Webinar on ‘MFs: How to get started?’||ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund and The Hindu BusinessLine will conduct a webinar on the topic ‘Mutual Funds: How to get started?’ at 5 p.m. on November 21. The webinar will focus on aspects such as why should investors consider investing in MFs and how do they compare with other investments such as bank FDs, ULIPs, small savings on risk and return’ The webinar will be a conversation between Dhirendra Kumar, founder & CEO, Value Research, and Lokeshwarri SK, Associate Editor, The Hindu BusinessLine.  To register for this free webinar, log on to: https://bit.ly/ICICIMF
20 November 2020||new delhi,||Drop in wind speed hurts green power||The share of renewables in India’s energy mix came down marginally to 10.7% in the September quarter from 11.4% in the year-earlier period, as per a report. According to the latest edition of the CEEW-CEF’s quarterly Market Handbook, the prominent reason for the decline was the unseasonable and sharp reduction in wind speeds in the resource-rich States of Gujarat, Rajasthan, and Tamil Nadu. The reduction led to a 41% decline in wind generation in July compared to the same month last year. The September quarter typically records the highest wind energy generation every year.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian football’s tryst with the brave new world begins today||The post-lockdown revival of sporting activity in India will witness its most significant marker yet when Kerala Blasters and ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) set the ball rolling in the 2020-21 Indian Super League (ISL) opener at the GMC Stadium in Bambolim, Goa, on Friday. Sport in spectator-less, bio-secure bubbles may have become the norm the world over, but India has only taken gingerly steps towards hosting events, the most notable being the I-League Qualifiers held in Kolkata last month, comprising five teams and 10 matches. The ISL, on the other hand, is an 11-team, 115-match behemoth spread over five months. The foremost challenge therefore will be to maintain the sanctity of the bubble. Reports of two NorthEast United FC players testing positive have come as a wake-up call. Once on the pitch, a closed-door tournament means players have to find motivation from within. ISL stadium attendances may have been dwindling — from a match average of 26,000 in 2014 to around 13,000 last season — but clubs such as Bengaluru FC (BFC), Kerala Blasters and FC Goa will miss their passionate fan-base. So will legendary Kolkata rivals Mohun Bagan (now ATKMB) and East Bengal (now SC East Bengal), who played in front of 63,756 fans in January, while still in the I-League. Silence will rule during their debut meeting in the ISL on November 27, but the clubs, with more than a century’s history behind them, are sure to enlarge the tournament’s footprint. No real home advantage With just three stadiums being used, home advantage stands negated. FC Goa, playing in its home environs, may have a slight edge, but even that is expected to even out over the course of the competition. Being closeted in a bio-bubble for a long duration requires enormous mental strength, but for unsettled outfits — nine of the 11 teams have appointed new coaches and seen player upheavals — the setting could act as a glue, at least in the first half of the campaign. However, the lack of a full-fledged pre-season to offset an eight-month break from competitive action has made coaches wary. An exception has been made to allow five substitutes instead of three, but teams are feeling hamstrung, with a few foreign players in quarantine until last week. Retaining the core Regardless, defending champion ATKMB (ATK before the merger) appears best-placed, having retained the core from last season, and added quality defenders such as Subhasish Bose and Sandesh Jhingan. Similarly, the Sunil Chhetri-led BFC is also a settled unit and, with increased firepower upfront, looks set to contend for the top prize again. Sergio Lobera, who coached Goa to top-three finishes for three consecutive seasons and earned it the coveted spot in the 2021 AFC Champions League, has moved to Mumbai City FC. Owen Coyle, after leading two-time champion Chennaiyin FC to the final last season, is now with Jamshedpur FC. There is therefore an expectation that the 2020-21 edition will be a lot closer. A steady stream of players arriving from the Australian League has added to this perception. If India’s top division manages to be competitive enough to beat the seemingly real digital fatigue and seamlessly slip into the prime-time television slot just vacated by the IPL, it will be a grand success.
20 November 2020||SARAJEVO,||Italy beats Bosnia-Herzegovina, seals top spot in group||Italy earned the right to host a star-filled Nations League finals that will feature the current No. 1-ranked team and three of the past four World Cup champions. Italy’s 2-0 victory at Bosnia-Herzegovina on Wednesday sealed top spot in Group 1 above the Netherlands, which beat Poland 2-1. That group winner had been pre-selected to host the Final Four next October. Top-ranked Belgium also booked its place in that knockout bracket, lifted by Romelu Lukaku’s 56th and 57th international goals in a 4-2 win over Denmark. Belgium and Italy join Spain and France, who topped groups that finished Tuesday. That means the tournament will feature the winners of the World Cup in 2006, 2010 and 2018. A total of 18 games were played on Wednesday to complete a difficult 2020 programme for Europe’s 55 national teams amid a spike in the coronavirus pandemic. Young guns fire At London, England’s young guns Phil Foden and Declan Rice scored their first international goals in a 4-0 demolition of 10-man Iceland. Gareth Southgate’s side was already out of contention to reach the Nations League finals after Sunday’s defeat against Belgium. But he had insisted the dead rubber was important to his planning for next year’s European Championship and his players took that message to heart. Rice netted in the first half at Wembley as he became the first West Ham player to score for England in 10 years. Chelsea midfielder Mason Mount increased England’s lead before Foden struck twice after Iceland defender Birkir Mar Saevarsson was sent off for two bookable offences.  The results: League A, Group 1: At Sarajevo: Bosnia and Herzegovina 0 lost to Italy 2 (Belotti 22, Berardi 68).   At Chorzow: Poland 1 (Jozwiak 6) lost to the Netherlands 2 (Depay 77-pen, Wijnaldum 84).   Group 2: At London: England 4 (Rice 20, Mount 24, Foden 80, 84) bt Iceland 0.   At Leuven: Belgium 4 (Tielemans 3, Lukaku 56, 69, de Bruyne 88) bt Denmark 2 (Wind 17, Chadli 87-og).   League B, Group 1: Northern Ireland 1 (Boyce 56) drew with Romania 1 (Bicfalvi 81); Austria 1 (Grbic 90+4) drew with Norway 1 (Zahid 61).   Group 2: Israel 1 (Solomon 44) bt Scotland 0; Czech Republic 2 (Soucek 17, Ondrasek 55) bt Slovakia 0.   Group 3: Serbia 5 (Radonjic 10, Jovic 25, 45+1, Vlahovic 41, Mladenovic 64) bt Russia 0; Hungary 2 (Siger 57, Varga 90+5) bt Turkey 0.   Group 4: Republic of Ireland 0 drew with Bulgaria 0; Wales 3 (Wilson 29, James 46, Moore 84) bt Finland 1 (Pukki 63).   League C, Group 2: Armenia 1 (Hambartsumyan 55) bt North Macedonia 0; Georgia 0 drew with Estonia 0.   Group 3: Kosovo 1 (Kastrati 31) bt Moldova 0; Greece 0 Slovenia 0.   Group 4: Kazakhstan 1 (Aimbetov 38) lost to Lithuania 2 (Vorobjovas 40, Novikovas 90+4).   Albania 3 (Cikalleshi 20, 27-pen, Manaj 44) bt Belarus 2 (Skavysh 35, Ebong 80).
20 November 2020||Chennai,||TN probables’ camp from today||The Tamil Nadu probables for the upcoming domestic season, across the three formats, will have a conditioning camp here at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium from Friday. The cricketers, around 40 in number, are those who have represented Tamil Nadu in the different formats last season. The camp will also include some cricketers who have represented the State in the under-23 competitions. Four batches A source told The Hindu that the cricketers will be split into four batches. Every day, two batches will train, one in the morning and the other in the evening. So every batch will train on alternate days. The focus will be both on physical training and improving skill sets. The camp will be supervised by Tamil Nadu head coach D. Vasu and assistant coach R. Prasanna. Proactive step The BCCI has not come up with the schedule for domestic competitions, but the TNCA has been proactive in getting its cricketers prepared. Although Tamil Nadu disappointed in the Ranji Trophy — despite a late surge — last season, it reached the final of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 competition and the Vijay Hazare one-day tournament. And several Tamil Nadu cricketers shone in the recently concluded IPL. Considered a powerhouse in the domestic circuit, Tamil Nadu will begin another quest. The Ranji Trophy will be the ultimate prize.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘If Australia can bowl us out, so can we’||Harbhajan Singh feels that the Indian team has the potential to retain the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. In 2018-19, when India toured Down Under, it created history by clinching the Test series for the first time. The competition will be intense this time around, according to the off-spinner. “The last time the team went to Australia, they played some outstanding cricket and made us all proud by winning the Test series. I hope that they play similar cricket and hope that Virat Kohli — who enjoys batting in Australia — and (Cheteshwar) Pujara score lots of runs,” Harbhajan said on the Tissot Presents Sportstar Extras T20 Time show. “Last time he (Pujara) was brilliant with the bat. I just hope that apart from these two, even the others step up so that the pressure is off their shoulders,” said Harbhajan. Impressed with pacers Harbhajan is also impressed with the way the fast bowling department has evolved over the years. “Our fast bowling has been a revelation of sorts. We never had the luxury of having four fast bowlers who could bowl at 140kmph/150kmph all the time. That was (one of the) reasons we won last time. “If Australia can bowl us out, so can we — that was the belief. This series will be intense, and hope they win,” Harbhajan said. A member of the Chennai Super Kings, Harbhajan missed this year’s Indian Premier League due to personal reasons. “I think I took the right decision by staying with the family in the times of COVID since I am the only support,” he said. The full interview can be watched on www.youtube.com/watch?v=vnc--GnaJ50
20 November 2020||Cape Town,||‘South Africa won’t take the knee’||The South African cricket players won’t take the knee in their limited-over series against England at home as they have already expressed their support towards the Black Lives Matter movement during the 3TC game in July, coach Mark Boucher has said. South Africa will appear in its first international assignment since the COVID-19-induced lockdown in March when it hosts England for three T20Is and as many ODIs, beginning on Nov. 27 at Newlands. South African players, match officials, administrators and commentators, including director of cricket Graeme Smith, had taken the knee while wearing black arm-bands with the BLM logo on it at the ‘3TCricket’ match in Centurion for the Solidarity Cup on July 12. “I have spoken to the guy (Lungi Ngidi) who was driving the whole movement within our set-up. He is pretty happy that we have done what we needed to do, in particular, at that (3TC) game,” Mark Boucher was quoted by ESPNcricinfo. “It’s not something that we have to continue to show. It’s something that you have to live. If guys who brought it up are happy with it, that’s great, but if they feel we have to do more, that will be a chat and that they are open to express their opinions.” ‘Make the stand’ Ngidi had led South Africa’s response to the BLM movement, saying that racism issue is “something that we need to take very seriously and like the rest of the world is doing, make the stand.” However, he received flak for his comments with former international cricketers Pat Symcox and Boeta Dippenaar saying that Ngidi should also speak up against attacks on white farmers in South Africa.  I have spoken to the guy (Lungi Ngidi) who was driving the whole movement within our set-up
20 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Australia displaces India at top of WTC||Australia has displaced India at the top of the World Test Championship (WTC) as a fallout of the change in calculation of points for the inaugural edition because of the COVID-19 outbreak. The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board on Thursday accepted the recommendation of the Cricket Committee and the Chief Executives’ Committee to not put any team at a disadvantage for being unable to participate in a WTC series due to the pandemic. The recommendation The Cricket Committee, chaired by former India captain and head coach Anil Kumble, recommended that the rankings be determined based on matches completed in the WTC cycle instead of total points earned. It has resulted in India, with a 75% score and 360 points in its kitty, being moved down to second behind Australia (82.2%, 296 points). The top two teams at the end of the league stage in April 2021 are scheduled to face each other in the maiden WTC final at Lord’s in June. Women’s T20 WC postponed to 2023 After the postponement of the Women’s ODI World Cup from 2021 to 2022, the ICC Board decided to postpone the Women’s T20 World Cup from the end of 2022 to February 2023. An ICC statement explained that the decision was to space out the events since 2022 will also have the Commonwealth Games. Meanwhile, it is understood that the stalemate over Shashank Manohar’s successor as ICC chairman couldn’t be resolved during the ICC Board meeting as the first round of voting remained inconclusive as per the regulations. Inconclusive According to ESPNcricinfo , Greg Barclay of New Zealand had a 10-6 lead over interim ICC chairman Imran Khwaja of Singapore, but could not garner the prescribed majority of 11 votes.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen sees bleak future for classical time format chess||World chess champion Magnus Carlsen is unsure about any further growth of mass interest in the classical time format of the game. The Norwegian genius, the most dominant player across formats, continued his supremacy among the world’s best players in the inaugural million-dollar online Chess Tour named after him this year. Growing interest Carlsen’s argument is augmented by the growing interest in the shorter formats in online competitions. In an interview to Chess Life Online published this week, Carlsen said: “In general, the future of classical chess, as it is now, is a little bit dubious. There are going to be a lot of draws when the best players in the world play classical chess over-the-board.” He said it was not realistic to expect people to play or fans to watch with interest long games online. “I think the rapid format is excellent for online play because you keep at least some semblance of high quality chess and it also doesn't take too long,” he said. He would compete a World championship but not be playing as much classical chess in the next one year as he did last year, he said. Focus on online tour “There is going to be, at least for the next year, a lot of focus on the online tour that is coming up, so I cannot spend all my time travelling,” he said. Despite dominating world-class opposition and winning almost every title on offer, Carlsen said: “I want to be a lot more dominant than I’ve been. I think I played well in one of the events, the Chessable Masters. Apart from that, it has been fairly mediocre.  “I haven’t reached my full potential in these formats and, I would say certainly during the last St. Louis event, I was just basically going through the motions. I had no energy or creativity. I was just not playing well at all.”
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||AITA postpones National camp||The All India Tennis Association (AITA) has been forced to postpone the National camp for men and women owing to a spike in COVID-19 cases in the Capital. Top players missing “The camp has unfortunately been postponed again due to the massive surge in COVID cases in Delhi and also since most of the top men’s players are outside the country till at least mid-December,” said Akhouri Bishwadeep, CEO, AITA. The AITA had planned to conduct the camp for the top players by the end of November, and follow it up with an invitational National championship. The National federation may look at hosting the camp at a new venue. The junior tennis events started on Monday with the Talent and Championship series events, including the one in Delhi. Changed scenario However, the changed scenario in the Capital has forced the DLTA to cancel the junior tournament scheduled for next week.
20 November 2020||LONDON,||Medvedev stuns Djokovic, books semifinal spot||Daniil Medvedev shocked Novak Djokovic in straight sets to book a place in the last four at the ATP Finals on Wednesday. The Russian fourth seed went toe-to-toe with the World No. 1, coming out on top 6-3, 6-3 in an absorbing, energy-sapping contest at the empty O2 Arena. Top seed Djokovic is seeking to match the record of six-time winner Roger Federer, who is absent from the season-ending tournament with an injury. Medvedev, who won the Paris Masters last week, refused to allow Djokovic to dictate in the first set, earning a clutch of break points and eventually making one count in the seventh game, which lasted 11 gruelling minutes. The Russian held serve easily in the next game and seized the opening set 6-3 when a rattled Djokovic served a double-fault. An increasingly confident Medvedev, 24, won the first service game of the second set to love in just 60 seconds. Djokovic was broken again in the next game, giving the Russian his sixth game in a row as he maintained an incredibly high level of tennis in the round-robin match. Medvedev survived a mini-wobble and Djokovic stemmed the rot on his serve but the Russian kept his nerve to see out the win. Still in with a chance The victory takes Medvedev through to the semifinals but five-time winner Djokovic still has a chance to progress in a shootout with Alexander Zverev on Friday. Austria’s Dominic Thiem, who had already ensured a semifinal spot, was well below his best as he slumped to a 6-2, 7-5 defeat against Andrey Rublev in a dead rubber on Thursday. Rublev broke the third seed twice to race to a 3-0 lead before Thiem arrested the slide with a service hold. However, he could not make inroads into the Russian’s serve and the set was over in just 25 minutes. In the second set, Rublev, who was in his element, broke Thiem in the third game for the third time in the match. At 4-4, the Austrian appeared to be back in the contest but was broken again in the 11th game. Rublev sealed the win with an ace.  The results: Group London 2020: 7-Andrey Rublev (Rus) bt 3-Dominic Thiem (Aut) 6-2, 7-5.   Group Tokyo 1970: 4-Daniil Medvedev (Rus) bt 1-Novak Djokovic (Srb) 6-3, 6-3.   Doubles: Group Mike Bryan: 8-Lukasz Kubot (Pol) & Marcelo Melo (Bra) bt 5-Wesley Koolhof (Ned) & Nikola Mektic (Cro) 6-4, 6-7(2), [10-8].   Group Bob Bryan: 7-Jurgen Melzer (Aut) & Edouard Roger-Vasselin (Fra) bt 6-John Peers (Aus) & Michael Venus (NZ) 2-6, 7-6(4), [12-10] .
20 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Y.S. Ramaswamy tournament from today||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) 2020-21 cricket season will commence on Friday here, with the Y.S. Ramaswamy 50-over tournament for city clubs, the KSCA announced. A total of 133 clubs will compete in the tournament, which will end on December 6. The knockout tournament will consist of 118 matches, played across 20 grounds in the city. Super League  Sixteen teams will qualify for the Super League stage — made up of eight quarterfinalists from last season and eight teams from this season. To ensure safety, the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) related to COVID-19 will be implemented. The SOPs will also be displayed at all grounds. KSCA Mysore Zone matches from Nov. 28 The KSCA Mysore Zone will restart cricketing activities by conducting the pending 11 First Division league matches of 2019-20 season at the SDNR Wadayar grounds, JSS-SJCE grounds and PET (Mandya) from November 28. Speaking to The Hindu , Sudhakar Rai, convenor, KSCA Mysore Zone, said the decision to restart was approved in the KSCA, Bengaluru’s managing committee meeting last week. The semifinals and final of the Sri. M. Gopalaswami memorial tournament which were also pending would be held on December 1 and 3 respectively. All Standard Operating Procedures will be followed.
20 November 2020||CHENNAI:,||Bernardini fancied||Bernardini, who has been well tuned, is expected to score in the Chief Minister’s Trophy (1,200m), the feature event of the races to be held here on Friday (Nov. 20).  GOLDILOCKS PLATE (Div. II) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 1-30 p.m.: 1. Moment Of Life (7) Zervan 56, 2. Tender Rebel (4) Janardhan P 56, 3. Lady Zean (6) Kiran Naidu 54.5, 4. Regal Tiara (3)Ashhad Asbar 54.5, 5. Royal Dreams (9) Akshay Kumar 54.5, 6. Sea Script (5) Farhan 54.5, 7. Senora Bianca (2) M. Bhaskar 54.5, 8. Shalem (1) Yash 54.5 and 9. Song Bird (8) C. Umesh 54.5.  1. ROYAL DREAMS,   2. MOMENT OF LIFE,   3. SHALEM   GOLDILOCKS PLATE (Div. I) , (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms), 2-00: 1. Blue Patent (4) B. Nikhil 56, 2. Majestic Charmer (8) Azfar Syeed 56, 3. Rajputana (9) Ashhad Asbar 56, 4. Supreme Excelsior (7) Nakhat Singh 56, 5. Wonder Bullet (6) Stephen Raj 56, 6. Angel Heart (3) P. Sai Kumar 54.5, 7. Carnoustie (2) Brisson 54.5, 8. Golden Streak (10) A.M. Alam 54.5, 9. Mayflower (5) Kiran Naidu 54.5 and 10. Naomi (1) C. Umesh 54.5.  1. ANGEL HEART,   2. NAOMI,   3. SUPREME EXCELSIOR   ADMIRALTY PLATE (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45, 2-30: 1. Fort St. George (11) Shahar Babu 60, 2. Sprit Of Zion (1) C. Umesh 60, 3. Absolute Authority (9) Kamigallu 59.5, 4. Branka (10) Yash 59, 5. Pappa Rich (5) A.M. Alam 59, 6. Amicus Curiae (12) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 7. Grey Twilight (3) K.V. Baskar 58, 8. Daring Dancer (6) Azfar Syeed 57.5, 9. Parrys Glory (7) P. Surya 55.5, 10. Chalouchi Girl (4) Farhan 55, 11. Fantastic Hit (2) S. Shareef 55 and 12. Glorious Wind (8) B. Nikhil 53.  1. PAPPA RICH, 2. BRANKA, 3. DARING DANCER   P.T. RAJAN MEMORIAL TROPHY (1,200m), rated 60 to 85, 3-00: 1. Storm Flag (11) Yash 60, 2. Optimus Commander (7) Kamigallu 59, 3. Star Twist (4) C. Umesh 58.5, 4. Rutbedaar (5) Antony Raj 58, 5. Magnetism (9) Kiran Naidu 57, 6. Priceless Ruler (1) Nakhat Singh 56, 7. Star Guitar (12) Azfar Syeed 55.5, 8. Wonder Blaze (8) S. Shareef 55.5, 9. Pretty Gal (10) P. Sai Kumar 55, 10. Cher Amie (3) Zervan 54.5, 11. Emissary (2) Akshay Kumar 54.5 and 12. Cotton Hall (6) B. Nikhil 54.  1. EMISSARY, 2. CHER AMIE, 3. STORM FLAG   CHIEF MINISTER’S TROPHY (1,200m), rated 80 & above, 3-30: 1. My Opinion (1) Brisson 61.5, 2. Hope And Glory (9) Kiran Naidu 61, 3. Bernardini (12) C. Umesh 59, 4. Glorious Destiny (8) Yash 57.5, 5. Chief Of Command (2) Akshay Kumar 54, 6. King T’Chala (4) Azfar Syeed 54, 7. Tudor Treasure (10) Nakhat Singh 54, 8. Versallies (5) P. Sai Kumar 54, 9. Golden Fortune (6) M. Carim 53.5, 10 The Champ (7) B. Nikhil 53.5, 11. Apalis (3) Zervan 52 and 12. Kingoftheworld (11) Jagadeesh 50.  1. BERNARDINI, 2. KING T’CHALA, 3. APALIS   MAN OF THE MATCH PLATE (1,400m), 5-y-o & over, rated 40 to 65, 4-00: 1. Knight In Armour (4) Yash 60, 2. Kingston Heath (12) Zervan 59.5, 3. Rum Runner (10) Antony Raj 58, 4. Queen Of Venice (5) A.M. Alam 57, 5. Pinewood (11) P. Surya 55.5, 6. Star Glitter (9) Shahar Babu 54.5, 7. Red Hot Jet (8) Kiran Naidu 54, 8. Areca Cruise (6) B. Nikhil 53.5, 9. Star Ranking (2) Akshay Kumar 53.5, 10. Rush More (1) Muzaffar 52.5, 11. Chaitanya (7) S. Shareef 50.5 and 12. Star Convoy (3) N. Murugan 50.  1. RUM RUNNER, 2. CHAITANYA, 3. KNIGHT IN ARMOUR   PETRONELLA PLATE (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, 4-30: 1. Shield Maiden (12) Ashhad Asbar 62, 2. Beethovan (5) Yash 61.5, 3. Star Templar (10) Nakhat Singh 61, 4. Magical Wish (11) C. Umesh 60.5, 5. Penang (9) P. Sai Kumar 60, 6. Eyes Of Falcon (4) Farhan 58, 7. Amaterasu (7) Zervan 56.5, 8. Royal Commander (6) Rajendra Singh 56, 9. Cape Cod (3) Antony Raj 55.5, 10. Fun Lover (2) Azfar Syeed 53, 11. Gallant Star (1) Shahar Babu 53 and 12. Marcous (8) Muzaffar 53.  1. AMATERASU, 2. BEETHOVAN,   3. STAR TEMPLAR   BOLD RUNNER PLATE (1,400m), 4-y-o & over, rated 00 to 25, 5-00: 1. Heart Of Gold (9) Brisson 60, 2. Intox (1) Kiran Naidu 58.5, 3. Moonlight Night (2) P. Sai Kumar 58, 4. Beforethedawn (5) Yash 57.5, 5. Vinco (4) Zervan 56, 6. Be My Light (3) Azfar Syeed 55.5, 7. Cleona (11) A.M. Alam 55, 8. Kasi Masi (7) S. Shareef 55, 9. Betty Boop (12) Shahar Babu 54, 10. Tencendur (10) Farhan 54, 11. Gardiner (8) C. Umesh 53.5 and 12. Thousand Fence (6) Ashhad Asbar 53.  1. MOONLIGHT NIGHT, 2. BEFORETHEDAWN, 3. GARDINER  Jkt: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jkt: 5, 6, 7 & 8; Tr (I): 3, 4 & 5; (II): 6, 7 & 8.
20 November 2020||New York,||Woods to play along with son Charlie||Tiger Woods still has one tournament left this year that might feel as big as any to him. The PNC Championship announced on Thursday that Woods will play with 11-year-old son Charlie in the tournament that has paired major champions with their sons since 1995, the year before the 44-year-old Woods turned pro. “I can’t tell you how excited I am to be playing with Charlie in our first official tournament together,” Woods said. Incredible feeling “It’s been great watching him progress as a junior golfer, and it will be incredible playing as a team together in the PNC Championship.” The PNC Championship is scheduled for Dec. 19-20 in central Florida. The most television exposure Charlie got was last year at Augusta National when Woods wrapped his son in his arms after winning the Masters for the fifth time, coming back from four back surgeries. It was his 15th major, but the first his son saw him win. Woods has caddied for his son in junior events, and one moment that got plenty of attention was the father of another junior trying to capture video of Woods, with Charlie and his smooth swing in the background.
20 November 2020||Hyderabad:,||Born To Be takes honours in main event||N.V. Rohin Kumar’s Born To Be (A.A. Vikrant up) claimed the Dodla Pratap Chander Reddy Memorial Million, the main attraction of the opening day’s races on Thursday (Nov. 19). The winner is trained by D. Netto. Jockey Suraj Narredu rode three winners on the day.  BEGINNERS PLATE (1,100m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): BRILLIANT VIEW (Suraj Narredu) 1, Four One Four (Kuldeep Singh) 2, Capriconia (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Magic Street (Darshan R N) 4. Nk, 8-3/4, 1-1/4, 1m, 06.24s. Rs. 12 (w), 9, 21 and 8 (p). SHP: 45, THP: 93, FP: 444, Q: 313, Tanala: 8,657. Favourite Brilliant View. Owner: Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  DECCAN STAR PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat.II): SITARA (Akshay Kumar) 1, Rapid Fire (Jitendra Singh) 2, Blazer (P. Trevor) 3 and Conscious Gift (A. Sandesh) 4. 1-1/2, 1/2, 1. 1m, 13.66s. Rs. 7 (w), 5, 17 and 21 (p). SHP: 86, THP: 23, FP: 138, Q: 75, Tanala: 536. Favourite: Sitara. Owners: Dr. Ram H. Shroff rep. Stride Livestock Pvt Ltd and Mr. Chetan Shantilal Shah. Trainer: R.H. Sequeria.  GRAND ENTRY PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): LOMBARDY (P. Trevor) 1, Galloping Gangster (Santosh Raj N R) 2, Premier Action (Akshay Kumar) 3 and Dandy Man (Suraj Narredu) 4. 2, 5, 1-1/4. 1m, 27.28s. Rs. 5 (w), 9, 13 and 9 (p). SHP: 26, THP: 27, FP: 46, Q: 44, Tanala: 138. Favourite: Lombardy. Owners: Ms. Simone Zavaray Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Rishad N. Pandole and Mr. Aditya P. Thackersey. Trainer: L.V.R. Deshmukh.  DECCAN STAR PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): STRATEGIST (Irvan Singh) 1, Dunkirk (Darshan R N) 2, 3. Best In Show (Kuldeep Singh) 3 and Max (S. Zervan) 4. 2-1/4, hd., sh., 1m, 14.22s. Rs. 19 (w), 9, 43 and 17 (p). SHP: 41, THP: 55, FP: 493, Q: 461, Tanala: 4,060. Favourite: Max. Owner: Col. S.B. Nair. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  SRISAILAM PLATE (1,200m), rated 20 to 45, (Cat. III): HIDDEN HOPE (Suraj Narredu) 1, Good Connection (P. Trevor) 2, Angel Tesoro (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Aerial Combat (Akshay Kumar) 4. Not run: Aintree, Sterling King, Vijays Simha and Forever Bond. Nk, 3/4, 3/4. 1m, 14.52s. Rs. 20 (w) 5, 5 and 8 (p). SHP: 24, THP: 22, FP: 55, Q: 19, Tanala: 409. Favourite: Good Connection. Owners: Mr. Vijay Kumar Gupta rep. Vijay Racing & Farms Pvt. Ltd., Mr. Susheel Kumar Gupta, Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla & Ms Simone Zavaray Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd. Trainer: Laxman Singh.  DODLA PRATAP CHANDER REDDY MEMORIAL MILLION (1,100m), (Terms) Maiden 2-y-o only: BORN TO BE (A.A. Vikrant) 1, Akido (Nakhat Singh) 2, Ashwa Jauhar (Suraj Narredu) 3 and Galwan (Irvan Singh) 4. Not run: Greek’s Ace. 3, 2, 1/2. 1m, 08.16s. Rs. 72 (w), 7, 24 and 5 (p). SHP: 45, THP: 18, FP: 935, Q: 593, Tanala: 1,910. Favourite: Ashwa Jauhar. Owner: Mr. N.V. Rohin Kumar. Trainer: D. Netto.  GRAND ENTRY PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat.II): ASHWA BRAVO (Suraj Narredu) 1, British Empress (Rohit Kumar) 2, Mind Reader (B.R. Kumar) 3 and Lockhart (Ajeeth Kumar) 4. Dist, Nk, Sh. 1m, 25.96s. Rs. 5 (w), 5, 15 and 81 (p). SHP: 21, THP: 41, FP: 51, Q: 48, Tanala: 616. Favourite: Ashwa Bravo. Owners: Mr. Ravider Pal Singh Chauhan, Mr. Zavaray S. Poonawalla, Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla rep. Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt. Ltd, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Ms. Delna Z. Poonawalla & Ms Simone Z. Poonawalla. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  OWN OPINION PLATE (1,200m), Maiden 3-y-o and upward, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): XFINITY (Afroz Khan) 1, Amyra (P. Trevor) 2, Unstoppable (Deepak Singh) 3 and Melting Ice (Nakhat Singh) 4. Not run: Just Incredible. 2-1/4, 4, 3/4. 1m, 13.89s. Rs. 19 (w). 5, 35, and 27 (p). SHP: 62, THP: 100, FP: 323, Q: 173, Tanala: C/F. Favourite: Fashion Universe. Owners: Mr. Syed Jameel Moosavi & Mr. Syed Nawaz Hussain. Trainer: Ananta Vatsalya. Jackpot: 70%: Rs. 7,646 (16 tkts.) and 30%: Rs. 369 (142 tkts.). Mini jackpot: (i) Rs. 460 (26 tkts). Treble: (i) Rs. 20 (815 tkts.), (ii) Rs. 183 (52 tkts.), (iii) Rs. 1,664 (6 tkts.).
20 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Emphasis will be on grassroots cricket’||Newly-appointed Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) senior selection panel chairman and former Ranji fast bowler, K. Syed Shahabuddin, said once the BCCI domestic calendar is out they will plan and prepare for the coming season. Hidden talent “My emphasis, along with other colleagues on the selection panel, will be on grassroots cricket. We all have come from there and I know there is a lot of hidden talent,” he said. “We have made a head-start in terms of preparations by conducting the ACA T20 league for seniors at Anantapur. “Except Hanuma Vihari, who is on India duty, all the seniors, along with young talent, took part,” Anantapur-based Shahabuddin told The Hindu on Thursday. “The new role is a different kind of challenge, which I feel is also a huge honour after finishing my career as the leading wicket-taker for the Andhra team in the Ranji Trophy with 248 scalps besides scoring 2,567 runs from 80 games.  He added: “There will not be too many matches if the domestic season is to start in January. “Hence, we are planning to have a camp for about 40 to 60 players at one of the four centres — Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur, Kadapa.” The 41-year-old said the atmosphere is great with the new set-up now in charge of ACA, headed by P. Sarath Chandra Reddy. Secretary Durga Prasad and former India star Y. Venugopala Rao as the Director of ACA Operations, have promised the kind of freedom looked for in cricketing matters. “ACA is known for its organisational skills, infrastructure, and sincerity in administration. “The fact that we successfully hosted 33 matches featuring 160 players and staff in a bio-bubble during the recent T20 League at Anantapur shows that we are ready for any major challenges,” Shahabuddin concluded.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Soaring high||
20 November 2020||Sydney,||Pujara gets into the groove||Cheteshwar Pujara, who has not played competitive cricket since March, had extensive nets here on Thursday and looked comfortable facing the fast bowlers as he geared up for what promises to be a gruelling Test series against Australia. Video posted Pujara faced Ishan Porel, Kartik Tyagi, who are with the team as net bowlers, Umesh Yadav and R. Ashwin. The BCCI posted a video of Pujara’s nets on social media. The Indian team is allowed to train during its 14-day quarantine, having arrived here last week. The ODI and T20 series begins on November 27 and will be followed by a four-match Test series, starting with a day-night game from December 17 in Adelaide.   While most India players competed in the IPL, Test regulars Pujara and Hanuma Vihari joined the national team bubble in the UAE before reaching Australia.  Pujara, who last played the Ranji Trophy final, was instrumental in India’s historic win over Australia two years ago and will be crucial at No. 3, especially after Virat Kohli’s departure following the first Test match at Adelaide. Meanwhile, India’s throwdown specialist Raghu, who could not fly out with the other support staff as he tested positive for COVID-19 back home, has landed here and is in quarantine.
20 November 2020||KOCHI,||Will take longer to settle down: Blasters coach||ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB), which meets Kerala Blasters in the opener on Friday, did not play any friendly matches during the pre-season. “For me, the friendly matches did not have the conditions necessary for playing. So, it was better to play against ourselves,” said Antonio Habas, ATKMB coach. Since teams did not enough time to prepare, Blasters’ head coach Kibu Vicuna felt that settling down will take longer this season. “It is better to have more friendly games in pre-season but some players came late because of visa issues. Will get better and better “For sure, we are going to be better next month and better than that in two months,” said Vicuna, who helped Bagan win the I-League title last season.
20 November 2020||Orlando,||Prajnesh in last eight||Fourth seed Prajnesh Gunneswaran entered the quarterfinals of the $52,080 Challenger on Wednesday. Prajnesh was leading 5-7, 7-5, 2-0 when Tung-Lin Wu of Chinese Taipei retired.  The results:   $52,080 Challenger, Orlando: Pre-quarterfinals: Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Tung-Lin Wu (Tpe) 5-7, 7-5, 2-0 (retd.).   $15,000 ITF: Sharm El Sheikh: Men, Pre-quarterfinals: Erik Crepaldi (Ita) bt Siddhant Banthia 6-2, 6-2. First round: Niels Visker (Ned) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-3, 7-6(4). Doubles (quarterfinals): Kelsey Stevenson (Can) & Sidharth Rawat bt Martin Borisiouk (Blr) & Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-2, 6-2.   Women: Doubles (quarterfinals): Elina Avanesyan (Rus) & Iryna Shymanovich (Blr) w/o Jelena Stojanovic (Aus) & Ashmitha Easwaramurthi.
20 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Rohit begins training at NCA||Rohit Sharma started his fitness training at the National Cricket Academy here on Thursday. Rohit is not part of India’s limited-overs squad but was included in the revised Test squad. Though Rohit said he was absolutely fine, the BCCI felt he needed more time to recover from the hamstring injury he had suffered during the IPL. On Wednesday, Ishant Sharma, who is also doing his injury rehab at the NCA, bowled full tilt under the supervision of chief selector Sunil Joshi and NCA head Rahul Dravid.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhuvaneshwaran gets past Nazeer||D. Bhuvaneshwaran (ABC) defeated Nazeer (QBC) 4-2 in the second round of the Ajay Rastogi memorial all-India open snooker tournament on Thursday.  Other results (first round): Ram Narayan (MUC) bt Karthik (Red 15) 4-2; Rizwan (QBC) bt Bommisetty Lakshmikanth (MUC) 4-2.   Rajan (TNBSA) bt Naresh (SP) 4-1.   Manoj Dasarathan (TC) bt Nelson (Snook City) 4-1.      M. Arunachalam, a former Indian Railways cricketer, a State coach and a State panel umpire, passed away on Thursday. He was 78. Arunachalam was the recipient of the C. Subramaniam Trophy for the ‘best schoolboy’ cricketer during the 1961-1962 season. The TNCA, through its secretary R.S. Ramasaamy, sent its condolences to the family.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Life is just a game||It is because we do not give a thought to how short life on earth is that we run after things that have a temporary charm. Our attachment to our family is excessive because of our ajnana. None can love us more than our parents, and yet they are our parents only in this birth. Who knows who will be our parents in the next janma? Nampillai gave an example to make us realise this, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. One day, Nampillai saw some boys playing on the banks of the Cauvery, in Srirangam. They were building houses of sand. They divided their houses into different sections and said one was the living room, one was the dining room, one was the kitchen and so on. One of the boys pretended to be a mother. Another was a father, and a few others were children. Nampillai watched while they played. After some time, they demolished the houses of sand, which they had built, and began to play some other game. Nampillai then said to them, “You were so long playing the roles of father, mother, children etc. But now, suddenly, you have forgotten those roles.” The children said, “Now we are playing a new game, and so our roles have changed.” Nampillai used this simple game that the children played to explain how, in life, we merely play roles. A person is daughter to someone, wife to someone, mother to someone. But when life ends, all this comes to an end, in the same way that all the role playing of the children ended. That being the case, is attachment to people or things in life justified? Our attachment must be only to Lord Narayana, for there is none equal to or superior to Him. This is what the Upanishadic statement, Ekam eva adviteeyam, stresses. Bhagavan is the only constant, and we must focus on Him.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 08:30 IST,||Sudoku - November 20, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Give your leftovers a makeover||Loathe to waste that leftover dal that you don’t want to have anymore? Make a paratha with it. Perhaps one of the best options left is to go for a ‘leftover makeover’. Leftovers are a reality in any kitchen and all of us would have tried to transform them with a few makeovers. Those looking for more options may find #loveyourleftover on Instagram a useful hashtag to follow. So widespread is the leftover makeover habit, that it finds place in some standup comedy acts too. Rice for instance, is very popular for its many makeover avatars; simple steamed rice is easily consumed in the form of pulihora , vegetarian or non-vegetarian fried rice, baath , appam , snacks, sweets and more. Leftover rice also finds a mention in Australian chef Kylie Kwong’s recipes. During summer in some parts of India, leftover rice, is left to ferment overnight and consumed the next morning with a choice of sides. During the lockdown, when actor Sameera Reddy along with her mother-in-law Manjri Varde showed a quick recipe of rotla made with leftover rice, it garnered over five million views on Instagram. In her ‘messy mama’ series, Sameera admitted that unlike others, she had nothing fancy to show for her cooking skills. She adds, “But I have the rotla from leftover rice. The video was appreciated because of the simplicity of the dish and the fact that it required no extraordinary culinary skills. All one has to do is soak leftover rice in some curd, add chopped chillies, onions, coriander leaves and chilli powder, then add some flour and make it into a soft dough, roll it into a shapeless roti , drizzle some oil, cook until crisp.” Raipur-based food photographer and author of My Indian Kitchen Swayampurna Mishra however, likes to give her leftover rice a fancy twist. She loves making something like arancini. She says, “Arancini is made with leftover risotto. However, I do something similar with basmati rice instead of arborio, because, let’s face it, no one makes risotto enough to have leftovers. I add some spices to the rice, which is slightly overcooked. Then add paprika, garlic powder, onion powder, oregano and salt and cracked black pepper. I also make a filling with sun-dried tomato pesto or roasted red bell pepper purée. To make them, wet your hands and spread a spoonful of the rice-spice mix, add a little cream cheese or mozzarella, add the filling (make it slightly spicy for a real flavour bomb), add a bit more rice on top and shape into balls. Once this is done, dip them in egg (beaten, of course), coat with fine breadcrumbs (I use only panko breadcrumbs, but grind it a bit for a finer texture). Add seasoning to the crumbs before rolling in the rice balls. Fry in oil, remove, drain on kitchen napkin and serve immediately with your choice of condiment.” However, Swayampurna’s go-to leftover makeover recipe is the matar (peas) paratha . She says, “It is easy and my absolute favourite.” Mumbai-based blogger Kalyan Karmakar, in one of his blogposts, mentions how he repurposed leftovers from the fridge into spectacular dishes during the lockdown. He also says #loveyourleftover has been his anthem during this time. “I love using leftover kebabs to make kathi rolls for breakfast. I made a truly epiphanic lunch with orange emulsion that accompanied a dish — an almond and coriander-crusted John Dory — I had ordered from the Trident BKC. I had a feeling that it would go well with offal. I took out some chicken liver from the freezer, thawed it and tossed it in a pan with sliced onions, green capsicum salt and pepper in olive oil. I added a bit of the orange emulsion to the sauteed chicken liver at the end before turning off the flame. Any longer and it would get burnt and bitter. I drizzled in a bit more of the orange emulsion on the plate before serving it with grilled sourdough bread. He adds, “Later a reader, Rahul Jha, DM-ed me on Instagram saying that Heston Blumenthal apparently has a dish called ‘meat meets fruit’, which also involves liver, orange and sourdough.” The trick with dal Did you know that leftover dal can be used to knead flour and the resultant rotis or parathas turn out soft, fluffy and tasty? Hyderabad-based home baker Arundati Rao often mentions this during her cooking classes. She says plain leftover dal made with red lentil andtuvaris best to knead flour with. Alternatively, if there is too much left over, add chopped onions, chillies and spices to turn your dal into a dhaba-style dal tadka . Kalyan also alters gravy from chicken curry by adding boiled eggs and turning it into egg curry. A similar taste, but a whole new dish to tuck in to.  During summer in some parts of India, leftover rice, is left to ferment overnight, and consumed the next morning with sides
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||There’s no chef like Mom||“Jo dikhta hain, wahi banta hain Zayka Ka Tadka mein (What you see is what is made in Zayka ka Tadka).” That is Apeksha reeling off her trademark dialogue in the midst of a busy shoot with Shveta Sheth, as the latter prepares a paneer dish at her kitchen in Mumbai for Zayka Ka Tadka. Founded by Apeksha and her mother, Vijay Haldiya, it is an online platform where mothers from across the country can upload their vegetarian recipes. Around 700 mothers have been covered on the platform, which was launched as a food blog in 2014. It has over 4.6 million followers on Facebook, over five lakh subscribers on YouTube, 2.8 lakh followers on Instagram (@zaykakatadka) and a website by the same name. “Cooking has always been a passion. When I cook, I feel de-stressed. Now it is like meditation,” says Vijay. Growing up in a joint family in Rajasthan, Vijay took to cooking at a young age. Eventually, social media opened up a new world for her. She cites herself as the best example for how women can use technology to realise their dreams. In fact, Zayka’s Instagram page declares that ‘This account is handled by Vijay Haldiya’. But without her daughter Apeksha, Vijay’s social media outing would not have happened. “Mom was part of an online group of home chefs. One day she got removed from it because she was getting more attention than the other members! That disheartened her. So I started a blog, Zayka Ka Tadka, for mom to post her recipes. She gained so much appreciation that it did wonders to her confidence,” says Apeksha, who gave up her corporate job to start the platform. Within a few months, the blog became an online recipe-sharing community, then a text recipe-sharing platform in 2017 and, a year later, a platform to post videos. The page has a diverse platter with recipes specific to different parts of the country being uploaded by women of different age groups. Besides featuring new, experienced cooks, it has brought grand old homemakers from villages in north India to the limelight. She says, “We keep it real and organic by making them cook in their comfort zone, which is their own kitchen. Any mom who can cook can contact us via our social media handles. We will be at their kitchen to shoot. But for the pandemic, we would have travelled to more places, especially to States in south India.” Videos of new recipes are posted every day on the Facebook page. In addition to traditional and regional recipes, five-minute recipes are also posted. Segments on chutneys and sauces, paneer, lunch recipes, dishes prepared with leftover food, parathas and chaats are some of the popular series on the page. Cooking tips and contests (like the Zayka Premier League) are uploaded as well. “During the lockdown, we put up recipes that are easy to prepare. The traffic on the page has increased since then. In fact, men who have never entered the kitchen are now avid cooks,” says Apeksha. An achievement, the duo says, has been bringing visually challenged women on board to showcase their culinary skills. The mothers, too, on the other hand, are ecstatic about being part of Zayka. Shveta says, “There was a time when I didn’t want to try anything new. But that has changed. When everybody starts loving the food you cook, the feeling is beyond words.”
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding frenzy||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Thirty for||The number 30 is known as a Harshad number, which is divisible by the sum of its digits. ‘Harshad’ comes from the Sanskrit harsa (joy) + da (give), meaning joy-giver. The Harshad number was defined by D. R. Kaprekar, an Indian mathematician. While adult humans have 32 teeth, adult cats have exactly 30 teeth. When a couple reaches 30 years of marriage, it is known as their Pearl Wedding Anniversary. The number 30 is has a lot to do with how we measure time. The number of minutes in an hour is divisible by 30. The number of seconds in a minute is divisible by 30. The average number of days on a calender month is 30. Intennis, the number 30 represents the second point gained in a game. A polygon with 30 sides is a triacontagon. In Roman numerals, 30 is represented as XXX. The 30th element in the Periodic Table, with an atomic number of 30 is Zinc. There are only four months out of 12 that have 30 days: April, June, September and November. Egyptian Queen Cleopatra died in the year 30 B.C. at the age of 39. There are 30 letters in the Bulgarian alphabet and Serbian alphabet. If you were to make an international phone call to Greece, you would have to put a +30 (their international dialling code) before the phone number. The circumference of a professional basketball: 29½ to 30 inches. The number 30 has eight factors, which are 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 10, 15 and 30. The 30 Year War was fought mainly in central Europe between 1618 and 1648. The height of the goal posts in American Football is at least 30 feet. 30 upright stones formed the Sarsen Circle at Stonehenge, however only about 17 remain now. In the popular film Back to The Future , Marty McFly traveled 30 years back in time. One of the longest fantasy book series is called The Riftwar Cycle written mostly by Raymond E. Feist. It spans 30 books! In a game of Bingo, when the number on a ball is called out, a nickname is used along with it. The ball 30 is often known asDirty Gertie or Blind 30. The oldest a seal can age is up to 30 years.  30 in 2020  The first Home Alone movie was released 30 years ago onNovember 1990.  The first Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles film based on the comic and cartoon series was released in March 1990, making it 30 years old. Nelson Mandela was released from 27 years in prison, 30 years ago, on February 11, 1990 30 years ago, the East and West Germany reunification took place to once again become one country. The Hubble Space Telescope was launched into space in 1990. On August 12, 1990, “Sue,” the best preserved Tyrannosaurus rex ever found, was discovered near Faith, South Dakota. It is now a permanent feature at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago While Tim Berners-Lee began working on the World Wide Web in 1989, by December 1990, the world's first browser/editor, website and server went live. The Southern African country of Namibia gained its independence from South Africa in March 1990. Last but not least, The Hindu Young World turned 30 this year.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Pearl of wisdom||Phew! Thirty! I can’t believe I’ve been around for 30 years. Seems like yesterday when I saw the world for the first time. I rolled out in a flash of colour and, of course, there was a big shindig. Everyone clapped their hands and danced for joy. I smiled. My initial years were a challenge. I was big — yes, quite big — but not stout. But I was robust. Every Saturday, I took a walk around the country. People waited eagerly for me to visit. More often than not, when I landed up at their doorsteps, there would be a fight. And, it was not just the kids in the house who fought over me. The parents and even grandparents joined in. It was nice to feel wanted. I made them think, I made them laugh and, sometimes, I even made them cry. But, regardless of the reactions I evoked in them, I was always welcome. The good part was, week by week, the number of house calls I made was increasing. An eventful year The year 1990 was eventful. Some people say, “Oh, you were born in the year the Hubble Space Telescope was launched.” Others say, “Ah! Yes, that’s the year the World Wide Web gained a public face…” and yet others remember it as the year the F-16s and F-15s flew over the burning oil fields in Operation Desert Storm. Or, they nod sadly and say, “Margaret Thatcher, the Iron Lady, resigned that year!” In my time, I have seen many wars, political upheavals, natural disasters and non-natural disasters too. Beginning with the Gulf War in 1990, I have seen the quite a few, including the Kargil War. Yes, you could say I’ve been in the wars. These 30 years have also been eventful ones on the silver screen and with the printed word. This wizard child, Harry Potter caused quite a stir when he made an appearance in 1997. And I, in my inimitable style, must take credit for some of his popularity. I have spoken about all the books and movies in the series … have literally watched him grow. But all has not been fine. I have seen the assassination of great men and women like Muammar Gaddafi, Benazir Bhutto, Rajiv Gandhi, Olof Palme, Anwar Sadat to name a few. In the five years since the world wide web was made public, there were 45 million people using the Internet. I can proudly say that I am one of them. In fact, today, my work is predominantly done online. That’s progress I say. I have watched several world leaders come and go. It’s been a long run. But leave aside all that’s happening around the world. Let me tell you about myself. I’ve met with success. I am now what people would call ‘compact’. I have had a facelift three or four times. Today, I am more colourful and appealing. The stories I tell are specifically tailored for you. I bring you games and puzzles too. And, now, I pay my house calls on Friday. Every year, when I celebrate my birthday, I think of all of you. I think of how much you mean to me. My birthday parties are different. It’s more exciting than just a cake and candles. Don’t get me wrong, that’s fun too. A painting competition, an all-India quiz and even a commemorative postal cover came out in my name as a part of my birthday celebrations. I’ve had some special turnouts at my quiz shows. One time Narain Karthikeyan came and at another Karun Chandok. Can you beat that? On my 25th birthday, I celebrated with a host of programmes – almost 13 of them. From a bird walk and a snake walk to a beach clean-up and even a fitness workshop. Sadly, this year, though a milestone birthday, is going to be a quiet one. That’s why I decided to tell you my story. Do you know who I am? If you haven’t guessed it as yet, let me tell you. I am Young World. I am a colourful 16-page magazine brought out just for you. In my pages, you will find short stories, history, geography, games, quizzes, crosswords, folk tales and even some spooky tales. The best of my stories have been brought out as books so that you keep them on your shelves and read them whenever you want. A few years ago, we decided to open our door to aspiring editors among our readers. We started a Guest Editor programme and it’s been exciting to have young minds work on my pages. My first masthead showed two children looking out at a million stars. And, that’s what Young World continues to do for you: it brings everyday wonders into your life.  Every Saturday, I took a walk around the country. People waited eagerly for me to visit   Every year, when I celebrate my birthday, I think of all of you. I think of how much you mean to me.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||GET LUCKY||. The first 30 correct entries will win exciting prizes. Mail your answers to youngworld@thehindu.co.in along with your name, class, school, residential address and contact number. Entries without these details will not be considered. Only children from Std II to VIII are eligible.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The music of grief||All religious traditions dignify death with rituals and memorialise the departed through ceremonial rites. In some Christian denominations, the souls of the departed are remembered in November, especially. For Roman Catholics, it’s the Month of the Dead, when they offer the mass, their most sacred act of worship, for the deceased. In the Roman rite, the mass for the dead or the requiem, acquired a distinct character when a sequence, the Dies Irae (Day of Wrath) — no longer extant — was included in 1570. Perhaps composed in the 13th century, in alliterative Latin and triple rhyme, it became central to the requiem. Poets saw its artistic potential, and translations abound, including by Dryden and Scott. Composers too, from the Renaissance to Haydn and Mozart right up to our time, have employed it in their requiems. Music in the cusp From about the mid-1800s, the idea of a requiem began to have secular appeal. Increasingly, it moved out of churches and into concert halls. Composers with no particular religious conviction either used their own text (e.g., Brahms) or adapted the mass text to suit their artistic purpose, as Benjamin Britten does in his War Requiem, where he incorporates Wilfred Owen’s poetry to communicate the horror of nationalist conflict. (“I am the enemy you killed, my friend.”). Verdi lived in the cusp of this secularisation. Not only did he made insertions to the mass text, he composed it in his instinctive idiom, opera, and at an impious volume. This was a dramatic departure from the solemn tradition of focusing solely on the divine, away from the human person — priest or singer. Verdi’s work was performed in churches initially, but by 1901, when the Church formalised musical guidelines for the mass, his composition lost liturgical ground. Yet, as art, it stands as one of humanity’s monumental achievements. For Verdi, the underlying texts, especially the Dies Irae and the Libera Me (Deliver Me), which he borrows from the burial rite, were inspirational. They present Mercy and Justice, the two eyes of the divine, in rich contrast. Cries for mercy are followed by visions of damning justice, and Verdi uses these contrasts to explore profound human questions. Verdi’s ‘Requiem’ is set for four solo voices: soprano (highest female range), mezzo-soprano (lower ranges of the soprano), tenor (highest male range) and bass (lowest male range). They represent the protagonist at different moments — grief, introspection, penitence, foreboding, anguish. In the finalé, we realise Verdi’s protagonist is the archetypal feminine, invested with tremendous agency. Our final glimpse is of her rising above legions of imploring voices and a thundering tempest, raging against the dying of the light. Composers usually leave us with solace, hope, or sights of celestial light in the final sections of a requiem. Verdi uses his finalé, the Libera Me, to raise questions instead. His last crescendo is an avalanche of sound, and it explodes to stunning effect. The contrast Verdi was all along building — the silence — is deafening. Is this the darkness of the Good Friday which nevertheless promised a resurrection? Is this the mystic’s dark night of the soul? Or is this the emptiness of the great unknown? Of all the great requiems, it is Verdi’s that forces us to confront ourselves, our past and our own mortality. Listening to it, our gaze turns inwards. We begin to focus not on death but on life, and the choices that could make it meaningful. The great conductors of the last century were all drawn to Verdi’s ‘Requiem’. Regrettably, neither Furtwangler nor Kleiber made a recording; nor the soprano, Maria Callas. Recordings going back to Toscanini’s 1938 version with the BBC Symphony Orchestra are available online. That and his concerts with La Scala, 1950, and the NBC, 1951, are representative readings. Giulini’s versions with the Philharmonia Orchestra, 1960 and 1964, and with Rai, 1998, are effulgent too. Great readings of Verdi’s ‘Requiem’ come from conductors who intuit its operatic idiom, throbbing pathos and existentialist angst. Toscanini, Guilini and Muti exhibit it in their renditions, and these will remain the standard. But a tier above them, I think, is Claudio Abbado. His performances communicate the excruciating journey to the self that he is willing to make. It’s why on every occasion he is visibly shaken by the art he has just made possible. Four outstanding Abbado performances are the 1970 version with Rai’s Sinfonia Orchestra, the Vienna Philharmonic, the London Symphony Orchestra, and the Berlin Philharmonic. Over the years, Abbado evolves to a sound that is delicately and perfectly balanced. It is rare musicianship to achieve such precision with a double choir (sometimes 200 voices), a full orchestra (80+ instruments), and powerful solos in a work of this scale and drama. The magic is captured in the Berlin Philharmonic recording, possibly the most sublime I’ve heard. The concert was a tribute to Verdi on his 100th death anniversary. At the time, Abbado had just won a battle with a fatal illness—one that left him battered. He could have chosen another, less demanding, composition. Faced with his own mortality, however, it’s the ‘Requiem’ he chose. When the frail Abbado wills himself to “the rending pain of re-enactment”, as Eliot says in ‘Four Quartets’, the performers sense it. And everyone responds beyond loyalty. Elemental art Angela Gheorghiu, the solo voice in the final section, is magnificent. She glides across octaves, her diction is clear, and her vibrato (the operatic trembling) glorious yet reserved. Her act is arresting too. Through those fierce eyes and the loose jet-black mane, a steely spirit shines. Squaring up to destiny, she thrusts forward to make her point and, exactly as Abbado reads her role, she spits her words when exasperated or gasps them when exhausted. In the video, Abbado is mesmerising. Like a general, he rallies his forces—now encouraging, now coaxing. As the climax nears, Abbado’s intensity blurs lines between performer and spectator. The forces he controls—soloist, choir and orchestra—now seem elemental. The howling wind, the surging tide, the raging fire, the quaking earth: Verdi paints them in the score, but Toscanini down, never have I experienced it so viscerally as in Abbado’s rendering. Then, as life gurgles into the abyss, Abbado raises his hand to still the torment in himself and the performers. For a long while, the Berlin audience sits numb, caught in the swirling blackness. That evening, the line between performer and spectator blurred. Only when art is transcendental does that happen.  The writer is a communications consultant with the World Bank Group.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Not on the same pitch||“The only mystery in life is why the Kamikaze pilots wore helmets,” said Al McGuire. Other mysteries are right up there too — why khayal performers use the harmonium to accompany their incredibly nuanced melody; or how Western classical musicians tolerate an equally tempered scale; or why Carnatic vocalists don’t train specifically for pitch purity and how a significant number among them get away with varying degrees of sruti misalignment. McGuire’s mystery has a poignant humour about it — there is nothing poignant or humorous about my questions. But they are mysterious alright. Pitch is fundamental to all music. Different kinds of music across the world have their own engagement with pitch — in technique, aesthetics and philosophy. American musician Jody Stecher, speaking of his discovery of Indian music, said that when he heard K.V. Narayanaswamy at Wesleyan University teaching the scales of Mayamalavagowla “as if they were the most important melody in the world, I was shaken and profoundly moved. Who sings scales with that kind of involvement? And then when I discovered dhrupad and also good khayal, I saw how much you can pull out of a single pitch.” Subtle differences Carnatic and Hindustani music are melodic — the music does not have vertical layers like Western polyphony and harmony do. The sophistication of the music lies in the subtleties of how pitch is approached, how the ‘same’ note is subtly different across ragas, and how phrases are formed by weaving these myriad pitches through a variety of ornaments to evoke the raga. We negotiate these nuances not through analysis or calculation but by ear, by musical instinct honed by listening and learning, the oral/aural way.  Sruti shuddham or pitch purity is regarded as much a necessity in Carnatic as sur is in Hindustani music. Srutirmaataa layahpitaa — sruti is the mother and laya the father — goes a popular saying in the Carnatic world. In her immensely entertaining book Raga’n Josh , Sheila Dhar recounts how her guru Pt. Amarnath refused to go beyond the practice of a single note, the shadja, for many classes and months. To him, no progress was possible until she had perfected the ‘Sa’ and was able to sing it sharp and steady like a ray of light. So Dhar was “parked at the Sa” for many weeks. She compares notes with a South Indian friend who had, in that duration, already learnt a few varnams and kritis. When Dhar nervously mentions this to her guru, his dismissive response reflects a typical opinion of Hindustani musicians about sur in Carnatic music — stereotypical and exaggerated but not without a kernel of truth. The point to ponder is that there is nothing in Carnatic music to parallel the kind of training a Hindustani singer undergoes for pitch purity. In one of his podcasts, Sanjay Subrahmanyan responds to a listener asking how his daughter can improve her sruti shuddham . In his typical, no-nonsense style Sanjay says, “Sing everyday. Keep a tambura, even an electronic one, and sing every day. Her sruti is bound to improve.” Undeniably, it will. But beyond improvement, there is a finer engagement with sruti that can develop an intense pitch sensitivity, which is perhaps what Tyagaraja indicated in that intriguing line ‘kolahala saptaswara grahamula gurute mokshamura’ (knowing where in the body the tumultuous seven swaras originate is itself moksha). I sometimes wonder what today’s Carnatic musicians make of this line or if they are even curious about it. The early morning ritual of Hindustani singers, the kharaj sadhana, sung to a well-tuned tanpura (one is reminded of the charanam line in Tyagaraja’s ‘Kaddanuvaariki’), aims at developing steady intonation and sensitivity towards sur and the minute hair’s breadth lapses that are so easy to make. This intense concern with pitch produced a Kishori Amonkar who spoke of getting a “ darshan of the sur ”. “I think of sur as God and when I sing a raga, I beg the raga to show me the sur , to let me have a darshan .” In reality, attaining that pinpoint precision and mergence with the sur during the act of singing is not something that just happens. When endowed with a tuneful voice, it does appear to happen naturally but when the spirit is as involved as the voice apparatus in this sadhana , and when that mergence occurs because of an intense, unwavering engagement with the tanpura, then the music gains a transcendent luminosity. A different music Carnatic music is not Hindustani music — it is melodically more complex. Hindustani music is about notes held long and a leisurely unfolding of the raga. In the time a Hindustani musician sings the nishadha of a Raag Yaman, the Carnatic musician would have sung quite a few phrases of Kalyani with hardly any restful pauses on notes. Carnatic is more heavily ornamented, with the shake, the kampita , all pervasive. The shake of a Thodi’s ‘Ga’ might sound out of tune to the uninitiated, but that is not the issue here. Certainly, the intonation of Carnatic music is vastly different from that of Hindustani, but there is such a thing called sruti shuddham and that is not something Carnatic musicians train for separately or with intensity. To get back to the mysteries I began with, the explanation for the first two is banal convenience. As for the third, given Carnatic music’s immense complexity in melody, lyrics, accompaniment and in laya, pitch imperfections are not noticed for the most part because attention is gobbled up by all these other, not so subtle, aspects. Truly, a good Carnatic music concert is among the most engaging experiences one can have, even if the sruti is a slight casualty at times. Just as the khayal world tolerates the harmonium, the Carnatic world too tolerates sruti lapses — minute or not-so-minute pitch lapses are not discerned by everyone. But surely musicians should try to develop such acute pitch sensitivity if only to see what trajectory their growth then takes. The author is a Chennai-based musician and writer.  Carnatic and Hindustani music are melodic — the music does not have vertical layers like Western polyphony and harmony do
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Dance in these times||For Anitha Guha and her students, November is a special month as they gear up to celebrate their dance school Bharathanjali’s anniversary. This year Bharathanjali completes three decades and to celebrate this milestone, an online programme will be streamed on the school’s YouTube channel (November 21-23), and will be attended by Cleveland V.V. Sundaram, Anitha’s guru Ananda Shankar Jayant, and senior dancer Rama Vaidyanathan. Anitha Guha, the founder of the school, is known for her lively Bharatanatyam dance dramas, mostly based on mythological themes. Reminiscing on the school’s 30-year journey, Anitha says, “I first got recognition in Chennai when I choreographed ‘Valli Kalyanam’ for the children in my apartment complex. That was about 20-25 years ago. Nrithya Natakams were quite a rarity then, presented only by Kalakshetra, Guru Krishnakumari Narendran, and a few others.” Regular practice is her mantra, she says. While the rhythmic portions and group sequences are easy to learn, she spends a lot of time teaching abhinaya to students, either individually or in small groups. “Body language and understanding the significance of a character are the basis of characterisation.” As a die-hard dramatist, she personally loves anti-hero roles. Heard the evil laughter of Keechaka? That’s her in full form. “I am from Secunderabad. When I began teaching, in my living room, I did not even have a name for my dance class. From living room to school to temples to sabhas, it has been a wonderful journey. I did not plan anything, it was god’s will. But I have always tried to give my best,” the teacher-choregrapher had said in an earlier interview. On the anniversary, Bharathanjali also proposes to announce the names of some eminent artistes to be honoured with titles in 2021. The programme will feature solo dances by senior students; performances by some leading dancers who have collaborated with Anitha in earlier productions; and a presentation of her latest work, ‘Nama Ramayana’, a 10-minute digital recording choreographed to M.S. Subbulakshmi’s singing, featuring 60 students. “Learning to use Zoom, teaching this and recording it was a challenge. The girls look as if they are together, but they are not. Everything was done online,” she says. The piece, ‘Hanuman Chalisa’, will also be premièred. “It was choreographed by some of my students, and there is another piece featuring young dancers. These segments were made possible by my senior students,” she says. As the lockdown brought new challenges, Anitha’s students helped her cope. “My students helped me learn the technical aspects of digital recordings, which has come in handy for this event,” she says.  The Chennai-based author writes on classical dance.   My students helped me learn the technical aspects of digital recordings during the lockdown
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The unsung brother||Mention the name Ustad Imrat Khan to any young Indian classical music lover, and chances are the reply will be, “Imrat Khan sahib? Oh yes, Ustad Vilayat Khan’s younger brother, the surbahar player.” But Ustad Imrat Khan was much more than just the younger brother of an iconic musician. He was also one of the finest instrumentalists of his time, an innovator, composer, great teacher, and the inheritor of the surbahar playing tradition of the five-generation-old Imdadkhani gharana. Largely forgotten by a younger generation of listeners, he is a musician whose impact can be discerned in the instrumentalists of today. For one, the fact that he was as fine a sitar player as surbahar player was deliberately underplayed by his mother, Begum Inayat Khan, who was keen that the legacy of her late husband Ustad Inayat Khan be carried forward equally by both her sons, Vilayat and Imrat. From an early age, Imrat was encouraged to practise only the surbahar, on which he was trained by his uncle Ustad Wahid Khan. Imrat was only three when his father died, so his gurus were his maternal grandfather, Ustad Bande Hasan Khan, uncle Ustad Wahid Khan, and brother Ustad Vilayat Khan. In the early years, the brothers were encouraged to also present their music as a jugalbandi, with Imrat playing the much heavier, more difficult surbahar with his brother Vilayat Khan on the sitar. Some of their immortal recordings, ‘Night at the Taj’, ‘Mian Malhar’, and a private recording of Yemeni on YouTube, reveal Imrat’s musical prowess. Although Ustad Vilayat Khan was famed for his amazing musicality, creativity and virtuosity, the jugalbandis reveal that Ustad Imrat Khan managed to hold his own with elan. Looking at the legacy he left behind, foremost is his excellence as a guru. He was thorough, exacting, meticulous and inspirational. His sons and disciples, Nishat, Irshad and Wajahat, are well known worldwide. Ustad Imrat Khan was also a fine composer — Satyajit Ray, who interacted with him closely during the making of Jalsaghar, apparently said that though the name of the music composer was given as Ustad Vilayat Khan, it was Ustad Imrat Khan who dealt with the minute details. He created raags Chandra Kanhra, Madhuranjani, Geetanjali, Amrit Kauns, among others, but these never really became mainstream ragas. Unusual raags, his forte Understanding that he had to carve out a musical identity distinct from his more celebrated brother, Ustad Imrat Khan revelled in playing unusual raags; two that he popularised were Kalavati and Abhogi Kanhra. His compositions too reveal an attempt at individuality — son Ustad Nishat Khan speaks of a ‘gat’ in raag Gaoti, which was ‘the smallest gat ever composed, in which the mukhda was in just two matras. Says Nishat, “His compositions had a unique style; he used bolkaari (stroke work) in a distinctive way,” a style that was followed later by other instrumentalists. His son Ustad Irshad Khan remembers how he played compositions other than in teen taal. “This was something his gharana was not known for.” The training on the surbahar gave him a command on the sitar that was awesome, and the wazan of his right hand, the fluid stroke work, and the extensive use of gamak taans on the sitar were distinctly his own. He preferred to encourage the then relatively lesser-known tabla players, Ustad Lateef Ahmed Khan of the Delhi gharana and Pt. Mahapurush Mishra and Pt. Kumar Bose of the Banaras gharana. Yet, living in the times of those superb sitariyas, Ustad Vilayat Khan and Pt. Ravi Shankar, Ustad Imrat Khan never got the acclaim that was his rightful due. He moved to the U.K. where he taught at the Dartington College of the Arts, then to Europe in the mid-1970s, where he taught at the Central Academy of the Arts, Berlin, then moved to the U.S. in the 80s, where he taught at Washington University, St Louis. In the process, his concerts in India shrank, and a newer generation of listeners forgot his presence. Recipient of the Sangeet Natak award in 1988, the nation forgot him till his Padma Shri in 2017, which he declined as being too little too late. The Ustad was a simple, large-hearted and fun-loving man. He loved good food and enjoyed watching Hindi movies. Most of his waking hours were spent in music, whether playing, listening or teaching. He was technically proficient, and and was able to tweak the jawari (the ivory tuning bridge) perfectly. A traditionalist, he turned down all offers for fusion concerts, saying there was enough to explore in Indian music. Today, four decades after his prime, one is able to appreciate the extent of his mastery.  The Delhi-based author writes on Hindustani music and musicians.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||More colour to Kalampattu||A decade ago while performing at a temple, Kurupath Sreenivasan, bored by the priest’s slow-paced chanting of mantras, decided to lend vigour to the ritualistic art of Kalamezhuthu Pattu by adding ragas. Since then, the classical flavour has become a distinct aspect of his renditions. Today, the 32-year-old is busy performing the traditional sketch-and-sing art form of Kerala that his family has been practising for almost three centuries now. A regular feature at temples and royal mansions, this year the presentations have, of course, been mostly online. “During the lockdown, I presented more than 50 live lec-dems on Facebook,” says Sreenivasan about the series that began this summer. “The views are nearing 1.75 lakh,” he adds. Since 2015, the artiste has given lec-dems at 63 schools and 21 colleges. In the lec-dem format, after explaining the evolution and relevance of the art, Sreenivasan sits cross-legged in front of the video camera and begins to draw the face of the goddess with natural powders even as he plays devotional songs on the nanthuni veena. “I choose Carnatic ragas such as Sankarabharanam, Madhyamavati, Nattai, Saranga and Kanada that go with the ethos of my art,” he says. It was at the Keezhattoor Muthukurshikavu, not far from Sreenivasan’s village, Kadannammanna, in the hilly Malappuram district, that he first began singing during the ritual that is meant to sanctify the kalam. “As I sang, I got tired of my monochrome music. I felt the urge to improvise and I sang a few lines in a couple of ragas,” he recalls. Always in tune Ragas, of course, are not alien to Kalampattu. Well-known chenda percussionist Panamanna Sasi recalls how melodiously maestro Kalamandalam Unnikrishna Kurup sang the kalam in the last century. “It’s good the new generation too has taken to it,” says Sasi. Sreenivasan, the 2018 winner of the Kerala Folklore Academy award, was seven when he took to Kalamezhuthu Pattu, the schedule for which begins in December (Vrischikam) and lasts till May. “We present it both in the morning and evening. Each session spans a fortnight or a month. They are a precursor to the temple festival.” The Kalam repertoire comprises 50-odd songs, each with at least eight lines, composed in old Malayalam with a dash of chaste Tamil. The rhythms are simple: either single-beat ekatala or triputa (seven), and the sole accompaniment is the nantuni. “A wild vine called peenjavalli was used as its string, but now it’s metal,” says Sreenivasan. The rectangular wood used to be hollowed out from the kumizh (beech) tree, but that’s now been replaced with teak. The ‘Kerala guitar’ is how late scholar L.S. Rajagopalan described the 2 kg nantuni, which uses a plectrum cut from animal horn. Sreenivasan remembers the nights he spent as a child with his grandfather Narayanankutty Kurup. “He would sing Kalampattu verses as we lay on the cot. It helped me memorise them.” Cycle of creation The image of the deity in the kalam is similar to those in Kerala murals. Kalams are drawn on the floor using rice flour (for white), burnt paddy-husk (black), turmeric (yellow), dried leaves (green), and a mix of turmeric and lime (red). According to folklorist Sasidharan Klari, Kalampattu symbolises fertility. “Kalam also means the nursery (for a paddy field),” he points out, relating the art to the Amma Daivam cult of the mother goddess. The art form is meant to represent the Hindu principle of srishti-sthiti-samhara or creation-preservation-destruction. “We create the kalam, the priest preserves it through rituals, and finally the artiste erases the image.”  The writer is a keen follower of Kerala’s performing arts.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A nice man to know||It was the evening before my wedding. The day’s events having concluded, members of both families were chatting amidst much music making. An uncle of mine who was a great old movie buff and wonderful singer launched into a Gemini Ganesan number when an aunt of my wife-to-be casually remarked that the star was related to the family and would be attending the wedding the next morning. This was in 1993 by when Gemini’s career on the big screen was long over but it did send a frisson of excitement among many in my family. The next day Gemini made a grand appearance. He was of course a star and knew what mattered the most — “Photographer! Where is the photographer?” he asked. The man immediately made his appearance and Gemini posed beaming, standing between my wife and me, one arm on each of our shoulders. That done he got off stage only to find someone had stolen his footwear. No doubt the culprit was a fan, and the star went home barefoot. Gemini had a great fondness for my wife’s grandfather R. Narayanaswami Iyer, who was his uncle once removed. A senior civil service officer posted in Delhi for much of his career, he was in many ways a mentor to Gemini, particularly in his early years. Later, Gemini would acknowledge this in a TV interview. He would therefore often drop in at my in-laws’ home in Royapettah to call on his uncle. I was present only on one such occasion but what struck me was the way he kept all of us in splits with reminiscences of his career. And during much of that session, he sat on the floor, with his legs tucked under him. When he got up to leave, he literally sprang up. A lifelong practitioner of yoga, he was remarkably supple even though he had put on much weight. Gemini was in many ways out of the ordinary when compared to most others in the film industry of his time. He was firstly a graduate and even today, the marble slab announcing his name outside his residence states Gemini Ganesh, BSc. He made sure that his four daughters from his first wife all became highly qualified. Very few actors and actresses of his time had schooling, leave alone college education. He was very well read, could play a variety of sports and was a fine oarsman as well — this last talent of his being often on display at Kodaikanal where he owned a beautiful bungalow. That brings to mind another facet of his — unlike many of his peers he ensured that the money he made in films was well invested in real estate and that kept him financially secure till the end. There was yet another aspect to him — he was remarkably open about his liaisons with women at a time when most other actors kept such matters under wraps.  Biography with a difference In my library there are a few books that I particularly enjoy reading again, and again. One of these is Vazhkaipadagu – Gemini Ganesanin Vazhkai Varalaru — as told by him to Jayasri Viswanath. He made sure to send my father-in-law, N Krishnan, a signed copy. It is a biography with a difference, for he makes no bones about his life — his achievements, struggles and his many women. What makes the book even better is that the second half is a series of frank articles written by his wife TR Alamelu aka Babji and all his children, and that includes those from Pushpavalli (yes, Rekha has written) and Savitri as well. It takes a certain large-heartedness to put all of that into print as part of one’s biography. As an actor Gemini may not have been on par with Sivaji Ganesan and MGR but he held his own as one among the big three. And that brings to mind another essential feature of his success — he did not allow his ego to demand only prime roles. There were many films in which Gemini played second fiddle, Veera Pandiya Kattabomman is one, and so is Kaviya Thalaivi, but he still made a mark. One among his last films was Avvai Shanmugi and it had so many insider jokes at his expense and yet he gamely acted in it. “You look nice in pyjamas,” says Kamal Hasan to him. “At one time I used to wear pyjamas quite a bit,” says Gemini. Old movie buffs will recall several films of his where he would wear loose pyjamas. That was just one of many such wisecracks and yet Gemini did not mind. In fact, he appeared to be enjoying it all. Perhaps his yoga had taught him to adapt well to changing times and see the lighter side of things.  The Chennai-based author, a historian, writes on music and culture.   As an actor Gemini may not have been on par with Sivaji Ganesan and MGR but he held his own as one among the big three
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Choreographing culture||Apsaras Arts Dance Company productions are not just about dance, they are culture travelogues. The Singapore-based group’s choreographic works have been journeying through South East Asia, offering glimpses of the history and heritage of the region. If ‘Angkor - An Untold Story’ took the audience to the heart of the Khmer Empire in 12th century Cambodia and its ties with the Chola Empire in India, ‘Anjasa’, which means ‘path’ in Pali, explored the beauty of Buddhist temple architecture. The company’s latest presentation, ‘Amara’, that premières today at Kalaa Utsavam - Indian Festival of Arts 2020, hosted by Esplanade - Theatres on the Bay, is inspired by one of Cambodia’s famous sacred structures, Banteay Srei. “We have been thoroughly enjoying this voyage with a purpose. Apart from the fact that it perfectly fits into our aesthetic vision, these choreographic works have brought alive the strong and traditional link between India and South East Asia,” says Aravinth Kumarasamy, artistic director, Apsaras Arts. “Banteay Srei, the only temple in the region not built by a royal, signifies not just a synthesis of cultures but also brings together Shiva and Vishnu. The temple has finely sculpted yoginis on its unusual pink sandstone walls and scenes from the Ramayana and the Mahabharata. Amara is an effort to showcase the spirit behind its architectural design and the spiritual ethos,” says Aravinth. The choreography draws its essence from Bharatanatyam, an art form the company has been imparting training in since its inception in 1977 by Kalakshetra alumni and faculty members, S. Sathyalingam and Neila Sathyalingam. Giving a unique identity Aravinth, who has extensively researched Khmer history before conceptualising these works, says what he finds amazing about Cambodian temples and monuments is that they are not mere replicas of Indian structures. “They have been created after a deep study of the Indian tradition and their own understanding of it. This gives the South East Asian culture a unique identity. Having been in Singapore for many years and practising an art that goes beyond technique to explore tradition, I have been drawn towards themes that help me look at the world through the window of culture.” Amara’s music has been composed by Rajkumar Bharathi, a long-time collaborator, who always finds doing music for the company’s productions exciting, “since it is a lovely mix of imagination and convention.” “Besides choreography, a lot of thought also goes into costume and set design. I feel a production’s appeal depends on how much the team has worked on every little aspect. The effort never stops with crafting concepts and movements. ‘Amara’ will once again prove our belief in setting the stage perfectly, even if it is a digital presentation. Choreography and costume for the production are by Mohanapriyan Thavarajah while sound design is by Sai Shravanan. And eight dancers will unravel the stories of Banteay Srei,” says Aravinth.  ‘Amara’ will be available for viewing on SISTIC Live till November 29.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||When children turn storytellers||It is usually elders who narrate stories to children. But a new collaborative series ‘Kutty Kahani,’ curated and produced by Ananda Shankar Jayant’s Natyarambha, will have children aged between six and 13, from across the world, narrate stories about India through music, dance, poetry, puppetry, acting and story-telling. To be premièred today, the series will be streamed daily at 8 a.m. on the Facebook page and Instagram handles of Natyarambha and Narthaki.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil music festival||Oppilal School of Music and Fine Arts and The ARTery, will conduct a three-day Kandar Shasti music festival from November 25 to 27. The virtual event will be inaugurated by Sri Jayendrapuri Mahaswamigal. Premeela Gurumurthy, vice-chancellor, Tamil Nadu Music and Fine Arts University, will preside. On the occasion, actor Revathi Sankaran will be honoured with the ‘Oppilaamani’ award. The festival will begin with the Nadaswaram concert of Thirumeignanam brothers (9 a.m.) followed by Dr. Sirkazhi Sivachidambaram’s vocal concert at 10.45 a.m. Senior and up-and-coming vocalists and instrumentalists will perform at the event which can be watched live on The ARTery’s YouTube channel and Facebook page.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Oothukkadu aradhana in the U.S.||The 12th annual Oothukadu Venkata Kavi Aradhana held annually in the Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex goes digital this year. To be held from November 20 to 22 (6.30 p.m.), it will feature well-known artistes from the U.S.and India. Log on to the Facebook page of DFW Ootthukkadu Venkata Kavi Aradhana.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The stage is set||The Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival is all set for a live performance in Hyderabad from today. To be held at Radisson Blu Plaza, this year’s event, in an abridged format, is on till November 22. Featuring plays by directors like K.V. Subbanna, Heeba Shah, Mohammad Ali Baig and with actors like Danish Husain, Bhageerathi, Suchitra Krishnamoorthi and Daulat Vaid, the festival will pay tribute to COVID-19 warriors. The plays can be watched online at a later date.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Healing through music||The Parent’s Association Thalassemic Unit Trust (PATUT), in collaboration with Perfect Harmony Productions and Hungama, will present ‘The Ghazal Symphony’ as part of its annual fundraiser. To be held tomorrow at 8.30 p.m., it will feature well-known singer Pankaj Udhas.
20 November 2020||November 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Vishwarang goes digital||The third phase of Vishwarang, an arts and literature festival organised by Rabindranath Tagore University, Bhopal, will be held online till November 29. Featuring more than 1,000 writers and artistes from around the world, the events will include book releases, dastangoi, a film festival, and a painting exhibition themed around women in Indian art.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Penalty for not wearing mask in public up from Rs. 500 to Rs. 2,000||To create an effective deterrent, the fine for not wearing a mask in public has been increased from Rs. 500 to Rs. 2,000 in the Capital. L-G CM meeting The decision was taken at a meeting between Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. Mr. Kejriwal said: “When words do not do the task, imposing restrictions on them becomes necessary. Some people are defying COVID-19 protocols and exposing themselves and others to the risk of contracting the virus.” Due to the rise in the number of cases in Delhi, Mr. Kejriwal requested the people to celebrate Chhath Puja on November 20 at home instead of venturing out. “According to experts, if 200 people enter a pond and even if one person is infected then all those who are in the water will 100% get the virus,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the government is not against the celebration of Chhath Puja but was taking measures to ensure the safety of people. Mr. Kejriwal said all private hospitals have been asked to reserve 80% of ICU beds for COVID-19 patients and 60% of non-ICU beds for virus patients as well. Private hospitals have been asked to defer all non-critical planned surgeries for a few days until the peak of cases passes, Mr. Kejriwal added. Commenting on an all-party meet that was held on Thursday morning, Mr. Kejriwal said he took suggestions from all parties and would work on implementing them. “Delhi is going through a tough phase. This is not the time to play politics and issue statements against parties but to work together,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He appealed to all parties and social organisations in the city to ensure that people wear masks. Mr. Kejriwal also visited the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital to review its preparedness, which has increased the number of ICU beds from 50 to 100 beds. Fewer deaths He thanked doctors and all healthcare workers for working to ensure that there are fewer deaths in the Capital. He added that compared to other major cities across the world that saw a peak in cases, Delhi was handling the situation much better. He alleged that videos had surfaced from cities across the world like New York when there were a high number of daily cases that showed people lying on the roads because they were not able to avail beds in the hospitals. “The situation was grave, and the number of deaths was high and bodies were lying one over the other. The same type of visuals was received from Sweden, France, Italy, when Corona was at a peak in their countries,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that today, there are around 8,500 daily cases but “our medical fraternity has done a commendable job in COVID management. Delhi still has 7,500 beds and 450 ICU beds available for COVID-19 patients. There are no patients lying in corridors or on roads, even after the peak hit Delhi,” the Chief Minister said.  According to experts, if 200 people enter a pond and even if one person is infected then all those who are in the water will 100% get the virus Arvind Kejriwal   Chief Minister
20 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Congress leaders should introspect, says Dushyant||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Thursday dismissed the Congress party’s remark surrounding ‘mistrust among the ruling BJP-JJP coalition government’, saying the government was strongly moving ahead in the State and instead it was the Congress, which was suffering from factionalism, that should introspect.  ‘Bickering evident’ “Bickering among Congress at the national level is quite evident in the backdrop of remarks made by senior leader Kapil Sibal. The squabble will not take much time to hit the Haryana Congress, which has been suffering from lack of trust among its leaders... Congress leaders should introspect,” he said, addressing a press conference here. Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda had earlier stated after the Congress’s win in the Baroda Assembly by-election that “cracks and mistrust have emerged among ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party and their coalition government in Haryana is all set to fall under the weight of this mistrust anytime soon.” Mr. Chautala said the government has procured the kharif (summer) crops from farmers at the Minimum Support Price and curbed the paddy crop brought from other States being sold illegally.  Paddy transportation “For the first time, the State government has made provision of paddy transportation from grain market or procurement centre to warehouse and mills, due to which the crop is being lifted on time. The State government has procured 55,07,000 metric tonnes of paddy from about 200 grain markets or procurement centres in the State till November 18, out of which 53,65,000 metric tonnes have been delivered to warehouses and mills. Paddy of most of the registered farmers of Haryana has been procured,” he said.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU to establish special centre for systems medicine||The Academic Council of Jawaharlal Nehru University on Thursday announced the decision to establish a special centre for systems medicine (SCSM) at the university and deliberated on the possibility of converting the existing three-year BA programmes into four-year courses in accordance with the National Education Policy, 2020. National hub Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar said, “The proposed centre would serve as a national hub for the development of India’s specific clinical and molecular data and its application in the area of systems medicine”. He added that this is in tune with the global trends and Indian universities have great opportunity to develop systems medicine for efficient and customised healthcare in the country. The university said that systems medicine is an approach to understand the complexity of the interactions of all the molecular and cellular determinants involved in the patho-physiology of a disease. Course period The 155th Academic Council meeting also formed an apex committee consisting of representatives from different schools and centres to deliberate and come up with its recommendations in how to implement the NEP. Rector 1 Chintamani Mahapatra said that some of the major issues that came under focus at the meeting were the possibility of converting the existing three-year BA courses into four-year programmes and starting new four-year undergraduate programmes. The council also deliberated offering master’s level programmes in online mode on subjects which do not require lab or experimental work, he added. On intake of students, the council discussed how to strengthen its inclusive policy to provide better opportunities for students coming from socially and economically disadvantaged sections as well as increasing the intake of international students.
20 November 2020||Guwahati,||Fissures in proposed Assam grand alliance||Like the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen in Bihar, the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) appears to have become the bugbear for political parties in poll-bound Assam. Mainstream and regional parties, old and new, have tagged the AIUDF led by perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal as the ‘B-team’ of each other with the Assembly elections due by May 2021. The AIUDF, seen as pro-migrant Muslims in the State polarised between the indigenous and the outsiders, has also become a factor in differences cropping up within the parties expected to form a grand alliance for stopping the BJP from returning to power. “The AIUDF becomes the B-team of whichever party rules Assam or Delhi, whether it is the Congress or the BJP,” said Adip Kumar Phukan, spokesperson of Asom Jatiya Parishad (AJP), formed by two major students’ organisations in the State. “Badruddin Ajmal survives on the politics of polarisation. He helps the party in power to save his business interests,” said Bhasco D. Saikia, leader of Raijor Dal, another new regional party formed by several NGOs, including that of jailed activist Akhil Gogoi. Their views on the AIUDF followed Mr Ajmal’s assertion that Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma was financing the new regional parties with the objective of dividing the Muslim voters who have been backing the AIUDF.
20 November 2020||Jaipur,||Govt. fixes rates for virus treatment in pvt. hospitals||Private hospitals in Rajasthan will give treatment to COVID-19 patients at the rates fixed by the State government and increase the number of beds for admitting serious patients. The State government has issued these directions to the hospitals in view of the winter season when infections are likely to increase. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, who reviewed the pandemic situation at a high-level meeting here on Wednesday, has asked the administration and the Medical and Health Department to ensure that patients admitted to private hospitals do not face any inconvenience. The number of beds in intensive care units and other facilities at both government and private hospitals should be enhanced, he said. Mr. Gehlot also said pulse oximeters would be provided to accredited social health activists across the State to facilitate checking of oxygen level of people. “Since 27% of deaths due to COVID-19 in Rajasthan have been reported from the rural areas, the people residing in villages should remain alert and follow all health-related protocols,” he said, adding that a team of experts may also study if a modification in medical protocol was required to deal with the changing symptoms of the virus.  ‘Sufficient beds’ Medical and Health Secretary Siddharth Mahajan said at the meeting that the death rate of COVID-19 patients in the State was only 0.91%, while a sufficient number of beds were available for patients at the dedicated government health facility in Rajasthan University of Health Sciences Hospital in Jaipur.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Construction workers can register via doorstep delivery’||Construction labourers in Delhi can use the government’s doorstep delivery services to register themselves with the construction board to avail various welfare schemes, said Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday. “The labourers can call at 1076 and say that they want to register for welfare schemes of the government and our executive will go to his house at the time he chooses. They do not have to visit government offices now,” Mr. Sisodia said. The application will be approved online and an acknowledgement SMS and a call confirming the registration will be sent. “They will also get the registration certification at their homes in five to six days,” the Minister said. Removal of middlemen Mr. Sisodia said that construction workers’ welfare cess is collected from construction companies and the amount is used for the welfare of workers. To avail this amount, a construction worker needs to be registered with the board. He said due to the complex process of registration and renewal, middlemen illegally ended up taking anything between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 from labourers in the name of filling up their forms. Moreover, the workers then repeatedly go to the labour office and spend hours in queues. This leads to a loss of daily wages. The Minister said under the law, the definition of a construction worker is fairly broad, including builder, painter, blacksmith, and crane operator among others. He added that a watchman at construction sites, plumbers, carpenters, electricians, fitters, welders, shuttering workers, pump operators and others are also categorised as construction workers. “Registered workers can avail an amount of anything between Rs. 35,000 to Rs. 51,000 for their child’s marriage. Health benefits of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 10,000 and maternity benefit of up to Rs. 30,000, a monthly pension of Rs. 3,000 for workers over the age of 60, compensation of Rs. 2 lakh in case of accidental death, Rs. 1 lakh in case of natural death, Rs. 10,000 for covering the costs of a funeral, and Rs. 1 lakh as disability cover. Additionally, monthly scholarships ranging from Rs. 500 to Rs. 10,000 are also given for a worker’s child’s education,” an official statement said. “Until now, only 1,11,000 workers have been registered in Delhi even though the city has an estimated 10 lakh workers working,” the Minister said.
20 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||St. Stephen’s asked to help needy students||The staff association of St. Stephen’s College has written to the college administration urging it to set up a committee to consider the needs of students for financial aid and disbursal of scholarships. Referring to the incident where a Delhi University student ended her life due to financial constraints, the staff association said that teachers have been receiving requests from students for obtaining devices for online classes. Financial hardship In the letter to principal John Varghese, staff association president Nandita Narain said: “There is increased financial hardship and some of our students are facing genuine difficulties in accessing online classes and in paying the fees. Faculty members have been receiving requests from students for help with both — fee payment and obtaining devices to attend the online classes.” “The staff association would like to request you to set up a committee comprising the heads of all 11 courses taught in the college to consider the needs of students for support and disburse all scholarships and financial aid,” the letter read. It further suggested to provide laptops to the needy students.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||11 District Magistrates told to double testing centres||Delhi witnessed 7,546 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,10,630, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Thursday. Also, 98 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 8,041. Of the total cases, 4,59,368 people have recovered and there are 43,221 active cases. About 89.9% of ICU beds with ventilators for COVID-19 treatment in the city were occupied by Thursday night and 86.2% of the ICU beds without ventilators were full, as per Delhi government data. Also, out of the total 16,965 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 55.9% were occupied. The Delhi government on Thursday directed all 11 District Magistrates (DMs) to double COVID-19 testing centres in their districts. ‘Manpower required’ “It is therefore directed that all DMs/CDMOs will take steps to double the testing centres in all districts immediately. The locations will be finalised by November 19, 2020 and actual scaling up will be done latest by November 21. The manpower required for the new testing centres may be hired from open market, if required,” read an order issued by S.M. Ali, Special Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department (H&FW) of the Delhi government. The order also said non-compliance will be viewed “seriously”. Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday had given directions to double testing in Delhi. The government has also issued an order that COVID-19 hospitals can engage fourth and fifth year MBBS students and interns to assist doctors. MBBS students “In view of COVID-19 pandemic and increased demand of ICU beds & medical HR in the hospitals of GNCTD Delhi for management of COVID-19, all MDs/Directors of COVID Hospitals of GNCTD are permitted to engage 4th & 5th year MBBS students, Interns and BDS pass doctors to assist the duty doctors at the honorarium of Rs. 1,000 [8 hours shift] and Rs. 2,000 [12 hours shift],” an order issued by the H&FW Department on Wednesday read.
20 November 2020||Lucknow,||Policewomen suspended for assault in U.P.||A gang rape victim in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday accused two woman constables of the Ayodhya police of assaulting her inside a police station when she went to record her statement. Not only did the constables refuse to believe her, they also beat her with boots, hit her with belts and pressured to change her version, she said. A probe was launched and two woman constables — Shikha and Neetu — were suspended.  Raped by two men The woman from Maharajganj police station area of Ayodhya alleged that she was raped by two men, identified as Vishal and Mahendra, when she stepped out to answer nature’s call. Talking to local media, the woman alleged that two women constables questioned the credibility of her allegations and beat her.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||150 ICU beds added in last 3 days: MHA||As many as 150 Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds have been added in the last three days in Delhi, tweeted the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The ministry said 500 isolation beds at a COVID-19 care centre in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur will be converted to beds with an oxygen facility by the end of the week. The MHA also said train coaches at Shakur Basti railway station will soon become functional. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had reviewed COVID-19-related infrastructure on November 15. “Following HM’s directive, about 150 ICU beds have been added in the last three days in Delhi. Also, the current capacity of 3,652 ICU beds will be further ramped up. Train coaches with 800 beds at Shakur Basti railway station to become functional. Doctors and paramedics from CAPF to man these coaches,” the MHA said. “To ramp up the medical infrastructure here, all 75 doctors and 251 paramedics from CAPF have reported for duty. Fifty doctors and 175 paramedics have been deployed at Chhatarpur and Shakur Basti COVID-19 care centre. The government asked to refer patients needing critical care to these facilities,” another tweet read. “MHA has advised Haryana and U.P. govts to hold a survey of private hospitals in their districts on the lines of Delhi,” the tweet said.
20 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam artists detained for Gogoi mural||Members of an Assam art group were detained on Thursday for painting a mural detailing the arrest of rights activist Akhil Gogoi but were let go after they erased the “protest artwork”. Pranjal Kalita, a member of the art collective named Anga, said they had used the expansive wall of a building in Guwahati’s Basistha area to protest the “witch-hunting” against Mr. Gogoi.
20 November 2020||Guwahati,||BJP, CPI(M) oppose Bru resettlement||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) in the restive northern Tripura have come on the same page to oppose largescale resettlement of Bru refugees from adjoining Mizoram. Non-Brus had on November 16 called an indefinite shutdown in Kanchanpur Subdivision of North Tripura district against the Tripura government’s alleged move to resettle some 5,200 of an estimated 6,500 Bru families in seven places of the subdivision. The Joint Movement Committee (JMC) comprising local Bengalis, Mizos and others has been spearheading the “apolitical” resistance against resettlement of the Brus. The movement has taken a political turn with Kanchanpur units of the BJP and the CPI(M) throwing their weight behind the JMC.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC transfers judge hearing Akbar case||The Delhi High Court on Thursday transferred the judge — hearing former Union Minister M.J. Akbar's defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment — to another court. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Vishal Pahuja, who presided over a special MP/MLA court in Rouse Avenue District Court, has been transferred to Karkardooma District Court as Senior Civil Judge-cum-Rent Controller. Judge Pahuja’s transfer is part of HC’s administrative order to transfer over 120 judges to a different court. Another 94 newl- inducted judges were also allotted different courts across the city. The court order also said the postings or transfers in the Delhi Judicial Service will be with immediate effect. The defamation case filed by Mr. Akbar is at the final stage of hearing.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||Three arrested for snatching foreign currency||A 26-year-old social media influencer and her two friends were arrested from Goa for allegedly snatching foreign currency from a person in south Delhi, the police said on Thursday. The accused used the money to stay in five-star hotels in Goa and play poker in casinos, they said. They have been identified as Amrita Sethi, a resident of Rajouri Garden, Akshit Jhamb (25), a resident of Tilak Nagar, and Kushaal. A case has been filed and a probe is on.
20 November 2020||New Delhi,||AAP’s Amanatullah Khan elected as chairman of Delhi Waqf Board||AAP leader Amanatullah Khan was unanimously elected as the chairman of the Delhi Waqf Board on Thursday, officials said. The Okhla MLA returned as the chairman of the board for the third time in a row after stepping down from the post in March due to the dissolution of the Delhi Assembly. “Mr. Khan was elected unanimously by the six members of the Waqf Board present at the meeting,” a senior Delhi government officer said.
