20 October 2020||Kolkata,||Pandals become no-entry zones||No visitors will be allowed inside Durga puja pandals across West Bengal, and the puja mandap will be treated as a “containment zone” this year, the Calcutta High Court said on Monday. A Division Bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee said only organisers of the puja committees can enter the pandals in numbers ranging from 15 to 25. “No Entry” notices should be put up near the pandals this year, and an awareness drive should be taken up to inform people about the order, the Bench said. Hearing a public interest litigation petition on the issue of Durga pujas being allowed in the State during the COVID-19 pandemic, the court observed that the police does not have enough resources to control the crowd if people descend on the streets. “The Calcutta High Court said small pandals of five metre and large pandals of 10 metre should be declared no-entry zones. The distance will have to be measured from the place where the boundary of the pandal ends,” Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, advocate appearing for the petitioner, said. The Court also directed that the names of the puja organisers allowed inside the pandal be displayed outside the pandal, and this cannot be changed every day. Court seeks report The court expressed disappointment that the State government had not come up with a plan to implement the guidelines issued earlier. The court asked the government to submit a report on the matter on November 5. The order assumes huge significance as there are about 37,000 Durga pujas being organised across the State despite warnings issued by doctors that crowding during the festival can worsen the COVID-19 pandemic. Over the past few days, the State has been recording a spike in COVID-19 cases and more than 60 deaths every day.
20 October 2020||MADURAI,||‘Preponderance of probabilities enough to punish public servants’||Preponderance of probabilities was sufficient to punish public servants under the Discipline and Appeal Rules, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed while dismissing the petition filed by a Village Administrative Officer (VAO) who was punished for misconduct. The court was hearing the petition filed by R. Vasantha from Dindigul district who challenged the punishment of stoppage of increment for three years with cumulative effect awarded to her on a charge of misconduct. Disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the petitioner after she granted permission to a woman landowner to cut seemai karuvelam trees that had grown on her land. Actually, the Revenue Inspector concerned should have given the permission. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that the punishment imposed by the disciplinary authorities as well as the appellate authorities could be modified in rare circumstances by the High Court in a writ petition. It could be in the case of punishment not being proportionate to the gravity of the charge. As far as the disciplinary authorities were concerned, the standard of proof required was not akin to that of the standard of proof required in a criminal or a civil case, the court said.  The allegation set out in the charge memo, the materials available on record and consideration by the disciplinary authority as well as the enquiry officers were sufficient to arrive at a conclusion that the punishment was imposed in accordance with law. In the present case, a charge memo was issued and the petitioner denied the charge. An enquiry officer was appointed and the petitioner was given a reasonable opportunity to defend her case. Thereafter, the finding was arrived at by the officer. There was no perversity on the part of the disciplinary authority in accepting the finding and imposing the punishment on the petitioner, the court said, and observed that the punishment imposed was in consonance with the rules in force.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Chinese soldier who strayed across LAC held in Ladakh||A Chinese soldier was apprehended in the Demchok sector in eastern Ladakh after he strayed across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Army said on Monday. The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) soldier has been identified as Corporal Wang Ya Long. “The PLA soldier has been provided medical assistance, including oxygen, food and warm clothes, to protect him from the vagaries of extreme altitude and harsh climatic conditions,” the Army said in a statement. A request has also been received from the PLA about the whereabouts of the missing soldier, it stated. As per established protocols, he will be returned to Chinese officials at the Chushul-Moldo meeting point after the completion of formalities, the Army said. An official source said that as a procedure, there would be interrogation on the circumstances of the crossing and also a medical examination. Troops’ deployment Both countries have deployed thousands of troops and equipment along the LAC since the beginning of the stand-off in May after PLA troops made ingress at several locations in eastern Ladakh. In June, three days after the clash in the Galwan Valley that left 20 Indian soldiers dead, the PLA released 10 Indian Army personnel, including a Lieutenant Colonel and three Majors, from their custody. Tensions have remained high since the Galwan clash and flared up further on the south and north banks of Pangong Tso (lake) following provocative moves by the PLA in August-end. However, the situation has remained calm since the meeting between the Foreign Ministers of both countries in Moscow on September 10. The two sides have so far held seven rounds of Corps Commander-level talks to reach an understanding on disengagement and de-escalation.
20 October 2020||Kolkata,||CAA will be executed, rules being framed, says Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J. P. Nadda said on Monday that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented and the process of framing rules is on. “It is certain that you will get CAA. Because of coronavirus, the implementation of CAA got delayed. But as the situation is slowly improving, work has started and rules are now being framed,” Mr. Nadda said while addressing party supporters at an event in Siliguri in north Bengal. Reports in early August had said that the Union Home Ministry had sought a three-month extension to frame the rules related to the contentious legislation. The implementation of CAA has become a prominent political issue in the State with the ruling Trinamool Congress not only opposing it but hitting the streets in protest against the legislation. The BJP president, who is visiting north Bengal, targeted the Mamata Banerjee government in the State, accusing it of indulging in a “divide and rule” policy. Mr. Nadda raised questions on the non-implementation of two Central schemes — PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat. “Didi [Mamata Banerjee] says that these schemes won’t be implemented. I want to assure you that in April these schemes will be implemented,” Mr. Nadda said, referring to the Assembly elections scheduled for next year in West Bengal. Farmers’ benefits The BJP president said that 8.6 lakh farmers had benefited from the PM Kisan scheme in the country, but the benefit could not reach farmers in West Bengal. Mr. Nadda touched upon several issues related to north Bengal, including the demand for a separate State of Gorkhaland by the people of the Darjeeling hills. He reiterated the party’s commitment to a “permanent political solution” to the people of Darjeeling hills and said the BJP manifesto for 2019 Lok Sabha polls also talks about it. He also assured Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities.
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Udupi ZP chief asks GPs to impose fine on users of banned plastic carry bags||Udupi Zilla Panchayat president Dinakar Babu on Monday instructed gram panchayats to impose fines on users of banned plastic carry bags in their jurisdiction from November 1. Speaking at the monthly Karnataka Development Programme (KDP) meeting in Udupi on Monday, he instructed that all executive officers of taluk panchayats and panchayat development officers (PDOs) in gram panchayats should take the required steps for the strict implementation of the Plastic Waste Management Rules 2016. He said that though the rules are already in force, they are not being adhered to in hotels, shops and other establishments in rural areas. Shops and hotels still gave the banned plastic carry bags to customers. Though there are alternative products for the banned plastic, especially the carry bags, they are not being used. He said that the gram panchayats during this month should create awareness among people not to use the banned plastic products. Fines should be imposed from November 1. He instructed the Horticulture Department officials to encourage terrace gardening by managing properly the terrace garden on the building of the department. Joint Director of Agriculture Department H. Kempe Gowda told the meeting that 273 hectares of agricultural land has been damaged in rain in the district this year. Steps have been taken to provide compensation to the affected farmers. The district recorded 15 % rainfall in excess, i.e., 5,051 mm against a normal 4,375 mm this year. Deputy Director of Horticulture Department Bhuvaneshwari said that horticultural crops on 29 hectares have been damaged. Mattu Gulla plants on 6.8 hectares have been damaged, she said. Steps have been taken to provide compensation of Rs. 20,000 per acre to the affected farmers. she added. The meeting resolved to write to the government to fill vacant posts in the government departments in the district.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State bracing for second wave of COVID-19, says Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Medical Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has said the State government is bracing itself to fight the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic more effectively. The Indian Council of Medical Research suggested the possibility of a second wave of rise in the incidence of COVID-19 infections in the country, Mr. Srinivas said at a review meeting with officials of the Health Department here on Monday. He said the State had conducted highest number of tests and was able to control deaths even though huge number of cases were reported. He said cooperation of every individual was needed to keep coronavirus at bay and one should continue to follow COVID appropriate behaviour, including maintaining physical distance, wearing mask, washing or sanitising hands frequently. He said given the current situation, the coming days were key to the Health Department in fighting the pandemic. He asked officials to focus on home isolated patients so that they recovered quickly and did not spread the virus to others.
20 October 2020||GUNTUR,||Jagan conducts aerial survey of flood-hit areas||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has instructed officials to enumerate every acre of agricultural crop that has been damaged in the recent floods in the State. The Chief Minister, accompanied by Minister for Transport Perni Venkataramaiah and Minister for Home and Disaster Management Mekathoti Sucharita, conducted an aerial survey of Guntur and Krishna districts and inspected the damage to standing crops. Mr. Jagan inspected Nandigama, Avanigadda, Penamaluru, Mylavaram and Tadikonda Assembly segments. “I directed the officials to prepare estimates of damage to standing crops and ensure that not even a single acre is missed out. We are supplying essential commodities to flood-hit people every day and we will also release funds to repair damaged roads,” the Chief Minister said. The Chief Minister directed the officials to pay input subsidy to farmers and ensure that seeds and fertilizers were supplied.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Vijay Sethupathi pulls out of 800 after Murali’s letter||Putting to rest the controversy in Tamil Nadu, Sri Lankan cricketing icon Muttiah Muralitharan asked actor Vijay Sethupathi, who was roped in to star in his biopic, 800 , to “step away” from the project so as not to encounter problems in his career in future. Vijay Sethupathi shared Muralitharan’s statement with a message ‘ Nandri, Vanakkam ’ (Thank you), as if to suggest he would not be starring in 800 . Speaking to the media later, he confirmed that he had withdrawn from the project. “It is over,” he said. Muralitharan’s statement provided him with an easy way out of the controversy. In a statement from the United Arab Emirates, Muralitharan, who is now working as the bowling coach for the Sunrisers Hyderabad playing in the Indian Premier League, said he did not “want to be the reason for derailment of the career of a great artist like Vijay Sethupathi”. “He should not suffer any unnecessary obstacles in his career as an artist in future. Therefore, I request him to move away,” he said. Muralitharan said he had never felt “fatigued because of setbacks and has always won against all odds to reach where I have today”. “I consented to my biopic to be made because it would provide inspiration and confidence to future generations and young cricketers. But there have been many obstacles. I hope this film would be made despite these obstacles. I have been given assurances by the production house that they would make an announcement soon and I will stand by them in all their efforts,” he said. Severe opposition The overwhelming opposition faced by Vijay Sethupathi prompted a clarification from Muralitharan who said his statements made in the past about the Sri Lankan civil war that ended in 2009 were taken out of context. He said, “I did not support the killings of innocent people and I would not do it.” As soon as the official motion poster of 800 was launched, political leaders and many from the Tamil film industry said the actor should not act in the biopic of a person who had earlier made comments perceived to be in support of the war waged by the Sri Lankan forces against the LTTE which resulted in the death of thousands of civilians.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC asks Zee News to disclose source of report on Delhi riots||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed Zee Media Corporation Limited to submit an affidavit disclosing the source of its news report on an alleged disclosure statement of a Jamia Millia Islamia student, Asif Iqbal Tanha, who was arrested in a case related to the February riots. Justice Vibhu Bakhru questioned how Zee News got the documents, which even the accused did not have. “You [Zee News] take out documents from anybody, read it out and sensationalise the issue is not something that the court will countenance. These are documents which should not have been taken out and published,” Justice Bakhru said. “The officers who have taken out [documents] are going to face vigilance inquiry. 19(1)(a) is not an unrivalled right in our country that has no limitations,” the judge remarked. The court also declined the plea of advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for Zee News, who argued that pressing for disclosure of source would amount to interfering with the freedom of press.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Atchannaidu is TDP State unit president||Tekkali MLA K. Atchannaidu has been appointed as president of the Telugu Desam Party’s Andhra Pradesh State committee by party national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Monday. Pratibha Bharati, Galla Aruna Kumari, D.K. Satya Prabha, Mecha Nageswara, Kotla Suryaprakash Reddy and Ch. Kasinath were appointed as party’s national vice-presidents. Nara Lokesh, K. Rammohan Naidu, Nimmala Rama Naidu, Varla Ramaiah, Beeda Ravi Chandra, Kothakota Dayakar Reddy, Bikkina Narsimhulu and Kambhampati Rammohan Rao were made national general secretaries. The Polit Bureau consists of Yanamala Ramakrishnudu, P. Ashok Gajapati Raju, Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu, K.E. Krishna Murthy, N. Chinarajappa, Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy, Kalava Srinivasulu, Nandamuri Balakrishna, Varla Ramaiah, K. Kala Venkata Rao, Nakka Ananda Babu, G. Butchaiah Chowdary, Bonda Umamaheswara Rao, N.Md. Farooq, Galla Jayadev, R. Srinivasa Reddy, Pithani Satyanarayana, K. Ravindra, V. Anitha, Gummadi Sandhya Rani, Ravula Chandrasekhar Reddy and Aravind Kumar Goud.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Riding without helmet will now lead to suspension of driving licence||Riding a two-wheeler without wearing a helmet will now result in the suspension of driving licence. The Transport Commissioners’ office has issued a direction to joint commissioners of all divisions stating that the new rule is in sync with the directions of the Supreme Court to check deaths and injuries in road accidents and that it would be implemented with “immediate effect”. The suspension of driving licence will be for a minimum of three months along with fine. According to the October 16 document, the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety held a meeting in this regard with the Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka, and other departments concerned on October 5 and directed the State government to implement the rule of imposing fine along with suspension of licence for not wearing helmet. A senior official of the Transport Department said, “The rule has been implemented with immediate effect across the State. Both, the rider and the pillion should wear helmet.” According to Section 129 of the Motor Vehicles Act, every person driving or riding (otherwise than in a side car, on a motor cycle of any class or description) shall, while in a public place, wear protective headgear conforming to the standards of Bureau of Indian Standards. A senior police officer of Bengaluru Traffic Police said riding without helmet was the highest among traffic violations in the city and that such infringements had increased after easing of the lockdown restrictions. Between September 13 and 19, the traffic police had booked 43,141 cases of traffic violations and collected Rs. 2.14 crore fine, and the next week, 55,717 cases were booked and Rs. 2.35 crore was collected. As many as 26,590 cases were related to helmetless riding during the September 13 to 19 week, while in the next week, the figure was 29,925.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC asks Zee News to disclose source||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed Zee Media Corporation Limited to submit an affidavit disclosing the source of its news report on an alleged disclosure statement of a JMI student, Asif Iqbal Tanha, who was arrested in a case related to the north-east Delhi riots. Justice Vibhu Bakhru questioned how Zee News got the documents, which even the accused did not have. “You [Zee News] take out documents from anybody, read it out and sensationalise the issue is not something that the court will countenance. These documents should not have been taken out and published,” the judge said.
20 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Man duped of over Rs. 5 lakh online||A Hubballi resident has been duped of over Rs. 5 lakh by online fraudsters. According to complainant Pramod Pralhadrao Kulkarni, the fraudster contacted him through Sangam Matrimony and made him believe that he had a parcel from London, for which he had to pay various charges. The fraudster, whose name the complainant has given as Mohammed, claimed to be a resident of London and told the complainant that he had to pay various charges for delivery of the parcel at his residence. The fraudster along with another courier agent spoke to him over WhatsApp voice call and then via normal call in Hindi and got Rs. 5,15,549 transferred from his Corporation Bank account to their accounts in SBI and IDFC First Bank. After no parcel was received and the persons remained incommunicado, Mr. Pramod Kulkarni filed a case with the Cyber Crime Police of Hubballi-Dharwad who have now registered a case.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Less than 30 Chennai streets made containment zones||The number of COVID-19 containment zones in the city has come down to 29, with Ambattur zone remaining free of such streets. The Greater Chennai Corporation, which resumed barricading of streets in the first week of October after COVID-19 positive cases started increasing, had at one time blocked 70 streets. Ambattur zone, which had the highest number of 29 streets barricaded, does not figure in the latest containment zone data provided by the civic body. There are 29 containment streets now with Tondiarpet and Royapuram in north Chennai accounting for seven streets each. There are no containment streets in the five zones of Madhavaram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Ambattur, Valasaravakkam and Perungudi. A senior official of the civic body said the barricading of streets was done only in places where there were more than three or four COVID-19 cases. The containment measures are only part of preventive steps, he added.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||ED questions Farooq in JKCA funds case||Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah was on Monday questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with alleged misappropriation of funds of the Jammu & Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA), of which he was the president. Dr. Abdullah, whose statements had been recorded in the case several times since 2018, was summoned to the agency’s Srinagar office for another round of questioning that went on for about six hours. The move comes days after Dr. Abdullah joined hands with PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti and other Jammu and Kashmir political leaders on the issue of Article 370. The ED’s money laundering case, alleging the misappropriation of Rs. 43.69 crore, is based on an FIR registered in 2015 by the CBI on a direction from the J&K High Court. The CBI had filed a chargesheet against Dr. Abdullah as the then association president, former JKCA general secretary Saleem Khan, treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza and senior J&K Bank executive Bashir Ahmad Misgar.
20 October 2020||Leh,||Keep off India’s affairs, Reddy tells China, Pak.||Union Minister of State for Home G.K. Reddy, who is touring Ladakh’s Leh district, warned Pakistan and China on Monday against “interfering in India's internal affairs.” “No foreign country has any locus standi to intervene in the internal affairs of India. Why would [Pakistan Prime Minister] Imran Khan and the Chinese minister comment on granting Union Territory status to Ladakh?... It’s our internal issue,” Mr. Reddy said at a press conference in Leh. “All these parties are speaking in one tune along with China and Pakistan,” Mr. Reddy said referring to statements of J&K parties, including the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the Congress, on Article 370. “They are speaking against the country. The tone and tune is one, which is unfortunate.” On NC leader Farooq Abdullah’s recent statement on China, the Union Minister said, “How can a senior political leader, who is a Member of Parliament (MP), talk about China’s support in restoring Article 370 during the escalating tensions with the country in eastern Ladakh?”
20 October 2020||Hubballi,||Loss estimated at Rs. 3,000 cr.||The initial estimates have put the losses due to heavy rain and floods in the northern region at Rs. 3,000 crore, according to Revenue Minister R. Ashok. The Minister said about 8,000 people had been displaced and they were being sheltered at relief centres. So far, 10 persons had died, Mr. Ashok said.
20 October 2020||Hubballi,||Loss estimated at Rs. 3,000 cr.||The initial estimates have put the losses due to heavy rain and floods in the northern region at Rs. 3,000 crore, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said. The Minister said about 8,000 people had been displaced and they were being sheltered at relief centres. So far, 10 persons had died, he said.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Stop and enjoy...||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Burning issue||
20 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Farm laws: Punjab House session begins||The Punjab Assembly witnessed uproarious scenes on the first day of the special session convened to bring in a law to nullify the Centre’s three farm laws. Shiromani Akali Dal and Congress MLAs came to the Assembly on tractors to register their protest against the pieces legislation and extend their support to the ongoing farmers’ protest. The Aam Aadmi Party members came wearing black robes to express their anguish against the farm laws.
20 October 2020||BELAGAVI,||Ministry move irks teachers, colleges||AYUSH Ministry’s move to regulate private Ayurveda colleges by weeding out “ghost” teachers who teach in more than one college has irked college managements and teachers who have migrated to States other than their own.
20 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Hubballi resident duped of over Rs. 5 lakh online||A Hubballi resident has been duped of over Rs. 5 lakh by online fraudsters. According to complainant Pramod Pralhadrao Kulkarni, the fraudster contacted him through Sangam Matrimony and made him believe that he had a parcel from London, for which he had to pay various charges. After he paid the charges and no parcel was received and the persons concerned remained incommunicado, Mr. Pramod Kulkarni filed a case with the Cyber Crime Police of Hubballi-Dharwad who have now registered a case.
20 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Flood situation grim in five Kalaburagi taluks||The flood situation in five taluks of Kalaburagi district — Afzalpur, Jewargi, Kalaburagi, Chittapur and Shahabad — continued to remain grim for the sixth day on Monday, with the Bhima receiving heavy inflow from upstream. As per a bulletin, the Sonna barrage, which recorded the highest ever inflow of 8 lakh cusecs till 5 p.m. on Sunday, has discharged 6.32 lakh cusecs as at 5 p.m. on Monday.
20 October 2020||Kolkata,||‘CAA will be executed, rules being framed’||BJP president J. P. Nadda said on Monday that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented and the process of framing rules is on. “It is certain that you will get CAA. Because of coronavirus, the implementation of CAA got delayed,” he said.
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hathras: plea to probe destruction of evidence||The Supreme Court has reserved for orders a writ petition filed by activist Chetan Janardhan Kamble seeking an independent investigation into the role of medical staff and top Uttar Pradesh police officers in the destruction of evidence in the Hathras rape-murder case.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Centre steps in to halt boundary row||The Union Home Ministry has asked Assam and Mizoram to maintain peace and display “no aggressive posturing” after violent clashes took place on the border between the two States on Saturday night. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla reviewed the situation on Monday.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Pollution can be tackled within 4 years: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that if all the governments make honest efforts together, pollution caused due to stubble burning could be reduced in a short period of time. He disagreed with the Union Environment Minister’s statement that it will take at least four years to solve the issue.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,||BDA increases fees for change of khata||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has increased application and registration fees of flat and site purchase and penalties, including vacant site penalty.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,||NDPS court magistrate gets threat letter||A letter and parcel addressed to the magistrate of the NDPS court and the city court threatening to carry out attacks if the accused in the drug racket case and “innocent people” arrested in D.J. Halli case were not released is being investigated by the Halasurugate police.
20 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal, Congress MLAs protest against farm laws||On the first day of a special session of the Punjab Assem-bly, MLAs of the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Congress arrived on tractors to register their protest against the Centre’s three farm laws.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Two die while cleaning septic tank in Azadpur||Two men died while cleaning a septic tank in north-west Delhi’s Azadpur area. The labourers were not wearing any safety gear. A case has been registered and the factory owner and the cont-ractor have been arrested.
20 October 2020||Pune,||Monsoon havoc | Maharashtra must borrow to cope with ‘unprecedented economic crisis’, says Pawar||The agricultural devastation wrought by the retreating monsoon had thrust Maharashtra in the grip of an unprecedented economic crisis, said Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday while urging the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government to take loans in order to pull farmers out of the present financial mire. “I will be making an earnest request to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard. The State will have to borrow and secure maximum loans to compensate for loss of agricultural land. I see no other alternative to ameliorate the present situation,” said Mr. Pawar, observing that the excess rains had not only ravaged croplands but had also wrecked village infrastructure besides killing innumerable livestock. The NCP chief was speaking in Tuljapur in rain-wracked Osmanabad district.
20 October 2020||Kolkata,||‘CAA will be executed, rules being framed’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J. P. Nadda said on Monday that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented and the process of framing rules is on. “It is certain that you will get CAA. Because of coronavirus, the implementation of CAA got delayed. But as the situation is slowly improving, work has started and rules are now being framed,” Mr. Nadda said, while addressing party supporters at an event in Siliguri in the north Bengal.Reports in early August 2020 had said that the Union Home Ministry had sought a three-month extension to frame the rules related to the contentious legislation.
20 October 2020||Hubballi,||Loss put at Rs. 3,000 crore||The initial estimates have put the losses due to heavy rain and floods in the northern region at Rs. 3,000 crore, according to Revenue Minister R. Ashok. The Minister said that about 8,000 people had been displaced and they were being sheltered at relief centres.Page 4
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Channapatna and Kinal toy makers in a bind||In less than three months, toy makers in Channapatna and Kinnal, like many other traditional toy makers in the country, should register themselves for Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) certification and their products should carry the BIS mark. However, on the ground most artisans are not aware of the changed rules.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,||No work at Kapalabetta without our nod: HC||The High Court of Karnataka restrained Harobele Kapalabetta Abhivrudhi Trust from carrying out any construction without express permission from the court on 10-acre government gomal land granted to it in at Kanakapura taluk where the trust proposes to install a 114-ft. statue of Jesus.
20 October 2020||Mysuru,||Golden girls of the centenary fete||Roopini, Dhanalakshmi R., and Shalini M.J. hogged the limelight at the Centenary Convocation of University of Mysore held at Crawford Hall in Mysuru on Monday.
20 October 2020||Mysuru,||Mobile booths for doorstep testing||Even as the authorities here seem to have managed to salvage the lost grip on handling the COVID-19 pandemic, more testing is on the cards, taking it to the doorstep of people in a bid to flatten the curve. After Bengaluru, Mysuru had been categorised as a hotspot.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Dip in fresh cases continues in State||The number of new daily cases of COVID-19 fell further in Tamil Nadu on Monday, with 3,536 persons testing positive. Chennai, which has been recording 1,000-plus cases for the past few weeks, recorded a dip with 885 new cases. The fresh cases pushed the State’s tally to 6,90,936.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu contributes Rs. 10 crore to Telangana||The State government has announced an immediate contribution of Rs. 10 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund of Telangana towards relief and rehabilitation measures in flood-hit areas. Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami wrote to his Telangana counterpart, K. Chandrasekhar Rao, on Monday.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Assembly poll a ‘war’ to protect Tamils: Stalin CHENNAI||The upcoming Assembly poll will be a “big war” to protect the rights of Tamils, DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Monday. “The election is a war to protect the education and employment rights of Tamils,” Mr. Stalin said.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Many DMK allies to cross over: Minister||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said several constituents of the DMK-led coalition might cross over to the camp led by the ruling AIADMK. “The DMK is like an automobile that has suffered a breakdown and is yet to resume functioning,” he said.
20 October 2020||MYSURU,||Adapt to the changing nature of jobs: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called upon youngsters to be flexible and adaptable to the changing nature of jobs. Delivering the centenary convocation address of the University of Mysore (UoM) virtually, he emphasised the importance of “skilling, reskilling and upskilling” in the modern-day world and how the National Education Policy (NEP) unveiled by his government recently paid attention to this aspect. The NEP, Mr. Modi said, ensures a multi-dimensional approach towards education and will bring about fundamental changes in the field of education and make youngsters more competitive. He called upon the student community to strive for excellence based on their individual strength and ability, but advised them against restricting themselves to fitting into a box. “Probably, the box in which you are trying to fit yourself into may not have been made for you,” he said. “Take time out for yourself, introspect, understand your strengths... This will help you choose your future path,” he said. He sought to draw the attention of students to the startups floated by youngsters during COVID-19 times and said startups were the strength of the country. “Your progress is also the country’s progress. If you become self-reliant, so will the country.” Saying that it was heartening to note the University of Mysore’s plans to start multi-disciplinary programmes as envisaged under the NEP, the Prime Minister said students can simultaneously study “global technology” and “local culture” under these programmes. He said it was incumbent upon UoM, one of the top educational institutions, to innovate. The university should start more incubation and technology development centres, besides ensuring industry-academy linkage while focusing more on inter-disciplinary research, he said.  Earlier, UoM Vice-Chancellor G. Hemanth Kumar welcomed Mr. Modi from Crawford Hall in Mysuru, where the centenary convocation was organised amid COVID-19 restrictions. Governor Vajubhai Vala, who was at Raj Bhavan in Bengaluru, presided over the ceremony virtually. Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Higher Education C.N. Ashwath Narayan gave away the gold medals, cash prizes and certificates to the students before the Prime Minister’s address.
20 October 2020||Sasaram,||‘Without money, nothing moves’ — it’s the refrain in Paliganj||Despite an anti-incumbency wave and the possibility that the BJP may be eyeing the Bihar Chief Minister’s post, Janata Dal(U) leader and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar is hoping to take on the mantle for the fourth consecutive term. But Mr. Kumar’s prospects are threatened by people’s anger and dissatisfaction with the issues of corruption and prohibition in the State. In Paliganj, the residents are wary of approaching panchayats and police stations because of the bribe expected. Bansidhar Paswan works as a bicycle mechanic at the Paliganj bus stand. He told The Hindu , “Corruption at the block and panchayat levels and at local police stations is so rampant that people, especially those from the Extremely Backward Class (EBC) are badly affected. It is because of EBC support that Mr. Kumar has been in power for 15 years but in the last five years, corruption among officials has grown manifold and we’re hit hard.” He alleged that the local police “don’t move a step” without bribe. “ Paisa diye bina kuch bhi nahi hota hai. Pehle aisa nahi tha [Without giving money nothing moves. It was not like this earlier],” he said. Corruption appears to dominate all aspects around Bihar’s prohibition law too. A travel agent at the bus stand asked, “What prohibition? Daru [liquor] is available everywhere… even at local police stations. Either the policemen or the local goondas [ruffians] are profiting over prohibition. For common people, the cost has gone up two-three times.” “ Likh lijiye, darubandi bhi Nitish Kumar ko bhari padega election mein. BJP kyon nahi samajhti hai is baat ko? [Write it down, Nitish Kumar will have to pay a heavy price in this election because of prohibtion. Why doesn’t the BJP understand this?” he said. It is a three-corner fight in Paliganj. Rebel BJP candidate Usha Vidyarthi is contesting on a Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) ticket. Ms. Vidyarthi is pitted against the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate Jaivardhan Yadav who, in 2015, won on a Rashtriya Janata Dal ticket but who has recently joined the JD(U), and Sandeep Bhaskar (CPI Marxist-Leninist) from the Opposition’s grand alliance. A few kilometres away, at Prasadi-English village in Arwal district, sexagenarian farmer Shiv Nandan Sharma also expressed his frustration about corruption. ‘Big talk’ “ Koi dekhane wala nahi hai, sirf bahashan baji karte hain Nitishjji... yeh kar diye, woh kar diye. Ghuskhori charam seema par hai, khas kar ke nichale level ke adhikariyon mein [No one is here to look after us. Nitish Kumar does only big talk… I’ve done this, done that. Bribery is at its peak everywhere, especially at the lower-level bureaucracy],” said Mr. Sharma, though he admitted he has been a supporter of the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. When asked about Mr. Modi putting his support behind Mr. Kumar, Mr. Sharma said, “Yes, but it will be better if the BJP has its own candidate as Chief Minister this time. Anyone can be a better Chief Minister than Nitish Kumar,” he said. He responds with a hearty laugh when asked about prohibition. “You all know… it [liquor] is available everywhere. Visit our village market in the evening and see how effective Mr. Nitish Kumar’s prohibition is in villages,” he said. Concerns around these issues echo among voters of Dedhgaon in the Dinara constituency of Sasaram district too. Retired Army jawan Harendra Kumar said, “I raise a challenge; if Mr. Kumar himself goes to a block office in disguise for any work to be done there and gets it done without paying any cut money to the officials or, if he can file an FIR without bribing policemen, I’ll go out in public with my face blackened.” “The first term of Mr. Kumar was good. He was active and really wanted to do things for people living in villages but, nowadays he listens to only what his chamcha (sycophant) officials feed him,” he added. Amarendra Singh, who runs a small hotel near the Sasaram railway station, says, “Let’s wait for the poll results to come. Mr. Kumar will realise then what is happening at the ground level.”
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||No time for relaxation: WHO||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday cautioned against any relaxation of response actions following the recent slight decline in COVID-19 cases in the South-East Asia Region, saying the pandemic continues unabated and “our response only needs to be strengthened further to curtail virus transmission”. Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, said, “There should be no complacency in view of the declining numbers in recent weeks. The region still reports large numbers of COVID-19 cases. We need to continue to do our very best to curtail the pandemic”. Festival season She said the upcoming festival season and the approaching winter or cold season threatened to aggravate the situation “if we let our guard down”. “This festive season we must continue to take responsibility as individuals need to maintain physical distance, hand hygiene, cough etiquette and wear a mask when and where needed. People must remember the three Cs — avoid crowded places, avoid closed settings and avoid confined and enclosed spaces with poor ventilation,” she said. In its release, the group said the co-circulation of seasonal influenza and COVID-19 in the winters may present challenges for health systems and health facilities, since both diseases present many similar symptoms. “Many of the same measures that are effective in preventing COVID-19 are also effective for preventing influenza, including physical distancing, hand hygiene, covering coughs, ventilation and masks’’. Positivity rate India’s national cumulative COVID-19 positivity rate has fallen under 8% and this trend has been sustained without a break for four days. “The positivity rate now stood at 7.94%,” a release issued by the Union Health Ministry on Monday said. The total tests have crossed 9.5 crore and the average daily positivity rate is 6.13% for October third week. India's active case load stood at 7,72,055 on Monday and presently the active cases comprised 10.23% of the total positive cases of the country. The total recovered cases were more than 66 lakh. Patients, numbering 66,399, have recovered and discharged in the last 24 hours, the Ministry said. Seventy-nine per cent of the new recovered cases were observed to be concentrated in 10 States and Union Territories — Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Delhi, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Maharashtra had contributed the highest, with more than 11,000 single day recovery, followed by Kerala and Karnataka, with more than 8,000 recoveries each. The country has reported 579 case fatalities in the past 24 hours. “After 90 days, the daily deaths recorded are below 600. Of these, nearly 83% are concentrated in ten State/UTs. More than 25% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra (150),’’ said the Ministry.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala HC stays Sivasankar’s arrest till Oct. 23||The Kerala High Court on Monday stayed the arrest of bureaucrat M. Sivasankar, by the Customs in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case till October 23. The court had earlier restrained the Enforcement Directorate from arresting the official till then. It will consider the two cases on that date, said Justice Ashok Menon. The official, who was former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had moved the court seeking anticipatory bail. The case relates to the seizure of 30 kg of gold from diplomatic baggage at the Thiruvananthapuram airport on July 5. ‘Cooperating with probe’ During the argument, counsel for the official submitted that he had presented himself before all investigating agencies for interrogation and was fully cooperating with the agencies. He had been interrogated for over 90 hours by various agencies and he had travelled over 600 hours from his home in Thiruvananthapuram and back for appearing before various agencies. He submitted that he was being made a pawn in a political game. Regarding his hospitalisation in Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Sivasankar submitted that there were even attempts to forcibly discharge him from the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, where he had been admitted. He had been admitted to the hospital on Friday after he complained of uneasiness when Customs officials arrived at his home and served notice on him to appear before them at 6 p.m. that day. He was first taken to a private hospital and shifted the next day to the Medical College Hospital. Opposing the bail plea, counsel for the Customs sought time for filing a counter-statement. The official was adopting a belligerent attitude towards interrogation and was evasive in his answers, he submitted.
20 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||States report fall in cases, Karnataka tests more||After the weekend, Kerala’s graph dipped to 5,022 new COVID-19 cases, from 36,599 samples. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Telangana also reported a drop in cases. The dip in Kerala was proportionate to a lower number of samples, seen from the test positivity rate which stood at 13.7%, slightly higher than the previous day. There was a small dip in the number of critically ill patients in ICUs, although it was not clear if this was due to recovery or death of patients. The number of patients in ICUs stood at 746, with 187 on ventilator support. The Health Department added 21 more deaths from the past few weeks to the State’s official toll on Monday. Ernakulam reported five deaths, Kozhikode four, Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram three each, Malappuram and Kollam two each and Kannur and Kasaragod one each. Of the new cases reported on Monday, 4,963 cases were locally acquired infections. Malappuram district was consistently reporting the highest number of cases over the past few days, while the epidemic curve was beginning to plateau or decline in many other districts. On Monday, Malappuram reported 910 cases, Kozhikode 772, Ernakulam 598, Thrissur 533, Thiruvananthapuram 516, Kollam 378, Alappuzha 340, Kannur 293, Palakkad 271, Kottayam 180, Kasaragod 120, Wayanad 51, Pathanamthitta 32 and Idukki 28 cases. Ernakulam registered a decline in active cases, but had 11,468 patients. Kozhikode had 10,852, Malappuram 10,810 and Thiruvananthapuram, 9,205 cases. Continuing with its downward trend, Andhra Pradesh recorded less than 3,000 new cases and the lowest single-day test positivity rate in the past three months. On Monday morning, 2,918 new cases and 24 deaths were reported. While 61,330 samples were tested, their positivity rate at 4.76% was the lowest in the three-month period. East Godavari district registered 468 new cases, the highest. Four districts reported the highest number of new deaths, while seven districts recorded zero or one each. The new cases and deaths were: East Godavari (468 and 2), West Godavari (447 and 1), Chittoor (380 and 4), Guntur (333 and 4), Prakasam (308 and 1), Anantapur (218 and 0), Kadapa (155 and 3), Srikakulam (143 and 0), Visakhapatnam (120 and 4), Nellore (119 and 1), Krishna (117 and 4), Kurnool (66 and 0), Vizianagaram (44 and 0). Karnataka also reported a lower incidence of 5,018 cases on Monday. Yet, 64 deaths were reported in the State. The positivity rate for the day was 6.38%, while the case fatality rate was 1.27%. A total of 78,581 tests were conducted on Monday. In Bengaluru Urban district, as many as 2,481 new COVID-19 cases were detected and 2,481 patients discharged. COVID-19 cases fell further in Tamil Nadu on Monday with 3,536 persons testing positive. Chennai reported 885 fresh cases, having recorded over 1,000 cases a day for the past few weeks. The fresh cases pushed the State’s tally to 6,90,936. Another 4,515 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the number of persons discharged so far to 6,42,152. With 49 more deaths, the State’s toll climbed to 10,691. A total of 38,093 persons were under treatment. Chennai’s daily case count again fell below 1,000. The fresh cases had been in the range of 1,000 to 1,400 since September 24. The city has accounted for a total of 1,90,949 cases, of which 12,285 are active.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No credible alternative to Nitish Kumar’||Janata Dal(U) Bihar unit president Bashishtha Narayan Singh says the Assembly election is a straight fight between two major alliances, with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar having the clear advantage of being a recognised leader with a track record in administration and reform.  Have things settled down in the NDA with regard to the Lok Janshakti Party? Whatever happens cannot be predicted. We have said before that Chirag [Paswan, LJP chief] has allied with the BJP, so this is between BJP and Chirag. The BJP has clarified that Chirag has left on his own so the matter is over for us. If you look at the tickets that Chirag has distributed, it has been to all sorts of outsiders. This time round, there are several alliances but I still feel the fight is a straight one between the two dominant alliances; vote katuas (spoilers) etc. do not have a long shelf life and are exposed soon. The NDA will win with a two-thirds majority because the leader of the principal Opposition party, Tejashwi Yadav, does not have a record of credibility. The RJD is still running on Lalu Prasad’s name rather than their current leader.  There is talk of heavy anti-incumbency against Nitish Kumar, starting from the Patna floods last year to how the migrant workers situation was handled.  Anti-incumbency factor is always talked about when a leader has been at the helm for a while. The Opposition had spread false propaganda on the handling of the migrant issue, but after the administration conducted quarantine and welfare measures properly, the talk died down. The same is the case with flood relief. Bihar has one of the earliest disaster management departments in the country and managed to take care of flood relief even during a pandemic. Why is Nitish Kumar important? He is the person who has been able to empower and build confidence among sections of society which were oppressed like the Mahadalits. Politically, you can see that the longevity of Naveen Patnaik at the helm in Odisha and Jyoti Basu in West Bengal relate to the fact they are/were the face of their governments and the alternative face had no credibility. Nitish Kumar is the face of the NDA and there is no credible alternative to him.  Prohibition is said to have led to not only loss of revenue but also long-term moral decline of society as it gives rise to organised crime. Does the NDA government have any second thoughts?   We are completely satisfied with prohibition. To know why, you need to speak to people who are aged 30 to 45. They will tell you how in the past, during wedding ceremonies and such, there was open drinking on the streets; roads would be blocked because of drunk wedding guests. The biggest thing is that after prohibition, drunken loitering has stopped, and domestic violence levels have come down. People who are addicted to alcohol may manage to procure it [liquor] but the open display of drunkenness and behaviour associated with it has come down because of the fear of arrest. Revenue loss has been compensated by the fact that there is peace on the streets. Women especially have welcomed the move.  Will women again support the Nitish government over caste considerations, or is that phase over?   Women are still the biggest supporters of Nitish Kumar. The NDA government undertook 50% reservations for women in panchayats, empowered the rural woman from backward communities in a big way; they became mukhias (village heads) and sarpanches and it has radically changed society in the countryside. When ticket distribution was being discussed, women zila parishad members came in large numbers asking for Assembly ticket, a radical departure form the past when women candidates meant only from certain families. Other moves like giving cycles to girl students, or 35% reservation in jobs has created a norm in society of encouraging education of girl child, and them entering professions like the police etc. Among women Nitish Kumar is the most recognised leader and women are a part of the entrenched support base of the Janata Dal (U).  Why was former DGP Gupteshwar Pandey denied ticket and Manju Verma, tainted by the Muzzaffarnagar incident, repeated?  The seat that Gupteshwar Pandey wanted was traditionally with the BJP. We thought we would get that particular seat in Buxar this time [but] we didn’t. As for Manju Verma, she was given ticket once the court cleared her. Before that happened, we didn’t even allow her to attend party meetings.  Nitish Kumar has been able to empower and build confidence among sections of society
20 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KSRTC to switch to digital route in two years||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has commenced steps for the total computerisation of the State undertaking. Among the key features are electronic ticketing machines with GPRS, RFID, and Bluetooth, smart cards for commuters, GPS-enabled vehicle tracking system, passenger information system and video walls at bus stands to provide information on bus schedules. The government has sanctioned Rs. 16.98 crore for the project, which will be completed in two years, according to Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran. Pact with C-DAC As the first step, the government has entered into a Rs. 2.5-crore agreement with the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) for the installation of a central control room for vehicle tracking based on GPS data. The tender process for the purchase of 5,500 electronic ticket machines has begun. The machines will be procured by March 31 next year. KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar said salaries of employees at Transport Bhavan had already been transferred to SPARK, which would be in place at all depots from January 1, 2021. From April 1 next year, all payments would be through SPARK. Ticket machines will be integrated with the existing Online Passenger Reservation System (OPRS) for live booking. Smart cards Passengers can make use of smart cards, which can be recharged online. Long-distance buses will be equipped with GPS in the first phase. The facility will be extended to city services in the capital and local services in other districts in the final phase. Passengers wanting to board a bus will be able to track the vehicle through an app, which will provide information as soon as the bus starts and update details. Information on approaching bus stops will be flashed on a display board inside long-distance buses. Video wall at bus stands A video wall will be set up at bus stands to give updates on arrival/departure of buses. The KSRTC aims to earn Rs. 10 crore a month in advertising revenue in three years, the CMD said.
20 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala bar bribery case back in focus||The shadow of the bar licence renewal bribery case that rocked the Oommen Chandy government in 2015 and cost Kerala Congress (M) leader K.M. Mani his Cabinet berth seems to have reappeared to bedevil the ruling front and the Opposition in the election year. Biju Ramesh, the complainant in the case, claimed on Monday that KC(M) leader Jose K. Mani had offered him Rs. 10 crore that year to drop the accusation and the CPI(M) asked him not to entertain the entreaty. Mr. Mani rejected the charge and portrayed it as another attempt to tarnish the political legacy of K.M. Mani. Mr. Ramesh’s statement comes close on the heels of the leak on Sunday of a questionable private investigation report of 2015 that claimed that K.M. Mani was the victim of a conspiracy to install the then Home Minister Ramesh Chennithala at the helm of the United Democratic Front government. It had named Mr. Ramesh as one of the conspirators. Timing of report The report said the plotters viewed K.M. Mani as supportive of Mr. Chandy and an impediment to their scheme. Hence, they had hatched the bar case to render him politically impotent. A private agency probed the matter confidentially at the behest of K.M. Mani. The report appeared in the media after Left Democratic Front leaders signalled on Friday that they were not averse to accommodating Mr. Mani in the ruling front. Mr. Mani said the report did not have the imprimatur of the KC(M). Nevertheless, the allegations appear to have precipitated a reckoning with the past in some measure in State politics.  The report has come up as an awkward talking point for both the fronts.  Case closed in 2019 Three successive judges had thrown out the plea of consecutive governments, including that of the LDF in 2018, to exonerate K.M. Mani from the crime. His death in 2019 led to the closure of the case. The charge against K.M. Mani was that he had sought and received illegal gratification from the Kerala Bar Hotel Association in 2013-14 to expedite the relicensing of more than 300 bars the government had shut down on the premise that they were unhygienic. K.M. Mani was the sole accused in the case.  Jose K. Mani rejects charge, terms it another attempt to tarnish the political legacy of K.M. Mani
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||More than half of farmers oppose farm laws: survey||More than half of Indian farmers oppose the three farm reform laws passed by Parliament last month, while only 35% support them, according to a new survey in 16 States conducted by Gaon Connection Insights. Almost 40% expressed fear that the new laws will end state-run markets and government procurement at minimum support prices, and almost 60% are in favour of a legal guarantee for MSPs. Despite the widespread opposition to these laws, almost 44% of respondents said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government was “pro-farmer”, while 28% said it was “anti-farmer.” Asked about whom the Modi government supports, however, about 35% of those surveyed thought that it supports farmers, while 30% felt that it supports private companies and multinationals, and 15% said the government supports middlemen and traders. Gaon Connection did a face-to-face survey of a sample of more than 5,000 farmers, three-fourths of whom own less than five acres of land, in 53 districts across 16 States between October 3 and 9. It found that state-run mandis are the most popular medium of produce sale across the country (36%), followed by private traders (26%). Currently, only 2% sell to corporates. The northwestern States of Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh which have the highest proportion of sales in state-run markets (78%), also have the highest rates of opposition to the news reform laws (77%). The west was, however, the only region where supporters of the new laws (52%) narrowly overtook the opposition (48%).
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||India setting up a robust vaccine delivery system: PM||India was one of the first countries to adopt a “flexible” lockdown approach and thereby managed to keep death rates from COVID-19 relatively low, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the launch of the Grand Challenges Annual Meeting, organised by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. The three-day programme aims to bring together policy makers and scientific leaders, calling for scientific collaboration in solving global health problems, with emphasis on the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) and will feature leaders’ talks, panel discussions and virtual informal conversations. Nearly 1,600 people from 40 countries are expected to participate. “India is now at the forefront of COVID-19 vaccine development. We are working on putting a well established vaccine delivery system in place. This digitised network with a digital health ID will be used for securing the health of our citizens,” Mr. Modi said in his address as the key note speaker. “India’s size, scale and diversity has made the global community curious. Thanks to a people-powered approach we have kept our death rates low. We are seeing a per day decline in growth of cases and we have a high recovery rate of 88% and this was because we adopted a flexible lockdown. We were among the first to encourage use of masks and rapid antigen tests,” the Prime Minister said. India’s vaccine delivery system would be used to ensure immunisation of citizens. “We are known for our capability of making low cost vaccines,” Mr. Modi said. “We want to help other nations enhance their capabilities in vaccine manufacturing and immunisation.” Along with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the meeting is being hosted by the Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, the Indian Council of Medical Research and NITI Aayog.  Thanks to a people-powered approach, we have kept our death rates low
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. getting ready for physical rallies||With only 10 days to go for the first phase of Bihar polls on October 28, the Congress is firming up its plans to have physical rallies, a senior leader said on Monday. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi is likely to kick off his Bihar campaign on October 23, at a joint rally with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav at Hisua Assembly constituency in Nawada district, where Congress’s Neetu Singh is the candidate. On the same day, he will hold a public meeting at Kahalgaon in the Bhagalpur district, said a source. Mr. Gandhi will be campaigning for the grand alliance candidates at two physical rallies in each of the three phases. Both the Congress and RJD are trying to work out other joint rallies as well for the next two phases. The Congress party’s list of 30 star campaigners includes Priyanka Gandhi Vadra apart from senior leaders and Chief Ministers of Congress-ruled States.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Centre steps in to halt boundary row||The Union Home Ministry has asked Assam and Mizoram to maintain peace and display “no aggressive posturing” after violent clashes took place on the border between the two States on Saturday night. Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla held a video conference with the Chief Secretaries of Mizoram and Assam on Monday and reviewed the situation. The two States were asked to provide security to trucks and goods vehicles passing through the inter-State border so that supply of essentials was not blocked in Mizoram. Assam has had a boundary dispute with Mizoram for decades and several rounds of talks have been held since 1994-95 to solve the issue. Saturday’s clashes were reported near Vairengte village in Kolasib district of Mizoram and Assam’s Lailapur in Cachar district. The Mizoram government claimed that some miscreants pelted stones at a group. A large number of persons gathered and set fire to about 20 temporary bamboo sheds said to be in Assam’s jurisdiction. Section 144 was imposed and a large number of security personnel deployed. Several persons were injured. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted on Monday that he had apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the present Assam-Mizoram border situation over phone. “I thank the Hon’ble PM for his support and assurance to solve the issue,” Mr. Sonowal said. The office of Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga tweeted, “Hon’ble Home Minister @AmitShah, DoNER Minister @DrJitendraSingh, Home Secretary & others have telephoned HCM @ZoramthangaCM regarding the situation in Mizoram’s border. They expressed support of the CM’s wish for peaceful resolve of the situation.”
20 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal seeks farm laws for Punjab||On the first day of a special session of the Punjab Assembly, convened to bring in a law by the State to nullify the Centre’s three farm sector laws, MLAs of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Congress on Monday arrived on tractors to register their protest against the laws and extend their support to the ongoing farmers’ protest. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) members came wearing ‘black robes’ to express their ‘anguish’ against the laws. SAD and the AAP members also staged a protest outside the Assembly against the ruling Congress government, accusing it of maintaining ‘secrecy’ over the Bill to be brought in the Assembly by not sharing it with Opposition members. AAP MLAs, led by leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema, burnt copies of the Union laws outside the Assembly complex. The House proceedings began with members paying homage to all the farmers who lost their lives in the ongoing agitation against the agriculture laws. The Assembly also paid respects to the deceased freedom fighters, political and other eminent personalities, as well as soldiers during the obituary references and it was adjourned for an hour. After its resumption, SAD MLAs demanded that no other business other than a discussion on the farmers’ issues should be held. AAP members demanded a copy of the proposed legislation that the government intends to bring in. Amid the ruckus, the Speaker adjourned the House for the day. After this, AAP MLAs staged a ‘sit-in’ inside the House, demanding copies of the proposed Bill. Mr. Cheema said the State government was not at all serious about the issues and concerns of farmers. Akali Dal MLAs also staged a sit-in outside Punjab Bhawan.
20 October 2020||MUMBAI,||BARC ‘highly disappointed’ with Republic||Television rating agency BARC India said Republic Network, allegedly involved in rigging rating process to bag higher TRP (Television Rating Point), has misrepresented a private communication to fabricate facts. The response came after Republic Network aired the contents of an email communication from BARC that reportedly mentioned that it did not file any complaint against the network on TRP tampering. Claiming innocence, the channel stated that it was wrongfully been targeted by the Mumbai Police for its reportage on Sushant Singh Rajput case. “BARC India has not commented on the ongoing investigation and it is providing necessary assistance to the law enforcement agency,” BARC India said in a statement on Sunday. “BARC India is highly disappointed with the actions of the Republic Network by disclosing private and confidential communications and misrepresenting the same,” it stated, adding, “BARC India reiterates that it has not commented on the ongoing investigation and without prejudice to BARC India’s rights, it expresses its dismay at the actions of the Republic Network.” Republic report on site Republic Network had stated on its website that its CEO Vikas Khanchandani wrote an email to BARC India CEO Sunil Lulla on October 16, 2020, seeking to “confirm in the public domain” that the “BARC and its vigilance team has found no infringement by Republic TV (ARG Outliers Media Pvt. Ltd)”. “In response to Vikas Khanchandani’s email, BARC responded on October 17, 2020, by thanking the network for their “faith in the internal mechanisms of BARC” and said if there was any disciplinary action initiated against ARG Outlier Media Private Ltd, then BARC India would have communicated the same to you along with necessary documents for your response,” the report said.
20 October 2020||JEHANABAD,||The polarising migrant question||Mrityunjay Kumar was working as a tailor at a small boutique in Noida when a nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 was announced. He found himself without a job and far from his home at Mahmudpur village in Jehanabad district of Bihar. Like many whose travails were documented in visually searing images, he first tried to arrange a bus that would take him home, and later took a truck ride to the Ghaziabad railway station, where he had been told that a train would take him to Patna. “I waited 25 hours without decent food or drink at the station, and finally made it home,” he told The Hindu outside his semi-pucca home. “Here, I was put into quarantine for 14 days in the village school,” he said, adding that he was waiting to leave, but saw no prospect of work very soon. The election season has caught him in the raw, and he questions the need for it right now. “If the polling booth does not have adequate protection, I will not vote. The fear of corona led to the lockdown and forced me into all sorts of hardships, and now the government thinks nothing of holding polls in such a situation,” he says, his anger at the Bihar government obvious. He is reluctant to talk politics, but admits that the anger and despair of migrant workers from Bihar will be reflected in the Assembly polls. His point is supported by Saurav Kumar, a taxi driver from Mumbai, whom this correspondent met in Patna. Currently without a job and hailing from Paharpur village near Gaya, he says he will return to Mumbai once things are better there. He too squarely blames the State government for the plight of workers from Bihar, especially a statement by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on why migrants should not return to Bihar and spend the lockdown in the host States. Mr. Saurav Kumar is a traditional Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) supporter and intends to vote for the  grand alliance candidate. Ramadhar Singh was on a visit home during the “Phagwa” (March) holiday just before the lockdown was announced, so he escaped the exodus. His view is that the events following the lockdown were triggered by the mahamari (pandemic) rather than individual governments. “In a pandemic, how fair is it to blame Nitish?,” he asks. Ranjit Kumar, who worked as construction worker in Prayagraj, moved back to Lodhipur village again in Jehanabad during “Unlock 3”, when he finally got some transport back to Bihar. Currently unemployed, he says that he will be voting for electing back Nitish Kumar. Every election hangs between the two points of mahaul (atmosphere) and samikaran (voter block equations), goes the popular wisdom on polls in Bihar. While hurt feelings exist, older voting loyalties haven’t completely evaporated. Very clearly, therefore, seven months after lockdown, opinion is still divided, and the election, considered a one-sided affair even a few weeks ago, is not a sure thing any more.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Australia to take part in Malabar naval exercise||Amid the ongoing stand-off with China, the Ministry of Defence on Monday announced that Australia will join the Malabar 2020 naval exercise, consisting of India, Japan and the U.S., to be held next month. Australia had first requested to join more than three years ago . Quad group “As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy,” the Ministry said in a statement. This will formally bring together the militaries of the four countries in the Quad group. In Canberra, Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said following an invitation from India, Australia would participate in the exercise. “It will bolster the ability of India, Australia, Japan and the United States to work together to uphold peace and stability across our region,” she said. The exercise is scheduled to be held in November-end and the planning conference to finalise the modalities of the exercise is scheduled to be held virtually this month, according to an official source. This year, the exercise had been planned on a ‘non-contact - at sea’ format, the statement said.  Collective resolve Australian Defence Minister Linda Reynolds said, “High-end military exercises like Malabar are key to enhancing Australia’s maritime capabilities, building interoperability with our close partners, and demonstrating our collective resolve to support an open and prosperous Indo-Pacific”. It showcased the “deep trust” between four major Indo-Pacific democracies and their “shared will” to work together on common security interests, she noted. In August, a key meeting in the Defence Ministry discussed the issue of inviting Australia and an understanding was reached but no final decision was taken. Joined in 2007 The issue of Australia’s inclusion in Malabar had come up for discussion at the Quad foreign ministers meet in Tokyo early this month. As reported by The Hindu on June 3, after years of reluctance due to Beijing’s sensitivities, India said it was open to Australia’s inclusion in Malabar, which began as a bilateral exercise between India and the U.S. in 1992 and was expanded into a trilateral format with the inclusion of Japan in 2015. Canberra joined the exercise once in 2007 and it drew a sharp response from Beijing. In 2017, Australia requested for observer status in the exercise. While New Delhi was reluctant to accept Canberra’s request, the bilateral cooperation has gone up significantly since.
20 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Setback to Maoist bid to make inroads into tribal pockets||In a setback to renewed attempts by Maoists to make inroads into the remote tribal pockets of the State bordering Chhattisgarh, the outlawed organisation's Manuguru Local Organising Squad (LOS) commander Ravva Ramal alias Sudheer, 30, and squad member Lakma were killed in Sunday's "encounter" in Mangapeta forest area of Mulugu district. Ramal carried a cash reward of Rs. 4 lakh on his head, police said. The police on Monday identified the two Maoists killed in Sunday's encounter in the tribal dominated Mulugu district as Ramal and Lakma. The duo was killed in an "exchange of fire" with a joint squad of special party police and the Greyhounds personnel at Koppugutta hillock near the Musalammagutta Gutti Koya tribal hamlet under Mangapeta police station limits on Sunday afternoon, police added. The police dealt a blow to the ultras nearly eight days after the Maoist rebels struck terror at Bodhapuram, an interior village in Venkatapuram mandal, by killing a local ruling TRS cadre, Bheemshwara Rao, at his house on October 10. The Agency areas of the former composite Khammam and Warangal districts saw spurt in Maoist activities in recent weeks. As many as six Maoist rebels including three commanders - Dudi Devalu alias Shankar, Kovasi Jogaiah alias Chandu and Sodi Jogaiah were killed in separate “encounters” in Bhadradri Kothagudem district since September 3. Talking to reporters in Mulugu on Monday, Superintendent of Police Sangram Singh Patil said Ramal, a native of Jella village in Venkatapuram mandal, was allegedly involved in as many as six cases of Maoist violence and several other offences. One SLR, two SBBL guns, two AK-47 magazines, and 16 rounds of 7.62 mm ammunition, kit bags and notebooks were seized from the encounter site at Koppugutta area on Sunday, the SP said. He added that an intensive combing operation was underway in the far-flung areas of Mangapeta and adjoining mandals in Mulugu district.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,||Pleas against leasing of airport dismissed||A batch of writ petitions challenging the leasing out of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) were dismissed by a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday as it found that there was absolutely no valid ground to interfere in the proceedings that were challenged. The challenge was against the privatisation, a declared policy of the Union government. Statutory provisions Regarding airports, it was public-private- participation which had been statutorily declared by the incorporation of Section 12A to the Airports Authority of India Act. There was no challenge to the statutory provisions of the Act, the court noted. Interference in a policy framed by an elected government was trite and difficult. The feeble challenge raised against the policy was devoid of merit, Justice K. Vinod Chandran and Justice C.D. Dias said, dismissing the petitions. Govt. bid The State had nominated the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation to bid under the Request For Proposal (RFP) issued by the AAI, with a Right of First Refusal on the maximum bid coming within the range of 10%. The bid failed and the State and the corporation turned against the very RFP under which they participated, the court noted.  A writ petition of the Airport Authority Employees’ Union had challenged the press note published, revealing the approval of the Cabinet for leasing out the airports at Ahmedabad, Lucknow and Mangaluru. Though there was a prayer challenging the lease of all six airports, the court found that the RFPs were separate which were not produced or challenged. The challenge was confined to the RFP for Thiruvananthapuram. Court’s reasoning The petition was liable to be dismissed for the reason that the Letter of Award issued to the successful bidder was not challenged, the court said. The writ pleas filed by two individuals were filed without establishing their locus standi.  The court found them to be mischievous and an abuse of process of the court and rejected these.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,||Govt. nod to proceed against elephant traders||Accepting a report of the Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW), which stated that elephant traders A.V. Prasanth and V. Shaji engaged in the illegal trade of the animal for decades, the State government has given green signal to proceed against the duo. Recalling an earlier order to keep the action against the traders in abeyance, the Principal Secretary (Forest) on Monday asked the CWW to take “legitimate action” against the two “strictly in accordance with law.” The government had earlier courted a controversy when it asked the CWW to put on hold the action against the two after considering a representation from the Elephant Owners Association and called for an urgent report from the official. Organised mafia In his seven-page report, the official pointed out that Mr. Shaji and Mr. Prasanth were “members of an organised mafia” engaged in the offences for over decades. If the government order prohibiting action against them was not withdrawn, it would cause a serious setback to the law enforcement machinery, besides helping the culprits evade the legal consequences of their action. It was after a video in which Mr. Shaji claiming to have brought over 200 elephants to Kerala from Assam, Bihar and the Andaman surfaced that the department sprung into action. The officials seized 15 of his elephants and booked cases against him. Cases were also booked against Mr. Prasanth. The department also initiated action against some forest officials for failing to act against the offenders. In his report, the official stated that Mr. Shaji was involved in inter-State illicit purchase and transit of elephants to Kerala and several other offences, including ivory trade and pointed out seven wildlife crime cases booked against him in various forest ranges. On the role of Mr. Prasanth, the CWW reported that he was indulged in illicit transactions of elephants from other States, forging various documents to facilitate the illegal trade, act of perjury and misleading courts by submitting false documents.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana govt. releases Rs. 550 crore||The Telangana government has announced its decision to extend financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each as immediate relief to families, especially those living in low-lying areas which were completely inundated during the recent heavy rain and floods. The government would provide assistance of Rs. 1 lakh each to houses which were fully damaged and Rs. 50,000 each to those which suffered partial damages. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced release of Rs. 550 crore to the Municipal Administration department with immediate effect for taking up relief work and the distribution of financial assistance will start from Tuesday. Following Chief Minister’s instructions, the Finance department released Rs. 550 crore within a couple of hours enabling the departments concerned to take up relief works. The Chief Minister lamented that the water that gushed into the houses in low- lying areas caused huge losses to people to the extent that rice and other essentials stored in them were damaged. The government was committed to extend all the required help to these families which were facing severe problems on account of the rain/floods. He directed the officials concerned to take up repairs and restoration of roads and other infrastructural facilities on a war footing and ensure that normalcy returned at the earliest. The city experienced such heavy rain that it had never experienced in the last 100 years. People, especially those living in the slums and low-lying areas suffered huge problems and it was the responsibility of the government to help them. “Hence, we have decided to extend Rs. 10,000 each to the affected household of the poor in low-lying areas,” he said. The Chief Minister instructed collectors of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal districts under Hyderabad jurisdiction to send teams to the field to start distribution of assistance from Tuesday. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had been instructed to monitor the relief operations including extension of financial assistance by constituting around 250 teams. The Minister, MLAs, Corporators, Mayor and others should take up responsibility of extending relief to the affected families and should actively participate in relief operations, Mr. Rao said, reiterating that the government was ready to extend necessary assistance to any number of poor affected by the natural calamity. Officials concerned should ensure that details of the affected families should be collected at the earliest for extending assistance; the ruling TRS leaders and workers should actively participate in the programme and ensure that the deserving poor were given the required assistance so that their lives could attain normalcy, he said. The CM also urged industrialists, traders, business establishments and others to come forward to extend their help to people who suffered due to heavy rains and floods. He asked them to donate generously to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund.
20 October 2020||Kolkata,||‘CAA will be executed, rules being framed’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J. P. Nadda said on Monday that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will be implemented and the process of framing rules is on. “It is certain that you will get CAA. Because of coronavirus, the implementation of CAA got delayed. But as the situation is slowly improving, work has started and rules are now being framed,” Mr. Nadda said, while addressing party supporters at an event in Siliguri in the north Bengal. Reports in early August 2020 had said that the Union Home Ministry had sought a three-month extension to frame the rules related to the contentious legislation. The implementation of CAA has become a prominent political issue in the State with the ruling Trinamool Congress not only opposing it but hitting the streets in protest against the legislation. The BJP president, who is visiting north Bengal, targeted the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal, accusing it of indulging in a “divide and rule” policy. Mr. Nadda raised questions on non-implementation of two Central schemes — PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat. “Didi [Mamata Banerjee] says that these schemes won’t be implemented. I want to assure you that in April these schemes will be implemented,” Mr. Nadda said, referring to the Assembly elections scheduled in West Bengal next year. The BJP president said that 8.6 lakh farmers had benefited from the PM Kisan scheme in the country, but the benefit could not reach 76 lakh farmers in West Bengal. Mr. Nadda touched on several issues related to north Bengal, including the demand of for a separate State of Gorkhaland by the people of the Darjeeling hills. He reiterated the commitment to a “permanent political solution” to the people of Darjeeling hills.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Flood-hit poor families to get Rs. 10,000 aid||“Hence, we have decided to extend Rs. 10,000 each to the affected household of the poor in low-lying areas,” he said. The Chief Minister instructed collectors of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal districts under Hyderabad jurisdiction to send teams to the field to start distribution of assistance from Tuesday. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar had been instructed to monitor the relief operations including extension of financial assistance by constituting around 250 teams. The Minister, MLAs, Corporators, Mayor and others should take up responsibility of extending relief to the affected families and should actively participate in relief operations, Mr. Rao said, reiterating that the government was ready to extend necessary assistance to any number of poor affected by the natural calamity. Officials concerned should ensure that details of the affected families should be collected at the earliest for extending assistance, he said.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Australia to take part in Malabar naval exercise||Amid the ongoing stand-off with China, the Ministry of Defence on Monday announced that Australia will join the Malabar 2020 naval exercise, consisting of India, Japan and the U.S., to be held next month. Australia had first requested to join more than three years ago . “As India seeks to increase cooperation with other countries in the maritime security domain and in the light of increased defence cooperation with Australia, Malabar 2020 will see the participation of the Australian Navy,” the Ministry said in a statement. This will formally bring together the militaries of the four countries in the Quad group. In Canberra, Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne said following an invitation from India, Australia would participate in the exercise. “It will bolster the ability of India, Australia, Japan and the United States to work together to uphold peace and stability across our region,” she said. The exercise is scheduled to be held in November-end and the planning conference to finalise the modalities of the exercise is scheduled to be held virtually this month, according to an official source. This year, the exercise had been planned on a ‘non-contact - at sea’ format, the statement said. Australian Defence Minister Linda Reynolds said, “High-end military exercises like Malabar are key to enhancing Australia’s maritime capabilities, building interoperability with our close partners, and demonstrating our collective resolve to support an open and prosperous Indo-Pacific”. It showcased the “deep trust” between four major Indo-Pacific democracies and their “shared will” to work together on common security interests, she noted.
20 October 2020||MYSURU/SHIVAMOGGA,||‘Centre will help flood-hit’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the Centre and State were making joint efforts to provide relief in flood-hit areas of the State, while Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa indicated that he would appeal for additional assistance. While delivering the centenary convocation address of University of Mysore virtually, Mr. Modi said his sympathies were with the families that were affected by the rain that lashed the State a few days ago. The Opposition Congress had taken exception to the Prime Minister’s silence on the floods in the northern parts of the State. Mr. Yediyurappa said Mr. Modi had promised assistance from the Centre for the flood-hit areas. Addressing a programme at his Assembly constituency of Shikaripur in Shivamogga district, Mr. Yediyurappa said: “The Prime Minister has assured me all support for flood relief in the State. “Speaking to presspersons, he said: “I will conduct an aerial survey on October 21 and submit details of the havoc to Mr. Modi, appealing for additional assistance.” The Union Ministers have also assured support, he said. Mr. Modi also greeted the people of the State on the occasion of Mysuru Dasara, which is celebrated as “Nada Habba”. Despite the restrictions on celebrations due to the pandemic, Mr. Modi said the enthusiasm among people had not ebbed. But, the rain had dampened the mood, he said.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Vijay Sethupathi pulls out of 800 movie||“He should not suffer any unnecessary obstacles in his career as an artist in future. Therefore, I request him to move away,” he said. Muralitharan said he had never felt “fatigued because of setbacks and has always won against all odds to reach where I have today”. “I consented to my biopic to be made because it would provide inspiration and confidence to future generations and young cricketers. But there have been many obstacles. I hope this film would be made despite these obstacles. I have been given assurances by the production house that they would make an announcement soon and I will stand by them in all their efforts,” he said. The overwhelming opposition faced by Vijay Sethupathi prompted a clarification from Muralitharan who said his statements made in the past about the Sri Lankan civil war that ended in 2009 were taken out of context. He said, “I did not support the killings of innocent people and I would not do it.” As soon as the official motion poster of 800 was launched, political leaders and many from the Tamil film industry said the actor should not act in the biopic of a person who had earlier made comments perceived to be in support of the war waged by the Sri Lankan forces against the LTTE which resulted in the death of thousands of civilians.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||ED questions Farooq in JKCA funds case||Dr. Abdullah who was president of JKCA and whose statements have been recorded in the case several times since 2018, was summoned to the agency’s Srinagar office for questioning that went on for about six hours. The move comes days after Dr. Abdullah joined hands with the PDP and other parties to seek restoration of Article 370. Speaking to the media after the questioning, Dr Abdullah said: “My fate will be decided by the court when they put the case before it. Let the ED do its job and I will do my own. I am quite clear. I will always face them.” “The battle will continue whether Farooq Abdullah is alive or dead, on the stage or not on the stage. Our fight is for restoration of Article 370 and our resolve will never change even if I've to be hanged,” Dr. Abdullah said. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and CPI leader Mohammed Yousuf Tarigami came out in support of Dr Abdullah, saying the ED summons smacked of vendetta and an attempt to stifle dissent. The ED’s money laundering case, alleging the misappropriation of Rs. 43.69 crore, is based on an FIR registered in 2015 by the CBI on a direction from the J&K High Court. The CBI had filed a chargesheet against Dr. Abdullah as the then Association president, former JKCA general secretary Saleem Khan, treasurer Ahsan Ahmad Mirza and senior J&K Bank executive Bashir Ahmad Misgar. It was alleged that between 2002 and 2011, the Board of Control for Cricket in India granted Rs. 112 crore to the JKCA for infrastructure development and promotion of cricket. However, funds to the tune of Rs. 43.69 crore were allegedly diverted. The ED alleged that funds from the BCCI were received in three different bank accounts of the association. However, several other accounts were opened in its name and the money was transferred further. Mr. Mirza also allegedly diverted huge amounts to his company, Mirza Sons.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep off India’s affairs, Reddy tells China, Pak.||Mr. Reddy announced 7500 MWs power projects for Ladakh and promised to create 5,000 new jobs. Power projects “The power projects will serve the local population and will help farmers and industries. We gave a Union Territory status to Ladakh to take it to new heights of development that include, power, telecommunication, road and air connectivity, along with education and health connectivity. All these sectors are being upgraded,” the MoS said. Mr. Reddy, also Minister in charge of Lakdah UT, said two cities in the UT would be developed as smart cities and taken up for development and air connectivity, so that the tourism sector got a boost. The Minister’s visit to Leh comes just three days ahead of the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Leh (LAHDC-Leh) polls.
20 October 2020||Srinagar,||Police officer, militant killed in Kashmir||One militant and a police officer were killed in two incidents of firing in south Kashmir on Monday. An official said suspected militants fired from a close range at Inspector Mohammad Ashraf Bhat in Sundpora Kanelwan area of Anantnag district on Monday evening. He died of his injuries in a hospital. “Bhat was returning home after attending evening prayers in a nearby mosque when was shot at. He was on leave”, the official said. Bhat was posted in Pulwama's Lethpora area. Earlier in the day, security forces killed a militant in an operation in south Kashmir’s Shopian. “One unidentified terrorist was killed in Shopian’s Melhoora area after a gunfight broke out during a search and cordon operation”, a police spokesman said. The operation in the area was on till late Monday evening. “More militants are believed to be hiding in the area”, the official said. A CRPF jawan was injured in another attack by militants in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Monday morning. An official said the militants opened fire on a joint team of security forces in Gongoo area of Pulwama and the CRPF jawan was injured.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘33 dead, Rs. 679 cr. loss in Hyderabad due to floods’||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K.T. Rama Rao put the tentative estimate of loss due to floods in the Greater Hyderabad region at Rs. 679 crore. The estimate takes into consideration the damage to the city infrastructure and relief and rehabilitation efforts; the figure could rise in the coming days. A total of 33 deaths have been confirmed while three persons have gone missing due to flooding. Compensation of Rs. 5 lakh has been paid to the kin of 29 flood victims. So far, there has not been any response from the Centre for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s request for financial assistance of Rs. 1,350 crore, the Minister said while briefing the media about the flood response on Monday. ‘City’s second highest rainfall’ Eighty special officers have been deployed for flood relief operations in GHMC and surrounding municipalities, and together with local officials from other departments, they will be solely on pre-disaster, disaster rescue and relief and rehabilitation tasks for the coming 15 days. Terming the recent rainfall as the second highest in the history of Hyderabad, Mr.Rama Rao said there is a possibility of the annual rainfall this year in the city setting a new high. Against the average rainfall of 78 cm, the year has so far clocked 120 cm, leading to inundation. As of now, 80 colonies remain under water, including 17 that were flooded during the first spell of rain up to October 14. Apart from GHMC, several colonies in adjoining municipalities such as Peerzadiguda, Badangpet, Meerpet, Pedda Amberpet, and Turkayamjal too have been affected. Fifty four apartment complexes remain inundated, and power is yet to be restored in the purview of 164 distribution transformers. A total of 920 transformers have been repaired and restored so far. The damage has been more pronounced in south and east zones of GHMC. Thousands of people have been rescued by the government through Disaster Response Force, and transferred to relief camps, Mr.Rama Rao said,
20 October 2020||Mumbai,||Issue summons to Arnab: HC||The Bombay High Court on Monday asked the Mumbai Police to issue summons to Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami, if he is proposed to be added as an accused in the FIR in the TRP manipulation case. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a criminal petition filed by ARG Outlier Media Private Limited and Mr. Goswami seeking to quash the FIR registered against them on October 6. The charges have been made under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 120B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing on behalf of Mr. Goswami, argued that Mumbai Police had mala fide interest, that they might arrest Mr. Goswami, and sought interim protection from arrest. To which the court said it could not pass that order as Mr. Goswami had not been named as an accused. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the Maharashtra government and Mumbai Police, said summons would be issued to Mr. Goswami. However, he [Mr. Sibal] could not commit on Mr. Goswami not being arrested. While perusing the FIR, the court said, “It is not an encyclopedia. We would like to peruse the investigation papers and see what probe has been done from today till the next date.” The court directed the Mumbai Police to produce papers of the investigation in a sealed cover on November 4, and said it would hear the matter on November 5.
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jagan’s letter attempts to coerce judiciary, says judges body||The All India Judges Association has passed a resolution condemning Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s letter against Supreme Court judge Justice N.V. Ramana as a “deliberate attempt to scandalise and coerce the judiciary”. The Association said the “tone, tenor and timing of the letter portrays malafide intent and appears to be orchestrated for hidden agendas”. “The Executive Committee of All India Judges Association considers this act to be a deliberate attempt to scandalise and coerce the judiciary and legal fraternity. Moreover, such a scandalous letter interferes with the sovereignty of the judges conferred under our Constitution,” said the resolution passed on Sunday. The resolution also condemned “all such attacks on the judicial institution by vested interests, who are bent upon destroying judicial dignity and the independence of the judiciary and trying to intimidate judges for favourable orders”. The letter and its release to the media has created a furore among the legal fraternity, with many similar resolutions passed by several Bar bodies objecting to Mr. Reddy’s actions as an affront to the judiciary.
20 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Heavy rain alert issued for southern Odisha||The Odisha government warned on Monday all District Collectors to stay alert about heavy rain forecast for the next three days under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over east-central Bay of Bengal. Malkangiri, Koraput, Rayagada, Ganjam and Gajapati are likely to receive heavy rain from Tuesday as yellow warning has been issued for these districts. On Wednesday, three coastal districts — Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara — also will be affected by the atmospheric system.
20 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,||Rahul offers support in COVID-19 fight||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, offered support to the Malappuram district administration in its fight against COVID-19. Addressing a review meeting on the pandemic situation at the Collectorate here on Monday, Mr. Gandhi stressed the importance of concerted efforts to overcome the pandemic. Mr. Gandhi was here as part of his three-day visit to the State. Muslim Youth League workers saluted Mr. Gandhi’s motorcade at 50 places between Malappuram and Karipur airport, where he arrived on a special flight. Detained journalist Mr. Gandhi said his party seriously viewed the incarceration of Kerala journalist Siddeek Kappan by the Uttar Pradesh government. He said the Uttar Pradesh unit of the Congress would seek the release of Mr. Kappan. Mr. Gandhi was responding to a memorandum submitted by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee secretary K.P. Noushad Ali and Mahila Congress leader Fatima Roshna seeking his intervention for the release of Mr. Kappan. Mr. Gandhi handed over the key of a new house constructed by his party to Kavya and Karthika, two siblings who had lost their family and house in the Kavalappara landslip in 2019. Mr. Gandhi had promised them a house when he visited Kavalappara soon after the disaster. The siblings escaped from the landslip as they had been in a hostel at that time. Greenfield NH P. Ubaidullah, MLA, urged Mr. Gandhi to pressure the Centre for implementing the proposed Malappuram-Mysuru Greenfield National Highway as per the original alignment under the Bharat Mala project. Mr. Gandhi reached Lakkidi in Wayanad around 5.30 p.m. He will attend a review meeting on COVID-19 at the Wayanad Collectorate at 10.30 a.m. on Tuesday. He will return to Delhi at 3.20 p.m. on Wednesday.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,||Govt. ready to reinvestigate Walayar case||The State government has informed the High Court that it is willing to reinvestigate the sexual abuse and deaths of two minor sisters at Walayar. The State made its position clear before the court on Monday while seeking an early hearing of an appeal filed against the acquittal of the accused by a trial court. The State conceded that there were lapses in the investigation of the crime and its trial. The High Court decided to consider the appeal from November 9. The mother of the deceased children and the State government had filed appeals against the trial court order in November last. It was in March this year that the court considered the case last. A judicial commission appointed by the State government found that the prosecutors in the case had failed to truly and faithfully utilise proof gathered during the probe.
20 October 2020||PALAKKAD,||4 die after consuming spurious liquor at Kanjikode||Five persons died after consuming spurious liquor at a tribal colony at Kanjikode, near here. While two died on Sunday, the other three died on Monday. Nine people, including three women, have been hospitalised. The tragedy occurred at the Chellankavu tribal colony at Kanjikode. The dead were identified as Raman, 61, son of Chukri; Ayyappan, 58, son of Kuppan; Sivan, 37, son of Mani; Sivan’s brother Moorthy, 22; and Arun, 25. Raman and Ayyappan died on Sunday and Sivan was found dead on Monday morning. Moorthy, the fourth victim, collapsed and died after he ran away from the District Hospital here in the afternoon on Monday. The incident Sivan had reportedly supplied liquor at the colony. None suspected when his uncle Raman died on Sunday and his body was buried soon. Sivan reportedly offered liquor to those who took part in the funeral. Even after his neighbour Ayyappan collapsed and died in the afternoon, they did not suspect any poison in the liquor. Ayyappan’s body too was buried soon. However, when more people started showing uneasiness, the finger of suspicion turned to the liquor supplied by Sivan. Ayyappan’s son Arun and several others showed symptoms of poisoning. Although they were brought to the District Hospital, Sivan resisted and showered abuse on those who tried to take him to the hospital. He was found dead in front of his house in the morning. The police said traces of poison were found in Sivan’s body in thee post-mortem. It was not clear from where Sivan procured the liquor. Local people said that he bought it from Tamil Nadu and had tried to sell it in the colony during the last three days. Some others said that it was mixed with sanitiser for extra punch. The police said that an investigation was on.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Modi government destroyed economy and infected maximum number of people: Rahul||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Monday put out a chart on Twitter comparing how other countries handled the COVID-19 and the economy to argue that the Narendra Modi government “destroyed the economy and infected the maximum number of people”. The data — sourced from the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the Worldometer — compared the GDP growth for 2020 and the number of COVID-19 deaths per million of a country’s population.
20 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Bhadohi MLA booked on charge of raping Varanasi singer||Vijay Mishra, Bhadohi MLA, and his son have been charged with raping a Varanasi-based singer, said police. A case under gang rape, wrongful confinement and criminal intimidation was lodged at the Gopiganj police station in Bhadohi against him, his son Vishnu Mishra and another accused, Vikash Mishra, said the police. In her police complaint, the woman has accused the MLA of sexually exploiting her since 2014.
20 October 2020||Bhopal,||Will observe two-hour silence to atone for Kamal Nath’s ‘indecent remarks’ against woman Minister, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||A day after Congress leader Kamal Nath drew flak for making a comment on a woman Minister in Madhya Pradesh, a video on Monday showed Minister Bisahulal Singh making a similar remark against the wife of his Congress contender in the byelection. Earlier, BJP leaders, including Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia and Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, observed a two-hour silence in protest against Mr. Nath’s utterance.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Hathras: plea to probe destruction of evidence||The Supreme Court has reserved for orders a writ petition filed by activist Chetan Janardhan Kamble seeking an independent investigation into the role of medical staff and top Uttar Pradesh Police officers in the destruction of evidence in the Hathras rape and murder case. “The facts clearly indicate the involvement and complicity of certain U.P. State Police and officials of the State government machinery in manipulation and destruction of evidence and shielding the accused in respect of the subject crime,” Mr. Kamble said in a writ petition, filed by advocate Vipin Nair. The petition was reserved for orders on October 15 along with a separate one filed by Satyama Dubey. The Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde had voiced an inclination to have the Allahabad HC monitor the ongoing CBI probe.  In his petition, Mr. Kamble said, “government hospital at Aligarh had not taken vaginal swabs and body smears of the victim or collected drop sheet after change of clothes, despite finding torn clothes and bleeding on under-garments”. It said certain high-ranking police and government officials, even before the investigation was complete, had ruled out the possibility of rape, and made public statements to this extent. The plea said the “bizarre and barbaric manner in which the body of the victim was stealthily cremated in the dead of the night by police officials smacks of them being involved in suppressing the crime rather than investigating it”. “This unpardonable crime by the State Police and other government instrumentality, which denied the family of the victim even the basic right to perform last rites on the body of the victim is nothing but depravity of the soul,” the petition said. The petition said the intelligence report relied on by U.P. “appears to be prepared on second thoughts, and in any case it does not mention how police handling, transporting and cremating of the victim’s body would be necessary to quell any law and order situation”.
20 October 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat police evoke State terror law against gang||In a rare move, the Gujarat police have invoked the stringent Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act (GujCTOC) against 14 members of a powerful gang involved in dozens of cases of extortion and land grabbing in Jamnagar. The gang is allegedly operated by one Jayesh Patel, who is currently abroad since he fled the country in 2018. Out of 14 people slapped with the GujCTOC, eight have been arrested, while one was in jail.
20 October 2020||Pune,||It’s up to BJP’s Khadse to decide on joining NCP: Pawar||Commenting on the widespread speculation of estranged senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Eknath Khadse defecting to his party, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said that while Mr. Khadse’s contribution to establishing the BJP in Maharashtra was immense, it was ultimately up to him to take a decision whether or not to join the NCP or any other party in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 cases continue to fall in Tamil Nadu||Fresh cases of COVID-19 fell further in Tamil Nadu on Monday, with 3,536 persons testing positive for the infection. Chennai reported 885 fresh cases, after having recorded over 1,000 infections a day for the past few weeks. The new cases pushed the State’s tally to 6,90,936. Another 4,515 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the number of persons discharged so far to 6,42,152. With 49 more deaths, the State’s toll climbed to 10,691. A total of 38,093 persons are undergoing treatment. Chennai’s daily infection count fell below 1,000. The fresh cases had been in the range of 1,000 to 1,400 since September 24. The city accounts for a total of 1,90,949 cases, of which 12,285 are active cases. A total of 1,236 persons were discharged and 16 persons died in the city on Monday. With 290 fresh cases, Coimbatore’s tally climbed to 40,108. Chengalpattu recorded 241 cases and Salem 192. There were 172 cases in Tiruvallur and 140 in Tiruppur. Thirty-one other districts had less than 100 cases — Erode (90), Kancheepuram (92), Namakkal (98), Vellore (92) and Thanjavur (83). Of the 49 fatalities, 25 occurred at private hospitals. Among them, five persons were in their 40s. Two nonagenarians also succumbed to the infection. A 97-year-old man from Cuddalore with diabetes and dementia was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on October 10 with complaints of fever for six days, cough for three days, breathing difficulty and altered sensorium for a day. He died on October 19 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A 98-year-old woman from Tiruvallur was admitted to the Government COVID-19 Hospital, Guindy, on October 13. She died on October 17 due to COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure, multi-organ dysfunction syndrome and encephalopathy. So far, 25,073 children aged up to 12 and 86,027 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for the infection. As many as 85,130 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested stands at 90,31,696.  As many as 85,130 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested stands at 90,31,696
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fly ash from power station leaks into Ennore creek||In yet another instance of fly ash leaking from the North Chennai Thermal Power Station at Ennore, the video of a pipeline dumping large amounts of fly ash into the Kosasthalaiyar river was revealed on social media on Monday. A video of the leak was captured by environmentalist Nityanand Jayaraman on Monday morning. “This is probably the second time I am seeing this sort of a big leak. The pipeline was leaking fly ash for more than one-and-a-half hours. On one side, removal of fly ash is happening. On the other hand, these types of leaks continue,” he said Mr. Jayaraman said the fly ash spill on Monday was directly into the Kosasthalaiyar river. “The fly ash that is being cleared on one side is dumped nearby. When it rains, this will also drain into the river,” he added. Local residents say the leaks were a regular feature at the creek and pipeline bursts are common. In July this year, the Water Resources Department had begun work on dredging the backwaters of the Ennore creek. Rare occurrence A senior official of Tangedco, confirming the burst in the pipeline, which caused the leakage of fly ash, said engineers were involved in the repair operation throughout the day. He said such kinds of pipeline cracks, which evacuate the fly ash to the fly ash pond, were rare occurrences, and all steps were being taken to prevent the leakage in the pipelines. The Tangedco official said the work was in progress for replacing old pipes with new ones and the work would be completed by the end of this year.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders at Koyambedu call off hunger strike||A section of vegetables and fruits semi-wholesalers staged a hunger strike on Monday seeking shops to be reopened in the Koyambedu market. However, the indefinite hunger strike announced by the semi-wholesale traders was withdrawn by afternoon after officials of the Koyambedu Market Management Committee and the police held talks with them. Semi-wholesalers, who protested in the market, said owners of licensed wholesale shops at Koyambedu were provided alternative space in Tirumazhisai, Madhavaram and Vanagaram after the market was closed in May. Loss of business However, nearly 2,300 semi-wholesale shops remain closed for several months and merchants, who were functioning in shops spread over an area of 150 sq ft and 300 sq ft each were out of business since May. These traders deal with smaller quantities and sell even to retailers. S.S. Muthukumar, a vegetable semi-wholesaler, said: “We had earlier given petitions to various government authorities on the issue. We were not provided alternative sites to operate or given any compensation. The government had announced that semi-wholesale shops too will be opened in phases. We had to protest to attract the government’s attention.” By Monday afternoon, the semi-wholesalers withdrew the protest as officials had assured them that the dates for reopening shops would be announced within a few days. The Koyambedu market, which had shut after it turned into a COVID-19 hot spot, was reopened in phases with the foodgrain section and wholesale vegetable market starting operations in September.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea against fine for flouting safety norms||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court, challenging a government gazette notification issued on September 4 for the collection of fines ranging from Rs. 200 to Rs. 5,000 for violation of quarantine measures — failure to wear masks, spitting in public places, non-adherence to distancing norms and failure to follow standard operating procedures in salons, spas and gymnasiums — to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The case is expected to be listed before a Division Bench of Justices V. Parthiban and G.R. Swaminathan on Thursday. According to the petitioner R. Muthukrishnan, 77, of Ramapuram here, the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939, a colonial law, as it stood originally, did not authorise government officials to insist upon wearing of masks in public places, following physical distance norms and adhering to standard operating procedures. It was only after the outbreak of the pandemic the government promulgated an ordinance on September 4 and amended Section 76(2) of the Act. The amendment empowered the Collectors, health officers and police officials to enforce wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distance and adherence to standard operating procedures. On the same day, the gazette notification was also issued listing the fine amount that could be imposed for violation of these requirements. The notification stated that those who do not wear masks in public places would be fined Rs. 200 and those who do not follow quarantine measures, spit in public places and violate physical distance norms would be fined Rs. 500. Violation of standard operating procedures in salons, spas, gymnasiums and such other places would attract a fine of Rs. 5,000. For non-adherence to containment zone guidelines, individuals would have to cough up Rs. 500 and commercial establishments should pay Rs. 5,000. Legal grounds Attacking the gazette notification on legal grounds, the petitioner said Section 76(2) of the Act only empowers government officials to issue standard operating procedures and ensure wearing of masks and maintenance of physical distancing norms to control the spread of notified diseases. Nowhere does it declare non- adherence by individuals an offence. Yet, the notification had considered the tasks listed under the Section as offences and declared them compoundable. He also claimed that the notification, which was in the nature of a subordinate legislation, had been issued by the Health Secretary and not by the Governor, though it claims the latter had exercised his rule-making power under Section 138A of the Act and permitted the executive authorities to compound the offences. “The notification is in the nature of an executive order,” the petitioner said, urging the court to quash it.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 33 lakh seized||The Chennai Air Customs have seized gold worth Rs. 33.3 lakh concealed in petroleum-jelly based products and hair gel on Sunday night. On Sunday night, based on intelligence, the sleuths intercepted Jinka Sudhakara, 46, of Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh, who arrived from Kuwait, at the airport exit on suspicion of carrying gold. Upon examining his baggage, 365 g of 16 gold bits estimated at Rs. 19.14 lakh were found in two small plastic containers of petroleum jelly. In another case late at night, the officials intercepted Thamimun Ansari, 33, of Chennai, who arrived from Dubai. In his baggage, the customs officials found 270 g of gold paste, estimated at Rs. 14.16 lakh, concealed in nine hair gel tubes.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Home care of patients with mild COVID-19 symptoms gains traction||Home-based care of persons with mild symptoms of COVID-19 is slowly gaining momentum in Tamil Nadu. While it comes at a cost, doctors say treating patients at home has its benefits, and very few of them ultimately require hospital admission. Many patients with mild symptoms choose to stay at home or are advised home isolation based on their vital parameters. For such patients, home-based care helps in more than one way — it offers round-the-clock access to healthcare through tele-consultation and regular monitoring, along with the required support if hospitalisation is needed, doctors say. The State government’s ‘Amma Home COVID-19 Care Kit’ has covered 370 patients so far. Patients who have tested positive and who have been advised home isolation and anyone with suspected symptoms but with a RT-PCR negative result are eligible for the home care scheme. “We have covered patients across Tamil Nadu, and also a few of them in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Assam. We send the home care kits through courier to other States,” V. Anand Kumar, nodal officer of Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital. The scheme is managed by a 35-member team of the master health check-up scheme of this hospital. Of the 370 patients, 55 were taken to the nearest government hospital for CT scan, while 48 persons received specialist consultation for diabetes, cardiology and neurology. “Thirteen of them showed early signs of disease progression and were saved by timely admission to government hospitals. Some of them progressed from earlier normal CT scan to mild/moderate lung involvement and showed early signs of dip in oxygen saturation. We have successfully treated 92 patients with co-morbidities and six children who were in home isolation,” he said. He added that patients can call 7338835555 to enrol in the scheme. Koushik Muthu Raja M., associate professor and consultant, Department of Respiratory Medicine, Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, said, “We do a risk analysis of patients who test positive. A panel of investigations is done. This includes chest X-ray and blood parameters such as complete blood count, blood sugar and clotting factors and inflammatory markers. If the parameters are within the normal limit, we recommend home care for 14 days. They will have to sign a consent form, undertaking to stay in isolation as per the rule of the government and call up doctors/hospitals in case of any issue.” Of the 225 patients covered under home care, only three to four required hospital admission. “Except for these persons, all of them were managed at home. One of the biggest advantages is that beds in hospitals need not be occupied unnecessarily and could be reserved for patients with severe infection. The availability of beds will definitely improve as patients with mild disease do not need hospitalisation,” Dr. Koushik Muthu Raja said. Financial burden also comes down by 70%-80% for these patients, he said.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Market of India project launched at Binny Mills site||Market of India, an experience centre, was launched by the SPR Group at the site where the BNC Mills once stood in Perambur, on Saturday. The experience centre, a replica, is spread over 30,000 sq. ft. and showcases world-class trade infrastructure, including shops. It has a museum showcasing life at places like Mint Street, George Town and Mylapore and illustrates how trade evolved from these places.  Rs. 5,500 crore project The SPR Group had signed an MoU with the State Government regarding this project at the Global Investors’ Meet 2019. The promoter has committed to invest Rs. 5,500 crore over the next seven years across Chennai, including in the development of an integrated township, Market of India. As part of the project, over 5,000 shops are to be built in phases, according to a release. According to Navin Ranka, Director, SPR Group: “Destiny always returns to its point of origin. So, it is not surprising that the project is located at Buckingham and Carnatic Mills, from where India’s national textile trade started two centuries ago.” The project would be completed by 2022, he added.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Demand for suburban trains growing||Thousands of office-goers in the southern and western suburbs want the State government to take steps to allow resumption of suburban train services. Citing the running of suburban train services in Mumbai without much of any COVID-19 spread, residents said the suburban trains, which are run for staff involved in essential services and government departments, should be thrown open to the public at least during peak hours. The suburban trains remained the only transport option for lakhs of residents in the city and nearby districts. With the restarting of bus services by the State government from September 1, the residents had hoped for the Southern Railway to also resume suburban trains. Those commuting to the city from far-flug places like Arakkonam, Tiruvallur, Thiruninravur, Pattabhiram, Chengalpattu and Perungalathur are annoyed at the delay in the resumption of suburban train services. A. Roy Rozario, an office-bearer of the Railway Passengers Association Pattabhiram and a retired official of Southern Railway, said the suburban train service was the lifeline for thousands of office-goers and daily wage earners travelling from places like Arakkonam, Tiruvallur and Thiruninravur, and the absence of suburban train services burned a hole in the pockets of these commuters. He said when western and central railways permitted electrical multiple unit (EMU) services, what prevented the Southern Railway from resuming suburban train services, he asked. Since the bus and limited train services for government staff were resumed, no cases of commuters getting affected by COVID-19 had been recorded. A senior official of Southern Railway said already the time table for the suburban services based on the advise of the Railway Board had been finalised but the State government was yet to give its green signal.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Safety norms go for a toss in T. Nagar||With Deepavali approaching, residents of Motilal Street in T. Nagar and other alleys abutting Usman Road are worried that the already crowded area would be inundated with shoppers. The lanes have already become narrow due to haphazard parking and the residents want the police and Greater Chennai Corporation to regulate parking as heavy rush in the central shopping district can cause a spike in the number of cases, especially among residents. There are over 1,000 families living on Natesan Street, Ramanathan Street, Rangan Street, Mangesh Street, Pinjala Subramaniam Street, Venkatesan Street, Motilal Street, Mahalakshmi Street and other lanes on either side of Usman Road. Many of these residents are senior citizens. “The elderly are not able to step out of their homes as two-wheelers whiz past constantly and there are too many vehicles parked on the road. Due to overcrowding, they seldom step out fearing that they will get infected,” said V.S. Jayaraman, member, T. Nagar Residents Welfare Association. Residents said commercial establishments in the locality had not made provision for parking space for shoppers. “The main menace is bike parking. They are parked on both sides of the road and the 30-feet road has hardly 10 feet space left. As vehicles are parked in front of apartment gates, many residents are not able to take their vehicles out. This will worsen during holidays, Deepavali and other festival seasons,” added another resident. Residents say that although they had informed the police about the problem, action had not been taken on the issue. “We request the traffic police to tow away the vehicles which are found parked on the streets abutting Usman Road. Such haphazard parking should be monitored. Although there is a paid parking facility in Motilal Street, its staff make motorists park bikes on the road and collect hourly charges from them,” said a resident who has been living in the locality for 50 years. Pavements occupied B. Kannan, secretary, T. Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, said that even the pavements on Usman Road were not spared. “Bikes are parked and hawkers have occupied the platform, leaving no space for pedestrians. The police and the Corporation are not willing to take action. Many do not wear masks and personal distancing is not followed in many shops and hotels. Arrangements should be made to open shops on alternate days to avoid crowding,” he said. Senior traffic police officers said that they would take action at the earliest.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai boy who bagged fourth rank in JEE thanks his teacher||Last week Balaji Sampath, founder of AhaGuru, a coaching centre for Joint Engineering Examination and NEET, received a call from D. Rajvee, seeking an appointment for his son Muhender Raj. “He wanted to get our blessings,” said Mr. Balaji. Mr. Muhender has scored 100 percentile in JEE (Mains) and is ranked 4th in the country. Since he took the test from Kota in Rajasthan he is considered a Delhi zone student. Mr. Muhender is a resident of Royapettah, who began his schooling in DAV Gopalapuram and later shifted to Maharshi Vidya Mandir in Class 9. Mr. Rajvee is an alumnus of Anna University. During his travel by autorickshaw to school, Muhender would listen to his seniors discuss the periodic table. He began reading up on the internet and soon could recite the entire table. At school, principal Shanthy Asokan invited him to perform the feat, which he did in two minutes. She urged his parents to motivate him to hone his abilities. The parents sought out AhaGuru, where he studied until he entered 11th class. “He was doing all our courses one year ahead of the rest of the class. Last year, he finished our entire JEE programme and as he had a whole year of preparation left he moved to Kota. So I lost touch,” said Mr. Balaji. Three months into Class 11, Muhender, along with his mother and sister, shifted to Kota to prepare for JEE. In 2019, he won silver medal in the International Chemistry Olympiad in Paris. Language no barrier Of his Kota experience, he says: “It was difficult at first as the teachers and classmates spoke Hindi. I had learnt to write Hindi from sixth to eighth, but couldn’t speak the language like them. I told the teachers I didn’t speak Hindi. They would give the definition in English and explain the concept in Hindi. Since I had read up the concept I could infer what was being said,” Mr. Muhender said. He credits Mr. Balaji for his grounding in Physics. Mr. Muhender was ranked 5th this year in the Kishore Vigyan Protsahan Yojana exam conducted by the Indian Institute of Science. But he set his goal higher. He cleared SAT and has been admitted in the Computer Science programme in University of California, where he has started taking online classes.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health workers to be screened for NCDs||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Monday launched the ‘Fit Health Workers Campaign 2020’ at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Under the initiative, all healthcare workers would be screened for non- communicable diseases (NCDs). The Minister said testing for NCDs was mandatory for every healthcare worker at the hospital. Each worker should be fit to treat a patient, he said, according to a release. Later in a tweet, he said the screening of all healthcare workers in the public healthcare system for common NCDs in rural and urban areas would be conducted across the State till October 23. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan stressed the need for adequate glycemic control, lifestyle modification, reduction in stress and avoiding of junk food. All healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedical personnel and administrative staff, would undergo a complete check-up for NCDs. This would include blood tests, chest X-ray, ECG, ultrasound as well as mammogram and pap smear for women health workers. At Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, around 4,500 staff members would be screened. All investigations would be available under one roof and time would be allotted for various departments. The focus would be on diabetes and hypertension, while women would be screened for breast cancer and cervical cancer. An NCD card was also released on the occasion. R. Narayana Babu, director of medical education, elaborated on the fitness programmes carried out by the government for health workers. Among others, P. Balaji, dean of the hospital; Viji Devanand, head of department, physiology and in-charge of the NCD clinic; and J. Ganesh, deputy medical superintendent, were present.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decks cleared for State govt. to frame rules on contract farming||The Central government’s notification of its rules for the law on contract farming — Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act — has paved the way for the State government to finalise its set of rules early. Through a gazette notification dated October 16, the Centre made public its rules for the Act. The website of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare has published the rules, which have only laid down a framework for dispute resolution. Conciliation board, sub-divisional authority and District Collector concerned form the layers of the dispute resolution mechanism. According to Section 23 of the Act, State governments too are empowered to frame rules on matters such as the mode and manner of payment to farmers; constitution, composition, powers and functions of registration authority; the procedure for registration and any other matter. The feature of mode and manner of payment to the farmers can address the issue of the agriculturists getting a fair price for their produce as sections of the farmers and activists have expressed concern over the absence of reference in the law to the minimum support price (MSP). There is another view that as the MSP system is not available for fruits and vegetables, which are ordinarily getting covered under contract farming in the State, the insistence on MSP indiscriminately will not be appropriate. Enquiries with the State government reveal that the rules are under formulation.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Claim on equivalence of qualification rejected||After the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) rejected an applicant on the grounds that M.A. (Criminology) was not equivalent to M.Sc. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Science), the candidate has moved the Tamil Nadu Information Commission for a clarification from the University of Madras. The case arises out of a petition filed by S. Nishanthi of Chennai under the Right to Information Act on when the university had changed the nomenclature of M.A. (Criminology) to M.A. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Administration), and then to M.Sc. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Science), and the steps taken by the authorities to get the “equivalence of qualification” from the State government. The petitioner said the TNPSC had rejected her candidature for a post stating that M.Sc. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Science) was not equivalent to M.A. (Criminology). Not satisfied with the reply of the university, she filed an appeal before the Tamil Nadu Information Commission. In keeping with the COVID-19 safety protocol, State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj held an enquiry on the phone with the petitioner and the Public Information Officer (PIO)/Assistant Registrar. The PIO stated that both courses were not equivalent since the syllabi were different. However, the candidate could meet the Head of the Department of Criminology and get more clarity, he said.  Case adjourned Mr. Muthuraj adjourned the case by asking the student to meet the authorities concerned at the university and get necessary information. When contacted, M. Srinivasan, Head of the Department of Criminology, Madras University, said M.A. (Criminology) was named M.A. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Administration) over two decades ago. In 2015, the name was changed to M.Sc. (Criminology & Criminal Justice Science) in tune with the pattern of education followed by internationally acclaimed institutions. The updated course had more than 20 papers covering a variety of the latest advances in criminology, he said.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin pays respects to Palaniswami’s mother||Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday paid his respects to Thavasayammal, the late mother of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, at the latter’s Greenway’s Road residence. She passed away recently. Accompanied by DMK general secretary Duraimurugan and deputy general secretary K. Ponmudi, Mr. Stalin called on the Chief Minister and expressed his condolences.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M students can choose up to 50% of their electives||Students joining the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Madras will have the flexibility of choosing up to 50% of their electives from any of its 16 departments. Students can also opt for a semester-long study in a foreign university. Normally, students have to take 16 electives, of which they can choose eight from any department they wish or from any other approved institution of their choice. Students can earn 72 credits by pursuing courses such as the ‘History of India’, Psychology, Economics, Artificial Intelligence or Machine Learning. A student who chooses four courses in a contiguous area will receive a minor in that field. For instance, a student who chooses four courses in Economics will be awarded a minor in Economics. The institute’s website has the details of the curriculum and syllabi. V. Jagadeesh Kumar, Dean (Academic Courses), said, “If a student interested in building things builds a robot, the student can avail himself of credits for the same. Students can earn as much as 36 credits in all departments. Certain departments are offering up to 48 credits for such activities”. However, these are not part of a class but are done for fun. “If it clicks, it can be converted to credits under the IIT-Madras system,” he said. According to him, the denial of a change of branch is not an impediment as, of the 1,300 who are admitted to the institute, less than 30 students get the option. This year, nearly 200 students had upgraded to such specialisations, which led the institute to add more specialisations. Since the institute had signed agreements with many foreign universities, including in Europe, the United States and a few other countries, students would also have the flexibility of doing an entire semester in any of these universities. The courses that the students pursue in these foreign universities would be transferred to their curriculum in the institute, he said.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘DMK’s allies might cross over to AIADMK camp’||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Monday said several constituents of the DMK-led coalition may cross over to the camp led by the ruling AIADMK. “The DMK is like an automobile that has suffered a breakdown and is yet to resume functioning. We are confident that not only our current allies but also many other parties would be keen on joining us,” the Minister told reporters when asked whether the AIADMK would go it alone in the upcoming Assembly poll. Were any of the DMK’s allies in touch with the AIADMK? To this, Mr. Jayakumar said he would not be able to reveal anything now. “Everything will be known at the time of the election,” he added. When asked about PMK leader Dheeran’s statement that his party would seek a share in power to join any coalition for the Assembly polls, the Minister said the remark may have been made to keep members of the PMK in “good humour”, and would have no reflection on the alliance with the AIADMK. On DMK president M.K Stalin calling on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to condole the death of the latter’s mother, Mr. Jayakumar said it was a “healthy trend” and there was no political motive behind it. On Sattur legislator M.S.R. Rajavarman’s reported allegation against Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, the Minister said he did not want to comment on a matter of which he was not fully aware. However, the party coordinator-Deputy Chief Minister, O. Panneerselvam, and co-coordinator-Chief Minister Palaniswami would inquire into the matter and take “appropriate action”, Mr. Jayakumar added. When asked how soon Governor Banwarilal Purohit would give his consent to a bill envisaging 7.5% horizontal reservation in the State government’s quota of MBBS/BDS seats for students of government higher secondary schools, he said he was confident Mr. Purohit would “discharge his duty as per the Constitution”.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Law varsity admission counselling begins||The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University began online admission process for the academic year 2020-21 on Monday. Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam distributed the allotment to the top two candidates in all five-year integrated honours law degree programmes. University authorities said the admission process was conducted online. Candidates who had the required cut off were instructed to upload their certificates online and were intimated through SMS and email to upload their certificates. Officials said 4,972 applications were received online and 311 as hard copy for all the four programmes offered by the university. Only one application was received under the NRI quota for the five-year integrated BA/BBA LLB programme. Of the 5,283 applications received, 4,910 were found to be eligible. As many as 11,219 applications were received for the State’s affiliated law colleges. As many as 9,208 were received online and 2,011 were received as hard copies. University officials said they were scrutinising the applications.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Five trainee DSPs contract COVID-19||Five trainee Deputy Superintendents of Police at the Tamil Nadu Police Academy in Oonamanchery, Vandalur, tested positive for COVID-19 a few days ago. While there were allegations that they were not isolated properly in the academy, sources said safety protocol was strictly followed. There are 90 new DSP trainees and 11 from the previous batch at the academy. Thirty-five of them took permission and went to various parts of the State to write the Civil Services Preliminary Examinations held on October 4. “Three cadets went to their homes in Chennai and from there, they went to their examination centres in T. Nagar, Washermenpet and Royapuram. After they tested positive, two other cadets, who were secondary contacts, as they live in adjacent rooms, also tested positive. We don’t know from where the first three contracted the infection. It can be from their neighbourhood, while travelling or elsewhere,” said a source from the academy. While one cadet has been discharged, the other four are still in IIT-Madras. Meanwhile, there were allegations that they were not isolated properly after they returned to the academy. However, academy sources denied these allegations. “We follow all safety measures here. If cadets go on leave, they are quarantined upon their return. Besides, every cadet is provided an individual room. All of them are adults; when they go out they should take precautions,” said the source.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Breast cancer awareness event held||With October being Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital here organised an awareness programme on Monday. According to a press release, mammograms were done for 5,940 women at the hospital. Of this, 143 women were diagnosed with breast cancer and treated. Using a contrast 3D digital mammogram, doctors were able to screen women aged above 40 years with X-ray mammograms, detect and treat lesions of even 0.5 mm size and breast calcifications. Hospital Dean P. Vasanthamani spoke on the importance of early diagnosis in breast cancer. An awareness rally was taken out as part of the programme.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 10 crore aid to flood-hit Telangana||The Tamil Nadu government has announced an immediate contribution of Rs. 10 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund of Telangana towards relief and rehabilitation measures in flood-hit areas. On Monday, Mr. Palaniswami wrote to his Telangana counterpart, K. Chandrasekhar Rao, offering assistance and expressing his condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the floods. “As a token of support and solidarity from the government and the people of Tamil Nadu, I have ordered the immediate contribution of a sum of Rs. 10 crore from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to the government of Telangana. We are also sending blankets and mats as relief material to affected families,” he said in his letter. He added that Mr. Rao’s efficient and quick handling of the disaster and the response of the government in providing relief and rescue operations have mitigated the adverse effects of the flood.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Producers ask actors to take a pay cut||Tamil Film Active Producers Association (TFAPA) president Bharathirajaa on Monday urged actors and technicians who take remuneration of more than Rs. 10 lakh to accept a 30% pay cut and complete films that have been delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In an appeal to actors and technicians, Mr. Bharathirajaa said revenue streams of most films — satellite rights, OTT and theatrical rights — had dried up due to the pandemic. “Producers are unable to pay back even the interest to lenders. In this situation, it is the responsibility of all actors and technicians to come forward and help producers whose films are under production and are stuck due to the lockdown.” He said producers can manage this situation only if their total investment reduces by at least 40%-50%. He cited the examples of the Telugu and Malayalam film industries, where artistes and technicians had agreed to take a 30%-50% pay cut, and urged their Tamil counterparts to do the same.  Producers are unable to pay back even the interest to lendersBharathirajaaTFAPA president
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TTD temple gets a bell||A 300 kg bronze bell was installed at the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) temple in T. Nagar on Mon-day. The bell, made in Kumb-akonam, was donated by a member of the TTD’s Local Advisory Committee. J. Sekar, TTD member, said the bell would chime for 15 minutes thrice a day during naivedyam (offering) to the deity.
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Taiwanese equipment likely for multi-level car parking facility||The equipment to be used at the multi-level car parking facility on D.B. Road, R.S. Puram, in all likelihood will be from Taiwan. Sources in the Coimbatore Corporation said the contractor executing the Rs. 43.71 crore project had approached a Taiwanese company, had initiated price negotiation and if the deal materialised, very soon, the contractor would have the equipment. The contractor had initially identified a Chinese company to supply the equipment. But the impact of COVID-19 and India-China stand-off at border had made it difficult for the contractor to import the equipment. The need for an alternative equipment came even as the contractor had resumed construction after migrant workers returned to work. The contractor had completed 42% work and if the equipment were to arrive soon, the percentage of completion would go up. The scheduled date of completion for the project was June 2021. As per the contractor, the Corporation had asked for an automated solution at the parking facility where the equipment would lift and move cars to vacant parking spaces.
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Organisations call for transparency in working conditions in textile mills||The Tamil Nadu Alliance, a coalition of civil society networks working in the area of textiles in the State, has called upon textile brands and retailers to sign a declaration that will improve the working condition of labourers in textile mills in the State. The Alliance, which was established in 2017, represents over 100 grassroot organisations. According to a press release, it called on brands and retailers to do more to abolish exploitative working conditions within textile mills in Tamil Nadu. International brands and retailers that source yarn and fabric from the textile units here should take steps to address “severe exploitation in their textile supply chain.” With more than 2,000 mills employing approximately 2.8 lakh workers, spinning units in the State are a vital source of jobs. “Yet, for many years, civil society groups have documented exploitative practices occurring within textile spinning mills in Tamil Nadu. Excessive and involuntary overtime, extremely low wages, physical and sexual violence and restriction of freedom of movement – many of which are indicators of forced labour - are known to occur in some parts of the industry,” said the press release from the Alliance. “To date, there has been limited action by international brands and retailers to identify and address rights violations like these that are taking place beyond tier-one of their supply chain. A widespread lack of transparency and visibility of conditions in textile processing and manufacturing sites has hindered civil society efforts to work with brands to improve the situation of workers in the industry,” it added. The Tamil Nadu Declaration, developed by the Alliance, highlights the need for sustained action by brands and retailers to address exploitative practices in textile spinning mills. It urged the retailers and brands to expand supply chain transparency to all textile manufacturing facilities, support the effective implementation of labour laws and protections in Tamil Nadu, adopt sustainable sourcing and purchasing models that promote decent working conditions throughout the supply chain, integrate worker-driven approaches to monitor compliance with labour standards and support the development of a collective grievance mechanism in the State. As textile production resumes in the wake of COVID-19, workers are more vulnerable to exploitative practices, including forced labour. “Through the Declaration we are calling on brands to work with us as the Tamil Nadu Alliance to build a stronger, more sustainable textile sector. Collaborative action between business and grassroots civil society is essential to support the industry to ensure the effective protection of textile workers’ rights,” the Alliance said in the release. Tamil Nadu Alliance in partnership with the Freedom Fund and Fashion Revolution, has reached out to more than 60 international brands and retailers sourcing from textile mills in Tamil Nadu to encourage them to sign up to the Declaration. As a first step, it asked signatory brands to publicly disclose a list of textile manufacturing sites in the supply chain and support policy implementation efforts to protect mill workers rights. A list of companies that sign the Declaration would be published soon on the Tamil Nadu Declaration website, the Alliance said.
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tribal people dependent on eco-tourism centres stare at loss of livelihood||C. Ayyasamy (28), a visually challenged person from Chadivayalpathi, was working as announcer at the Kovai Courtallam, a popular tourism spot in the district. With the eco-tourism centre closed to visitors due to COVID-19 pandemic, he is forced to do other jobs to run his family. Mr. Ayyasamy is one of the many tribal people from Coimbatore district whose meagre income from working in eco-tourism centres has been affected since March. “Like many, I was jobless for some months. When the lockdown was eased, people started coming to the Kovai Courtallam. So I was assigned at the Forest Department check post on the way to the tourism spot to give announcements to send back visitors,” he said. Around 60 people from nearby tribal settlements were involved in various works at Kovai Courtallam before it was closed to visitors. They also ran seven shops that sold eatables to the visitors. Now only around 20 men, who were jobless, are employed at the Chadivayal elephant camp for maintenance works. On an average, Kovai Courtallam saw 1,500 to 2,000 visitors on weekends and a crowd varying between 200 and 400 during weekdays. Kovai Courtallam near Siruvani, Baralikadu near Karamadai, both in Combatore Forest Division, and Top Slip within the limits of Ulandi forest range of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve are the three main eco-tourism centres in the district where tribal people are engaged in various activities, including sales of forest produces. The situation is not different at Baralikadu where around 50 tribal people were working. “A total of 35 men were working at the boat house. Remaining were women who were involved in preparing food to visitors. With the tourism spot remaining closed, these people have shifted to other works including farming,” said V. Raman, head of the tribal people at the boat house. Around 300 people used to visit Baralikadu eco-tourism centre on Saturdays and Sundays. According to V.S. Paramasivam, Coimbatore district president of Tamil Nadu Tribal Association, around 40 tribal people who were working at Top Slip, mostly women, are now jobless. “These women used to run their families with the meagre income of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 6,000 they used to earn a month. Now they are living with the provisions given through ration shops, which are inadequate,” he said. A senior official with the Forest Department said that the eco-tourism centres could be opened only if the higher-ups issued an order.
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete drainage works on time’||Coimbatore Corporation has asked the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board to complete the Kurichi and Kuniamuthur underground drainage project on time. Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian told The Hindu that the civic body had asked the TWAD Board to complete the project on time and engage additional labour, if necessary, for the purpose. The Board that is executing the Rs. 442 crore project for the Coimbatore Corporation has engaged Larsen and Toubro as contractor to provide underground drainage connection to the 16 wards that are spread over Kurichi and Kuniamuthur. It started he work in November-December 2018 to provide sewerage connection to nearly 70,000 houses and other establishments by laying pipeline for 482.65km, constructing pumping stations, lift stations, five lift manholes and 17,654 ordinary manholes. The Board’s project will serve the area till 2050, when the population is estimated to touch 5.17 lakh. At the time of starting the project, the Board had recorded a population of 2.97 lakh. And, the Corporation is funding the project with the Government of India contributing Rs. 145.86 crore under the AMRUT scheme and the State Government Rs. 88.40 crore. It will borrow Rs. 163.54 crore from the Asian Development Bank to meet the remaining project cost. The TWAD Board sources said based on the Corporation Commissioner’s instruction, the Board had asked the contractor to increase by 100 the number of labourers so that it completed the project in time. At present, 400 labourers worked on the project. Soon after the Central and State governments imposed COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, the contractor could not proceed with the work and when they eased a few restrictions, it could not resume work because the migrant labourers had returned home. To make good the delay of two to three months, the Corporation had asked the Board to engage additional labourers and it had in turn directed the contractor to do so. As of October 13, the Board had completed 53% of the project and that included construction of 13 of 30 pumping stations and eight lift stations. The Board sources further said that in constructing a few lift stations, the contractor had faced objections from people. The Board had conveyed the residents’ protest in Sathya Sai Nagar, Arputham Nagar, Rajagopalan Nagar and a few other places so that the Corporation could take steps to solve the problem. As and when it did, the Board would proceed with the work and complete the entire project without delay, by December 2021, they added.
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A 54-year-old man was bludgeoned to death in the early hours of Monday. The police said that Balakrishnan, a native of Dindigul, was killed by unidentified persons. According to the police, Balakrishnan, who had been working in a small eatery, was found lying unconscious in a pool of blood near a church on Dr. Nanjappa Road in the city in the early hours of Monday. Houses burgled Unknown persons broke open a house on Dhandapani Street at Pappanaickenpalayam and decamped with 8.30 sovereign of jewellery, 1,640g of silver articles and Rs. 2,300 between October 9 and 17. The police said that the theft took place at the house of N. Murali when the family members were not present. In another incident, 7.5 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 12,500 were stolen from the house of K. Keerthivasan on Dhandapani Street.
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||CREDAI welcomes G.O. on building plan approval||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), Coimbatore, has welcomed the recent Government Order according to which Corporations can approve residential building plans with built up area up to 7,000sq.mt. Surender Vittel, president of CREDAI Coimbatore, has said in a press release that this would enable the public to get approvals at the Corporation itself. There are signs of revival of the market in the recent days, especially for housing plots and residential units and it reflected in higher registrations last month. The powers of the Local Planning Authority have not been increased and remain at 15,000 sq.ft for residential buildings. CREDAI Coimbatore appealed to the State Government to enhance the powers of the LPA too so that residential buildings with built up area up to 50,000 sq.ft can be approved by the respective LPA. This will speed up construction activity, he said.  There are signs of revival of the market in the recent days, especially for housing plots and residential units and it reflected in higher registrations last month. Surender Vittel,president, CREDAI Coimbatore
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Progress of works reviewed||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian on Monday reviewed the progress made in projects taken up under the Smart Cities Mission. Model road project A press release from the civic body said that the Commissioner asked the engineers concerned about the progress in lake beautification and rejuvenation work in all the tanks, the model road project, the street light replacement project, park development and a few other projects. The release said the Commissioner then asked the engineers concerned to ensure timely completion of the projects
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Couple found dead in well||A young couple was found dead in the well of a farm at Vadakkipalayam near Coimbatore, where they had been residing and working, late on Sunday. K. Prabhukumar (25) and his wife Nandhini (22) were found dead in a well in the farm belonging to G. Muruganantham at Thevampadivalasu, near Vadakkipalayam, said the police. Prabhukumar and Nandhini had been residing in the farm and engaged in agricultural works. The couple, according to statements given by their relatives to the police, had the habit of consuming alcohol. The husband and wife reportedly consumed alcohol late on Sunday, following which they had quarrelled, said the police quoting the statement of Prabhukumar’s aunt’s son Mahendrakumar, who was at the house. During investigation, Mr. Mahendrakumar told the police that Nandhini jumped into the well following the quarrel and Prabhukumar jumped after her in an attempt to rescue her. The Fire and Rescue Services took out the bodies of the deceased from the well in the early hours of Monday. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
20 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Factory licences must be renewed online by Oct. 31’||The Directorate of Industrial Safety and Training (DISH) has said that the renewal of licences for factories registered under the Factories Act in Coimbatore district must be done online by October 31. In a release on Monday, Joint Director of DISH-II (Coimbatore) V.S. Saravanan said that the renewal fees must be paid online athttps://dish.tn.gov.in/. The renewed licence can be downloaded from the website. For registration of new factories, change of licences, correction in licences and for registration under the Contract Labour Act and Interstate Migrant Workmen Act, three copies of the pertinent application from the website along with the necessary documents must be sent to the office of the Joint Director, according to the release.
20 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||86 test positive in Cuddalore||As many as 86 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday, while the total number of cases stood at 22,586. The district reported two more deaths taking the death toll to 263. According to a bulletin, 893 persons were undergoing treatment at different centres. With 95 persons getting discharged on Monday, the number of people who recovered from COVID-19 touched 21,331. Villupuram district reported 76 fresh cases, taking the case total to 13,185. Thirty-three persons tested positive in Kallakurichi district, taking the tally to 9,989.
20 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||Applications are invited for the third round of counselling for admissions to the Government Polytechnic in Bysuhalli here. The polytechnic has already completed two rounds of counselling and has proposed to fill vacancies till October 31, according to a release.
20 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corporation’s two projects to be delayed by another six months||The Erode City Municipal Corporation’s two major projects that were executed on a slow pace due to shortage of workforce were expedited after adequate workforce was arranged here. Under the Smart City Mission, the Corporation commenced construction of a modernised textile hub at E.K.V. Abdul Gani Textile Market Complex (Gani Market) at Panneerselvam Park at a cost of Rs. 51.59 crore. The work began in December, 2019 and was scheduled to be completed in 18 months. Likewise, construction of shopping complex at Rs. 14.94 crore at Kalaimadu Silai area commenced in March this year and was scheduled to be completed in 18 months. But, due to lockdown, works were halted from March to May, and resumed in June with minimum workers. Non-availability of local workforce due to absence of public transportation, delay in mobilising workers from other States and the pandemic led to delay in executing the work with the required workers. Less than 50% workers were involved in the work till August and about 80% workers carried out works till the first week of October. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu , though work commenced after four months, availability of workforce was a major issue which was resolved only recently. He said that from the third week of October, required workforce was available and works were expedited. “The completion of the two projects will be delayed by six more months than the scheduled completion time”, he added.
20 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Idols reinstalled in forest area at Hasanur||Stone idols at Pisil Mariamman temple at Arapalayam Junction in Hasanur, that was earlier removed by the forest department, were reinstalled amid tribal people performing special puja here on Monday. On October 14, the idols were removed by the department amid opposition from the local people. The idols were kept at the forest office and Tamil Nadu Tribal People Assocaition and various associations announced that they will offer prayers in protest at the temple on Monday. Hence, on October 19, Gobichettipalayam Revenue Divisional Officer Jayaraman organised a meeting on Arapalayam Agriculture Cooperative Society premises in which Talavadi Tahsildar Jegadeesan, Sathyamangalam DSP Subbiyah, officials from forest department, members of tribal associations, temple administrations and the public participated. Tribal people wanted the idols to be returned to them and permit them to reinstall it and offer prayers at the temple. The issue was taken up with Collector C. Kathiravan, who asked officials to return the idols and permitted the people to reinstall it. On Sunday evening, the idols that were kept at the forest office were returned to the people in the presence of Bhavani Sagar MLA Eswaran, Hasanur Panchayat Union president Subramaniam and the local people. On Monday morning, traditional puja were performed by the people and the statues were reinstalled.
20 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Woman seeks assistance to ‘ bribe’ VAO in Anthiyur||Stating that Mathur Village Administrative Officer in Anthiyur Taluk allegedly sought money to issue heir certificate, a woman along with her grandchildren sought financial assistance from the public here on Monday. Selvakumar and his wife Priya died in February and their two children were taken care by Selvakumar’s mother Jothimani (63). The family had approached the VAO, who allegedly demanded Rs. 3,000, for issuing heir certificate. Jothimani said that she does not have the money and her request to issue the certificate was also turned down by the officer. On Monday, Jothimani along with grandchildren sat on the premises with a board that said that financial assistance is required for paying money to the VAO for obtaining the certificate.  Visitors pay money Visitors to the office gave her money and also took up the issue with the Tahsildar.
20 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Remove encroachments in burial ground’||Stating that an individual had encroached upon a burial ground used by Arunthathiyar community, residents from Ambedkar Nagar at N. Vellalapalayam in Nambiyur Taluk urged the district administration to survey the land and remove the encroachments. In a petition on Monday, they said 120 Arunthathiyar families, comprising over 500 people, were living in the area for many years. On September 30, one of their community members died and when they took the body for burial, they found the ground completely encroached and the individual had fenced it. On October 1, Nambiyur Tahsildar and police personnel visited the village and removed the barbed wire and helped them bury the body. On October 15, when people went to perform rituals, they found an earthmover removing the body. A complaint was lodged with Varapalayam police station at Nambiyur, they added. The petition said the burial ground was used by the community for many generations and wanted the district administration to survey the ground, remove encroachments and ensure that their rights were restored. Over 60 persons staged a sit-in protest inside the Collectorate premises and wanted officials to receive petitions from them and resolve the issue. They raised slogans and later officials received petitions and assured them to initiate action after which they dispersed.
20 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||BPCL fleet card recharging for truck drivers||State-owned Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) launched a fleet card recharging, “Smartfleet”, for truck drivers that enables them to make payments for fuel at BPCL outlets. Launched in association with Fino Payments Bank at an outlet in Perundurai here on Monday, drivers can get the cards recharged by paying equivalent cash at the bank’s point. S. Sruti, Fleet Sales Officer, Coimbatore Region, BPCL, said that more than 4.5 lakh transporters across the State are using Smartfleet as on date and added that the company expects a daily recharge of over Rs. 35 lakh at this point.
20 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers demand wage hike and promotions in Krishnagiri||The Tamil Nadu Anganwadi Workers and Assistants Association staged a demonstration here on Monday over a raft of demands including wage rise and promotion. The protest was part of the State wide protests led by the association. The protesters demanded promotion for anganwadi workers, who had joined service in 1992, and inclusion of names of those left out in the promotion list. The workers alleged that they were harassed in the name of inspections and that the government should put an end to it. They also demanded promotion for part-time workers employed in mini-anganwadis upon completion of three years of service. Their major demands included basic minimum pay of Rs. 21,000 for workers, and Rs. 18,000 for assistants, retirement settlement of Rs. 10 lakh for anganwadi workers and Rs. 5 lakh for assistants and a pension of Rs. 9,000 for workers and Rs. 5,000 for assistants. Similar protest was held in Dharmapuri.
20 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in farm well||Two persons drowned in a farm well near a village in Mathigiri on Sunday. Satish (20), a private firm employee, and his uncle Nagaraj (35), a mason, from Soppatti village near Mathigiri went to the farmland on Sunday. When Satish tried to catch a bird, he slipped and fell into a well in the vicinity. Nagaraj jumped into the well to save his nephew, but both drowned. The bodies were later recovered.
20 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Conduct census for denotified tribes’||The Denotified Tribes Welfare Association has urged the government to complete the State-wide census for denotified, nomadic and semi-nomadic tribes (DNT, NT and SNT) before December 31, as the exercise would pave the way for the upliftment of these backward communities. Its treasurer P. Thavamani Devi said the census was taken across the country based on a directive from the Union government. However, the State Backward Classes Commission was against this census, she charged. “The State government has not even started the survey, despite the directive of the Central government. The delay will deeply affect the members of these communities,” she said. This census was important as it would help identify the number of members of denotified communities present across the State. “It will help in ascertaining the educational, social and economical status of people belonging to the denotified communities. A clear picture will emerge on areas where the government needs to intervene for the upliftment of these people,” she said. ‘Boom boom maatukarargal,’ ‘Saattai Adippavar’ and Narikuravar were some of the nomadic tribes found in smaller numbers across the district. “They don’t have any certificate and don’t have a house to live in. There are very few graduates among them. The first generation graduates in these communities find it extremely difficult to get a job,” she said. So it was all the more important to identify these communities and work towards their betterment, she said.
20 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Agricultural workers to rise up against ‘injustices’ of the Centre||All India Agricultural Workers’ Union (AIAWU) will unify agricultural workers, dalits and migrant labourers across the country for a mass movement in November third week condemning the Bharatiya Janata Party government’s attempts to create communal disharmony among people and against the passage of farm bills and labour laws, said its national president A. Vijayaraghavan here on Monday. Addressing mediapersons, he said the Central government failed to ensure social security and livelihood security for agricultural workers, Dalits and migrant labourers during the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown. It passed the Farm Bills without holding discussions with the standing committees. The government’s procurement of agricultural produce from farmers and the distribution of commodities to the people through public distribution system (PDS) were interlinked. When the government procured agricultural produce from farmers, they were assured a minimum price for their commodities, and the distribution of commodities through PDS helped in addressing the issue of malnutrition in people, especially among children and women. “But, by passing the farm bills, the government is shying away from responsibility. This will severely affect the food security of the nation,” he said. Incidents of attack on Dalits had increased considerably under BJP rule, said Mr. Vijayaraghavan. “In the States ruled by the BJP government, the leaders have failed to protect the dalits and other minorities,” he said. Employment opportunities of agricultural workers had been severely affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Providing additional employment through Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act (MGNREGA) was important, he said. He said 200 days of work must be assured for workers under MGNREGA. “A minimum wage of Rs. 600 must be given for a day’s work under the job scheme,” he said. “The Union government supports corporate conglomerates but is harsh on the working class through the labour laws. “So, all workers will unify to fight against these injustices,” he said. The Union would also take part in a nation-wide strike of all trade unions scheduled for November 26, he said.
20 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Give one more opportunity to write exam, HC tells govt.||Considering the plea of a student pursuing Diploma in Civil Engineering, who failed to pay his arrear examination fees on time, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has asked the State to provide one more opportunity to not only the petitioner, but also similarly placed students to appear for the examination. Justice S. Vaidyanathan observed that non-payment of examination fees was not deliberate and the government may provide one more ‘last opportunity’ not only to the petitioner but also to similarly-placed persons like the petitioner to appear for the examination, taking into account the COVID-19 situation. It should be clearly stated that If they failed to avail the said opportunity, it will be a ‘lost opportunity.’ The grant of one more opportunity to write the examination is definitely better than ‘COVID Pass’ (all pass), the judge said and adjourned the hearing in the case to November 6. The petitioner, K.R. Devadurai of Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram district, sought a direction to the Directorate of Technical Education to accept his examination fees to the arrear papers and permit him to write the examination. He had failed to pay the examination fees on March 10, which was the deadline. Devadurai said that he did not pay the fees as he waited for the revaluation results. Since he did not come out successful in the revaluation, he immediately approached the authorities concerned in order to pay the necessary fees and write the examination. However, his request was not considered. Special Government Pleader K.P. Krishnadoss submitted that it will be difficult to prepare the question paper and conduct examination for one person. If the request of the petitioner was entertained, there will be more such requests for the conduct of examination, he said and sought time to ascertain the possibility to permit the petitioner to write the examination.
20 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC deplores corruption in Revenue department||After a lapse on the part of government officials in verifying a survey number was brought to its knowledge, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed that “it is saddening to state that corruption begins with the Revenue department.” Justice S. Vaidyanathan observed that many officials such as Tahsildars, Surveyors, District Revenue Officers, Revenue Divisional Officers indulge in manipulation of records and amass wealth. Also, many District Registrars, Sub Registrars and their subordinates in the Registration Department indulged in ‘under the table’ dealings, the judge said. Even though the proceedings were videographed, document writers were playing the role of agents to receive bribe. Officials of other government departments were also giving a stiff competition to the officials of the Revenue and Registration departments in receiving bribes, the judge observed in a strongly-worded order. The court was hearing a petition filed by M. Senthil of Karur district who sought a direction to the Manmangalam Tahsildar to rectify the survey number in the patta assigned to him. The court directed the State to produce the details of the official concerned who had failed to take steps to verify the survey number and posted the case for hearing to November 5.
20 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Woman found lying unconscious with injuries||A 42-year-old woman, P. Selvi of Allikundam, was found lying unconscious with bleeding injuries at a farm near Chekkanoorani on Sunday morning. Police said that since the woman did not have a cordial relationship with her husband Pitchamuthu, 48, she was living separately. Later, village elders brokered peace between them and they started to live together at Tirupattur. However, there was a quarrel between the couple again and the woman had come to Allikundam on October 12. When the man came in search of her, he received information that a woman was lying unconscious in the farm of a Village Administrative Officer, Thangaraj. She was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. Chekkanoorani police have picked up a suspect in this connection.
20 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Plea to give compensation||Left organisations on Monday demanded compensation for the family of a girl from Dindigul, who was raped and murdered. They staged a demonstration near the Collectorate in Madurai, urging the State government to provide compensation to the family of the 12-year-old girl, daughter of a hairdresser, who was raped and murdered in Dindigul. The Dindigul Mahila Court had acquitted a suspect in the case, which sparked outrage among hairdressers across the State. Besides financial assistance, a member of the family must be given government job, the protesters said. Police personnel, who did not investigate the case properly, must be fired and the government must take steps to prevent sexual crimes against women, the protesters added.
20 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali bonus sought||Southern Railway Mazdoor Union staged a protest here on Monday pressing the Centre to give the railway employees productivity-linked bonus for Deepavali. Addressing union members, its Madurai divisional secretary J.M. Rafi said bonus for railway employees was first introduced in 1974 after a series of protests. “The Centre says the festival advance will be given in the form of Ru Pay card. It wants us to spend the money so that it will get huge returns in the form of GST. Why should the Centre expect every worker to spend? We may like to pay school or college fees or repay loans. We might also save it for our future use,” he said. Stating that All India Railway Men Federation had given an ultimatum to the Centre to give the bonus by October 21, he said otherwise the railway men would go for direct action.Assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar was present.
20 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two robbed||A 45-year-old man, S. Jagtar Singh, was assaulted by a three-member gang that robbed his mobile phone, ATM card and Rs. 24,000 at SIDCO Industrial Estate in Kappalur on Sunday night. A native of Punjab, he was working in a logistics company here. While he was walking towards his motorbike after having food in an eatery, three persons who came on a motorbike hit the back of his head with a sharp object. When he lost balance, they shoved him down. One of them brandished a knife and made him part with his valuables.  The incident occurred around 7.45 p.m.In another incident, two motorbike-borne men snatched the mobile phone from T. Suresh, 36, of Ariyur on Kumaram road around 1 p.m.
20 October 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Daily tally drops further in Madurai||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Kanniyakumari district stood at 707 and the total number of infections touched 14,362 after 69 fresh cases were reported on Monday. The district, which witnessed the discharge of 68 patients, has so far lost 237 lives to the viral infection. Madurai recorded 64 new cases, with which the total case count in the district went up to 18,084. Seventy-six people were discharged from hospitals and the number of active cases stands at 759. There were four deaths on Monday, taking the district’s toll to 409. In Thoothukudi, 46 new cases were registered, and the total number of positive cases rose to 14,537, with 560 active cases. Thirty-five patients were discharged from hospitals in the district. Dindigul added 41 new cases to its tally, which went up to 9,615. There were 41 discharges from hospitals in the district. The daily case count of Tirunelveli went up to 13,196 after 36 new cases were reported. The district marked the discharge of 49 patients. Theni reported 32 fresh cases, with which its tally moved up to 15,984. Sixty-four people were discharged from hospitals in the district. Virudhunagar reported 25 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally to 15,159. With the discharge of 43 patients, the total number of active cases dropped to 209. The death toll remains at 217. Ramanathapuram district registered 24 new cases to have a tally of 5,887. Hospitals marked the discharge of 13 patients. Twenty-three people tested positive in Sivaganga, which now has a tally of 5,674. A total of 24 people were discharged. Twenty-two people tested positive in Tenkasi, with which its case count increased to 7,740. After 20 people were discharged from hospital, the district has 155 active cases.
20 October 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Cash seized from Block Educational Officer||The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police seized unaccounted cash of Rs. 54,060 from the Block Educational Officer, Colachel, on Tuesday evening. A surprise check was conducted in the Office of BEO, Colachel, Jayaraj on getting information that he sold textbooks meant for English medium classes in government schools to English medium sections of a government-aided school and the cash seized.
20 October 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Exercise caution during festival season: Collector||District Collector K. Megraj on Monday advised the public to follow COVID-19 safety protocols and exercise caution during festival season. Speaking to reporters after paying tribute to Namakkal Kavignar Ramalingam Pillai on his 132nd birth anniversary, Mr. Megraj said, “there was a short spike in positive cases during the months of September and October 1st week. It has now started to reduce and we have been available to achieve this due to involvement of all.” He said the public should wear masks, practice hand sanitation and physical distancing and step out of their houses only when necessary. As its festival season, the public should pre-plan and decide when to visit stores and relatives and how short the visit should be.
20 October 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||13 tonnes of adulterated jaggery seized||The Food Safety Department during an inspection seized around 13 tonnes of adulterated jaggery here. According to officials, during the raids conducted at three manufacturing units in Jedarpalayam and Kabilarmalai areas, the authorities found jaggery balls adulterated with refined sugar. K.C. Arun, Designated Officer, Food Safety, said, “13.8 tonnes of jaggery balls adulterated with refined sugar have been seized from three units and we also seized about 18 tonnes of refined sugar that was stored for adulteration purposes. A case has been registered against owners of the units.”
20 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry sees 108 new virus cases||The Union Territory recorded 108 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the overall tally to 33,247. One death was reported, raising the toll to 575. A 58-year-old woman died of COVID-19 after developing pneumonia sequelae in Puducherry. With this, the toll in the capital alone is 477, followed by Karaikal, 52, Yanam, 42, and Mahe, 4. The new cases were detected during the testing of 2,533 samples. The test positivity rate was 4.26%, the case fatality rate stood at 1.73% and the recovery rate at 85.78%. Puducherry accounted for 95 of the new cases against the 170 persons who recovered. Karaikal had eight new cases and 48 recovered persons. Yanam four new cases and four recovered, while Mahe had one new case and eight recovered persons. During the last 24 hours, 230 patients had recovered and have been discharged. The total patients who have recovered so far was 28,520. After the transfer of 14 cases to Tamil Nadu, the overall tally was 33,247. Of the 4,152 active cases, 2,637 patients were in home isolation. The Health Department has undertaken a cumulative total of 2,67,656 tests, of which 2,30,990 returned negative. Meanwhile, it was decided at a meeting chaired by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi to implement crowd spacing measures at congested spots such as the Sunday market, fish markets and chicken stalls to cut down the transmission of COVID-19. Mobile testing vans would be positioned at these places to carry out random testing. Police, LAD (Local Administration Department) and Revenue personnel would jointly undertake crowd regulation measures at these sites, Ms. Bedi said. The LAD would regulate the sale in mutton stalls and the weekend markets. Experts from the Indian Council of Medical Research would be invited to assess the system and to seek improvements in the treatment and prevention strategy in order to sustain the progress made in COVID-19 control, she said. “Enforcement, prevention and treatment must go hand in hand,” the Lt. Governor said.
20 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Travel operators intensify stir||In a massive blockade that disrupted normal traffic for several hours on Monday, private travel operators lined up buses and vans on both sides of the East Coast Road and the 100 feet flyover near the transport office, demanding waiver of road tax in view of the COVID-19 crisis and the lockdown that followed. The Federation of Tourist Vehicle Owners and employees have been protesting against the imposition of road tax on tourist vehicles which have not operated for six months due to the coronavirus situation. Since the first curfew was imposed across the country in March to prevent the spread of coronavirus, there had been a near total freeze on public transport and vehicular traffic, the federation said. The blockade of the Transport Department on Monday was an intensification of a stir by tourist vehicle owners. According to the federation, the government did not initiate negotiations with private bus owners even as government buses began operating in a phased manner. The tourist vehicle owners said they would not give up the struggle until the road tax was repealed.
20 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Drive against encroachments||The administration launched a crackdown on encroachments on Anna Salai area on Monday. The drive was temporarily suspended following the intervention of R. Siva, MLA, who sought postponement of the action until the festival season was over. However, the administration made it clear that the drive against encroachments would not be deferred. District Collector T. Arun in an order said encroachments on IGMCRI-Mettupalayam, Kosapalayam-Lenin Street, Muruga Theatre-Jipmer, Tiruvalluvar Salai, Vallalar Salai, Airport Road, Kamaraj Salai, Uppalam Ambedkar Salai and 100-Foot Road would be removed on Tuesday. The Collector appealed to the public to cooperate with the effort aimed at improving road safety.
20 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Unable to face loss from playing online games, man ends life||Unable to bear financial loss while playing an online rummy game, a 26-year-old person allegedly set himself on fire. S. Vijayakumar, 26, a resident of Ellaiamman Koil Street, Korkadu, was found burnt in Pudukuppam Erikkarai, the Villianur police said. Police said the deceased had sent a few audio messages to his wife about the financial loss he suffered due to playing the online rummy game. According to Superintendent of Police B. Ranganathan, the deceased was working with a private telecom operator as a salesman, selling SIM cards. As his work was substantially reduced during the COVID-19 time, he got into the habit of playing online rummy. Reckless borrowing In the initial stages, he made certain gains and once he started losing money, he kept borrowing from his friends and relatives, said a police officer. "We have registered a case under Section 174 Cr.P.C., and further investigation is on,” Mr. Ranganathan said. Those with suicidal tendencies can contact the Tamil Nadu’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline044-24640050for counselling.
20 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Fertilizer shortage: Minister writes to Centre||Agriculture Minister R. Kamalakannan has sought the intervention of Union Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers to direct fertilizer companies to stop pressurising farmers to buy their brands. In a letter to Jitin Chopra, Joint Director (Movement), Department of Fertilizers, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers on Sunday, Mr. Kamalakannan said the Agriculture Department had received several complaints from farmers about retail dealers pressurising them to buy certain brands of speciality products, including organic fertilizers. Complaints galore “I have received many complaints and representations from farmers stating that the practice of retail dealers pressurising the farmers to purchase speciality products like organic fertilizers and other products, while purchasing fertilizers such as urea, diammonium phosphate and muriate of potash is prevalent,” he said. Mr. Kamalakannan has sought the Ministry's intervention in addressing the issue faced by the farmers. The inquiry conducted by the Department revealed that the companies were compelling farmers to purchase organic products manufactured by them along with urea, the Minister told The Hindu .  Supply delayed “The retail dealers are compelling farmers to buy their products and if they do not, the supply of urea and other fertilizers is delayed. We are having a good cropping season and such delays will impact the farming sector,” he said. The Centre should intervene and ensure that the choice of fertilizers was left to the discretion of the farmers, he added. “The companies are creating an artificial shortage in supply of urea and other products. The Centre should intervene to stop the artificial shortage created by the companies,” he said.
20 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||‘Ensure there is no loophole in probing crime against children’||Salem City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar asked officials to ensure that there is no loophole in investigating crime against children. Addressing the police officers at an orientation programme on juvenile justice system for child welfare police officers, child protection officers and Childline Mr. Kumar said, “officials must not cause any delay in medical examination and no loophole must be left in investigation. Investigation officers must strive for getting maximum punishment for offenders.” Pradip Kumar, DIG, Salem Range, said that timely action must be taken in such cases and children must be handled in a empathetic manner. “The FIR must be registered immediately and there should not be any delay in it. Personal doubts must not hinder investigation”, he said. He said that the State gives high importance for crime against women and children. Hence, All Women Police Station (AWPS) was set up in each sub-division in Tamil Nadu. Jayasree, Superintendent of Police, CWC, Chennai, said that child welfare police officers acts as a buffer system between police and victims and they must approach victims in a motherly way. S. Deepa Ganiger, Superintendent of Police, Salem, said that Tamil Nadu was a pioneer in setting up All Women Police Stations and advised police officers to make themselves thorough of various procedures to be followed while handling juvenile cases. M. Chandrashekaran, Deputy Police Commissioner (Law and Order), M. Baskaran, ADSP, CWC, Kummararaja, Additional Deputy Commissioner, CWC, Salem City and S.Sivakumar, Faculty of Tamil Nadu Police Academy and other officials attended.
20 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||DVAC registers case against former Salem GH Dean||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) has registered a case against former Dean of Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and four others following complaints of irregularities in procurement of hospital equipment. According to officials, between 2013 and 2014, the hospital has purchased operation surgical positioner for Rs. 9.50 lakh (actual cost Rs. 2.50 lakh), and two anaesthesia apparatus at Rs. 9.21 lakh each (actual cost Rs. 3.73 lakh). Based on a complaint, DVAC has registered a case against former Dean K. Karthikeyan and four others, including retired and current employees of the hospital, and the equipment suppliers on charges of conspiracy and corruption.
20 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘State govt. should take steps to procure paddy’||Farmers have planned to stage protests in Thanjavur and Thiruvarur on October 23, if the State government did not take necessary measures to procure paddy harvested in the delta region. P. Shanmugham, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, told presspersons that it was saddening to see the harvested paddy getting damaged in the rain. He claimed that a bribe of Rs. 40 to Rs. 65 was being demanded by officials for procuring one sack of paddy. He said it was condemnable that the authorities were turning a blind eye towards it. Mr. Shanmugham demanded the government to pay compensation to farmers for the produce damaged in the rain. He added that they would stage protests if necessary action was not taken.
20 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Residents accuse dyeing unit of causing pollution||Residents of Sanyasikundu staged a protest in front of theTamil Nadu Pollution Control Board office here on Monday demanding action against a private dyeing firm operating in the locality. The protesters complained that over 1,500 families reside in the locality and they have been severely affected due to the release of pollutants from the plant. The protesters alleged that untreated air pollutants are being discharged. District Environment Engineer V.Gopalakrishnan said that necessary action would be taken on the complaint.
20 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Deepavali sales inaugurated at Co-optex||District Collector S.A. Raman on Monday inaugurated the Deepavali sale at Co-optex showrooms here. Mr. Raman said in a release that the State government has offered a special discount of 30% on handloom varieties. According to a release, a sales target of Rs. 4.65 crore has been fixed for Co-optex showrooms this year. A sale of Rs. 3.70 crores was achieved last year.
20 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Outflow from Mettur dam reduced||Outflow from Mettur dam was reduced to 14,000 cusecs on Monday. According to officials at Public Works Department, the water level at the dam was 98.15 ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity was 62,469 mcft and the dam received inflow of 14,525 cusecs. The discharge from the dam to Cauvery river was reduced to 14,000 cusecs from 18,000 cusecs on Monday afternoon.
20 October 2020||Special Correspondent TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly poll a war to protect Tamils, says Stalin||The upcoming Assembly election in the State will be a “big war” to protect the rights of Tamils, DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Monday. “It is not just about ushering in a change in the State. The election is a war to protect the education and employment rights of Tamils,” Mr. Stalin said while exhorting party cadre to work towards victory. Addressing party cadre in Tiruchi district through videoconference during the ‘Mupperum Vizha’, Mr. Stalin said Tamil Nadu was stuck in a mire due to the AIADMK government headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. “The sooner we capture power in the State, the sooner we will be in a position to protect the rights of the State,” he said. The State had lost its rights in the sphere of education due to the national education policy and NEET. In the farm sector too, the rights of farmers had been usurped by the new laws. Minorities could lose citizenship due to the Citizenship Amendment Act, he alleged. There was also a move to usurp Anna University. Candidates from other States were being recruited into various Central government departments and organisations in the State, and applications of candidates from Tamil Nadu were being rejected in a well-planned manner, he claimed. Attempts were being made to thwart social justice to check the entry of students belonging to SC, ST, backward and most backward communities into higher educational institutions. “The responsibility of preventing such moves lies on the shoulders of the DMK,” Mr. Stalin said. He alleged that the ruling dispensation had mortgaged all the rights of the State to the BJP government at the Centre, as it was mired in corruption and irregularities.  The sooner we capture power in the State, the sooner we will be in a position to protect the rights of the State
20 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Procedural issue proves an obstacle to laying of road||The non-existence of an elected local body is said to be the stumbling block for residents of Railway Line East Street, Peravurani, in getting their long-pending demand of converting the existing mud road serving as a vital link to the town into a black-topped carriageway. The mud road passing through the Railway land was being used by the residents of Railway line East Street for decades to reach Nattanikottai Road, Neelakanda Pillaiyar Kovil Weekly Shandy, Aranthangi, Sethubhavachatram and the Peravurani town for several decades. The Railway authorities have reportedly conveyed their decision to the civic body that the mud road could be taken on lease for a decade by remitting Rs. 15 lakh and renew the same thereafter, sources said. Though their plea elicited favourable response from the Peravurani Town Panchayat and the Railway officials, the ‘ineligibility’ on the part of civic body officials in taking a final call on projects/proposals involving a ‘huge amount’ has effectively stalled the proposal. Meanwhile, the Peravurani MLA, M.Govindarasu has claimed that the plight of Railway line residents had been brought to the notice of the State government and the District Administration to get the issue sorted out at the earliest.
20 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Paddy piles up at DPC||Paddy brought in by farmers have started piling up near the direct purchase centre at Marungulam near here causing concern among the farmers. A large quantity of paddy harvested from fields in Marungulam and nearby villages were brought to the Marungulam DPC and stocked in the open by the farmers. “As this area experiences showers every day, the moisture content increases automatically and some quantity of grains sprout due to water seepage despite the produce being covered with tarpaulins,” said T.Vaithiyalingam, secretary, Manavari Cultivators Association. Hence, the DPC staff were unable to procure more than 500 bags of paddy by following the moisture content norms laid down for the procurement, he lamented. Delay in the movement of procured paddy from the DPC to stockyards had also made the staff refrain from stepping up procurement since if the paddy bags get drenched in the rain they had to face departmental action, he added.
20 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Memorial lecture held in SASTRA||Taking the right decision at the right time is the distinctive quality of those who emerge as leaders, according to Sanjeev Sanyal, Principal Economic Advisor, Union Finance Ministry. He made this remark while delivering the 15th City Union Bank V. Narayanan Memorial Lecture on ‘World economic history and India’s future,’ organised online by the SASTRA Deemed to be University on Sunday. Mr. Sanyal traced the oceanic trade and economic routes that were dominated by the Mongols and Chinese and the role of the Chola empire. He cited examples of Chola temples and Puri Jagannath as places of significant religious and financial capital. The history of economics was full of unpredictable twists and turns. “It is only those who took the right decisions at the right time emerge as leaders”, he said. Citing India’s flexible and resilient response mechanisms, Mr. Sanyal said the Indian society deserved credit for keeping COVID-19 pandemic under control and thereby ensuring economic recovery which had started “showing signs of positivism.” S. Vaidhyasubramanim, Vice-Chancellor, SASTRA Deemed University, in his address recalled the efforts of V. Narayanan, who was the longest-serving Chairman of City Union Bank, in uniquely positioning Thanjavur District in the banking landscape of India. N. Kamakodi, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, CUB, also spoke.
20 October 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||TNCC to hold protest against farm Acts||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Monday said the party would hold demonstrations in all districts condemning the Central and State governments for introduction of the farm Acts. The TN Youth Congress cadre had planned to hold a tractor rally in the district. However, police denied permission and warned that the tractors would be seized. Condemning the police for the ‘threat’, Mr. Alagiri said the Congress wanted to express its protest in a democratic way. The denial by the police was not only autocratic but also against democratic norms. Later, when the cadre assembled at Palanichettipatti and decided to march to Jawaharlal Nehru statue and garland it, police arrested the leaders including Mr. Alagiri, working president Mayura Jayakumar, AICC secretary Jebi Mether, Youth Congress president J.M. Hassan Moulana and Theni district Congress president Murugesan. The cadre resorted to a road blockade in protest against the arrest. A large posse of police personnel was deployed in the vicinity to ensure that there were no untoward incidents. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Alagiri said the Congress had implemented numerous programmes for the welfare of farmers in the country. However, the BJP brought in laws to wind up the agriculture sector. He blamed the AIADMK government for supporting the Farm Act. The AIADMK leaders were interested only in power and did not care for farmers, he said. Mr. Alagiri said the BJP was keen to support and protect select corporate houses in the country. Over a period of time, the Farm Act would cripple the public distribution system and the prices of essential commodities might go up. The wrong policies of the Centre had destroyed Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited, he added. If the Centre was so keen to protect ryots, why did it not mention the minimum support price (MSP) in the Bill while tabling it in Parliament, he asked. Even when it was hurriedly sent for the President’s assent, the Congress members raised the omission inside and outside Parliament. The Prime Minister’s statement that the minimum support price was mentioned in the Act was misleading. Very soon, there would be a change in the governments, he said and appealed to the cadre to be prepared to work towards a new regime. The arrested leaders were released later in the evening, police said.
20 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to check commercial use of tank water||Accusing an individual of pumping out water from an irrigation tank for commercial purposes and monetary benefits, a group of residents of Sivagnanapuram village submitted a petition in the Collector’s office here on Monday. In the petition, the Sivagnanapuram villagers said farmers and villagers took water from Maruthaanikuttam tank for domestic and farming purposes even as a resolution passed in the gram sabha meeting says that none should take water for commercial purposes using pumps. However, an individual was pumping water from Maruthaanikuttam tank for commercial purposes despite resistance from the villagers. “Even as the farmers are in need of water to save their standing turmeric crop, the individual, enjoying money and muscle power, takes water for commercial purposes, which should be stopped,” said Balaiah, head of Sivagnanapuram under Servaikaaranmadam village panchayat. A group of Samaththuva Makkal Katchi cadre submitted a petition seeking early completion of the rail over bridge on Thoothukudi–Madurai Bypass Road. Since delay in construction of the bridge even after several years caused road accidents and claimed several lives, the Collector should take immediate steps. Similarly, absence of traffic signal at the starting point of the four-way Madurai Highway beyond new bus stand caused frequent accidents. Hence, electronic signal should be installed at the point to regulate traffic and avert road accidents, the petitioners said. Members of Tamil Nadu Vivasaayigal Sangam submitted a petition seeking immediate action by the Collector against installation of electric poles by windmill firms along cultivable lands in Pananchaalankurichi area without the consent of their owners. When the affected agriculturists raised objections, they were threatened by the companies with the backing of the police, they alleged. A group of villagers from Chembur in Eral taluk submitted a petition against the move to close down the level-crossing in the village. The petitioners said the gate was being used by the villagers to reach their places of work and the schools and the colleges. Since Southern Railway proposed to close down the gate permanently, it would force the Chembur villagers to take a circuitous route to reach their destinations. Hence, the Collector should stop the possible closure of the gate.
20 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Arrest inspector: murder victim’s wife||Wife of murdered packaged drinking water trader Selvan, 30, of Chokkankudiyiruppu in the district has appealed to Collector Sandeep Nanduri to ensure early arrest of Thattarmadam Police Inspector Harikrishnan for “his role in the murder” of her husband. Ms. Jeevitha, wife of Selvan, submitted a petition to the Collector in this connection on Monday. After Selvan was kidnapped and murdered by a gang on September 17, Thattarmadam police arrested AIADMK functionary Thirumanavel of nearby Usarathukudiyiruppu and six of his supporters. However, the family of the deceased alleged that the murder was orchestrated at the instance of Mr. Harikrishnan, who was also cited as an accused in the case filed by Thisaiyanvilai police as the badly injured Selvan had been abandoned by the assailants near Thisaiyanvilai and was rushed to the Government Hospital there, where doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. Even as Thisaiyanvilai police were about to commence the investigation, the case was transferred to the CB–CID, which is investigating the murder that triggered widespread outrage here as it happened just 90 days after the custodial deaths of Sattankulam trader Jayaraj and his son Benicks. Though Harikrishnan was placed under suspension after his name figured in the FIR, he was not arrested as demanded by the aggrieved family. Ms. Jeevitha said, “The government, as promised by the Collector, should give our family a green house and a government job for me on an early note. The Collector has assured us to look into our demands.”
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New fish market raises a stink||Unhygienic conditions prevail at the newly constructed Kasivilangi fish market as retail vendors sell outside the shops. With the facility inaugurated only a week ago, officials say vendors will take time to settle. The Kasivilangi market, located three kilometres away from the Puthur Fish Market looks not too different from the old one. The parking area is inundated with slush and mud, inconveniencing customers visiting the market to purchase fish. Drainage channels have not been constructed well and large vehicles that are parked haphazardly add to the problem. Retail vendors too, have crowded the parking area with their stalls as they have not been allotted shops. Except for the building, the market itself does not look new at all, said P. Bharathi, a resident of Woraiyur. “We may slip and fall in the slush and mud,” she said. Not stopping with shifting the market to the new place, the civic body should ensure it proper maintenance and cleanliness, she added. The market was shifted to the new location after residents and commercial establishments in Puthur raised complaints of unhygienic conditions. Such issues could give rise to health concerns, said N. Jamaluddin, former member, State Consumer Protection Council. “At a time when the spread the novel coronavirus is yet to be contained, unhygienic areas such as the market could cause spread of infections. Why did the civic body rush to shift the vendors even without completing the construction of a shed for them?” he asked. Unwanted parts of the fish removed by cleaners seated on the far end of the market also gave out an unbearable stench. “In the Puthur market, we had a shelter to sit under and clean. We are unable to bear the heat and the fish starts to rot giving out a bad stench,” a cleaner woman said. Meanwhile, speaking to The Hindu , V. Rajendran, president of the Retail Fish Vendors Association said - “The wholesale merchants are not allowing us to sell fish at any of the shops. They have occupied them and are using them as office rooms and storage areas. We are left to trade in the hot sun,” he said. “Because of the heat, vendors are losing as much as Rs. 50,000 each day,” he said. “Because of the direct sun, the fish begins to rot and customers do not buy them. We have sent requests to the civic body to construct a shelter but we are yet to receive a response,” he said.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IGNITTE helps them crack JEE||Two government school students who cleared the Joint Entrance Examinations (Main) with the help of students from the National Institute of Technology- Tiruchi (NIT-T), have secured seats in the same institution. S. Pughazharasi a student from the Government Girls' Higher Secondary School in Manachanallur and P. Sethupathi, of Government Higher Secondary School, Lalgudi, were trained by a team of volunteers from IGNITTE, a teaching club comprising students of NIT-T. The students are provided with free access to resources and coaching to crack the entrance examinations. Daughter of a single mother, who works as a teacher at an Anganwadi in Manachanallur, Ms. Pughazharasi said she was unaware about the career opportunities available after Plus Two. “I qualified for the coaching camp through an entrance examination conducted across the district. A total of 70 students were chosen and we would spend weekends and any long holidays at NIT-T preparing for the examinations,” she said. While the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted their face-to-face training, the students were able to adjust to online classes quickly, said V. Sanjeev, one of the founders of IGNITTE. “They spent 13 to 14 hours a day preparing. They would also approach us with doubts and clarifications regularly,” he said. The students' dedication and focus led them to perform well in the examinations. Ms. Pughazharasi said that the district administration undertook their travel, food and other miscellaneous costs to ensure that the children could prepare well for the examinations. “If not for them, I would not have qualified and I would not have been eligible to study at such a prestigious college,” she said. Her two brothers, who are also studying and her mother are ecstatic, she added. “I hope to study well and make them proud,” she added. Both the students have secured seats in civil engineering in NIT-T after the first round of counselling. A private company in Chennai has come forward to sponsor the fees for both the students, Mr. Sanjeev said. “Their tuition fees, boarding and other needs would be met by the sponsors,” he added. Both students were invited by the District Collector S. Sivarasu on Monday and were felicitated.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Onion turns dearer; shallot sells at Rs. 100 a kg in Tiruchi||Prices of both the big and small varieties of onions, which started rising by mid-September, continue to head north at the wholesale market in Tiruchi. The price of top quality shallots touched Rs. 100 a kg on Monday, while the Bellary variety was being sold at Rs. 80 a kg. Retail prices are normally Rs. 5 -10 a kg more than the wholesale rates. Wholesale traders report that the prices of both the varieties have gone up by Rs. 25-30 a kg over the past week. With the festival season ahead, the prices are expected to go up further by another Rs. 20 a kg. Traders say that arrivals of shallots have dwindled drastically over the past few days and old stocks from a few parts of the State are coming in. “We are hardly getting about 60 tonnes of shallots a day against the daily demand of about 250 tonnes,” said A. Thangaraj, general secretary, Tiruchi Onion Commission Mandi Traders’ Association, said. Arrivals from Perambalur and Thuraiyur belt in Tiruchi district, a major onion growing belt in the State, have come down to a trickle. Farmers in Perambalur and Thuraiyur had complained of a strange disease attack in the crop affecting the yield last season. “We are getting about 25-30 tonnes from Perambalur and Thuraiyur and another 30 tonnes from Udumalpet and Pollachi region as some farmers and traders are clearing their old stocks,” Mr.Thangaraj said. Arrival of Bellary variety onions have been on the decline since September due to rains in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Prior to that, the price of the variety had ruled steady at about Rs. 20 a kg for about three months at the Tiruchi market. “We are getting about 200 tonnes of Bellary onions, about 100 tonnes each from Karnataka and Maharashtra, against the normal demand of about 300 tonnes. While the arrivals from Karnataka is fresh crop, those from Maharashtra largely constitute old stocks. The damage caused by the rain in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka continue to impact arrivals to Tamil Nadu,” said Mr.Thangaraj. Traders here expect the price of the onion varieties to stabilise only after the festival season. Fresh arrivals of small onions, also known as sambar onions, from Perambalur and Thuraiyur are expected only in January.
20 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Narrow, shaky bridge causes inconvenience to residents||A bridge across the Uyyakondan Canal near Pichai Nagar is a risky drive for two-wheelers. The bridge linking Duraisamypuram and Pichai Nagar is the path for reaching the Chennai Byepass Road. The small bridge was constructed nearly 30 years ago after an effort was made by the local residents and members of a church nearby. “For 30 years, it has not been strengthened and the retaining wall has fallen on one side. It is a big risk for pedestrians and two-wheeler riders,” said John Britto, who lives nearby. The bridge has also begun developing cracks and accidents occur especially at night when there is low visibility. “There have been instances of riders falling into the water. It is like a mishap waiting to happen,” he said. Many factories and a shopping complex have also come up. Customers to these places take this route. Functioning of TASMAC outlets on either side of the bridge adds to their woes. “Almost daily at least one drunk man slips and falls into the canal and has to be rescued. If they fall in the night, it could be dangerous,” another resident said. When residents approached the Tiruchi City Corporation, they directed them to the Public Works Department. “They said that the reconstruction of the bridge is not under their purview. We are working on sending a representation to the PWD,” he said.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a further dip in cases||The central districts on Monday recorded a further dip in COVID cases with 347 patients testing positive for the viral infection compared to Sunday’s 396. All districts in the region recorded a drop, including Thanjavur, which had been recording high numbers over the past few weeks. Four deaths - two in Nagapattinam and one each in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur - were reported in the region. A 45-year-old woman who suffered a left-lung collapse and deep vein thrombosis in the left leg and a 52-year-old man with a history of hypothyroidism and hypertension both succumbed to COVID-19 in Nagapattinam. A 72-year-old man from Thanjavur and a 55-year-old man from Tiruvarur, both with acute respiratory distress syndrome also died of the viral infection. Thanjavur district recorded a drop in cases, in line with the trend among the central districts. A total of 83 patients tested positive for the infection, among which were two inter-district travellers from Tiruvarur and one from Kanchipuram. Tiruvarur recorded 74 new COVID cases, while Tiruchi recorded a further drop with 59 fresh cases. Among the patients in both districts were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Cauvery Nagar, ward number 61 of the Tiruchi City Corporation, was declared a containment zones after residents in the area tested positive on Monday. In Nagapattinam, 36 patients tested positive while in Pudukottai 35 fresh cases were recorded. Officials in both districts said that a sizeable number of the positive cases were local index cases with no travel or contact history while the remaining were primary contacts and patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Meanwhile, in Karur, 33 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among them were residents of Thogamalai, Aravakurichi, Kulithalai and Thanthonrimalai. Perambalur recorded 15 new cases including inter-district travellers and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses. While most patients were admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital, some were also admitted to hospitals in Tiruchi. As on Monday a total of 64 active cases existed in the district. Ariyalur too recorded a drop with only 12 patients tested positive. Among them, five hailed from Ariyalur block, two from Thirumanur, three from Sendurai, three each from Andimadam and T. Palur and 12 from Jayankondam blocks. Meanwhile, 255 throat swab samples have been lifted on Saturday and sent for testing.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IUML to work for victory of DMK-led alliance in Assembly polls||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on Monday expressed its resolve to work for the victory of DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance in the 2021 Assembly elections. Addressing journalists after the party’s State executive committee meeting that was held in Tiruchi, party state president K. M. Kadar Mohideen claimed that the feedback from various quarters, including intelligence sources and mainstream media, was that the prospects of victory was bright for the DMK-led alliance. IUML district unit functionaries have been advised to identify constituencies in which the party had strong winning chances before November-end. After an analysis, the party will be ready with its wish-list of constituencies by December-end. The IUML has demonstrated its robust presence in 25 constituencies in various elections, Mr. Kadar Mohideen further claimed. By a resolution adopted at the meeting, the IUML expressed concern over the promulgation of laws in Parliament sans debate or voting. The new farm laws have crushed farmers hopes in favour of corporates, and the anti-people approach of the Central Government had reflected in new education policy, NEET, triple talaq abolition, abrogation of special status of Jammu and Kashmir and Citizenship Rights Bill, according to the party. The rights of minorities were at stake in BJP-ruled States, the IUML alleged. Tamil Nadu was also losing its rights due to the subjugation of AIADMK government by the BJP, it alleged.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||12-year-old boy ends life||A 12-year-old boy ended his life at his house at Keezha Sindhalavadi near Lalapet in Karur district on Monday. The boy was a class-VII student in a govt. school. Police said the boy was watching television with his 14-year-old sister. He is said to have asked for the remote and his sister apparently refused. The boy reportedly snatched the remote and his sister left the house following which the boy shut the door. When, she returned she found him hanging and raised an alarm. The boy died on the way to Kulithalai GH. Police sources said the family took the body and cremated it without informing the police. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
20 October 2020||tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IUML to work for DMK front’s victory in polls||The Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) on Monday expressed its resolve to work for the victory of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance in the 2021 Assembly election. The party’s State president, K.M. Kader Mohideen, claimed that the feedback from various quarters was that the prospects of victory were bright for the DMK-led alliance.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman gives poison to three children, ends life||A 30-year-old woman allegedly gave poisonous seeds in paste form to her three children and consumed the same substance leading to her death in Karur district. The incident occurred at Vellalapatti village in Krishnarayapuram taluk ion Sunday. Police identified the deceased woman as S. Muthulakshmi. Her three children aged eight years, six years and three years are undergoing treatment. Police said the woman resorted to the extreme step due to a family dispute. The woman and the children were taken to a private hospital in Kulithalai. The woman was referred to another private hospital at Musiri where she succumbed on Sunday. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Answer scripts found strewn on road||Some answer sheets of the University of Madras examinations were found strewn on the Tiruchi- Karur national highway at Mayanur in Karur district on Sunday raising eyebrows. Locals who noticed the papers strewn on the road side collected the bunch and informed the local police. Police sources said during enquiry it was revealed that these papers were old answer scripts which were disposed of by the University to the Tamil Nadu Newsprint Limited in Karur as scrap. The papers were being taken in a lorry to the Tamil Nadu Newsprint Limited when some accidentally fell on the road. The old answer papers were disposed of by the University of Madras a few days ago to the newsprint unit in Karur, said the sources.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IndiGo cancels Mumbai flight||IndiGo airline has announced cancellation of its Tiruchi - Mumbai service from October 26 to November 30. The airline is presently operating the service four days in a week. Airline sources said one service to Chennai from Tiruchi would be cancelled from October 26 to November 30. The airline is currently operating three flights to Chennai from here which would get reduced to two services a day from October 26. The cancellation of the flights comes amid the runway re-carpeting works currently under way at the Tiruchi international airport.
20 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Rly employee dies in accident||A railway employee hailing from Jharkhand and working in Tiruchi Division died in a road accident here on Monday. Police identified the deceased as Dilip Minj (33). Police sources said Dilip, a technician, was riding a two-wheeler when he was knocked down by a lorry at G Corner area. The body was sent to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for post mortem. Traffic South Investigation unit has registered a case.
20 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Cemetery attack: churches demand stern action||Condemning the vandalisation of 86 graves at a cemetery of Sacred Heart Church in Udaiyaarpatti, all political parties, including the ruling AIADMK, and Palayamkottai RC Diocese and Tirunelveli CSI Diocese, on Monday appealed to Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish to ensure detention of the miscreants under the Goondas Act. A resolution passed in an all-party meeting held at the church with Rev. S. Antonysamy, Bishop of Palayamkottai RC Diocese, in chair said the attacks were conducted in an organised manner with the ulterior motive of triggering religious clash among the people. Since the cemeteries were badly damaged and would require at least Rs. 30 lakh to repair them, the government should bear the cost, another resolution said. The district administration and police should initiate the most stringent action against those who were working overtime to create animosity and clash between people of different faiths, the meeting said. AIADMK Tirunelveli district secretary Thatchai N. Ganesa Raja, former Rajya Sabha MP Vijila Sathyananth, Abdul Wahab of DMK, Tirunelveli MLA A.L.S. Lakshmanan of DMK, K.M.A. Nizam of MDMK, K. Sankarapandian of Congress, S. Kasi Viswanathan of CPI, Bilal of Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam, Hayat of Social Democratic Party of India, Suresh of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, Rev. Giftson of Tirunelveli CSI Diocese (Communications), Rev. Fr. Joseph Michael Selvaraj and representatives of a few more political parties accompanied Rev. Antonysamy when he met the Collector and handed over the resolutions passed unanimously at the meeting. The District Collector assured them of appropriate action. Members of a few fringe outfits were objecting to burial of bodies in the 40-year-old cemetery saying it was situated close to a temple at Manimurtheeswaram. Besides the granite cross atop the tombs, the polished granite tops on the graves also suffered damage. A portion of the compound wall around the cemetery was broken. The descretion triggered anger among Christians, particularly families who had their kin buried there. “Although Christians affiliated to Sacred Heart Church at Udaiyaarpatti are buried here over the last 40 years after buying and registering the land for this purpose, a few affiliated to fringe religious groups, with the nefarious intention of triggering clashes between Christians and Hindus, are doing this,” parishioners said.
20 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Works for Bamboo Park under way near Tiruppur||Sapling plantation for the proposed Bamboo Park at Iduvai near Tiruppur began on Monday. The park is expected to be opened for the public by next year. Corporation Commissioner K. Sivakumar, Palladam MLA Karaipudur A. Natarajan, Director of Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding (IFGTB) C. Kunhikannan and Iduvai Village Panchayat president K. Ganesan participated in the inaugural event. The project is a collaborative project involving the IFGTB, Tiruppur Corporation and NGO Vetry. The NGO’s founder T.R. Sivaram said that the Corporation has provided nearly 12 acres of land, water supply and electricity for the project. The IFGTB will look after the plantation of the bamboo saplings and Vetry will look after the maintenance and any recurring expenses for the park. Primarily intended to be an “oxygen park” to help reduce air pollution, the park will also comprise children’s play area, butterfly park and lotus pond. “The construction is expected to take at least six months,” he said.
20 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||HC Chief Justice inspects work||Chief Justice of Madras High Court Amreshwar Pratap Sahi conducted a surprise inspection of the construction works of the Combined Court Complex in Tiruppur on Monday. Legal sources said the Chief Justice instructed Principal District and Sessions Judge (Tiruppur) S. Alli to ensure that the works are completed and that the complex becomes functional at the earliest. The works for the court complex began in 2018 near the District Collectorate.
20 October 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA T.R.B. Rajaa tests positive||DMK MLA T.R.B. Rajaa, who represents the Mannargudi constituency, tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Mr. Rajaa had reported fatigue two days ago after participating in various events in his constituency. Subsequently, he subjected himself to a COVID-19 test on Saturday. By the time the result was out on Monday, the MLA had gone to Chennai and had isolated himself after consulting doctors. He later issued a statement saying his condition was stable.
20 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Mudumalai Tiger Reserve gets a dedicated wildlife veterinarian||After more than two years, the post of wildlife veterinarian at the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) has finally been filled. On deputation According to officials, Rajesh Kumar, a veterinarian from the Department of Animal Husbandry, has been posted on deputation as wildlife veterinarian in MTR. Dr. Kumar’s regular routine would be to take care of the elephants at the Theppakadu Elephant Camp. “We have been asking for a veterinarian for the last few years, not just to take care of the captive elephants, but to also assist in treating injured wildlife and rescues,” said K.K .Kaushal, Field Director of MTR. Since the post of wildlife veterinarian became vacant in 2018, forest department officials had to rely on veterinarians from Gudalur or Masinagudi to deal with emergencies.  “A dedicated wildlife veterinarian at MTR will not only help respond to wildlife emergencies inside the reserve, but will also prove beneficial for other forest divisions in the Nilgiris,” said Mr. Kaushal.
20 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Three held for tusker’s death||Three persons were arrested in connection with the electrocution of an elephant after it came in contact with an illegal electric fence set up at Chinna Coonoor in Sigur additional reserve forest in Udhagai North Range on Monday. Forest officials identified the accused as S. Vigneshwaran (40), S.K. Gopalakrishnan (20), and G. Ajithkumar (18) from Benthatti village, Chinna Coonoor. The three men allegedly connected the fence directly to the power outlet in their homes, leading to the death of the 20-year-old tusker. The incident is said to have occurred a few days ago, and the three men tried to bury the carcass. A forest department guard, who was on a routine patrol, found out the incident. All three men were arrested. Autopsy Autopsy will be conducted on the remains of the elephant on Tuesday.
20 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Medical admission: three held for cheating man||The Vellore District Crime Branch police have arrested three persons, including a CSI priest, for allegedly cheating a man to the tune of Rs. 57 lakh by promising to get his son a medical seat in the Christian Medical College, Vellore. The police said Srinivasan, 58, of Chengalpattu, works as an engineer abroad. He wanted to get a medical seat for his son in CMC, Vellore. Through an agent, he came to know that Sadhu Sathiyaraj, Presbyter-in-Charge of a CSI Church in Katpadi could help in getting his son an admission in the medical college. The priest allegedly asked Mr. Srinivasan to meet V. J. Deva, secretary, Tamilaga Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, Vellore, and when Mr. Srinivasan met him, Deva allegedly demanded Rs. 57 lakh and promised to get his son an admission in the college. However, till date he did not do so. When Mr. Srinivasan questioned him, Deva and his brother Anbu Grant allegedly threatened him. On October 15, Mr. Srinivasan lodged a complaint with S. Selvakumar, SP, Vellore. The case was transferred to the district crime branch and inspector Illakuvan investigated the case and arrested Sadhu Sathayaraj, Deva and his brother Anbu Grant. Further investigation is on.
20 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore’s case tally crosses 17,000||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 17,125 with a total of 92 new cases reported on October 19. While a total of 16,127 have been discharged, the number of active cases in the district stand at 705. The district’s death toll stands at 293. In Ranipet district, a total of 26 cases have been reported, taking the total to 14,374. In Tirupattur, the total number of cases stood at 6,137 with a total of 28 new cases on Monday. In Tiruvannamalai district, a total of 53 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 17,118. Out of this, 16,230 have been discharged and there are 632 active cases.
20 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Allow cracker shops to be open till midnight: traders’ body||Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peravai on Monday sought permission to keep fire cracker shops open till midnight. Speaking to press persons at Virudhunagar Collectorate here, he said fireworks traders should be allowed to open the shops up to midnight for five days prior to Deepavali. “Otherwise, traders will not recover their investment.” He appealed to Collector R. Kannan to reopen the vegetable market in Sivakasi at the earliest. Besides, drinking water and toilet facilities should be provided at the vegetable market in Sattur. “Non-opening of markets in many towns in the State has led to largescale unemployment of labourers.” He also wanted the State government to take efforts to remove all encroachments in markets across the State. This would ensure that there was enough space between two shops.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily case load drops below 300 mark in Coimbatore||The daily case load of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district dropped below the 300 mark on Monday. The 290 new cases reported on Monday took the total number of positive cases so far in the district to 40,108. The Health Department said the steady fall in the daily case load indicated a decline in the disease spread in the district. According to the department, 3,859 COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment in various treatment centres. The district reported the death of a 73-year-old woman. A 59-year-old woman died of the disease in Salem. Officials said the patient was suffering from respiratory ailment, diabetes and chronic kidney disease. Salem district also reported 192 fresh cases on Monday. Health officials said all cases were indigenous, including 86 in Salem Corporation limits. Namakkal district reported 98 fresh cases. Eleven of these patients had returned from Theni, Erode, Salem, Karur, Coimbatore and Tenkasi, health officials said. Tiruppur district reported one death, of a 66-year-old man, and 140 fresh cases. Of the district’s tally of 11,305 positive cases so far, 9,999 have recovered and 1,140 are active cases. The number of deaths so far is 166 deaths. On Monday, 202 patients were discharged from various hospitals upon recovery. Erode district reported 90 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,223. While 134 persons were discharged on Monday, 998 persons are under treatment. Krishnagiri district saw 65 new cases and Dharmapuri 71. In the Nilgiris, 60 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stands at 6,149. The death toll in the district increased from 35 to 36 on Sunday while 559 people are undergoing treatment.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four govt. schools in Dharapuram get renovated play areas||A project by the district administration to renovate the play areas of four government schools in Dharapuram taluk has been completed recently. Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar said on Monday that the four schools were Government Higher Secondary School, Sankarandampalayam; Government Middle School, Thalakkarai; Government Middle School, Nallimadam; and Government Middle School, Dharapuram. The project done in collaboration with Anthill Creations, a Bengaluru-based organisation, focused on building playscapes for children and was funded through the corporate social responsibility (CSR) fund of Power Grid Corporation of India. Apart from beautification of the play areas of the schools, Mr. Giriyappanavar said that the initiative is also aimed at increasing the enrolment of students in the coming academic years. “We felt that this will be one more reason for the students to come to school,” he told The Hindu . The works began in January after securing the funding of about Rs. 10 lakh and getting the approval from District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan. Initially scheduled for completion by May, the project was delayed due to the COVID-19 lockdown and was finally completed by the first week of October, according to Mr. Giriyappanavar. The play areas in the schools have unique playing set-ups such as heaving hoops, four-way seesaws and double-tyre climbers. According to Mayukh Deb, Business Development Manager of Anthill Creations, the playground equipment were constructed out of recycled materials such as used tyres, which are painted in bright colours to make them more attractive for the students. “Many children do not have a proper play area (in schools),” he said. The organisation, founded by graduates of Indian Institute of Technology – Kharagpur, have so far built over 250 play areas across the country and stresses on children’s “right to play,” Mr. Deb said. R. Ramesh, Tiruppur Chief Educational Officer, said that efforts to secure CSR funds to undertake such projects in more government schools in the district are under way.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Eight arrested||The Thatchanallur police have arrested eight persons, including Hindu Makkal Katchi’s Tirunelveli district president, for damaging 86 tombs in the cemetery of Sacred Heart Church at Udaiyaarpatti in Manimurtheeswaran here on Saturday night. Based on a complaint from Rev. Fr. Joseph Michael Selvaraj, parish priest of the church, S. Udaiyaar, 53, Tirunelveli district president of Hindu Makkal Katchi, and seven others were arrested. They were sent for remand on Monday.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Siddha drug introduced at govt. hospital||The State Health Department has permitted Aruppukottai Government Hospital to take up trial of a Siddha concoction on COVID-19 positive patients. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan on Monday said clinical trial proved that the concoction – M.V. Kashayam – prepared using several herbs was effective in curing various symptoms of COVID-19. “The Siddha drug has the power to prevent the spread of the virus in human body and also the power to wipe it out.” The new drug was found to cure fever, body pain, allergy, breathing problems, ulcer, dysentery, cancer, and to protect liver and improve immunity to cure anemia and give rejuvenation, he said in a release. The trial had proved that it could prevent clotting of blood. “It is expected that COVID-19 can be cured on consuming M.V. Kashayam for three to six days,” Mr. Kannan said. Upon taking the drug thrice, the viral load would be controlled and the adverse impact of COVID-19 would start to reduce. “It is expected to provide relief to fever, headache, body pain, throat pain, cough and breathing trouble in two days,” he said. Since the drug could stop clotting of blood, it could prevent breathing trouble and heart attack. Stating that the new treatment was totally on trial basis at no cost, Mr. Kannan said that after treatment, laboratory test would be conducted on patients. Interested persons could avail the treatment on producing a COVID-19 positive certificate.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nowhere to go||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Roadkill continues||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When the skies opened up||
20 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||AYUSH Ministry regulation on ‘ghost teachers’ irks teachers, colleges alike||AYUSH Ministry’s move to regulate private Ayurveda colleges by weeding out “ghost” teachers who teach in more than one college has irked college managements and teachers who have migrated to States other than their own. Teachers say that the pan-India order has caused a lot of inconvenience as the government has begun to collect data unrelated to their employment. College managements say this order could stop them from hiring the best talent from across the country. “We are being harassed by the Ministry, that is collecting irrelevant information about us, like the number of milk packets we have purchased in a week or the receipts of fees paid for children’s education,’’ said a teacher. The colleges have been been given the onus of proving that their teachers have been resident in the city where they teach. This is to ensure that no private college teacher employs “ghost” teachers whose names remain on the rolls in colleges where they don’t actually work. To build this data base, the colleges are supposed to collect some details. They include proof of purchase of any consumables in the city where the teacher is working. At least one receipt for each month of employment for items such as grocery, medicine, restaurant or other bills, online purchase of any goods delivered to the teacher’s address located in the city, any transaction paid to a government authority from the teacher’s address in the city such as electricity bill, water bill, property tax, proof of bank account statement showing regular credit of salary from employer for one year, proof of regular travel from the teacher’s residence to the college for the lockdown period and earlier, proof of the last travel made by the teacher to his native place immediately before or after the lockdown. Proof of employment , business, residence of spouse or parents in the same city or nearby city, proof of school admission of the teacher’s son or daughter in the same city or nearby city where the teacher is working, proof of rent payment or rent agreement and PAN of house owner if the rent is high, TDS certificate issued by the employer and ESI and EPF registration details of the teacher. Teachers say this betrays the government’s lack of trust. “We want the government to believe us. We are not criminals to remain under the suspicious eyes of the government all the time,’’ said Shivakumar Hiremath, who teaches in a private Ayurveda college in Belagavi district. “We have sent a request to the Prime Minister’s Office, seeking the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the issue and to help us out,’’ he said. College managements say the order amounts to violation of the fundamental rights of teachers to find employment anywhere in the country. “One of the columns of the data sheet we have been provided asks us to get details of employment of the teacher’s husband or wife or parents who work in the same city or a nearby city. What does the government want to use such information for - to restrict teachers from leaving their native town? This is not acceptable,’’ said the chairman of a private Ayurveda college. “The former Member of Parliament said office-bearers of the Association of Private Ayurvedic Homoeopathic Medical Colleges met AYUSH secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha and other senior officers to express our reservations. If the government restricts our recruitment policies, it will be taking away our right to employ the best teachers from different States,’’ he said.
20 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Candidates chosen based on their popularity’||“The Congress has not chosen candidates in R.R. Nagar and Sira bypolls based on their caste affiliations but it has picked them based on their popularity and chances of victory,’’ KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi said in Bealgavi on Sunday. He was reacting to allegations by some BJP leaders that the Congress was playing caste politics in the bypolls. He said that he had toured both the constituencies and had sensed a strong anger against the BJP among the people. Farmers and workers are very angry with the Union and State governments. They will teach them a lesson at the right time, he said. He said that film stars campaigning for the BJP in the bypolls would not help its prospects. People are happy to see that celebrities come to their village for campaigning. They come to see the celebrity. That does not translate into votes. “We have had actor Pooja Gandhi fight polls in Raichur and film stars campaigning in Kittur in the past. That did not help them in anyway,” he said. He said that the Congress would choose a candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls after consulting with the grassroots leaders.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No construction at Kapalabetta without our permission: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday restrained Harobele Kapalabetta Abhivrudhi Trust from carrying out any construction without express permission from the court on 10-acre government gomal land granted to it at survey number 283 of Nallahalli village in Kanakapura taluk of Ramanagaram district where the trust proposes to install a 114-ft. statue of Jesus. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed interim order on a PIL petition filed by Anthony Swamy, a resident of Harobele village and seven others. The petitioners have stated that they are “pained by by the illegal grant of a valuable government land for the petty, selfish, and electoral gains of two politicians, by blatant misuse of power for grabbing valuable land and putting up illegal constructions, causing immense damage to government gomal land, loss to exchequer, and causing communal harmony.” Pointing out that population of Christian community in Kanakapura is only 2,000 of the total population of 7.5 lakh, of these 2,000 Christians, around 1,500 are residing in Harobele and Nallahalli villages, the petitioners said that idea of erecting a statue of Jesus was purely of ‘two brothers – D.K. Shivakumar and D.K. Suresh – for their selfish political gain and to create a vote bank for their party rather than promoting the Christian community’. There is no demand or formal request by Christian community for the land or for a statue, the petitioner said while pointing out that there already was a church at the place to serve the local Christians. Further pointing out that trust came into functioning only in June 2016, the petitioners said that process of allotment of land for the trust was, in fact, initiated by Mr. Shivakumar, who was Minister then, and Mr. Suresh, who is a MP, by writing separate but similar letters to Ramanagaram DC in February 2018 to allot 15 acres of this land for the trust. “The trust was floated at their [two brothers] behest and the trustees are their front men, their staunch followers, and political party workers in the garb of devout Christians,” the petitioner alleged, while pointing out from the records secured through RTI that the trust had filed a formal application only in March 2018. The petitioners have also contended that the land grant was contrary to several provisions of the Karnataka Land Grant Rules as well as the 2011 parameters prescribed by the Supreme Court for grant of government lands. The petitioners have said that the land was finally granted to the trust on December 4, 2019, and the trust made the request to Nallahalli panchayat on the same day to call an emergency meeting the next day to grant building licence. Though the panchayat granted licence for house, several construction works were begun sans permission. Also, the petitioners have said that the land is either under the Cauvery Wild Life Sanctuary’s eco-sensitive zone or abutting the zone.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC, KSRTC defer plan to scrap old buses and induct new ones||It will be a while before the city’s roads see new Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses being inducted. The cash-strapped transport corporation, which had planned to induct over 2,100 new buses and scrap close to 1,000 old ones, has now delayed the plan after suffering revenue loss of over Rs. 900 crore owing to the pandemic. The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) too has postponed scrapping of old buses. Prior to the outbreak of the pandemic, the KSRTC had planned for induction of 1,000 new buses and scrapping of 700 to 800 old ones. Managing Director of KSRTC Shivyogi C. Kalasad said: “The pandemic has hit hard the finances of the corporations. We are not in a position to add a new fleet at least till December. If everything goes well, we may go for induction of buses in the beginning of the next calendar year.” “Due to the pandemic, we are not operating the entire fleet of buses. The ridership is low compared to the pre-lockdown period. We are augmenting existing resources to meet the demand. We have to delay scrapping of buses till the induction of new buses,” he added. The KSRTC has a fleet size of 8,600 buses. Earlier, the corporation was scrapping an ordinary bus after it crossed 10 lakh km operations and 13 lakh km in case of AC bus. The BMTC officials said despite relaxation of lockdown, ridership remains low. Prior to the lockdown, the corporation was generating Rs. 5 crore revenue per day, which has now dropped to Rs. 1.8 crore. Unable to bear the expenses, the BMTC has again knocked on the door of the State government to pay the salary of the staff. A majority of AC buses have remained off the road for close to seven months. “For the current financial year, there was a plan to induct 2,100-odd buses. But loss of revenue has forced postponement. As a result, scrapping of buses also needs to be delayed. However, buses that are in a bad condition have to be scrapped. This year, we might have scrapped 40-odd buses,” an official said. In the last three years, the BMTC has inducted 1,700 new buses and scrapped 1,383 old ones. The official said induction of new buses may happen in the next financial year. It is not only the ordinary buses. BMTC’s plan to operate 300 e-buses on lease is facing hurdles as well. The corporation got a deadline extension to float the tender recently by the Union government.  Due to the pandemic, we are not operating the entire fleet of buses. The ridership is low compared to the pre-lockdown period. We are augmenting existing resources to meet the demand. We have to delay scrapping of buses till the induction of new buses.Shivyogi C. KalasadManaging Director of KSRTC
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Channapatna and Kinal toy makers in a bind||In under three months, toy makers in Channapatna and Kinnal, like many other traditional toy makers in the country, should register themselves for Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) certification and their products should carry the BIS mark. But on the ground, most artisans are not aware of the new rules. And those who do know it say the process is expensive for the kind of business they are involved in. In an effort to make toys safe, the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry had notified the Toys (Quality Control) Order, 2020, making it compulsory for toy makers to secure BIS certification. The use of BIS Standard Mark as per the BIS (Conformity Assessment) Regulations, 2018 is compulsory. The manufacturer has to seek a separate licence for each toy he produces, and the licence is issued after testing. While the earlier deadline to conform to the new norms was September 1, 2020, the Union government extended it by four months. While the awareness among manufacturers of the GI-registered Channapatna toys, which is a cottage industry, is poor, many artisans to whom The Hindu spoke to were ignorant of the new rule and expressed an inability to undergo the certification process because of the costs involved. Besides Channapatna toys, artisans at Kinnal village in Koppal also make traditional toys that are protected under GI. “Nobody has so far told us about the certification and we are not aware of it. Our toy making is a small-scale industry. We are already in debt because of the lockdown and slowdown in the market. Where will we get the money for certification?” asked artisan Samiullah, of Zoya Handicrafts. “In fact, when we take our products to the showroom, we have to beg for payment, which will be a few hundred rupees.” In fact, the government should get us certification for the industry to survive, Mr. Samiullah added. Old-timers recall how the number of artisans, which was upwards of 20,000 just over two decades ago, has now dwindled to less than 1,000. “If certification becomes mandatory, most may move out of the craft. We have not reported good business for nearly a year,” another artisan said. On Monday, urging the Centre to withdraw the order in order to protect traditional toy makers, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, who also represents Channapatna Assembly constituency, tweeted, “To get the BIS certification, artisans have to spend thousands of rupees. This order will hit the traditional toy-making industry. Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appreciated the Channapatna toys in his Mann Ki Baat, these decisions will only help big industries.”
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Magistrate gets threat letter with detonator-like object||A letter and parcel addressed to the magistrate of the NDPS court and the city court threatening to carry out attacks if the accused in the drug racket case and “innocent people” arrested in D.J. Halli case were not released is being investigated by the Halasurugate police. According to the police, the parcel addressed to magistrate Seenappa was found on the court hall-37 premises on Monday. The parcel was kept outside. The staff opened and noticed in it a detonator-like substance and immediately alerted the police. The police, with the bomb squad, arrived at the spot and recovered the substance. D.J. Halli case The letter demanded bail for arrested actors Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani, and also release of innocent people” arrested “in the K.G. Halli and D.J. Halli violence case. Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said a case is being booked and investigation is on to ascertain the source of the letter. The police are contemplating providing security to the magistrate in the wake of the threat letter. The police suspect that it could be an act of mischief mongers to create fear psychosis. “However, we are taking this very seriously,” a police officer said. The police are analysing CCTV camera footage and inquiring with the court security and housekeeping staff to ascertain if they had noticed anything suspicious.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA increases fees for change of khata||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has increased application and registration fees of flat and site purchase and penalties, including the vacant site penalty. It has also increased the fee for change of khata and maintenance fee, which is collected along with property tax. A senior official in the BDA told The Hindu that the move was done for “resource mobilisation”. “These fees and penalties were last revised in 2016,” the official said. Vacant site penalty for a site with dimension 30×40 has been increased from the existing Rs. 80,000 to Rs. 1,20,000. For a site measuring more than 40×60 and less than 50×60, the vacant site penalty has been increased from Rs. 2,50,000 to Rs. 3,75,000. BDA has also introduced maintenance fees of Rs. 300 per month for 50×60 and Rs. 250 for 40×60 sites. The maintenance fees will be collected along with the property tax. B.M. Shivakumar, president, Jayaprakash Narayan Vichara Vedike and an RTI activist, said that BDA should not have increased the penalty and application fee at a time when people were financially severely hit. “They have nearly doubled fees and penalties. This was unwarranted at this time. BDA should mobilise resources through effective maintenance and management of its resources, clearing encroachments and other means and not by increasing fees and penalties. This will hit middle class people a lot,” he said. ‘Provide basic facilities’ Suryakiran A.S. of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda Layout Open-Forum urged the BDA to first provide basic facilities before imposing and increasing vacant site penalty. “BDA is charging high penalty but not providing any basic facility, including water and sanitary lines and transport. Secondly, people buy sites as an investment. After buying, they are made to pay such penalties and fees amounting to lakhs per year over and above the property and other taxes,” he said.  This was unwarranted at this time. BDA should mobilise resources through effective management of its resources, clearing encroachments and other means and not by increasing fees and penalties.B.M. ShivakumarRTI activist
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Complaints of citizens being asked for their voter ID details||Ahead of the Rajarajeshwarinagar bypoll, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is receiving complaints from citizens about people contacting them seeking sensitive information, such as their voter identity card number. There have also been instances where citizens have reportedly been asked to hand over the photo identity cards. Revealing that he too had received some anonymous messages from citizens, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who is also the District Election Officer, stated categorically that those seeking such information from citizens, those forcing citizens to hand over their voter identity cards, and those collecting these cards could land in jail. “According to the Representation of People’s Act, this is a punishable offence that attracts one-year jail term,” he said and added that stringent action would be initiated against those found to be indulging in such activities, irrespective of the political party or candidate. Mr. Prasad also said that he had apprised City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant of the same. The election squads had been directed to be vigilant about such incidents. Citizens, he said, may contact the control room or the returning officer concerned to lodge complaints about such instances. Incidentally, just days ahead of the Assembly polls in May 2018, more than 9,500 EPICs (electoral photo identity cards) were seized from an apartment in Jalahalli, coming under Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency. Then, BJP’s candidate Munirathna was contesting from the constituency on Congress ticket. Following the seizure, the Election Commission had deferred the election to later the same month, citing it a necessity for free and fair election. The BJP’s candidate then Muniraju Gowda had pointed fingers at Mr. Munirathna and alleged that it was clearly a case of inducing voters. However, Mr. Munirathna won that election and later on defected to the BJP, necessitating the bypoll in the constituency. Meanwhile, Mr. Prasad said of the 678 polling stations, 79 had been identified as critical and 11 as vulnerable. A total of 4.62 lakh people were eligible to cast their vote in the bypoll.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Officials told to provide clean food, water at relief centres||In light of a possible outbreak of communicable diseases in the flood-affected districts of North Karnataka, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday directed officials to initiate steps to provide quality food and clean and safe drinking water to those housed inrelief centres. “If safe drinking water is not available, it should be boiled and filtered before being provided to people. The government has provided a menu chart and guidelines have been laid down to maintain cleanliness at the care centres,” he said, after holding a review meeting of Deputy Commissioners, District Health Officers, and zilla panchayat CEOs of Bagalkot, Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Koppal, and Belagavi districts through videoconferencing. The government has directed the authorities to shift senior citizens, pregnant women, and children to community health centres, and for the provision of masks, sanitisers, and other facilities, besides ensuring that social distancing norm are followed. Saying that the spread of communicable diseases such as dengue and chikungunya in these districts was under control when compared to last year, the Minister said that the next few months would be crucial. “We have instructed officials to make use of mobile health units, if necessary,” he said, adding that the chances of spread of infections were more during the winter and festive seasons. He said that Kerala, which had effectively contained the spread of the virus, saw a spurt after Onam. “The same mistake should not be repeated in Karnataka,” he said. On pvt. hospitals   Dr. Sudhakar said that if any private hospital is found using agents or asking patients to wait to get a bed or overcharging for beds, people can complain to the State government and the registration of the hospital would be cancelled. He also acknowledged that there were complaints that many private hospitals were falsely terming people as positive for COVID-19, while many people were also giving out wrong phone numbers and addresses when they get tested for COVID-19. Dr. Sudhakar said there has been a 73% increase in testing this month in Bengaluru, which is greater than the percentage in cities such as Chennai, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, and Delhi. He added that the positivity rate and the death rate were decreasing in the State because of early testing. Till September 19, as many as 13 lakh tests were done in Bengaluru alone, but within a month, by October 18, around 22 lakh tests were conducted in the city, he said.  The spread of communicable diseases such as dengue and chikungunya in these districts was under control when compared to last year K. Sudhakar,Heath Minister
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5,018 new COVID-19 cases in State||After several days, the number of COVID-19 cases in the State declined on Monday. As many as 5,018 new cases were reported across Karnataka, taking the total number of cases to 7.7 lakh cases. A total of 8,005 patients were discharged on the day, taking the overall number of persons discharged to 6.5 lakh. Meanwhile, 64 COVID-19 deaths were reported in the State, taking the toll to 10,542. In addition, 19 patients who had tested positive for COVID-19 have died of other reasons. As on Monday, there were 1.06 lakh active cases in the State, and 932 patients admitted in ICUs in different hospitals. The positivity rate for the day was 6.38%, while the case fatality rate was 1.27%. A total of 78,581 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Monday. In Bengaluru Urban, as many as 2,481 new COVID-19 cases were detected even as 2,363 patients were discharged.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cannot deny services for not installing Aarogya Setu app: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday clarified that the government or its agencies cannot deny any service or benefit to citizens for not installing the Aarogya Setu app on their mobile phones in the absence of any legislation. It may be noted that the Union government has said that no public authority can refuse any service for not having Aarogya Setu app in the wake of National Executive Committee set up under the Disaster Management Act not making the use of app mandatory. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi made this observation while hearing a PIL, filed by Anrivar A, Aravind, a city-based software engineer working for a non-profit organisation to protect people’s rights in the digital space. When Senior Counsel Colin Gonsalves insisted that HC should direct the governments not to deny any service for not installing the app as the Centre has not yet submitted its response in writing to the petition, Union Ggvernment Standing Counsel M.N. Kumar clarified to the court that no public authority or agency can make use of the app mandatory for any service contrary to the order passed by the NEC, which has said that use of app is only voluntary. Mr. Kumar also clarified that no authorities have denied any service to citizens for not having the app. Further hearing was adjourned till November 10.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Equipment stolen from prison dept. office||Thieves did not spare the law enforcement department as various equipment worth Rs. 48,000 were stolen from the office of the Deputy Inspector General of Prisons on Kalidasa Road on Thursday. D.V. Girish, an interior decorator, has filed a complaint with the Upparpet police after bringing it to the notice of senior officials of the department. In his complaint, Girish said he had been working on the interiors of the offices on the first floor for the past few days and keeping the equipment at the office. He said after work, he left the equipment — including machine generator, wood cutting machine, drilling machine and metal frames — as usual at the office and went home. He returned the next day to find the lock of the room open and many equipment missing. He enquired with the staff who claimed not to know anything. Ironically, the building houses senior officials of the Prison Department and their staff and has security personnel in place. Despite this, thieves venturing into the building and carrying away the equipment is strange, a police officer said. The police are now verifying CCTV camera footage to identify the accused, and they suspect there could be more than one person involved as many heavy equipment have been taken away.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMA scam: Three police officers suspended||Close on the heels of the CBI chargesheet filed against 28 people in the IMA scam, the State government on Saturday suspended three police officers on the charge of helping the prime accused Mohammed Mansoor Khan instead of taking action against him. The CBI has also submitted a report to the State government against the accused officers seeking disciplinary action. A letter issued by the Deputy Secretary of the Home Department states that Deputy Superintendent of Police, CID, E.B. Sridhara, the then Inspector M. Ramesh, and the then PSI of Commercial Street police station P. Gowrishankar have been suspended with immediate effect pending inquiry. The CBI had charged the officers of allegedly favouring Mansoor Khan instead of protecting the interest of investors and depositors. CBI investigations found that the officers submitted improper inquiry report and recommended no action against Mansoor Khan and IMA and in quid pro quo, received bribes and expensive gifts from IMA. Other officials The chargesheet also names other officials, including two senior police officers, against whom action is yet to be initiated.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Hope is that vaccine will be out in January’||Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has appealed to citizens to take care of their health for another three months and exercise all precautionary measures, as the hope is that a COVID-19 vaccine will be out in January. Dr. Sudhakar also said that he would have a meeting with experts to see how the distribution of vaccine should take place in the State. “It will be an elaborate exercise and we will plan how the distribution of vaccine can be done across the State. First, senior citizens and those with co-morbidities will get vaccinated,” the Minister said. He also advocated that people take measures such as steam inhalation with mint or tulsi leaves, Unani medicine Arque-Ajeeb, and drinking turmeric milk. These measures were suggested by an AYUSH expert who was present at the press conference. However, many doctors have pointed out that there is no evidence that measures such as steaming will help people keep COVID-19 at bay.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Midterm vacation for PU lecturers from Oct. 21-30||The Department of Pre-University Education has declared midterm holidays for PU college lecturers across the State from October 21 to 30. “As there are government holidays on October 31 and November 1 also, lecturers are expected to report for duty on November 2,” a circular issued by the department said. However, the circular stated that online classes would continue and lecturers had been directed to supervise the classes. Meanwhile, hundreds of protesting candidates, who were recruited as lecturers in government PU colleges and have not received appointment orders even a year after their selection, have withdrawn their agitation after an assurance from the government. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar promised them that appointment orders would be issued soon after PU colleges reopen.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro train frequency to change from Thursday||Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd., which is seeing a gradual increase in ridership after resuming services, has decided to change the frequency of schedules with effect from Thursday. From Monday to Friday, other than second and fourth Saturdays, the trains will run with a frequency of five minutes between 9 a.m and 10 a.m.; and 5.30 p.m. and 6.30 p.m. From 8 a.m. to 9 a.m., 10 a.m. to 11 a.m., 4.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m., and 6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m, the trains will run with six-minute frequency. During other times, the trains will be operated with 12-minute frequency. A release said on Sundays, general holidays and on the second and fourth Saturdays, the trains will be operated with eight-minute frequency between 10 a.m. and noon; and 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. During other times, the trains will be operated with 12-minute frequency. The services were resumed on September 7, and the ridership has increased from 4,000 to 55,000 per day. It has also decided to operate additional trains to clear the rush at select stations.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypolls: 31 candidates remain in fray||A total of 31 candidates remain in the fray for the bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituencies after the last date for withdrawal of nomination on Monday. In all, 40 candidates had filed their nominations in the two Assembly constituencies. While 15 candidates remain in the fray after the withdrawal of nominations in Sira, 16 candidates remain at R.R. Nagar. As many as four candidates withdrew their nominations in R.R. Nagar while two candidates withdrew in Sira.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP’s former CAO suspended||The State government has suspended Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) former Chief Accounts Officer R. Govindaraj. Earlier this month, the BBMP had repatriated the official for alleged dereliction of duty and violation of rules in paying bills to contractors. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad told reporters here on Monday that the official had illegally diverted funds under the 14th Finance Commission and State Finance Commission earmarked for approved projects for ward level works. Around Rs. 400 crore funds under the 14th Finance Commission, Rs. 125 crore under State Finance Commission, and Rs. 13 crore earmarked for special infrastructure projects had allegedly been diverted. “Totally, funds amounting to nearly Rs. 680 crore have been found to be diverted. A detailed report was submitted to the State government, following which the government decided to suspend the official,” he said.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conman dupes homemaker||A conman duped a homemaker of Rs. 11 lakh by claiming that she was the winner of Kaun Banega Crorepati’s online contest. In her complaint, Suhasini said the accused, posing as a representative of the programme, approached her on June 26 and informed that she had been selected for the online contest. He then forced her to transfer Rs. 11 lakh to win the cash prize, she said.
20 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New CEO appointed||Kurl-on Enterprise Ltd., the mattress and home-comfort solutions firm, has appointed Jyothi Pradhan as its new Chief Executive Officer. She joined the leadership team in July 2019 as the Head of Corporate Strategy to lead the digital transformation of the company. Ms. Pradhan has 15 years working experience across industries such as electronics manufacturing, medical transcription and consumer products, in India and the U.S.  She has a B.E. in Electronics and Communication from the Manipal Institute of Technology, and an M.S. in Engineering Management from the University of Southern California, Los Angeles. She also has an MBA in Innovation and Entrepreneurship from the University of California, Irvine.
20 October 2020||Benglauru,KARNATAKA||Serial stabbing: One more succumbs||One more person who was injured in the serial stabbing incident and admitted to the hospital succumbed to his injuries on Monday, taking the toll to two. The deceased has been identified as Rajesh, 28, while four others are recovering at KIMS and Bowring Hospital. According to the Cottonpet police, Rajesh, a resident of Anjanappa Garden, was working as a daily wage labourer in Balekai Mandi and was on his way to work when Ganesh came from the butchers’s shop and stabbed his stomach twice. Rajesh collapsed on the ground and was rushed to KIMS Hospital. Other victims Mari, 30, had died on Sunday. Two others, Velayudhana and Suresha, who were severely injured in the incident, were admitted to KIMS and Bowring Hospitals and their condition is said to be critical. The police further added that the accused Ganesh refused to eat dinner and breakfast while in police custody on Monday. He was taken to K.C. General Hospital for medical examination to ascertain his physical and mental condition. The police are waiting for the report on his condition as his family members had claimed that he was mentally unstable.
20 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa reviews Shivamogga airport construction work||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said the construction of the airport in Shivamogga would be completed by December 2021 and exuded confidence that it would be operational by February 2022. He spoke to media people after reviewing the construction work at Sogane near Shivamogga on Monday. The Chief Minister said that earlier, approval was given for a runway of 2,050 metres. However, it has been decided to increase the length to 3,200 metres so that big planes could land. The State government would provide additional Rs. 75 crore. for the project in the next budget. The State government had appealed to the Centre to include Shivamogga airport under the UDAN project so that a large number of people would be benefited. ‘Fair compensation’ “The acquisition of land has been completed. All those who parted with their land would get fair compensation. The airport would help the business activities in neighbouring districts”, he said. Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra and Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar were present.
20 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Flood loss estimated at Rs. 3,000 crore||The initial estimates have put the losses due to heavy rain and floods in the northern region at Rs. 3,000 crore, according to Revenue Minister R. Ashok. Speaking to presspersons at Sambra airport in Belagavi, the Minister said that because of the floods and downpour, about 8,000 people had been displaced and they were being sheltered at relief centres. So far, 10 persons have been killed, he said. He said that both COVID-19 and the sudden floods had posed a big challenge for the State government, but also expressed confidence that the government would successfully pull the State out of the crisis. The Minister said that following reports about discrimination against displaced people at relief centres based on their caste, he had directed officials to treat everyone equally and provide them masks, sanitisers and soap in the wake of the pandemic. Standards have also been fixed for ensuring quality food at the relief centres, and officials violating the order will face disciplinary action, he said. The Revenue Minister added that officials have been directed to expedite the process of relief disbursement in districts affected badly by floods and downpour. He clarified that there was no dearth of funds for flood relief. Regarding allegations of misuse ofCOVID-19 relief funds by the Raibag tahsildar, Mr. Ashok said that any such act would amount to “cheating god”. “I will ask the Deputy Commissioner to suspend any suchofficial,” he said. ‘Don’t have booth agents’ Taking a dig at the Congress, Mr. Ashok said the party was unable to find booth agents for the byelection to Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency. “In R.R. Nagar, although the KPCC president has been leading the campaign, the party is not able to find booth agents. The Congress will end in third place in the R.R. Nagar bypoll. In Sira, we are building the party afresh. But there too we will win by a big margin,” he said. Regarding the filing of a case against the Congress candidate in R.R. Nagar, the Minister said that once elections are announced, the administration is controlled by the Election Commission of India andthe government does not have any control. “The filing of any poll-related case will be done by the Election Commission. The Congress party seems to lack basic general knowledge. Or is it the Congress culture to break the law?” he asked.
20 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Well-equipped relief centre to be set up in Belagavi||Revenue Minister R. Ashok has said that a well-equipped relief centre would be set up in Belagavi district to provide quick relief and shelter to people displaced during floods and heavy downpour. He was speaking to presspersons after visiting flood-hit areas in Belagavi district accompanied by district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, Rajya Sabha member Iranna Kadadi, MLAs P. Rajeev, Umesh Katti and Duryodhana Aihole and others on Monday. Mr. Ashok said that such a relief centre would have kitchen, bathrooms and rooms for temporary stay. This centre would be facilitate the temporary stay of flood-affected people, he said. The Minister clarified that there was no dearth of funds for flood relief and disbursing compensation to the flood-affected people. All the Deputy Commissioners had the requisite funds available in their respective PD accounts, he said. Mr. Ashok said that compensation would be released to the beneficiaries as per the guidelines. However, as compensation would be reduced as per NDRF guidelines, he would take up the issue with the Chief Minister for enhancing it. The State government was taking steps on a war footing to reach out to the flood-affected people and provide relief to them. Steps were also being taken to release compensation for crop loss and pending instalments of grants for house construction, he said. Earlier, soon after landing in Belagavi, he held a review meeting at the Belagavi Zilla Panchayat auditorium. Subsequently, he visited flood-hit villages of Hukkeri and Chikkodi taluks. He first visited Hattaragi and Jinrala villages in Hukkeri taluk where he inspected crop loss. In Hukkeri town, he visited some houses that wer damaged in the downpour and also inspected damage to public property.
20 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Bribe being sought even to release funds for works’||Terming the BJP-led State government as “percentage government”, the former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah has said that nothing moved in the government without bribe and even for release of funds for works, bribe was being sought. Speaking to presspersons at Sambra Airport in Belagavi on Monday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that funds for works were being released only on payment of bribe. “Leave alone constituencies represented by Congress MLAs. Even in places represented by BJP MLAs, money is being paid to get funds released. This is the first time that money is being sought from MLAs of the ruling party to release funds. This is nothing but percentage government,” he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said that funds for works were not being released in constituencies represented by Congress MLAs and in some cases, released funds have been taken back.
20 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Flood situation grim in five taluks as Bhima continues to get heavy inflow||The flood situation in five taluks of Kalaburagi district — Afzalpur, Jewargi, Kalaburagi, Chittapur and Shahabad — continued to remain grim for the sixth day on Monday, with the Bhima receiving heavy inflow from upstream. As per a bulletin, the Sonna barrage, which recorded the highest ever inflow of 8 lakh cusecs till 5 p.m. on Sunday, has discharged 6.32 lakh cusecs as at 5 p.m. on Monday. A team of officials from the Revenue and Agriculture departments along with personnel from the Fire and Emergency Services and members of the State Disaster Relief Force has been pressed to take up relief measures and rescue operations as the water level has increased in the Bhima and its tributaries in the district. As many as 27,378 people in 73 villages have been shifted to safer places in the district as on Monday. The district authorities have also set up 140 relief centres. As many as 22 more relief centres were opened on Monday and 28,637 people were shifted to flood relief centres. As per information provided by the district administration, 10,150 houses have been damaged due to floods across the district. Besides the 162 relief centres, the district administration has also reserved 120 residential hostels attached to the Backward Classes Welfare Department, 150 residential hostels of the Social Welfare Department and 55 hostels belonging to the Minority Welfare Department. Bridge leaking Following heavy water flow under the bridge across the Bhima near Katti Sanghavi village in Jewargi taluk, people witnessed water leading from the surface of the bridge and said that the new bridge was constructed with substandard material. They said that the bridge, which was constructed by spending Rs. 108 crore just a year ago, has started leaking. The district administration has barred the movement of heavy vehicles on the new bridge across the Bhima for the last five days. MP gheraoed Meanwhile, residents of Konna Hipparaga village in Jewargi taluk gheraoed Kalaburagi MP Umesh Jadhav and accused him of being insensitive to flood-hit victims in the constituency.
20 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fishermen halt work||Over half-a-dozen fishermen living close to the Khaja Kotnoor Lake, 15 km away from Kalaburagi city, have for the last fortnight halted their activities temporarily following heavy rain and floods in the district, and moved to the city. Some of the makeshift huts in which the fishermen were living on the banks of the lake have been partially damaged, while others are completely missing. The damaged remains of the huts and fishing equipment were seen scattered on the water surface when The Hindu visited the spot on Monday. Two fishing boats anchored on the banks were filled with floodwaters, their huts were littered with debris of fishing nets and broken thermocol. According to information provided by a local farmer owning agriculture land on the banks of the lake at Khaja Kotnoor, the fishermen attached to a private society that has been allotted fishery activities on a lease basis used to catch fish from the lake and sell them in the market.
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Surf Life Saving School coming up in city||Giving impetus to training youth in surf life saving skill, the Dakshina Kannada district administration will set up a Surf Life Saving School at the second entrance to Tannirbhavi beach here. Surf life saving is about teaching sea swimming skills and using them for rescuing people. Setting up a Surf Life Saving School was among the steps proposed by the State Tourism Department to improving facilities at Tannirbhavi, Sasihitlu and other beaches in the State in 2017. The then Tourism Minister Priyank M. Kharge had sanctioned Rs. 5 crore for the school. “The Surf Life Saving School will come up shortly,” Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu . Recently, Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty chaired a meeting in which the school project was discussed. “Instead of a concrete structure, we have proposed to use metallic and other material for building a green building in the green canopy of the beach. The design is being finalised. The work is likely to start in a week’s time,” he said. Mr. Rajendra added that he is working with Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar and other stakeholders in further improving tourism facilities in the city. “There is now a healthy competition in the region to secure Blue Flag certification (for beaches),” he said. Swimming coach Partha Varanashi, Director of Surflife Saving (India), which is affiliated to Rashtriya Life Saving Society (India), who proposed the surf life saving school, said that having the school will help in conducting life saving skill training on a regular basis. “Cyclones are increasing year after year. We need one member from each family in the city to be trained in this skill that familiarises people with water,” he said. Since the start of its operation in 2013, Surflife Saving (India) has trained 38 people in surf life saving at Tannirbhavi of which six have taken part in international surf life saving competitions. It trained 200 children in Udupi and 300 youths in Karwar in 2016. From October, Surflife Saving (India) is conducting one-hour training sessions on the Tannirbhavi beach starting at 7.30 a.m. on Sundays. Apart from him, bronze-level trainers Nirup Kotian and Srikrishna and Rohit P., Anish Panambur, Yagnesh Bengre, Dixit R. are conducting the training sessions, he said.
20 October 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Dakshina Kannada students fare well in NEET||Students from Dakshina Kannada, including those studying in Alvas PU College, Excellent Science and Commerce PU College, Expert PU College, Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, and Chaitanya PU College, have fared well in the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020, the results of which were declared on Friday. As many as 914 students from Alvas PU College, Moodbidri, scored good marks in NEET. of which eight scored more than 650 marks, 37 scored between 600 and 650, 139 students between 500 and 600, and 203 students between 400 and 500 marks. Arnav Ayappa topped with 685 marks, followed by Anargya K. (683), and P.S. Ravindra (670), chairman of Alvas Education Foundation Mohan Alva said in a press release. Of the 1,085 students from Expert PU College who qualified, Aakarsh R. Pai topped with 691 marks, followed by Akash G. (687), and H.C. Gourish (675). As many as 14 students scored more than 650 marks, followed by 112 students between 600 and 650, and 482 students scored between 500 and 600 marks, said Narendra L. Nayak, chairman of the Expert Educational and Charitable Foundation. Chirag Rao topped among students from Chaitanya PU College by scoring 685 marks. In all, five students scored more than 600 marks, while 17 scored between 500 and 600 marks, said a release by college principal Ramakrishna Bhogyam. All the 119 students coached by Excellent Science and Commerce Pre-university College, Moodbidri, qualified. Shreyas G.R. topped with 660 marks, followed by Sahana V.P. (653), and Dheeraj Hegde (645). Seven students scored above 600 and 35 students scored between 500 and 600, said Yuvaraj Jain, chairman of Excellent Group of Institutions, in a press release. Of the students trained by Centre For Advanced Learning, Tejas Bhat K topped with 672 marks, followed by Rashmi R Bhat (640) and Durga Supriya (608).  Abdul H. Shahrukh, Spandana M.N. and Sudeep S. from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Mudipu, qualified in the examination, said V. Srinivasan, principal of the vidyalaya. Anjali E.D. topped among five students from Vikaas PU College, Mangaluru, with 600 marks, followed by Kousar Ibrahim (571), and Ashritha M. (553). A total of 67 students qualified in NEET, said a release by the college.
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KIOCL planning beneficiation and pelletisation plant||Union Minister of State for Steel Faggan Singh Kulaste has said that KIOCL is planning to set up a beneficiation and a pelletisation plant in Devadari in Ballari district. Each one of them will have two million tonne processing capacity per annum. The plants will come up after getting statutory clearance for the operation of Devadari mines. The Minister was speaking after visiting KIOCL’s corporate office in Bengaluru on Sunday, the public sector company said in a release here on Monday. The new project of the company will create employment opportunities for local community, development of surrounding areas and will bring good revenue to the government, he said. The Minister thanked the State government for recommending an iron ore block in the Devadari ranges for the company, it said. The Minister reviewed the performance of the company in the presence of senior officials of the Ministry and the efforts made towards implementation of new projects and the bottleneck thereon. He said that KIOCL has done pioneering work in the field of iron-ore mining and beneficiation of magnetite ore in the State and has been a leader in the country for pelletisation. The government is emphasising on increased utilisation of pellets as a raw material in the blast furnaces and sponge iron industry in the country. KIOCL can contribute immensely in utilising these resources in the national interest. The Minister appreciated the company for setting up up a 5 MW solar power plant in Tumakuru district recently. Chairman and Managing Director of the company M.V. Subba Rao requested the Minister to expedite clearances from the government for the company’s forthcoming projects, the release said.
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Jamnagar-Tirunelveli special train to run from November 6||The Indian Railways will start bi-weekly special reserved trains between Jamnagar and Tirunelveli, via Mangaluru, on November 6 to clear extra rush during the festival season. According to a release from the Southern Railway, special train no 09578 Jamnagar-Tirunelveli will start on November 6. It will leave Jamnagar on Fridays and Saturdays at 9 p.m. and reach Tirunelveli at 10.10 p.m. on Sundays and Mondays. Similarly, train no 09577 Tirunelveli-Jamnagar will start on November 9. It will leave Tirunelveli on Mondays and Tuesdays at 7.45 a.m. and reach Jamnagar at 5.15 a.m. on Wednesdays and Thursdays. It will have stoppages at Rajkot, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Vapi, Vasai Road, Panvel, Ratnagiri, Madgaon, Karwar, Udupi, Mangaluru Junction, Kasaragod, Kannur, Kozhikode, Shoranur, Thrissur, Ernakulam Junction, Alapuzha, Kollam, Thrivananthapuram, Nagercoil Town and Valliyur. The train will have one AC two tier, five AC three tier, 11 sleeper, one general second class coach for Divyang passengers and four general second sitting reserved coaches.
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||16 head of cattle rescued||The Punjalkatte Police in Dakshina Kannada rescued 16 head of cattle that were being transported in an illegal way on Sunday. The police arrested Mohammed Rahil (18) and launched a search for other accused persons who are at large. According to the police, a team of Punjalkatte Police, on a tip-off, raided a place in Kavalamudooru village and found seven persons laoding cattle into vehicles. The police caught Rahil while the others escaped. Apart from 16 head of cattle, the police seized two cars, a mini tempo, two two-wheelers and five mobile phones from the accused. The police have registered a case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 13 of the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Preservation Act and under the provisions of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Lack of specialised services in govt. hospitals is keeping people away’||While private hospitals have commercialised their operations, the neglect of government hospitals by the State government and the absence of specialised treatment services have made people turn away from government hospitals in Dakshina Kannada, said Democratic Youth Federation of India State President Muneer Katipalla on Monday. Speaking at a protest in front of the office of Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U. in Bantwal, Mr. Katipalla said that every citizen has the right to get quality health services at affordable cost. It was not happening in Dakshina Kannada where private hospitals continue to dominate and the cost of treatment has become unbearable for the common man. People have realised the hard way during COVID-19 when private hospitals have charged rates in excess while disregarding the norms laid down by the government, he said. The State government has failed to improve facilities in the primary health centres, taluk hospitals and district hospitals. Many posts, including that of medical officers, specialist doctors and nursing staff, are vacant. The State government should strengthen the government hospitals and also upgrade Government Wenlock and Lady Goschen Hospitals in Mangaluru into speciality hospitals , he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee member P.V. Mohan, the former Mayor Mohammed Kunjathbail and activists B. Shekar, Sadashiva Bangera, Altaf Thumbe, Oswald Prakash and CPI leader Seetaram Berinja also spoke. A memorandum was submitted to the MLA [Mr. Naik].
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Couple found dead in lodge||The bodies of a couple, both aged 19, were found in a lodge in Sullia on Monday. The police gave the names of deceased as Darshan and Indira. The two had checked into the lodge on Sunday night claiming to be relatives and they had no bus to return to their place. On Monday morning, the two were found dead.  Rescued A private bus driver from Hassan was rescued by a group of youths after he jumped into the Netravathi from a bridge at Goodinabali in Bantwal on Monday. The police said that Mohammed, Shihab and Swali, who were on a boat, saw Kumar jumping down from the bridge at 8.15 a.m. They swam to the spot and brought Kumar to the shore. Kumar was admitted to the government hospital. He is out of danger, the police said. ( Those in distress and having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help. )
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||WGSHA to hold e-conference on woman chefs today||Welcomgroup Graduate School of Hotel Administration (WGSHA), a unit of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), Manipal, will celebrate International Chefs Day  on Tuesday by organising an e-conference on woman chefs. Chef Manisha Bhasin, corporate chef, ITC Hotels, will deliver the keynote address on “Women leadership in the culinary industry”. Ms. Bhasin is the vice-chairperson of the committee of education, World Association of Chefs Societies and also the founding board member of Cuisine India Society. In the other sessions, chef Anahita Gustaspi, menu planner for the Mediclinic City Hospital and Al Jalila Children's Hospital, Dubai, will speak on “Hospital hospitality”. Chef Niyati Vaid, co-founder of The Cherry Tree Bakery, will speak on “A broad spectrum of new opportunities and never heard of careers have sprung up post COVID-19”. Chef Mrinalinee Majumdar will speak on “The heart of a kitchen”. Chef Mythrayie Iyer will speak on “Humans of the kitchen”. Chef Nandeetha Vardaraj, an Assistant Executive Chef Instructor at Lavonne Academy of Baking Science and Pastry Arts, Bengaluru, will speak on “My thoughts on this career path”. Chef Kanan Ashar, who is with The Taj Bengal, will speak on Starbucks collaboration with the Taj, virtual lunches and dinners bringing in revenue during COVID-19 times and the Taj starting with a delivery app called qmin.
20 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man booked for comment||The Bantwal Town Police have registered a case against a man for what was termed a sexual comment on a 15-year-old girl when her performance in a singing competition was being shown live on Facebook. According to the police, the girl was among those taking part in the children’s singing competition in Bantwal on October 4 that was being shown live on Facebook in view of COVID-19 restrictions. As the girl was singing, this man made a comment that was said to be sexual in nature, while others appreciated her performance. The organiser of the event, who noticed the comment, filed a complaint on Sunday.
20 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MP tells ZP CEO to act against waste dumping on ORR||Indiscriminate dumping of solid wastes along the Outer Ring Road (ORR) here has come under focus yet again. Innumerable public complaints have been made of garbage and building debris dumped in large amounts on this stretch, causing pollution and unhealthy conditions in residential layouts. Mysuru MP Pratap Simha raised the issue at the meeting he chaired here on Monday for reviewing Central schemes. He told Mysuru ZP CEO D. Bharati to act sternly against waste dumping and immediately identify land where the solid wastes from non-MCC areas or the areas beyond the ORR can be processed. The MP also asked the officials from the Mysuru City Corporation to call for tenders to clear the legacy wastes from the Vidyaranyapuram plant. Use of funds In the 15th finance plan, the Mysuru City Corporation has got Rs. 69 crore. As per the Centre’s regulations, funds should be used for solid waste management and improvement of drinking water distribution. Instead of allocating the grants to the wards, the MCC should also look at making use of the funds for modernising the sewage treatment plants at Kesare, Vidyaranyapuram and Rayanakere. Mr. Simha said the Centre was releasing Rs. 160 crore for the re-asphalting and repair works on the Outer Ring Road. The MP asked District Health Officer Amarnath, who assumed charge on Monday, to crackdown on the fake doctors whose numbers had gone up after the COVID-19 outbreak. The DHO was told to visit private hospitals and examine whether they were complying with the government guidelines on COVID-19 testing and treatment following complaints of overcharging. In response to Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, who spoke about a spurt in child marriages in the district after the lockdown, K. Padma, Deputy Director, Women and Child Development, Mysuru said 150 child marriages had taken place during lockdown and 20 FIRs had been lodged in this connection so far.
20 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Golden girls of the centenary fete||Roopini with a rich haul of 11 gold medals and two cash awards, Dhanalakshmi R., who bagged nine gold medals and four cash awards, and Shalini M.J. with 7 gold medals and three cash awards hogged the limelight at the Centenary Convocation of University of Mysore held at Crawford Hall in Mysuru on Monday. A total of 230 candidates, of whom 156 were women, shared the 392 medals and 198 cash prizes given away on the occasion by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the Higher Education Minister and Pro Chancellor of the University, in the presence of Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar. Ms. Roopini, a resident of Mysuru, who topped in MSc Chemistry, aspires to pursue research and complete her PhD before taking up a teaching job. She is working as a lecturer in a PU college. Ms. Dhanalakshmi, who did well in MA Economics, is planning to prepare for civil services. A resident of Mysuru, she said she was thankful for the support she enjoyed from her parents to pursue her studies seriously. Ms. Shalini, who excelled in MSc Botany, said she was proud to have bagged such a distinction on the occasion of the University’s centenary convocation. Hailing from a village in Shivamogga, she had enrolled for PhD and would like to pursue research. Shray Taneja bagged 8 gold medals and 2 cash prizes in MA Sanskrit while Renuka P. bagged 6 gold medals and five cash prizes in MA Kannada.
20 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mobile booths for doorstep testing||Even as the authorities here seem to have managed to salvage the lost grip on handling the COVID-19 pandemic, more testing is on the cards, taking it to the doorstep of people in a bid to flatten the curve. After Bengaluru, Mysuru had been categorised as a hotspot for reporting alarmingly high cases and fatalities. This called for ramping up testing which is being done now. Mobile COVID-19 testing booths had been constituted and these booths went to the doorsteps of those wishing to get the tests done. The sample collection and testing was done for free, and the people need not have to leave their places. The number of cases reported on Sunday was 404 and the number of discharges was 353. Only one death was reported on Sunday. These statistics are in stark contrast to the figures early this month since the cases and fatalities had unusually peaked forcing the authorities to intervene and take corrective steps. Doubling up the tests for early detection of infection and containing the spread in the community were prioritised increasing the number of testing and sample collection centres. As on Sunday, 2.49 lakh samples had been tested in Mysuru district. Out of this, 45,042 samples had tested positive with nearly 36,823 discharges. The number of active cases stands at 7,296 as on Sunday. The Mysuru City Corporation on Monday announced to carry out free mass testing in factories, industries, government and non-government institutions, schools and colleges and in other places in its bid to tighten the grip further on the spread. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde urged the public to make use of the facility. The MCC was carrying out testing at 22 places across the city which was in addition to the testing being carried out by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. With the Dasara festivities on and the influx of tourists up, this measure is significant.  Interested persons can call the MCC control room on 9449841196 or 0821-2440890 and register names and addresses for the mobile teams to visit the places for free COVID-19 test.
20 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||After turning fodder producer, Mysuru zoo is self-sufficient||The COVID-19 crisis-hit Mysuru zoo has found a new way of cost-cutting and attaining self–sufficiency in meeting the forage needs for its captive herbivores since its revenue has dropped substantially. Most zoos largely rely on gate collections for their maintenance and they had been closed till June due to lockdown. In spite of reopening, they are yet to get back the pre-COVID-19 era footfall and revenue, forcing them to look for cost-cutting exercises. The Mysuru zoo, which was financially backing smaller zoos, was yet to recover from the blow that came with the pandemic. The footfall continues to be unenthusiastic though it has improved marginally in recent weeks. From 8,000-10,000 visitors a day to 1200-1500 visitors a day, the city’s most popular tourist attraction is starved of visitors, and the revenue loss could impact its projects. In this grim situation, the zoo management came up with an idea of saving on forage crops that were procured for feeding the herbivores. From October 1, the zoo has stopped procuring the forage crops, especially Napier grass from outside, as it has attained self-sufficiency in its production. With this, it can save at least Rs. 25 lakh a year. Zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu that the zoo has started cultivating these crops at Koorgalli where it runs the animal rescue centre. The unused landscape, a wasteland, in the area was being used exclusively to cultivate the crops since the pandemic outbreak. “We are today harvesting 1,300-1,500 kg a day, saving a lot of money. Forage crops worth Rs. 60,000 were procured daily from suppliers. This has been stopped now.” The conical-shaped wasteland measuring nine acres is situated below the high-tension transmission line at the Chamundi Animal Rescue Centre. With one sowing, the grass can be harvested for two years. From 300-400 kg of grass a day, the harvest has gone above 1,000 kg a day, Mr. Kulkarni added.
20 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||On reforms and seats||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the reforms in medical education would ensure more medical seats for students in the country. Delivering the centenary convocation address of the University of Mysore virtually, Mr. Modi said the BJP government at the Centre, which had “ensured transparency and vision in medical education” by setting up the National Medical Commission, was bringing in two new laws to usher in reforms in homoeopathy and other Indian medicine studies. Mr. Modi also said that ever since his government came to power in the country in 2014, several premier engineering and medical education institutes have been opened. For six decades, there were only seven All-India Institutes of Medical Sciences in the country. But after 2014, their numbers more than doubled with 15 AIIMS being either established or in the process of starting. Similarly, he said there were 16 Indian Institutes of Technology in the country prior to 2014. But during the last six years, one new IIT has been opened every year, including one in Karnataka’s Dharwad, Mr. Modi claimed. During the last five years, a total of 16 Indian Institutes of Information Technology have been added to the nine that existed prior to 2014.
20 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||She had the vision to break the stereotype||With two gold medals in MA Political Science, visually challenged Kavya S. Bhat stood out among the students passing out of the portal of University of Mysore on the occasion of its centenary convocation on Monday. Speaking to reporters after receiving the certificates from Deputy Chief Minister and Pro Chancellor of the University C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Ms. Bhat said most visually challenged students had been told that music was the only field for them to engage in. But, she wished to break the stereotype by choosing political science and excelling in it. Ms. Bhat, who was accompanied by her mother Ravikala Bhat, said she had completed her education in music as per father’s desire. But, she said she was badly missing her father, whom she lost recently.
20 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Sudha Murty conferred honorary doctorate in absentia||Sudha Murty, chairperson, Infosys Foundation, was conferred the honorary doctorate of University of Mysore in absentia at the centenary convocation held here on Monday. Vice-Chancellor Hemantha Kumar said Ms. Murty had been chosen for the honour in acknowledgement of her contribution to the society, which among other things included setting up 70,000 libraries in schools, besides 16,000 public toilets, mostly in rural areas. Mr. Kumar also hailed Ms. Murty for being in the forefront of rehabilitation of victims of natural calamities. A team of officials from the University is expected to call on Ms. Murty at her residence and hand over the honorary doctorate. During the convocation, the D. Litt in Agri Business was presented to Manoj Rajan, who is the Commissioner of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority. Earlier, Governor Vajubhai Vala, who presided over the centenary convocation virtually, unveiled new projects and infrastructure of the University digitally. The new projects included an intelligence surveillance system in the Manasagangotri campus, besides the data centre and digital signage of the University.
20 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Hold gram sabha on shifting Gurjapur village to a higher place, says Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that Assistant Commissioner of Raichur Santosh K. has been asked to conduct gram sabha in Gurjapur village in Raichur taluk and collect the opinion of people and submit a detailed report on a permanent resolution as the village is being submerged every time there is floods in the Krishna and the Bhima. After visiting Gurjapur Bridge-cum-Barrage on Monday, Mr. Savadi, who is also district in-charge of Raichur, said that there is a difference of opinion among residents on shifting the village to the higher place. Therefore, the Assistant Commissioner has been asked to conduct a gram sabha to find a permanent solution to the problem. “Residents in villages, including Gurjapur, Arasinagi, D. Dongarapur, Atkur and Burdipad, are facing problems every time there is floods,” he said and asked officials to find a solution. Officials of the Agriculture, Horticulture and Revenue departments have been directed to conduct a joint survey to assess the loss owing to floods, the Deputy Chief Minister said and added that compensation will be distributed based on the assessment report. Getting information from officials about rehabilitation centres already established, he said that the lack of basic needs in such centres had forced people not to shift to the centres. Officials have a bigger responsibility in convincing the people of Gurjapur of the need to go to a safer place, he added. Mr. Savadi also inspected flood affected land in Gurjapur and Karekal villages. Raja Amareshwar Naik, MP, Shivaraj Patil, MLA, Laxmikanth Reddy, CEO, Prakash Nikam, Superintendent of Police, Durgesh, Additional Deputy Commissioner, and others were present.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bumper to bumper||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drawing attention||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In a festival mood||lights photo
20 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha’s case tally up by 340||The district registered 340 COVID-19 cases on Monday. The fresh cases include 333 patients who contracted the virus locally, while the source of infection of another six persons remains unknown. One person who came from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the new cases, 171 were logged from Alappuzha municipality. Ambalappuzha North (20), Ezhupunna (18), Cherthala (13), Aryad (12), Punnapra South (12) registered a double-digit case count. A total of 338 persons who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative.  The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 6,701. The police registered 63 cases and arrested 52 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 300 people for not wearing face masks, 1,195 for not maintaining physical distance and one person for violating home quarantine norms. Another 11 cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 67 people in connection with the 11 cases. Containment zones Parts of ward 6, 9 and 20 in Thanneermukkom, 13 in Neelamperoor, 14 in Mararikulam South, 13 in Muttar grama panchayat and ward 43 (total) in Kayamkulam municipality were declared as containment zones.
20 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha spinning mill modernisation complete||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan announced the completion of a project for modernisation and expansion of the Alleppey Cooperative Spinning Mills (ACSM), Kareelakulangara, on Monday. “The spinning sector had collapsed due to various reasons. But the LDF government, through hard work, has been able to revive the sector. The government will initiate steps to make cotton available at reasonable rates,” Mr. Jayarajan said. He said that with the modernisation of the ACSM, at least 100 more people would get jobs. The production capacity of the ACSM had been increased by 20%. As part of the modernisation and expansion of the ACSM, the spindle capacity has been increased to 25,200. The project was implemented at a cost of Rs. 34 crore.
20 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Water level rises in Idukki reservoir||The water level in the Idukki reservoir went up on Monday, reaching 2,394 ft at 10 a.m. Though no rainfall was recorded in the catchment area, the inflow was above normal on the day. The water level had crossed the blue alert level of 290.85 ft last week. On Monday, it was 3.85 ft short of orange alert level.
20 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||MLA alleges threat to life||Muslim League leader and MLA, K.M. Shaji, has lodged a complaint with the Chief Minister, the Speaker and the DGP, claiming that he was facing a threat to his life. Mr. Shaji alleged that a native of Pappinniseri, who was closely linked to a political party and had helped those accused in the TP Chandrashekar murder, had given a “quotation” to contract killers in Mumbai to murder him. In support of his claims, he submitted the voice clips of a conversation between the contract killer and the party leader, he told reporters on Monday. The MLA said that he had received three voice clips of the conversation in his e-mail. It was clear from the conversation, which was in Hindi, that they had agreed to a quotation of Rs. 25 lakh for killing him. Mr. Shaji claimed that the information was leaked from a mobile phone conversation of a prominent local leader. However, he refused to release information about the person who had passed on the information to him.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sreedharan inspects work on Palarivattom flyover||Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) Principal Advisor E. Sreedharan on Monday inspected the Palarivattom flyover site, where work is progressing to dismantle and rebuild the structure. It was his first visit to the site after the work began earlier this month. He discussed various aspects of dismantling the concrete deck, girders and pier caps of the structure that developed cracks shortly after its inauguration in 2016. He also discussed designs of the components that would be rebuilt atop the existing pillars by DMRC. The metro agency intends to strengthen the pillars using concrete wrapping. Three spans on the Vyttila side of the flyover, comprising a total of 18 girders, have been dismantled till Monday. Another four girders are slated for dismantling on Monday or Tuesday night. Work to dismantle spans on the Edappally side of the flyover will begin shortly, it is learnt.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Swapna files contempt of court plea against Customs||Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case approached the Ernakulam Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court (Economic Offences) on Monday seeking to initiate contempt of court action against Customs officials for leaking out statements of her and other accused to the media. She sought a directive to the Superintendent of Customs, Customs (Preventive) Commissionarate, Kochi, to file a report naming the officers responsible for the leakage of the statements kept in a sealed cover in the court and also sought contempt of court action against media organisations that published the statements. She said the statements kept in a sealed cover in the safe custody of the court were widely published in media. In fact, she was denied a copy of her statements on the ground that they were highly confidential. By leaking these statements and publishing them in the media, the Customs officials and the mediapersons had interfered with the administration of justice and lowered the prestige of the court.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Transport Authority for Kochi this month||The State government is making all-out efforts to ensure that the Kochi Metropolitan Transportation Authority (KMTA) begins functioning this month itself, while space for its office would be finalised this week, Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran, has said. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that the State Cabinet was expected to decide on the board members of the authority in the coming days. The file in this regard had been forwarded to the Chief Minister. Kochi would have the first such full-fledged authority in India, to formulate which a Bill was passed two years ago. Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode were set to follow suit. Other cities too could subsequently opt for similar bodies which would be in charge of the coordination, execution, regulation, and supervision of urban transport systems, he said. The authority chaired by the Minister for Transport, would have the Transport Secretary as Vice Chairman. The board members would comprise the Mayor, a people’s representative nominated by the government, a couple of traffic experts, and officials representing the departments concerned. It was heartening to note that Kochi was leading the State in initiating changes in public transport, as was evident from the fact that private bus operators here had arrayed under half a dozen companies, while autorickshaw drivers had together formed a cooperative society, Mr. Saseendran said. The Enforcement RTO of Ernakulam had been appointed the nodal officer to identify a fully furnished office for the KMTA. Among the suggestions that came forth was space in the Revenue Tower on Park Avenue Road. The KMTA would wield considerable powers, aimed at streamlining public transport systems, it is learnt. The constitution of the Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) had found a place in the 100-day action plan of the State government, announced in August. The government is shortly expected to finalise the body’s rules and notify them. Bus routes The authority is initially expected to take a call on rationalising bus routes, to ensure optimal fleet efficiency of private and KSRTC buses. It would also have to evolve a parking policy, to encourage opening of pay and park lots and measures to clamp down on haphazard parking, among other issues that are crying for attention. Mr. Saseendran said the MVD’s Suraksha Mithra software would shortly be linked with Kochi’s Integrated Command and Control Communication Centre (IC-4), whose MVD cell he inaugurated online on Monday. This would enable monitoring of emergency vehicles, public transport and school buses.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSRTC depot engineer transferred||The KSRTC has transferred its Ernakulam depot engineer, P.P. Martin, to Sulthan Bathery and appointed P.M. Biju in his place, after photographs of weeds and climbers over electric and other AC buses of the agency parked here went viral on the social media. The action follows negligence on Mr. Martin’s side, a press release said. He did not abide by the directive of KSRTC Chairman and Managing Director Biju Prabhakar, that all buses have to be inspected and maintained every three days and driven for a short distance, to ensure their serviceability, the release said.
20 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MCH nursing officer to be suspended||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has ordered the suspension of a nursing officer at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Kalamassery, after an audio clip sent out by the officer suggested that negligence of the staff at the hospital while treating a COVID-19 patient had resulted in his death. The Minister has also asked the Director of Medical Education to investigate the issue and submit a report. In the audio clip, the officer identifies herself as Jalaja Devi, nursing officer at the Ernakulam Medical College. She explains that the audio clip was being sent out with instructions to the staff to prevent any lapses, before the team of health officials from the Centre arrived at the hospital on Sunday. In the clip, she asks staff to ensure that all equipment was in place and functioning, and sufficient oxygen supply was available. “Patients’ oxygen masks are often not placed properly and ventilation tubes need to be checked. Patients have died because of this. Doctors have reported it, but have not seen it as our failure. We have not been punished because we work hard. The lives of patients have been lost because of small lapses like this and we have been told of these problems and asked to avoid such lapses. A patient named Haris was to be moved to the ward, but the ventilator tube was not placed properly. He died and his family had complained. But to protect us, doctors did not reveal this and it did not turn into a big problem,” the officer is heard saying. The nursing officer had explained that she had only sent the clip out on an internal group as a reminder to the nurses in the ward to be more vigilant, said hospital Superintendent Peter Vazhayil. “There have been no lapses from our side. We do not know in what circumstances the nursing officer has made a statement like this. She has been on leave for a month and does not have the authority to make such a statement,” he said. The patient named in the audio clip, C.K. Haris, was treated at the hospital for about a month and was given good care, he said. “The hospital has been treating critically-ill COVID-19 patients and our mortality rate is very low,” added Dr. Vazhayil. Haris’s sister, C.K. Sainabi, a resident of Thuruthy, said the family had raised concerns with the doctors at the hospital soon after his death. “It was very sudden. He had spoken to his wife only a little while before he died,” she said. The 48-year-old resident of Palluruthy died on July 20, she said, adding that the family would write to the State government to ensure they were given an explanation on his death. ‘Baseless charges’ A statement issued by hospital Superintendent Dr. Vazhayil and Principal V. Satheesh said that the patient had diabetes and hypertension, besides COVID pneumonia. He was not on a mechanical ventilator but was on non-invasive ventilatory support in which a tube was unnecessary. Since he was on oxygen support, moving him to the ward was not possible, their statement said. He was given all necessary treatment for the 24 days that he was at the hospital. The contents of the audio clip were baseless and untrue, they said. Chennithala writes Politicians, including Hibi Eden, MP, and V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, have written to the Chief Minister asking for action against the staff concerned. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has written to the Chief Minister slamming the Health Department’s decision to suspend the nursing officer. He has also called for an investigation by a team of medical experts.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Migrant workers’ leader abducted, assaulted||A leader of Progressive Workers’ Federation who played a key role in organising workers from other States who are employed in different firms in Perumbavoor was abducted on Sunday and brutally assaulted at a scrap godown in the area. “I lost consciousness after I was hit on the head from behind, when I was with workers at a colony in Perumbavoor,” said George Mathew, who was assaulted reportedly by a trader’s henchmen. He said he found himself at the godown when he regained consciousness. He was admitted to the Ernakulam General Hospital and discharged on Monday. Mr. Mathew, who has been active among workers here since 2006, said the attack might have been triggered by his organisation taking up the cause of a worker whose palm was severed in an accident at a manufacturing unit in Perumbavoor. His organisation had taken up the matter with the Labour Department, seeking compensation from the owner. The Perumbavoor police said a case was registered and the statements of people were being recorded. Protesting against the abduction and assault, human rights activists and socio-political leaders will organise a demonstration in Perumbavoor on Tuesday. “I will formally lodge a complaint with the police on Tuesday,” said Mr. Mathew.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New curbs hit air cargo movement via Kochi||Air cargo movement via the Cochin International Airport here has been curtailed and export of mostly perishable items such as vegetables and fruits hit after the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) restricted the operation of foreign ad hoc and pure chartered, non-scheduled freight services to six airports in the country. There were no airports in Kerala being allowed to handle special cargo flights or ad hoc flights to move cargo with effect from October 1, following the DGCA order, said airport sources. The special cargo flight services will be available only from Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Most of the cargo operations via Kochi was handled till now by foreign airlines, especially those from the Middle East as most of the export items were headed for markets in those countries. While the airport handled between 100 and 150 tonnes of cargo per day during the pre-COVID days, the volume came down significantly after the pandemic restrictions came into effect. But with easing of business activities in several countries, cargo volumes were picking up when the new restrictions have come into effect. CIAL handled 1,564 tonnes of cargo between September 1 and September 15, but the volume came down by around 500 tonnes to 1,044 tonnes between October 1 and 15, said airport sources. Air cargo movement via Kochi is now handled using passenger flights. However, passenger flights carry up to 15 tonnes of cargo while special flights meant solely for freight can carry up to 50 tonnes. The new restriction means that exporters of fruits and vegetables will have to ship their consignments to the nearest airport where dedicated cargo flights are available.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSEB software for meter reading from November 1||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) will roll out a software on November 1 to enable consumers in COVID-19 containment zones to take meter readings and upload the details on the board website to facilitate online billing. The pilot run has been successful and the software would be available from November, board sources said on Monday. If the run was successful, the facility could be extended to consumers across the State.  Using the software, the KSEB would inform the consumer if the meter reading is due the following day. The SMS would provide a link, using which the consumer can upload the reading. The link would provide basic minimum details like consumer number and the previous reading. A consumer would also be able to take picture of the metre and upload it using the link. The details would then be forwarded to the electricity section concerned, from where an online bill would be generated for the consumer.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||ITMS a feather on cap of Kochi’s transport system: CM||The Rs. 27-crore Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) to streamline traffic movement and to aid in rule enforcement in the Greater Kochi area was yet another feather on the cap of Kochi’s transport system, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, after inaugurating the system online on Monday. The taking effect of the Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA) and the expected commissioning of the Water Metro (in January 2021) would take ahead the cause of seamless mobility in the region, which already has metro rail, private bus companies and an autorickshaw cooperative society to be proud of. That the tech-based ITMS relied on night-vision cameras would ensure rule enforcement round-the-clock and irrespective of the weather, said the Chief Minister. An initiative of Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation (Keltron) installed high resolution CCTVs and other equipment needed for the project. Automated enforcement will help identify traffic-dense corridors and vehicles moving in that direction will be given preference, by relying on data gathered by radars. It will also enable automated rule enforcement. For instance, motorists who jump red signal will be automatically challaned and will have to remit fine. The actuated signal system has been readied at 21 important junctions while pedestrian-operated pelican signals are there at half a dozen busy roads. Red-light jumping detection cameras are there at 35 junctions. All these will be monitored from the centralised monitoring and command centre at Revenue Tower. Mr. Vijayan also unveiled CSML’s e-health solutions project, a joint initiative of Central and State governments, which will store data on patients among a host of other functions. The Ernakulam General Hospital is among the eight government hospitals that will be covered under this.  Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, Local Self-Government Minister A.C. Moideen, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta, CSML CEO Jafar Malik, State Police Chief Loknath Behera, District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare and Mayor Soumini Jain were among those who spoke.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro revises fare structure||Kochi metro has revised its fare structure by bringing back the old rates. It has also brought back Kochi-1 card offers. Kochi-1 card customers will get a discount of 20% on every ride. There are bimonthly and monthly trip passes, with 33% and 25% discount. The weekday pass is for Rs. 125, and weekend pass Rs. 250. As per the new fare structure, slabs have been revised, starting Rs. 10 up to Rs. 60, each at intervals of Rs. 10.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SHRC notice over dumping of septage into canal||The State Human Rights Commission has asked the Secretary of the Kochi Corporation and the sub inspector of the Thevara police station to submit a report on the alleged lapse on the part of the civic body to clean up the toilet waste in the Poneth Canal at Kadavanthra. Antony Dominic, chairman of the commission, issued the order based on a complaint lodged by V. Venugopal on behalf of Indira Nagar Residents’ Association, Kadavanthra, stating that the area remained under the threat of spread of infectious diseases owing to the presence of toilet waste in the canal. The petitioner alleged that toilet waste transported in vehicles was being dumped into the canal in the night.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||598 more COVID cases||A total of 598 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday in the district. While six persons who arrived from outside the State tested positive, 398 people contracted the infection through local contact. The source of infection of 190 people remains untraced and four health workers have been infected. As many as 978 people tested negative on Monday and 29,698 people remain in quarantine. A total of 11,473 people are being treated for the disease. For testing, 3,196 samples were collected.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Minister opens e-health project at GH||Inaugurating the e-health project at the General Hospital, Ernakulam, Health Minister K. K. Shylaja said that the project had the potential to bring about a real change for the better in the health sector. Through the e-health system, information on a patient’s health problems and treatment would be digitally available. In the first phase of the project, community health workers would collect information from the people in their area on aspects including health problems, hygiene in their vicinity and smoking and drinking habits. This would be uploaded onto a centralised database. For people who have linked their Aadhaar number to the e-health service, a unique health ID would be provided from the health centre. With the ID, a patient can take an outpatient token at any health facility where the e-health system is implemented, and their details would be made available to the facility. Health reports can also be uploadedonto the system, making patient history accessible to doctors.
20 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. reaches TB-free project target||The Kochi Corporation has achieved a target under the State government’s tuberculosis-free Kerala project of ensuring that no child below the age of five has contracted tuberculosis in the past year. The project aims at eliminating TB by 2025. It is being implemented by the Health Department in collaboration with local bodies. District TB Officer Sharath G. Rao handed over an award commemorating the achievement to Mayor Soumini Jain.
20 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam posts more recoveries||Recoveries outnumbered new cases in Kollam on Monday with 378 persons testing positive and 627 patients recovering. Among the positive cases, 373 contracted the infection through contact, one is an NRI, another a health worker and three cases have no known source. Two die of disease The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 64-year-old Vadakkevila resident and a 70-year-old Perumon resident are due to COVID-19. The district currently has 18,968 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,90,767. While 1,921 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 65,810 primary and 7,341 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present the district has 6,946 active COVID-19 cases.
20 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||‘Probe report’ triggers another war of words||Having fallen apart after an association lasting four decades, the antagonism between the Congress and the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani is deepening, with both sides entering into a bitter fight over the bar bribery scam. Intensifying its attack on the estranged ally, the District Congress Committee in Kottayam led by Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan and K.C. Joseph, MLAs, on Monday demanded the resignation of Mani group members from all seats they had won as United Democratic Front candidates. “Since Jose K. Mani has decided to step down as Rajya Sabha member to uphold the principle of political morality, the same should be applicable to others, including the Lok Sabha member from Kottayam,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. The Congress on Tuesday will stage protests at 5,000 locations across Kottayam demanding the resignation of Kottayam MP Thomas Chazhikadan and Kanjirappally MLA N. Jayaraj. Responding to the alleged conspiracy behind the bar bribery case, Congress leader Joseph Vazhakkan challenged Mr. Mani to prove that even a single leader from the Congress was involved in it. “The so-called investigation report was fabricated by Mr. Mani with the support of his aides, including a hotelier in Kochi. If he continues to spread such lies for political gains, I will be forced to reveal more about the episode,” said Mr. Vazhakkan. Mr. Vazhakkan’s remarks assume significance in view of the leakage of a report, purportedly prepared by a private agency, which accused Congress leaders, including Mr. Vazhakkan, of trapping K.M. Mani in the scam. Though Mr. Mani was quick to deny any link to the report, the Congress leadership regards it as a ploy by the estranged ally to put them under pressure. Mr. Mani on Monday denied the allegations raised by Biju Ramesh, leader of the bar hotels’ association. “Those who hunted down my father are now targeting me. One can easily recognise the motive behind Mr. Ramesh coming up with a fresh set of allegations,” he said. Joseph cautious P.J. Joseph, leader of the rival KC(M) faction, was cautious in his response to the latest controversy. “It is up to Mr. Mani to respond to the allegations raised by Mr. Ramesh. The bar bribery scam, as far as I know, was a hoax,” Mr. Joseph told mediapersons.
20 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||180 test positive in Kottayam||As many as 180 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 177 persons, including two health workers, contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 24 persons above 60 years and 15 children, besides 76 women. Among the local bodies, Kottayam municipality reported 26 cases while Meenachil, Madappilly, Changanassery and Kangazha reported eight cases each. 6,605 active cases With 196 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,605 active cases while 17,019 are under observation.
20 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate goes up again in Kozhikode, 772 fresh cases||Dip in the number of lab tests apparently brought down the number of new COVID-19 infections in Kozhikode district on Monday when only 772 people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The test positivity rate, the number of persons getting infected per 100 people, however, remains high at 15.14%. It was around 13% the previous day. According to the District Medical Officer, only 4,314 samples were tested on the day. As many as 683 people got infected through local transmission and the source was unknown in 70 cases. A total of 1,022 people recovered from the infection and the number of active cases now is 10,725. As many as 6,732 people are in home isolation. The number of local transmission cases from Kozhikode Corporation is 217. In Perumanna, it is 73, Olavanna 62, and Changaroth 31. In Malappuram Malappuram district registered 910 more COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total number of cases currently under treatment to 10,810. As many as 862 of the new cases were found to have contracted the disease through direct local contact. However, the source of infection could not be identified in 36 cases. The district administration said that among the newly infected cases, eight were health workers. While three cases came from abroad, one came from another State. There were 298 recoveries in the district on Monday. More than 51,000 people were quarantined across the district. In Kannur A total of 293 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Monday. Among them, 260 contracted the disease through local transmission. Twelve health workers were among the infected. Of the total active cases in the district, 4,908 are in home isolation and the remaining 909 are being treated at various hospitals and FLTCs. In Kasaragod Kasaragod reported 120 new COVID-19 cases on Monday. Of these, 107 are local transmission cases. There are now 4,606 people under observation in the district, including 3,698 in home and 908 under institutional observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod bureaus)
20 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Dhwani to ensure safe berthing of vessels at port||A new large tugboat, Dhwani , has started operating at Beypore Port for facilitating the safe berthing of mercantile vessels and ensuring speedy cargo movement. The port, which was struggling in the absence of such a towing boat, finally got it as a result of efforts by a few prominent importers, traders’ forums and government officials. In the absence of the tugboat, large cargo vessel operators were seemingly disinclined to frequent Beypore Port and cooperate with business promotion activities. Many a time, smaller boats were used for unloading goods from large cargo ships anchored several metres away from the port. With the arrival of the new tug, the towing job or escort would be easy. Crew exchange Functionaries of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry said they had submitted several memoranda to Union and State Ministers for sanctioning a larger tug as it was crucial for facilitating even the crew exchange of container vessels. They pointed out that some of the international shipping companies handling oil containers had already expressed their interest in doing the crew exchange from Beypore. Officials said the 450-HP Dhwani had a superior echo radar system, VHF, echo sounder, GPS and Automatic Identification Systems. The offshore tug was built in Goa Shipyard at a cost of Rs. 3.2 crore. It was sanctioned for Kozhikode as part of the ongoing shipping promotion programmes of Union and State governments, they said. Though Beypore had a tug named M.T. Malabar, which was introduced in 2015 for streamlining cargo movement, it offered service only for a limited period. It was later taken to the Kollam port, and no other replacement was made citing financial constraints. With the arrival of the new boat, the Zamorin Tug which was not in service for years due to mechanical failures would be dismantled soon.
20 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Alert issued against local transmission of infection||The district COVID control cell has issued an alert against the uptick in local transmission of the infection, pointing out that 87% of the total cases were through contact with already infected people. The source of infection of six per cent of the patients was not known. Health Department officials said on Monday that those who ignored the warnings and guidelines related to COVID protocol were contributing to the rise in the number of new cases. The test positivity rate had gone up from 13.5% to 17.6% in a week. Ninety eight per cent of the infected persons in the past two weeks were from villages. Some people were misusing the concessions given to those who were struggling without jobs and means of survival. This was adding momentum to the spread of the infection. Celebrations without any precautions were one of the many reasons for the rise in local transmission cases. As many as 128 people, who belong to the Category B patients with mild symptoms, were going under observation every day. People who had primary contact with infected persons were reluctant to go into self-quarantine. This, along with throwing caution to the wind, was among the reasons for local transmission, the officials claimed. They pointed out that of the 110 people who died in the district, 65% were aged above 75. Eight per cent of people had comorbidities, or other health problems. The rise in number of cases was necessitating a corresponding increase in the number of tests. So far, over 5 lakh tests had been held in Kozhikode district, the officials added.
20 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Exams: CU allays students’ fears||Calicut University authorities have sought to allay the fears of a section of students who had called for a rethink on conducting semester exams for undergraduate and postgraduate courses, proposed to begin on Thursday, in view of the COVID-19 situation. Recently, a group of students had approached the Controller of Exams and the Vice-Chancellor, raising apprehensions about holding the exams at a time when there is no let-up in the number of fresh cases of infection. They claimed that holding the exams right now might be risky. It was also pointed out that the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission some time ago had recommended promoting them based on internal marks. These exams were supposed to have been held before June, but were deferred in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The university authorities, however, claimed that this was the third session of exams being conducted in affiliated colleges after the Union government withdrew the lockdown. “Right now, a series of exams, which started on October 4, is going on. They will conclude on October 20,” a senior official told The Hindu on Monday. Another series has been scheduled for November as well. The officials said that the exams were being held in line with COVID-19 protocol. Centres had been allotted in all 14 districts across the State.
20 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Domestic departure check-in at new terminal||The domestic departure check-in at the Calicut International Airport has been shifted to the extended departure terminal from Monday. Thus, passengers can now utilise the newly commissioned In-Line Baggage Handling System, airport director K. Srinivasa Rao said. This new departure terminal had 18 check-in counters, out of which nine alternate ones would be given for operations, considering the social distancing norms and COVID-19 protocols in place, he said. Besides catering to the domestic departures, the check-in facility would serve some of the international departures too in order to reduce the crowding at the existing check-in area. Once fully operational, this would greatly help airlines with an adequate number of counters during the peak hours. He said that the security check-in for domestic passengers had been shifted to the first floor of this extended departure terminal as a temporary arrangement. The old domestic terminal would be closed for renovation, and after completion of work, it would house only a security hold area for domestic passengers, he said.
20 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Renovated district panchayat building inaugurated||Minister for Excise and Labour T.P. Ramakrishnan on Monday said the Kozhikode district panchayat had set a model in the implementation of welfare schemes with the cooperation of local bodies under it. The Minister was inaugurating the renovated district panchayat office and the new auditorium here.  District panchayat president Babu Parassery, who presided over the event, said the completion of the new auditorium was a big achievement.
20 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Auto driver arrested||The Vellayil police on Monday arrested an auto-rickshaw driver suspected to be involved in a hit-and-run case in the city. Amal Raj, a native of Madappaly, was arrested on the basis of CCTV footage from the spot. The accident that led to the arrest took place on September 26. According to the police, an elderly couple had suffered serious injuries in the incident.
20 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||First woman doctor of Arya Vaidya Sala dead||Pulakkat Madhavikutty Varasyar, 94, the first woman doctor at the Arya Vaidya Sala, Kottakkal, died at her house on Monday. Dr. Varasyar had run Arya Vaidya Pharmacy at Shoranur for 52 years before retiring from service in 2015. Late Ayurveda scholar N.V. Krishnankutty Varier was her husband. She is survived by a daughter. Funeral Dr. Varasyar’s funeral would take place at Thiruvambadi Devaswom Shanti Ghat in Thrissur on Tuesday morning, family members said.
20 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad reports 271 cases||As many as 271 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad on Monday. However, there were 347 recoveries. District officials said that the higher number of recoveries provided an optimistic sign. When 121 people contracted the disease through direct local contacts, there were 147 cases without an identifiable source of infection. Three cases came from other States. There were 7,113 active cases currently under treatment in the district. Apart from them, 50 people from Palakkad were under treatment in Malappuram, 33 in Ernakulam, 17 in Kozhikode, four in Thrissur, two each in Alapuzha and Thiruvananthapuram, and one in Kannur district.
20 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||At 32, a sharp dip in Pathanamthitta||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta reported a sharp decline with just 32 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. Of these, 29 persons contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of six persons was yet to be traced. Two more deaths Meanwhile, two more COVID-19 patients, including a person undergoing treatment for cancer, succumbed to the disease. The deceased were identified as an 86- year-old Kumbazha native and an 81-year-old Koodal native. These deaths, however, have not been included on the official list of the State government. Not a COVID death At the same time, the death of a 65-year-old man from Erathu in the district was excluded from the list of COVID-19 fatalities. The district has reported 70 COVID-19 deaths so far. With 301 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,529 active cases.
20 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Mar Thoma Metropolitan laid to rest||The mortal remains of Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan, head of the Mar Thoma Church, who passed away on Sunday were laid to rest with State honours at the St. Thomas Mar Thoma Church courtyard in Thiruvalla on Monday. The funeral service, led by Suffragan Metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Theodosius, began around 2.30 p.m. and the Metropolitan was laid to rest in a specially made crypt beside the St. Thomas Mar Thoma Church later. All bishops of the Mar Thoma Church were co-celebrants. Heads of various Churches, including Cardinal Baselius Cleemis Catholicos, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malankara Church; Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, Major Archbishop of the Syro-Malabar Church; Baselios Thomas I, head of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church; and Mar Thoma Metropolitan Emeritus Philipose Mar Chrysostom; were present. Several leaders, including Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma, paid their last respects to the departed Metropolitan.
20 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Testing comes down, case graph follows||After the weekend, Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph dipped on Monday to register 5,022 new cases when 36,599 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The dip in cases was in proportion to the dip in the samples tested, as demonstrated by the test positivity rate, which stood at 13.7%, slightly higher than the previous day’s TPR. 7,469 recover The State again had more recoveries than new cases on Monday, with 7,469 patients being discharged from hospitals. The cumulative case burden now stands at 3,46,881. The total recoveries having touched 2,52,868 cases, the number of patients in hospitals is 92,731. There is a dip, albeit small, in the number of critically ill patients being treated in ICUs even though it is not clear if this was due to the recovery or death of patients. The number of patients currently being treated in ICUs is 746, with 187 on ventilator support. 21 deaths The Health Department added 21 more deaths which occurred in the past few weeks to the State’s official toll on Monday, taking the cumulative toll to 1,182. Ernakulam reported five of these deaths, Kozhikode four, three each in Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram, two each in Malappuram and Kollam and one each in Kannur and Kasaragod. Of the new cases reported on Monday, 4,963 cases (98.8%) are locally acquired infections, including 647 cases wherein the source of infection remains unknown. These include 59 health-care workers. Among districts, Malappuram has been consistently reporting the highest number of cases in the State for the past few days, while the epidemic curve is beginning to plateau and go down in many other districts. On Monday, Malappuram reported 910 cases, Kozhikode 772, Ernakulam 598, Thrissur 533, Thiruvananthapuram 516, Kollam 378, Alappuzha 340, Kannur 293, Palakkad 271, Kottayam 180, Kasaragod 120, Wayanad 51, Pathanamthitta 32 and Idukki 28 cases. Active cases As far as active cases are concerned, Thiruvananthapuram, which has been reporting a dip in new cases and an improved recovery rate, has been pushed to the fourth place among districts. Ernakulam, though has registered a decline in active cases from the previous days, has 11,468 patients, Kozhikode 10,852, Malappuram 10,810 and Thiruvananthapuram, 9,205 cases.
20 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ATIAL gears up to take over airport||Adani Trivandrum International Airport Ltd (ATIAL) of the Adani Group is gearing up to take over the 88-year-old airport from the Airports Authority of India as part of executing the 50-year lease agreement between the AAI and the ATIAL. Meanwhile, the next move of the State government is being keenly watched. The State will have to sign a State support agreement to hand over the airport to the AEL and the stance of the State is crucial. The government is likely to back out from the acquisition of eight hectares needed from Vallakkadavu-Vayyamoola area for a Rs. 600-crore integrated terminal on the city side. “Already, the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) and the Union Ministry of Home Affairs have been approached for the mandatory security clearance for the board of directors of the ATIAL,” sources associated with the leasing process told The Hindu . Once the security clearance is obtained, the lease agreement will be executed. After signing the pact, the ATIAL will have to submit the performance bank guarantee to the AAI. ATIAL personnel will fly down to the capital and start observing the airport operations closely for two months. After the observation period, the ATIAL will take over the commercial operations as per the commercial operation date (COD). After three months of taking over the commercial airport operations, officers of the DGM and above grade of the AAI working in the airport will be sent back to the AAI. To be retained Others up to the AGM grade will be retained in the airport as deemed ‘deputation.’In the three years, the ATIAL will have to give two offers for 60% of the AAI personnel on the rolls and they will have to decide on staying with the private player. If 60% do not accept the offer, the Adani Group will have to pay the salary and other benefits to these staff till retirement. A ‘novaton clause” will be introduced in the pact to change the existing agreement of the AAI for various works entrusted to the ATIAL. The power of attorney will be given by the AAI to the ATIAL for 50 years to the designated officer. The airport operations will be under a Chief Airport Officer.Compulsory clauses are in the agreement to be inked to usher development of the airport as it has to be handed over back after 50 years to the AAI. Air Traffic Communication and Air Navigation Services will remain with the AAI during the lease period.  The government is likely to back out from the acquisition of land for a Rs. 600-crore integrated terminal on the city side
20 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MGNREGS scores high on ‘useful work’ in State||For long, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has faced much criticism as something which involves just the clearing of shrubs and no useful work as such. However, a conscious thrust on creation of durable assets has led to a sea change in the situation on the ground, with the creation of thousands of irrigation ponds and wells, cattle sheds, buildings for anganwadis, compound walls for schools and village roads. It has reflected in an increase in the State’s material expenditure, of the annual spendings from a mere 8.51% in 2018-19 to 14.26% in 2019-20 and 34.46% this year, as per the data till October 15. The material expenditure, a gauge for asset creation, is capped at 40% of the labour budget. The national average this year is 26.53%. The MGNREGS workers also played a key role in preparation of several pieces of land for vegetable cultivation as part of the Subhiksha Kerala project with an aim for self-sufficiency in vegetable production. For the Haritha Keralam Mission’s Pachathuruthu (green islets) project for the creation of mini-forests in 1,250 plots, the MGNREGS workers were employed. They have been given the responsibility of upkeep of the forests for the next five years. River rejuvenation The workers were part of the mission’s river rejuvenation projects in various districts. As part of water conservation activities, they have been involved in the creation of check-dams, revival of water sources, well recharging and creation of rainwater pits. “In the early days of the scheme, the focus was only on providing employment. In 2014, the act was amended to include asset creation as one of the objectives. Yet, we took some time in shifting focus. In 2018, we took a conscious decision in this direction, which has now started showing results. The creation of individual assets like irrigation wells or cattle or poultry sheds will also ensure sustainable income for families dependent on agriculture or animal husbandry. It has ensured an increase in employment provided to 3.99 crore work days till September compared to 3.32 crore work days during the same period in the previous year,” said an official from the MGNREGS State mission.
20 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cases drop to 516||The daily COVID-19 caseload reported another encouraging drop on Monday also with just 516 people testing positive for the infection. In the past one week, the daily caseload had gone over the 800-mark only once. The number of active cases in the district has fallen below the 10,000 mark and the recovery rate also remained high with 1,670 people recovering from the infection. The death toll, meanwhile, has risen with three more recent deaths attributed to the infection. The deceased included a 54-year-old woman from Edava, a 66-year-old woman from Kanjirampara, and a 53-year-old woman from Punnakkamugal. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that the caseload in the district had witnessed a significant reduction. At the same time, there is an encouraging increase in the number of recoveries. On the other hand, inspections carried out in markets, shops and autoickshaw stands have revealed non-compliance with COVID-19 protocols. As many as 357 people who tested positive over the past 24 hours contracted the infection though local transmission. The list also included 12 health workers. The death toll in the district has touched 348.
20 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. likely to examine hotelier’s allegation||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the government might need to explore the assertion that an array of UDF leaders had accepted substantial amounts as bribe from the Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) in 2015 to expedite the relicensing of more than 300 bars the Oommen Chandy administration had shut down on the premise that they were unhygienic. Hotelier Biju Ramesh, former acting president of the KBHA, had alleged on Monday that the guild of bar hotel owners had collected and paid substantial bribes to at least three prominent leaders other than Kerala Congress (M) leader and then Finance Minister K.M. Mani to get their businesses back on track. He had named K.M. Mani as a respondent in his complaint to an anti-corruption court here in 2015. Mr. Vijayan said he was not fully seized of the merit of the allegation. However, on the face of it, the accusation appeared to warrant an examination.
20 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sivasankar discharged after board’s clearance||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, was on Monday discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital here. He had reported sick on Friday when Customs agents escorted him to Kochi for questioning in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The officials initially admitted him to a private hospital, which stabilised Mr. Sivasankar and moved him as per the request of the Customs to the MCH. A medical board found that he had no cardiac issues that merited inpatient care. Mr. Sivasankar had complained of acute back pain. The board said he could manage it with rest and painkillers. In a related development, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan scotched a media report that the government had tried to get Mr. Sivasankar admitted to a government hospital to prevent his arrest.
20 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovation of Connemara market begins||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran on Monday inaugurated the renovation work at the Connemara market in Palayam as part of the city Corporation's Smart City project. As part of the project, a new complex with shopping outlets, food plaza, storage godowns and entertainment zones will come up in the area. Facilities for decentralised management of waste and solar panel-roofed buildings will be part of the project.
20 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mix-up of COVID patients||The body of an 85-year-old COVID-19 patient from Kollam lay unidentified for five days in the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. The incident has sparked allegations of negligence on the part of health officials. Believing that his father was admitted at the Government Medical College Hospial at Paripally, Kollam, the patient’s son had continued to take food and clothes there for several days. The hospital authorities had accepted them without question. In reality, the son, a headload worker in Kollam, had been taking food and clothes not to his father but to another COVID-19 patient with the same name. But it became evident only last week when hospital authorities informed him that his father, who had tested negative, was transferred to the room and he went there to meet him. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that an investigation would be carried out into the incident. The patient, who hails from Kunnikode in Kollam district, was taken to the Taluk Hospital, Punalur, on August 26 after he complained of uneasiness. He had contracted COVID-19 after 15 days at the hospital. “'When I enquired at the hospital, they said he had been shifted to the Paripally MCH. There, I was told that he was at the COVID treatment centre at the SN College. I met him there,”' the son said. According to him, they had then shifted his father to the District Hospital, Kollam, but he was not informed. When he contacted the District Hospital, he was told that the patient was transferred to the Paripally MCH on September 25. On enquiring there, the hospital confirmed that his father was indeed admitted at the hospital, but visitors were barred. On October 15, he was informed that his father had tested negative and shifted to the room. When he went to meet his father, it became evident that a mix-up had occurred. Finally, after several rounds of enquiries, he confirmed on October 16 that his father was admitted at the Government MCH, Thiruvananthapuram. Passed away Enquiries in Thiruvananthapuram confirmed that his father had passed away on October 13. While the hospital had taken down a wrong address for the patient, they had the correct mobile phone numbers of the deceased’s son and his wife, claims the son. The body of the deceased was finally released on October 18. The burial was held at the Jamaat at Kunnikode. The son said he has no plans to lodge complaints. “'I consider it lucky that my father could be buried in Kunnikode. If the other patient had not tested negative and got shifted to the ward, I would still be taking clothes and food to the Paripally hospital thinking my father was there,” he said.
20 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tourism project||Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will inaugurate the Rs. 10-crore Varkala tourism development project here on Tuesday.
20 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||BFA entrance test on Thursday||The entrance test for admission to the BFA course in fine arts colleges will be conducted by the Technical Education Department from 1 p.m. to 4.30 p.m. on October 22. Hall tickets can be downloaded fromwww.admissions. dtekerala.gov.in.
20 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TED-Kerala lecture series from tomorrow||The TED-Kerala lecture series organised by the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council (K-DISC) as part of its Young Innovation programme will commence on October 21 with a talk by former CEO, Nissan, Tony Thomas. Chairman, K-DISC, K.M. Abraham will preside over the virtual event that will be available on YouTube. For details, dial 9847895211.
20 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Central team reviews COVID-preventive steps||The Central Health team that visited Thrissur district on Monday to review the COVID-19 preventive measures called up on the people to be more vigilant against spread of the disease. Expressing satisfaction over the preventive works, the team said even mild negligence would lead to spurt in cases. Team members The team led by Dr. Ruchi Jain, deputy director of the regional centre of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in Thiruvananthapuram, and Dr. Neeraj Kumar Gupta of the Safdarjung Hospital, New Delhi, attended the review meeting at the District Collectorate. They visited government medical college hospital, COVID-19 first-line treatment centres, and containment zones. District Collector S. Shanavas explained the preventive measures that have been taken in the district since the first case of the country was reported here on January 30. The Collector explained about various preventive missions, activities of rapid response teams, process of tracing of contacts, awareness campaigns, screening tests at railway stations, bus stands, and markets, to the Central team. He also described the functioning of COVID-19 first-line and second-line treatment centres. The team also visited KILA and Nattika first-line treatment centres and various containment zones such as Kunnamkulam, Choondal and Guruvayur. Criticism The visit of the team gained importance in the wake of criticism made by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan that Kerala failed in preventive measures against COVID-19.
20 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||533 cases in Thrissur||Thrissur recorded 533 COVID-19 cases on Monday while 1,261 people recovered from the disease. There are 8,432 active cases in the district and 123 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 28,546 people tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the district while 19831 people recovered from COVID-19. According to the official statistics, 529 cases on Monday were contracted COVID-19 through local contact. Of the positive cases, 73 patients are above the age of 60 and 42 children are below the age of 10. As many as 5,767 patients are under home observation.
20 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Gang that shot at man held||The police on Monday arrested three persons on charge of shooting at a tyre repair shop owner at Koorkkanchery, near here. The East police arrested Shafeeq Velamparambil, 28, of Kannankulangara; Sajul Menothuparambi, 26, of Valiyalukkal; and Ditt Babu Aakkad, 26, of Chiyyaram, and seized a gun from them. The police said the gang had attacked shop owner Manikandan with an air gun on Sunday night, injuring him in the leg. He is in hospital. The gang had left their vehicle at Manikandan’s shop for repair four days ago and was irked by the delay, the police said. They got into an argument with Manikandan on Sunday and shot him.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘Pinarayi, Sivasankar helping each other’||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar have been ‘mutually helping each other’ in the gold smuggling case since the very beginning of the investigation. He told reporters here on Monday that the ‘hospitalisation drama’ of Mr. Sivasankar was only a tactic to delay his arrest in the case. The probe by Central agencies was on the right track. It was better for Mr. Vijayan to resign from his post before the probe agencies arrested him, Mr. Chennithala said. He claimed that the public outrage was intensifying against the government which was ‘steeped in corruption and nefarious activities.’ The United Democratic Front would observe the Kerala formation day (November 1) as ‘hypocrisy day’ against the State government. About 2 lakh activists would take part in the protest at 20,000 centres in the State, he said. Mr. Chennithala dismissed a report that appeared in the name of Kerala Congress (M) which claimed that he was the kingpin behind the conspiracy against Kerala Congress (M) leader and former Finance Minister K.M. Mani in the bar bribery scam. “Even his son Jose.K. Mani had dismissed such a report. It was the CPI(M) which had physically attacked Mani outside and inside the Legislative Assembly,” he alleged. He said that the bar bribery case was investigated when he was the Home Minister. At that time, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau was not a ‘caged parrot.’ The agency under Vigilance Director N. Sankar Reddy functioned as an independent body, he claimed. BJP’s allegation Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran has accused Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan of trying to sabotage the ongoing probe by Central agencies into the gold smuggling case. Addressing a news conference here on Monday, he said Mr. Vijayan was misusing the State government machinery for the purpose. “Now, he is trying all possible means to save his suspended Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar who is a main link in the case. Now, it is certain that the investigation will reach the Chief Minister after the Customs Department secured digital evidence,” Mr. Surendran said. He also alleged that ‘dubious requirements’ of the Chief Minister was met through Mr. Sivasankar. The Customs had got clinching evidence of Mr. Sivasankar’s involvement not only in the gold smuggling case but also in the illegal transaction of dollars. The BJP leader said that the Chief Minister, who claimed that it was him who had called for a probe by Central agencies, was now trying to sabotage the gold smuggling case. The fire incident at the Secretariat and the procrastination in handing over CCTV footage were prima facie evidence to sabotage the case. Also, the stance of the government against the CBI probe into allegations related to Life Mission was pointing to this strategy, Mr. Surendran said.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Temple tradition||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In homage||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Case against six for defaming sportswoman||The Edachery police have registered a case against six persons, including a higher secondary school teacher, who allegedly made obscene posts and comments against the powerlifting champion, Majiziya Bhanu, on Facebook. The case was registered under Section 120 (o) of the Kerala Police Act for causing nuisance through electronic platforms. The complainant, in her petition, said a Facebook group was behind the derogatory campaign and it was aimed at tarnishing her image as a sports personality.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Teachers’ plight||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hoping for a fair play||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Dramatic protest||
20 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Amul tie-up will give dairy sector in State a boost’||The visit of dairy sector experts from the Amul Cooperative Society in Gujarat between October 12 and 18 has lifted up the hopes of dairy farmers of Chittoor, Kadapa and Anantapur districts. As part of the tie-up between the AP Dairy Development Cooperative Federation Limited and the Amul Dairy, the team visited many villages in the three districts, besides interacting with dairy farmers and studying the patterns of production and marketing. Deputy Director (APDDCFL) G.K. Srinivasa said after the bifurcation, the State had lost the access to better marketing facilities. Though the milk production is good, its marketing remains a worry. “This has rendered the dairy industry unorganized, giving scope to the agent system. The tie-up is expected to boost dairy farmers’ economy by providing them remunerative prices, besides showing them a way to avail of government support such as loans, guidelines to feed and care for their animals,” he said. Chittoor district, with a daily milk production of 35 to 40 lakh litres, tops in the State. While 60% of the production is supplied to the private dairies through agents, while the rest is disposed of through local sales and vending. The prime idea of the experts’ visit is to form societies at the village and mandal levels to benefit the dairy farmers and to check exploitation. Though this visit was only a preliminary exercise, more and more modalities would be chalked out in near future. The farmers had brought to the notice of the experts that in the absence of cooperative societies, they were forced to approach the agents for immediate payments. They said that they were clueless as to which dairy they would be supplying milk. Since the closure of Chittoor Dairy in 2002, followed by Madanapalle Dairy, the farmers were forced to depend on the private dairies. Forming societies An expert said that they were told that a farmer was getting Rs. 22-25 per litre depending on the fat and SNF grades. In some cases, some farmers had to sell milk at cheaper rates due to low grades. “The tie-up will work towards encouraging the farmers to form into societies by following the guidelines in force among farmers of Amul dairies elsewhere. We have studied the possibility of providing incentives to the dairy farmers ,” he said.
20 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eastern parts of Chittoor receive rain||Chittoor district on Monday witnessed normal to deficit rainfall in several mandals. The eastern mandals, received rainfall ranging between 10 amm and 20 mm, while it was nil in 38 of the 66 mandals. According to officials, the average rainfall in the district stood at 3mm. While the normal rainfall in Chittoor district for October is 136.1 mm, the rainfall till October 19 remained at 163 mm, recording 19.8% excess. In view of the heavy rain forecast, the administration has alerted the revenue and police officials at low-lying areas, mostly in the eastern mandals. However, irrigation officials put paid to fears as no breaches are reported.
20 October 2020||GUDIVADA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman relieved of jewellery at gunpoint||An unidentified person allegedly robbed a woman of gold jewellery at gunpoint in Kakatiya Nagar in the town on Monday. The robbery which occurred in broad day light created sensation in the town. The victim, G. Ratna Kumari, complained that an unidentified person entered her house on the pretext of purchasing the house. “Suddenly, he whipped out a pistol, pointed it on my head, and asked me to give the gold bangles and chain. Later, he escaped,” the 60-year-old woman said. DSP N. Satyanandam said a case had been registered.
20 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan proved his commitment to uplifting Backward Classes: Minister||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has proved his commitment to the uplift of backward classes by setting up 56 BC Corporations at one go, according to Minister for Housing and also District In-Charge Minister Ch. Ranganatha Raju. He was speaking to the media after paying tributes to social reformer Jyotirao Phule and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy along with Minister for Home and Disaster Management M. Sucharita and local MLAs here on Monday. “In no other State in the country, corporations have been set up for the backward classes. Out of 136 recognised BC sects, the government formed 56 corporations. Each corporation will be headed by a chairperson and directors. We are happy with the overwhelming response to the government’s decision,” said Mr. Raju. Stating that the opposition parties have merely paid lip service to the backward classes and are treating them as a vote bank, Ms. Sucharita said that this was the first time that corporations have been formed for such a large number of BC sections. “In no other State, a sum of Rs. 33,400 crore has been credited directly to the accounts of 2.70 crore beneficiaries belonging to backward communities,’’ said Ms. Sucharita. CM thanked Devella Revathy, chairperson of AP Vaddera Corporation, and K. Bhavani, chairperson of AP Krishnabalija Corporation thanked the Ministers and the MLAs for their support and said they would be indebted to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy for their elevation. Member of Parliament Lavu Srikrishnadevarayulu, MLAs Vidadala Rajani, Meruga Nagarjuna, Undavalli Sridevi, Kilaru Rosaiah, chairman of AMC, Guntur, Ch. Yesuratnam and others were also present on the occasion.
20 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New DIG takes charge||Trivikram Varma, an IPS officer belonging to 2005 batch, assumed charge as Deputy Inspector General of Police, South Coastal Range on Monday. Mr. Varma was accorded the salute by armed reserve battalion at the Police Guest House. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Urban, R.N. Ammi Reddy and SP Guntur Rural Vishal Gunni called on the DIG and greeted him.
20 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. to send speed boats to Telangana||Responding to the plea by the Telangana government to send speed boats to assist in relief and rescue operations in flood-affected Hyderabad, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy directed the officials to send speed boats to Hyderabad for rescue and relief operations.
20 October 2020||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief measures are in full swing in flood-hit areas, says Kannababu||Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu has said that relief measures are in full swing in the flood-affected areas in nine districts. Addressing the media here on Monday, Mr. Kannababu said all the reservoirs in East and West Godavari, Krishna and Guntur districts were filled. As per preliminary estimates, crops in an extent of 1,07,797 hectares were damaged in nine districts. Horticulture crops were damaged in 13,563 hectares and pisciculture in 2,974 hectares. He said 478 boats belonging to the fishermen were also damaged. The Minister said all the departments, especially the R&B and Electricity, were taking up damage control exercise. He said the Yeleru reservoir received 30 tmcft water. About 40 colonies in Kakinada rural were badly affected. Pithapuram, Prattipadu and Anaparthi segments were also affected. Rescue effort Food and essential commodities were being provided to the affected families, the Minister said. Boats had been requisitioned to rescue the affected families. The Health Department was asked to provide medicines free of cost. Village volunteers were making all-out efforts to help the affected families, he said. In view of the imminent cyclone from Tuesday, all the officials had been alerted to take steps to mitigate the problem, the Minister added. Dig at Lokesh Stating that there was no truth in the allegation of TDP leader N. Lokesh that input subsidy of only Rs. 25 lakh was provided, the Minister said Rs. 125 crore input subsidy was released in July and August, and Rythu Bharosa was paid in full in May. He said Mr. Lokesh was claiming that 64 people were killed in floods in East Godavari and 700 farmers had committed suicide. “Such lies will unnecessarily create a fear among the people,” the Minister said.
20 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reach out to paddy farmers’||TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh on Monday asked the State government to come to the rescue of the farmers by giving them Rs. 25,000 per acre as compensation for the loss suffered due to inundation of standing paddy crops following the recent rains in East Godavari district. Mr. Lokesh, accompanied by senior party leaders, inspected the paddy fields downstream of the Yeleswaram reservoir in the Rajanagaram, Kirlampudi, Prathipadu, Gollaprolu, and Pithapuram mandals, where thousands of acres of paddy fields remained under a sheet of water for several days. Rain water continued to flow into the paddy fields in the Pithapuram and Prathipadu areas. “The State government has to offer a compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre for the damaged crops, apart from waiving crop loans of those affected by the rains,” Mr. Lokesh said. Mr. Lokesh enquired with the paddy farmers about the possibility of crop recovery and expected yield from the damaged crops. Mr. Lokesh also visited Uppada, a fisherman habitation that witnessed devastation. Peddapuram MLA N. Chinarajappa, TDP Kakinada Lok Sabha constituency in-charge Jyothula Naveen, and Kakinada Mayor Sunkara Pavani accompanied Mr. Lokesh during his visit.
20 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4,075 encroachments identified under Yeleru, Godavari Delta||The Irrigation authorities have identified as many as 4,075 encroachments along the stretches of irrigation canals, ponds and drains under the Godavari Delta System and Yeleru Irrigation System in the East Godavari district. In a meeting convened by District Collector D.Muralidhar Reddy on Monday, the officials said that the exercise of the eviction from the encroachments was planned to begin in the summer but it was delayed due to COVID-19. Of the total, 691 were identified in the Eastern Delta, 3,149 in the Central Delta, 126 in Yeleru Irrigation System and 109 in the Kakinada Drains Division early this year. The Collector directed the officials to complete the 39 irrigation works in progress as per the schedule and asked them to prioritise modernization work of the Yeleru Irrigation System. The proposals for these works should be sent to the government for sanction, he said. The officials have set a target of taking up the modernization works of the Yeleru Irrigation System on assembly constituency wise based on the impact from the flood water. In the absence of Water User Associations, the officials concerned have been told to be cautious in finalizing the works.
20 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ends life||Yerra Padmavathi, 19, allegedly ened her life by hanging herself from the ceiling, after her family members reportedly did not allow her to accompany them to a local mart at Hussainpalem village under Samarlakota police limits. The incident came to light after the woman’s mother registered a complaint on Monday. People suffering from suicidal tendencies can seek help by dialling the helpline number 100.
20 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boundary extension of Coringa eco-sensitive zone proposed||All the stakeholders including wildlife and territorial wings of the Forest Department on Monday proposed to extend the boundary of the Eco-Sensitive Zone (ECZ) of the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary (CWS) up to 500 meters, towards the Hope Island from the water front on the north-east side and 50 meters on the landward side. Mangrove cover In January this year, the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change has approved the ECZ draft which proposed the boundary sanctuary as the boundary of the eco-sensitive zone on the landward side and Hope Island front.  However, the MoEF has asked the stakeholders to revise the ESZ, extending the zone from Zero boundary to some possible extension citing that landward front consists of mangrove cover and that can be protected by bringing it in the limits of the ESZ. The stakeholders led by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday proposed the respective changes to the boundary of the ESZ, without having any adverse impact on the Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) activities on the land front of the sanctuary. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy also asked the stakeholders to prepare a revised ESZ report which would be submit to the MoEFCC for approval. Divisional Forest Officer (Wildlife) C. Selvan, District Forest Officer (Territorial) Sunil Kumar Reddy, KMC Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar and other officials were present on the occasion.
20 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Nellore tops State in checking the spread’||From the 13th position in Andhra Pradesh, Nellore district has emerged first in the State in checking the spread of coronavirus as fresh cases as also fatalities declined while more persons recovered from illness. This was made possible thanks to the multi-pronged strategy adopted by the district administration, focusing on aggressive testing, roping in of private hospitals in treatment in a big way, and plasma therapy, said District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu. The case load in the district, which had been in the order of over 25,000 at one point of time had come down to a mere 2,458 in the last 24 hours thanks to continuous efforts of the health professionals in coordination with revenue, police and other departments concerned, he said. The district was at the forefront in the State in providing plasma therapy, he said and attributed the spurt in cases to proximity to Chennai and influx of migrants to port-based industries in the district. Returnees from Koyambedu market had caused the spread of the disease initially. Latest figures Meanwhile, five persons, three in Nellore and two in Prakasam, succumbed to the virus taking the toll to 1,035. While 427 patients, 119 in Nellore and 308 in Prakasam, contracted the disease, 603 patients(Nellore-293 and Prakasam-310) recovered from the disease.
20 October 2020||NELLORE/PRAKASAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rain forecast puts officials on alert||The district administrations of Nellore and Prakasam were on alert on Monday in the wake of the weather system prevailed in the Bay of Bengal. The Indian Meterological Department (IMD) predicted squally weather with wind speed reaching 40 to 50 kmph likely along and off the coast till October 22. Fishermen were asked not to venture into the sea between Monday and Thursday. Special officers in the coastal mandals were asked to be in preparedness to shift people as and when needed. With only 4 tmcft flood cushion, the irrigation authorities monitored the water level continuously at Somasila reservoir which had an inflow of 13,500 cusecs on Monday. ''The effect of the weather system is likely to be experienced only from Tuesday,” said Somasila Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao. Flow in the Penna river as of now was not alarming, he added. Meanwhile, the storage in the Kandeleru reservoir, which catered to the drinking water needs of, among other cities, Chennai and Tirupati, increased to 56.39 tmcft as against its full capacity of 68.03 tmcft. As a precautionary measure, the irrigation authorities decided not to store beyond 60 tmcft to avoid flooding of habitations.
20 October 2020||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||954 rapid antigen test kits seized, three held||The police conducted raids in the town on Monday and seized 954 Rapid Antigen Test Kits for COVID-19, reportedly brought from Telangana, and arrested a private medical distributor, a lab technician and a fancy shop owner. Acting on a tip-off that COVID tests were being conducted by some private persons unauthorisedly, a police team led by Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu and CI D.V. Ramana raided Venkata Sai Durga fancy store, located near the Tiruvuru bus stop, and seized the test kits, said Krisha District Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. Based on the information provided by the shop owner, identified as Chinta Venkateswara Rao, the police arrested a private medical distributor Potluri Rajendra, native of Hyderabad, and lab technician Mallela Sudhir Kumar. “The accused violated G.O. 336 issued by the State government on July 27, 2020, on maintaining the COVID rules. They were conducting the tests unauthorisedly without wearing PPE kits and uploading the details of the patients to the database,” Mr. Babu said. The accused were being produced in the court, Mr. Srinivasulu added.
20 October 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord rides ‘Kalpa Vruksha vahanam’||Fervour marked ‘Kalpa Vruksha vahanam’ ritual on Monday at the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara where the annual Navaratri Brahmotsavams are under way. Special rituals were performed to the processional deity who was dressed up as Lord Rajamannar and mounted atop the golden ‘Kalpa Vruksha vahanam’. He was flanked by his two consorts, while Kamadhenu and Chintamani also formed part of the assemblage. Prominent among others who took part in the celebrations include temple seers, Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, and member trustees of the trust board. Mr. Jawahar Reddy, who made it a practice either to interact with the officials of a couple of departments or inspect pilgrim installations on a daily basis during his stay atop the town which he has been doing since the commencement of the festival made a surprise visit to Kalyanakatta. He inspected the token issuing counters, tonsuring hall, waiting lines and other pilgrim related facilities and expressed his satisfaction over functioning of the system. Speaking to the media, he said all the precautionary guidelines relating to COVID-19 were in place and that the devotees were also happy with the arrangements. The day came to a close with ‘Sarva Bhoopala vahanam’ in the night.
20 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Resume free darshan at Tirumala’||Members of the Tirumala Tirupati Samrakshana Samithi (TTSS) staged a demonstration in front of the administrative building of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) here on Monday, demanding resumption of free darshan at the temple of Lord Venkateswara. While all forms of darshan were suspended in view of the increasing cases of coronavirus in March early this year, devotees were allowed entry into the temples in graded manner once the measures announced earlier were relaxed. “But with an eye on revenue, the TTD has resumed everything but free darshan,” charged TTSS joint secretary R. Viswanath. Mocking the argument that opening the free darshan stream could lead to further spread of the infection, the agitators wondered how the virus could spread by allowing the free darshan, mostly availed by common people, alone. “The nation has witnessed how the virus has attacked all strata of the society, right from the common man to Vice-President of India,” he added.
20 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||52 kg ganja seized in Kadapa||The Kadapa police on Monday seized 52 kg of ganja near Rajampeta on Monday. Acting on a tip-off, DSP(Rajampeta) Narayanaswamy Reddy and a police team raided a place behind a private college under Mannur police limits and held eight persons, including three women, allegedly dealing in the contraband. The contraband, a motorcycle and seven mobile phones were seized from them. SP K.K.N. Anburajan said the contraband is estimated to be worth about Rs. 1 crore in the international market.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second flood warning withdrawn||The second flood warning at Prakasam Barrage was withdrawn on Monday morning. The inflow and outflow at the barrage came down to around 4.90 lakh cusecs by 6 p.m. However, officials said that the flood situation would likely to continue on Tuesday as the upstream projects were continuously discharging water. Krishna district in-charge Minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy has asked the district officials to assess the damage caused by the floods and heavy rains and submit a report by October 31, so that the government could address the issues effectively. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy, along with Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, legislators and officials, reviewed the flood situation in the district during a meeting on Monday. “More than 1,000 tmcft of flood water needs to be discharged from the Prakasam Barrage this season, due to huge inflows and excessive rain,” Mr. Reddy said, adding that standing crops and properties were damaged in flood. He asked the officials to estimate the crop damage by deploying enumeration teams. Mr. Reddy assured that the government would reach out to all the flood-hit families and extend the necessary help. Permanent solution sought Minister Perni Venkataramaiah said Pedana, Avanigadda, Machilipatnam, Nagayalanka and other mandals reported damage of crops and properties. Expressing concerns that floods are a perennial issue in Vijayawada, the Minister asked officials to come up with permanent solutions to the issue. Participating in the meeting, Krishna Collector A.Md. Imtiaz said that around 48,000 people living in the urban areas and 36 villages in 30 mandals in Krishna district were affected by the floods. Now, as many as 10,513 persons are taking shelter in 38 relief centres, he said. Crop loss “As per preliminary estimates, paddy and other crops in 17,030 hectares and horticulture crops in 6,192 hectares were damaged. As many as 256 houses were damaged and 4,788 houses were marooned. In total, 213 panchayat roads in a stretch of 834 km and 109 R&B roads in 419 km were also damaged,” he said.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case graph dips further||Continuing to witness a downward trend in the incidence of COVID-19 infections, the State records less than 3,000 new cases and the lowest single-day test positivity rate during the past three months. In last 24 hours ending Monday morning, 2,918 new cases and 24 deaths were reported. The overall tally increased to 7,86,050 and the toll went up to 6,453. And the number of people undergoing treatment was 35,065. As many as 4,303 patients recovered and the recovery rate increased to 94.72% with a total of 7,44,532 recoveries till date. While 61,330 samples were tested in the past day, their positivity rate at 4.76% was the lowest in the past three months. The overall positivity rate of 71,27,533 samples tested was 11.03%. Meanwhile, for the first time after many months, no district reported more than 500 new infections in a day. East Godavari registered 468 new cases, the highest among the districts in the past one day. Four districts reported the highest number of new deaths, while seven districts recorded zero or one case each. Break-up The district-wise new cases and deaths are: East Godavari (468 and 2), West Godavari (447 and 1), Chittoor (380 and 4), Guntur (333 and 4), Prakasam (308 and 1), Anantapur (218 ad 0), Kadapa (155 and 3), Srikakulam (143 and 0), Visakhapatnam (120 and 4), Nellore (119 and 1), Krishna (117 and 4), Kurnool (66 and 0), Vizianagaram (44 and 0). Following is the break-up of total number of cases district wise: East Godavari (1,10,560), West Godavari (79,578), Chittoor (74,035), Anantapur (62,687), Guntur (62,681), Kurnool (58,848), Nellore (58,244), Prakasam (56,890), Visakhapatnam (53,926), Kadapa (50,018), Srikakulam (42,749), Vizianagaram (38,224), and Krishna (34,715). Kurnool and Nellore districts have less than 2% active cases, while Krishna has 7.09% active cases, the highest in the district.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to offer silk ‘vastrams’ tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will offer silk ‘vastrams’ to Goddess Kanaka Durga at the temple atop Indrakeeladri hill here on the ‘Moola Nakshatram’ day (October 21), which is the fifth day of the nine-day Dasara festival. On that day, the Goddess is worshipped as ‘Sri Saraswati Devi’. Security arrangements District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, along with Commissioner of Police B. Srinivasulu and other officials, visited the temple on Monday and inspected the arrangements for the Chief Minister’s visit. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Imtiaz said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy would present the ‘pattu vastralu’ to the Goddess in the afternoon. All arrangements were being made to ensure maximum security during the Chief Minister’s visit, he said. The Collector directed the officials concerned to ensure that all the staff members taking part in the programme along with the Chief Minister followed the COVID-19 safety measures. “Only a few persons will be allowed to accompany the Chief Minister,” he said. Meanwhile, keeping in view the heavy pilgrim rush usually witnessed on the auspicious ‘Moola Nakshatram’ day every year, the officials will allow only 13,000 persons to have darshan of the Goddess. On the remaining days of the festival, only 10,000 people per day are being allowed. Students in large numbers throng the temple on that day to seek the blessings of Goddess Saraswati Devi.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Comprehensive industrial survey under way in State||As part of its Comprehensive Industrial Survey - 2020, the government has so far completed assessing the requirements of 16,844 units, and is in the process of surveying 9,569 units. Multiple objectives It is a first-of-its-kind initiative by the Andhra Pradesh government to map industrial requirements, assure the services needed by them, and issue an unique ‘Parisrama Aadhaar’ number, according to official sources. The survey enables the government to identify issues faced by the industry and prepare mechanisms to address them on a real-time basis, ascertain skill requirement and provide a platform for them to reach out to the prospective employees. The objective is also to prepare courses and curriculum as per the industry requirements and bridge the skill gap. The survey is being conducted by the Department of Industries (DoI) in association with the Departments of Skill Development & Training and the Village Volunteers / Ward Volunteers & Village Secretariats / Ward Secretariats on the basis of a questionnaire jointly developed by them. A mobile application and web proforma for validation of data have been developed and hosted on the DoI portal – https://www.apindustries.gov.in . Engineering assistants and ward amenities secretaries have been roped in as enumerators, and officers from the APIIC and the AP State Skill Development Corporation and the Department of Planning are involved in the exercise as lead officers. Pilot surveys have been conducted in all the districts.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM directs fixation of sand price at constituency level||Reiterating that there should not be any scope for corruption in mining and supply of sand, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to maintain transparency in sand supply and ensure that the prices are reasonable. ‘Set up more reaches’ In a review meeting on the new sand policy at his camp office near here on Monday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that illegal mining was curtailed and quality sand was being supplied at affordable prices. He advised the authorities to increase the number of sand reaches and their capacity along with improving efficiency in supply. “Building up the capacity can attract large companies, or even Central government institutions,” he said. Observing that cost of transportation was a little high, he told the officials to bring it down to a reasonable level. Also, the price fixation should be at the constituency level, and if anyone was found selling the mineral at prices higher than those stipulated, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) should interfere and take action, he said. Challan system To bridge the demand-supply gap, he instructed the officials to introduce a challan system, where anyone could transport sand by paying challan. For the construction of government projects, or housing for the poor, sand should be supplied at a subsidised price through a token system, he added.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Idol immersion by police triggers row||Tension prevailed at Lakshmipuram in Chandarlapadu mandal in Krishna district on Monday when police immersed Durga Devi idol installed in the village. Residents staged a protest alleging that the police forcibly immersed the idol without following any tradition. According to the police, instructions had been given to the public not to install idols and celebrate Dasara festivities in open places in the wake of COVID-19. Devotees were requested to perform puja at homes as there was no permission to erect pandals and celebrate Navarathri Utsavams at public places. However, a few residents put up the idol of Durga Devi in an open place performing pujas and distributing ‘prasadam’. Nandigama DSP G.V. Ramana Murthy said that a notice was served on the locals a couple of days ago to remove the idol. As there was no response, police along with some village elders, performed the immersion. Objecting to the police action, locals planned to install another idol and perform puja. However, police explained to the villagers about COVID-19 protocol and convinced them. The situation was peaceful in the village, the DSP said.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A golden offering to Goddess Durga||T. Srinivas, a native of Vijayawada who settled in Atlanta in the U.S., on Monday donated a gold ornament valuing Rs. 40 lakh to the Kanaka Durga temple here as an offering to the Goddess during the Dasara festival. The ornament was made of ‘kanakapushyaragam’ (yellow sapphire stones). Temple Executive Officer M.V. Suresh Babu and priest Sandilya received the donation. Addressing the media, Mr. Suresh Babu said that the Goddess was being adorned with ‘Yedu Vaarala Nagalu’ (seven week jewellery) for the last six months. “The Goddess is decorated with pearls on Mondays, ‘pagadam’ (coral red stones) on Tuesdays, emerald on Wednesdays, yellow sapphire on Thursdays, diamonds on Fridays, blue sapphire on Saturdays and ‘kempu’ (ruby) on Sundays,” said the priest. The donor’s wife Leela was present.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Series of activities to mark Police Commemoration Day||A series of programmes has been planned for ten days to mark the Police Commemoration Day, scheduled to be observed on October 21. Chief Minister, Home Minister, Cabinet Ministers, Members of Parliament, MLAs, MLCs and top police personnel will review the commemoration day parade, and pay tributes to the police martyrs on October 21. Following the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Centre to organise the commemoration activities for ten days, police have designed the schedule from October 21 to 31. “We prepared a plan to organise police commemoration activities, which will begin with the parade, across the State. Officers will meet the police families, who lost their bread winners while discharging duties,” said Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. Officer on Special Duty (OSD-police welfare) P.V.S. Ramakrishna said from now, every year police commemoration activities will be organised from October 21 to 31, across the country. “About 90 police personnel died due to COVID in Andhra Pradesh. Tributes will be paid to all those who died of COVID, ” Mr. Sawang said.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Stone will be laid for skill development varsity in Dec.’||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy has said that the foundation for the Skill Development University proposed in Tirupati will be laid in December, and the allotment of land for 20 skill colleges has been completed. Addressing a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Goutham Reddy said it was planned to make skill colleges functional in Visakhapatnam, Chittoor, Eluru, Nellore and Kadapa in the initial phase. He wanted the departments concerned to mobilise funds for the establishment of the institutions, which was in tune with the government's commitment to enhance the quality of the human resources. Special Chief Secretary (skill development and training) G. Anantha Ramu and AP State Skill Development Corporation chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy, and CEO A. Srikanth were among those present.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Constable on bandobust duty injured||A constable of AP Special Police (APSP) third battalion, Kakinada, suffered injuries when a layer of the roof of a bridge collapsed, on Durga temple ghat road here on Monday. The constable, K. Rambabu, was posted on bandobust duty during the ongoing Dasara utsavams atop Indrakeeladri. The incident occurred when he was controlling devotees. He suffered injuries on his shoulder and hands.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three-day online training on child rights||The Andhra Pradesh Human Resource Development Institute (APHRDI), Bapatla, in association with UNICEF, is organising a three-day State-level online training for officials on child rights from Monday. Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) and representatives of various NGOs will participate in the webinar. Topics Participants are going to lay emphasis on ‘emergency preparedness’, ‘comprehensive child development’, ‘protection of rights of children’, ‘child-friendly grama panchayats’, said Krishna district child protection officer Ch. Vijay Kumar, who spoke in the virtual meeting on ‘child rights and well being’ on the first day on Monday. Officials of health, education, tribal welfare, WD&CW were among those departments which participated in the webinar.
20 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||65 selected in placement drive||As many as 65 candidates were selected in the placement drive conducted by the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation in collaboration with Mohan Spintex Pvt. Ltd., a textile manufacturing industry. Out of 95 candidates who appeared for an interview, 65 were selected, and they would be trained, district Skill Development Officer E. Thammaji Rao said. The selected candidates will be provided free accommodation and placement once training is completed.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IPL betting gangs make a killing from super overs on Sunday||The Indian Premier League (IPL) has been the bumper time any way for those betting money on cricket matches. But, the last Sunday was turned out to be a field day for the punters as both the IPL matches played between Sunrisers Hyderabad and Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR), and Mumbai Indians (MI) and Kings XI Punjab were decided in the super overs. As per a conservative estimate, more than Rs. 50 lakh was placed on bets from the city alone. This year, the IPL series began behind schedule in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, and the matches are being played without audience in the UAE, as per the WHO protocol. Yet, this appears to have failed to demoralise punters, as betting is on the rise with every finishing game and the law enforcement agencies are not able to lay their hands on them. According to sources, betting this IPL season is estimated to be more than that of the previous years. “But, it has become difficult to nail the betting organisers as the entire process being done online,” said a senior police officer. Unlike the previous years, betting gangs hailing from other cities appear to have not recruited franchises to set up their base in Visakhaaptnam. It is learnt that betting is being done in online mode from cellphones and that is why the police are unable to nail them, he explained. The police officers, especially those from the City Task Force (CTF), have been conducting raids and nabbing the members of betting franchise who ran their show from apartments in posh localities. But so far, no such cases have been reported this year. “Things are a little different this time. Punters are directly indulging in betting with the bigger gangs in other cities online and it is being done individually. Bets are being placed online and payment is being done using various apps. A number of punters are also hooked through chat apps and indulging in groups betting,” said an officer who was earlier posted with the CTF. Bars, where IPL matches are being screened, have become the dens for the betting organisers of late, he said.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID drug trial completed at KGH||The King George Hospital (KGH) and Andhra Medical College (AMC) have successfully completed the trial of 2-Deoxy- D-Glucose, a drug developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to treat coronavirus patients with moderate to severe symptoms as an adjunct therapy. The drug have been administered to nine volunteers, in compliance with the protocols set up by the DRDO and the report has been sent to it for further evaluation. “The drug was developed as an adjunct therapy to reduce the impact of coronavirus and to hasten the recovery process. As per the DRDO’s specifications, the drug was sucessfully administered to the volunteers. There has been no reactions or side effects till date. The report have been sent to the DRDO,” P.V. Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College and the District COVID Special Officer told The Hindu . Vaccine trial Meanwhile, the trials for the COVISHIELD vaccine is on and it has been administered to 40 volunteers so far. COVISHIELD has been developed by the Oxford University, with Serum India Limited and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) as partners. This vaccine will be administered to 100 volunteers. The KGH and the AMC intend to complete the trials in a week’s time. “The vaccine has been administered to 40 volunteers in the last 10 days. We intend to speed and complete the process by the next week,” said Dr. Sudhakar, adding that there has been no reports of reactions or side effects. Protocols Prior to administering the vaccine, the volunteers need go through a detail physical and medical examination. They undergo the RTPCR and antibodies tests to check if they are COVID-19 positive or have contracted the infection in the past. The volunteers undergo a series of tests up to six months, starting from the third week after they are administered the vaccine. Tests are done to check the level of development of antibodies in the volunteers and to find out if the vaccine has the stimulating properties to develop antibodies that is required to fight the virus, explained Dr. Sudhakar.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman stabbed in robbery attempt in city||An unidentified person allegedly attacked a woman, who was running a pan shop at Nadupuru, with a knife and injured her on Monday morning. Satya Geeta, was in her shop, when a man, who covered his face with a mask, approached her and asked her for cigarettes. He looked around and after satisfying that there was no one nearby, he barged into the shop and pulled her gold chain. When the woman tried to resist his attempt, he attacked her with a knife. The woman later told the police that had she not put out her hand, she would have received the injury on her neck. She sustained injuries on her wrist, lip, face and chest and is said to be out of danger, after treatment. The New Port police registered a case and investigation is on. Special police teams were formed to nab the accused.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Laddu puja performed to deity||The idol of Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi at Burujupeta was decorated as ‘Dhanyalakhsmi’, as part of the ongoing sarannavaratri festival on Monday. Laddu puja was performed to the deity with donations from P. Jagadish Kumar, Paluri Prasad, Paluri Vardhan Babu and M. Suresh. The deity will be decorated in different avatars on each day of the festival and ‘darshan’ will be allowed from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. During this time, devotees will not be allowed into the sanctum sanctorum. ‘Panchamruthabhishekam’ will be held daily at 5 a.m. and ‘Ksheerabhisheka Seva’ will be done from 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. Decoration Decoration of the idol will be done from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. and ‘darshan’ will be stopped during that time. Temple Executive Officer S.J. Madhavi, Assistant EO V. Rambabu, V.B.V. Ramana Murthy and A. Trimurthulu were present. The goddess will be decorated as ‘Dhairyalakshmi’ and ‘puja’ would be performed with lotus flowers on Tuesday.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||R.K. Meena takes over as ADG of Greyhounds and Octopus||Rajeev Kumar Meena, a 1995 batch IPS officer, took over as Additional Director General (Operations) of the Greyhounds and Octopus, here on Monday. Prior to this assignment, Mr. Meena was city Commissioner of Police. Mr. Meena had worked in various capacities, which included Inspector-General of Police (IGP) of South Coastal Zone, Guntur Range, and Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police. While Greyhounds is an elite anti-Naxal force, Octopus (Organisation for Counter Terrorist Operations) is an elite counter-terrorism unit of the State.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SIT chief: cooperate for early probe completion||Special Investigation Team (SIT) Chairman Vijay Kumar has directed the officials to cooperate with the investigating team for the early completion of the allegations into land grabbing in Visakhapatnam district. At a review meet with District Collector V. Vinay Chand, Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy and other officials here on Monday, he said that the probe could not be taken up in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The investigation would now be conducted and called upon the officials to ensure early completion of the probe. SIT Members Y.V. Anuradha, retired Judge T. Bhaskara Rao, DRO A. Prasad and RDO Penchala Kishore were among those present.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four tribals arrested||Four tribals have been arrested in the case in which a tribal was allegedly shot dead during a hunting expedition, on Monday. The arrested were identified as Poorna Rao, K. Hari, K. Bhagat Ram and B. Anand, all from Dumbriguda mandal. It may be recollected that Balaram was killed last Wednesday when Poorna Rao allegedly fired his country-made weapon.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held on charge of stealing lorries||The city police on Monday arrested a serial vehicle thief, who has been allegedly involved in stealing a number of lorries across the State. Based on a complaint from a lorry owner in Vijayawada that the accused Koram Anil Kumar had stolen his lorry worth around Rs. 20 lakh, the crime team from the city arrested him on Monday near Gosthani bridge at Tagarapuvalasa. According to DCP (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu, the accused aged around 34 years and a resident of Kothapalli village in Krishna district, had been a lorry driver in the past and due to heavy debts and addicted to vices, he took to stealing lorries.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 120 new cases, lowest in 80 days||The district recorded 120 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours and according to the officials from the Health Department, it is the lowest number of cases recorded in over last 80 days. With the new cases the total count has now gone up to 54,438 and the active cases are 2,162. The district also recorded four deaths, taking the total count to 462, since the outbreak of the pandemic in the district. A total of 145 persons undergoing treatment at hospitals and COVID Care Centres or at home isolation, recovered in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of discharges or recoveries has gone up to 51,814.According to the Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, there are four very active clusters, 64 active ones, 248 are dormant and 627 have been de-notified.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AUCET, AUEET results out||Konala Arshita Bhavya emerged topper in AU Common Entrance Test (AUCET) with 93 marks in Chemical Sciences and K. Srikrishna Venkata Subba Rao emerged topper with 80 marks in Andhra University Engineering Entrance Test (AUEET). The results were released by Andhra University Vice Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy here on Monday. The Vice Chancellor commended the examination authorities for coming out with the results in a record three days. He said that the dates for counselling would be finalised soon. The results of the tests can be seen on the website:www.audoa.in
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two arrested ‘for forcing minor into flesh trade’||Two persons were arrested for allegedly forcing a 17-year-old girl into flesh trade, here on Monday. According to police, the girl had lost her parents sometime ago and was staying with her grandmother. However, the daughter-in-law of the elderly woman took the girl along with her promising to look after her well in February. She reportedly dropped the girl back at her grandmother's house in September. Falls sick When the girl fell sick she was taken to a hospital, and the doctors confirmed that she was pregnant. The Childline personnel, who came to know about the incident, lodged a complained with the police. During the course of investigation it was found that the daughter in-law of the elderly woman and one Varma allegedly forced the girl into flesh trade. The police took the duo into custody and handed over the case to Disha police station. ACP of Disha Police Station Prem Kajal is investigating the case.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rain likely||The coastal A.P. and Yanam may experience thunderstorm, lightning and heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places till October 22, under the influence of a low pressure brewing over the Bay of Bengal. The cyclonic circulation now lies over the central Bay of Bengal. Under its influence, a low pressure area is very likely to develop over the same region during the next 24 hours , said the IMD. Thunderstorm, along with lightning and heavy rainfall, is likely to occur at isolated places in the Rayalaseema region between October 20 and 22.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASHA workers seek better deal||A large number of ASHA workers, owing allegiance to AP Voluntary Health Workers Union, an affiliate of CITU, staged a protest, demanding extension of the benefits of welfare schemes and retirement benefits, here on Monday.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prevent land grabbing, Joint Collector tells officials||Joint Collector M. Venugopala Reddy directed officials of the Registration and Stamps Department to ensure that land belonging to the government, Endowments or various trusts, was encroached upon by land grabbers.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boddepalli Raghu elected president of Board of Disabled Cricket Association||Boddepalli Raghu has been elected as the national president of the Board of Disabled Cricket Association. He took charge here on Monday.
20 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kits distributed to women||About 160 women who are in need of basic amenities were presented kits by Visakhapatnam District Women’s Services wing of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation, on the occasion of the ongoing 95th birth anniversary celebrations of Sathya Sai Baba, here on Monday.
20 October 2020||VISSANNAPET (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Five held for ‘duping’ people over lucky draw||The Krishna district police arrested five persons, who allegedly deceived public by collecting huge amount on the name of lucky draw. The Police seized Rs. 18.4 lakh from them. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Monday, Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu said the accused started Sri Vigneswara Lucky Draw in the town a few months ago. However, they closed the firm a few days ago and allegedly fled the town. Following a complaint, Superintendent of Police(SP) M. Ravindranath Babu formed special teams with Tiruvuru and Vissannapet police and nabbed the five accused. Police arrested Murali Mohan Reddy, Ram Mohan Reddy, Lakshmi Narayana, Sriramulu and Anji Babu. The accused allegedly collected money from the residents in Chatrai, Reddygudem, Tiruvuru, Vissannapet, Gampalagudem, Bapulapadu in Andhra Pradesh and in Vemsuru and Sattupalli mandals in Telangana. ‘In name of schemes’ The organisers reportedly collected money on the name of different schemes and duped the customers, the DSP added.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s ‘alankaram’||
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||
20 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Tribals stage protest against LRS in Scheduled Area||Assailing the reported move to implement the newly rolled out Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) and other provisions of the new Revenue Act in the Scheduled Areas of the district, scores of Adivasis took out a protest march in Bhadrachalam on Monday. The demonstrators later laid siege to the office of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) in the temple town to press for protection of the constitutional rights of tribal people as guaranteed under the Fifth Schedule of Constitution. The demonstration was organised under the aegis of the Adivasi Samkshema Parishath (ASP) and a host of other Adivasi organisations to press for their charter of demands. Addressing the demonstration, ASP national president D. Nageswara Rao alleged that the LRS and other “detrimental” provisions contained in the new Revenue Act, recently enacted by the State government, posed a threat to the interests of Adivasis inhabiting the Scheduled Areas. “Any move to thrust these arbitrary measures on Scheduled Areas would dilute the Land Transfer Regulation (LTR) Act (1 of 70) and other legislations governing the Fifth Schedule areas, meant to prevent encroachment of tribals’ lands by non-tribals,” he warned. Other speakers demanded that the ongoing process of LRS and survey/enumeration of non-agricultural properties for the purpose of updating property data into Dharani portal be stopped forthwith in the Scheduled Areas to avoid contravention of the LTR and other legislations relating to tribal people living in Fifth Schedule areas. They sought sanction of pattas to all the podu cultivators.
20 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||RTCs of TS, AP yet to agree on trips||With Dasara scheduled to be celebrated in less than a week, the State road transport undertakings of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are yet to agree upon the full-fledged resumption of inter-State buses. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation and the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation, thus far, have been unable to come to an agreement either on the number of buses each will ply, nor the number of kilometres. Despite officials of both State transport undertakings meeting, the impasse has been on for nearly a month. A TSRTC official familiar with the issue said, “So far, no agreement has been reached.” When asked whether a temporary arrangement could be arrived at, he said that the situation does not indicate that this would be the case. Festivals, including Dasara, see a large number of passengers travelling between both States. This, could in turn, generate revenue. Last year, the TSRTC ran 575 special buses to Andhra Pradesh from the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station from September 29 to October 10.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cotton with lower moisture content to be paid more than MSP||At a time when the farming community’s hopes of getting a bumper harvest of major crops such as cotton and paddy are hit badly by excessive rains this season, the State government has decided to give higher price than minimum support price of Rs. 5,825 to cotton, provided the moisture content of the fibre crop is less than 8%. At a meeting held with officials here on Monday on the arrangements being made for procurement of cotton, Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy has asked the cotton ginning millers to enter into agreement with the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) at the earliest and instructed the marketing and agriculture department officials to establish a call centre in every district to accept complaints and suggestions from farmers. Cotton crop has been cultivated in a record extent of over 60.22 lakh acres and paddy in about 52.55 lakh acres this season. However, excessive rains, particularly during the recent spell, have damaged standing crops badly. The two crops have been damaged in large extents across the State. “We have been waiting for good sunshine for the last two weeks to commence the first picking of cotton, which gives maximum of the yield out of multiple pickings. However, the rain gods have nailed our hopes of bumper yields as the flowers (cotton) which were ready for plucking have either been damaged/discoloured on the plant itself or have fallen to the ground due to the intensity of rains,” Rachamma, a woman farmer in Sangareddy district said. With the ground situation being grim, the government has decided to give higher price to the farmers who get cotton with lower moisture content than 8% as prescribed by CCI for getting the MSP. The Minister stated that CCI is ready to open the procurement centres in 300 ginning mills and nine market yards. The Minister explained that cotton with 8% moisture content would be given a price of Rs. 5,825 per quintal, Rs. 5,766.75 per quintal for cotton with 9% moisture, Rs. 5,708.5 for 10% moisture, Rs. 5,650.25 for 11% moisture and Rs. 5,582 for 12% moisture. In case the moisture content is 6%, farmers would be paid Rs. 5,941.5 per quintal and Rs. 5,883.25 per quintal if the moisture content is 7%. The operators of procurement centres have also been instructed to arrange web cameras, finger print scanner, moisture measuring implements and electronic weighing scales before commencement of the procurement operations. The Agriculture Extension Officers and Agriculture Officers have been told to issue token to farmers village-wise to bring their produce to procurement centres in a scheduled/phased manner.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Couple kill selves as parents reject love||Reportedly worried over their parents’ objection to their love, a young couple ended their lives by hanging in Nagarkurnool district on Monday. Bodies of Akhila (19) and Anil (20) were found hanging to a tree in the forest area of Billakal village in Balmoor mandal of the district. According to Balmoor SI P. Veera Babu, the girl’s parents chided her after seeing her speaking over mobile phone with someone on Sunday night. “The two left their homes in the early hours of Monday and called their common friend Naveen and told him that they decided to end their lives,” the SI said.  Girl found dead A 13-year-old girl was found dead at her residence in Jawaharnagar here on Sunday evening. The victim, Harika (name changed) died by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. Police said that the girl resorted to the extreme step owing to family problems.  There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at suicide intervention centre Roshni.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Amicus curiae appointed in suspicious death case||Justice P. Naveen Rao of Telangana High Court on Monday appointed lawyer Dominic Fernandez as amicus curiae having taken up a letter written by a woman raising suspicions over her daughter’s death as writ petition. The woman, a doctor, Safinaz Fatima, expressed apprehension in the letter that organs were removed illegally from the body of her daughter Zeba Fatima who died while undergoing treatment in Apollo Hospital’s Jubilee Hills branch. According to her, it was done after Ms. Zeba died in this March. She stated in the letter that Punjagutta police did not act upon her complaint and charged that police and hospital authorities connived to remove the body organs. She disputed the alleged claim of the hospital management that her daughter committed suicide by consuming Listerine and requested the court to direct the hospital to prove her daughter’s death was suicide. The judge posted the matter to November 9 for next hearing. Taking up another letter relating to the death of a minor girl from Maruti Orphan Home in Ameenpur of Sangareddy district suo moto as writ petition, Justice P. Naveen Rao issued notices to the State government.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Make history by winning Dubbak, GHMC polls’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and Nalgonda Member of Parliament N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has asked every Congress worker in the State to work with unity and discipline to create history by winning the bye-election to Dubbak Assembly Constituency and forthcoming elections to GHMC. Speaking during the 30th Rajiv Sadbhavana Yatra organised by the party here on Monday, he alleged that the ruling party was resorting to exploitation of people at any given opportunity and it was time people taught a fitting lesson to the ruling party by defeating it both in Dubbak and elections to GHMC and other urban local bodies over the next few months. AICC in-charge of party affairs in Telangana Manickam Tagore expressed sympathies with people of Hyderabad City suffering caused by floods and assured that the Congress party would extend help to such families in whatever measure it could. Stating that Congress party always believed in communal harmony and social justice, he recollected how former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi would always think about future generations when he was in office, while the focus of the present leadership of the country was only on the elections and electronic voting machines. Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that several parties in the country were trying to gain electorally by igniting passions between religions and castes and it was time people taught a lesson to such parties. Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy hoisted the party flag near Charminar before the commencement of the yatra. Former Members of Parliament V. Hanumantha Rao and Madhu Yaskhi, former minister J. Geetha Reddy, Mohd. Ali Shabbir, Marri Shashidhar Reddy and M. Kodanda Reddy, AICC secretary Bose Raju, party leader P. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, Foroz Khan, Sadbhavana Committee chairman G.D. Niranjan and other participated.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||948 COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded only 948 COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Less than a thousand cases in a day were reported after more than two months. And the reason is only 26,027 people were put to test on Sunday. In case of the number of tests too, it has been more than two months that less than 30,000 samples were examined in a day. Regardless of the number of positive cases, 8 to 10 COVID-19 deaths are being reported everyday. However, on October 19, four deaths were reported. According to the details in the media bulletin issued by the State Health department, Case Fatality Rate in the State is 0.57%. The new 948 cases in the State include 212 in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 98 from Rangareddy, 65 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, and 63 from Karimnagar. Results of 1,050 were awaited.
20 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3/4 brief with pic K Santosh Netha took charge (with photo)||K Santosh Netha took charge as the senior superintendent of post offices, Secunderabad division, on Monday. A 2014 batch Indian Postal Services officer, Mr. Netha completed his M.Tech from NIT Warangal, and after his training, he joined as SSPOs Vijayawada division. He continued there for 16 months and was transferred to Telangana Circle. Here, he worked as SSRM before joining as APMG (FS&BD), and continued there for almost two years. The Secunderabad division covers parts of Hyderabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri, Rangareddy and Vikarabad districts.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Boy kidnapped for ransom in Mahboobabad||A Telugu TV channel reporter’s nine-year-old son was kidnapped for ransom from Mahboobabad town by a motorcycle-borne youngster around 7 p.m. on Sunday. Later, the abductors demanded Rs. 45 lakh ransom to set him free. Special teams of police are working on different leads to secure safe return of the boy.
20 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Distressed ryots seek govt. intervention||Not far from the Valigonda bridge, where at least a dozen heavy vehicles were washed away in Musi river, farmers of the abutting Mallepally and Nagaram villages who recently harvested their crops crestfallen. With little hope, they keep busy with a wooden rake to regularly comb the flat beds of soaked paddy in their front yards. “Profit or loss, this last stage decides,” Hithapu Laxmamma, who reaped three of the five acres harvest, says. “The two-acre crop which was ready for harvest is flat in the fields like a mat spread on the floor,” she adds. Employing workers Now, she has employed workers at Rs. 500 per person, for sun-drying the produce, after which the stock needs to be transported to the local market yard, where a queue token should be collected to sell it. Officials would test the grain for moisture (not to exceed 17%), and finally if Laxmamma’s paddy ticks all the quality checks, she would get the minimum support price of Rs. 1,888 per quintal (grade A). But grain moisture is two types – internal and external. With a slight change in weather, or while in the ‘tractor queue’ at the yard, if moisture exceeds, the whole cycle should be repeated and the quality is lost, the 60-year-old illiterate farmer explains. A private trader would buy the stock offering up to Rs. 1,400 for the same quantity, but it does not work out any profit, others say. Valigonda, one of the mandals with large excess rainfall in the State, has 977 paddy farmers in despair in 1, 911 acres. For cotton, the damage figures are 580 acres and 201 farmers. The mandal is not exclusive, but representative of the rest of the mandals in undivided Nalgonda, which report similar losses and severe damages in about 1,12,000 acres, as per preliminary reports. Officials state large acres of fields have disappeared in the flood, crops ready for harvest are inundated and the harvested heaps soaked. In the much-affected mandals like Pochampally, Choutuppal, Nalgonda and Munugode, farmers say local leaders have extended words of comfort, but procurement did not take off. Groups of agitated farmers, with sprouted paddy, continue to block highways, or the District Collector’s vehicle, praying for action. On the other hand, tenant farmers such as M. Yadagiri of Valigonda, who do not appear in official records, wonder about their situation. Having cultivated 10 acres on rented farm, Yadagiri’s crop damage is in six acres. “No matter what, I have to pay the share or its equivalent cash to the landlord. With two consecutive bad seasons, my present debt is more than Rs. 4 lakh. I don’t see a future,” he says. Compensation sought Sangareddy Special Correspondent adds: Urging the government to come to their rescue, several farmers staged a dharna before the Collectorate on Monday. Farmers under the banners of Telangana Manjeera Rythu Samakhya and district unit of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) organised the dharna. Problem of debts “We have lost crops like paddy and cotton due to heavy rains, and there is nothing left. We do not know how to clear the debts taken for cultivation. We request the government to come to our rescue and save us,” the farmers urged the government. They were led by Manjeera Rythu Samkhya leader Pruthvi Raj. AIKS district secretary G. Jayaraj demanded that all the crops are lost and that farmers must be paid compensation immediately.  With two consecutive bad seasons, my present debt is more than Rs. 4 lakh. I don’t see a future.   M. Yadagiri, A farmer from Valigonda
20 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||23 candidates in fray for bypoll||With the last day of withdrawal of nominations ending on Monday, as many as 23 candidates remained in the fray for Dubbak by-election, which is to be held on November 3. A total of 46 candidates filed nominations. Out of them, 11 candidates withdrew their nominations while 12 nominations were rejected by the election officials. With this, 23 candidates remain in the fray. The main contestants are Cheruku Srinivas Reddy from Congress, S. Sujatha from TRS and M. Raghunadan Rao from BJP. The mudslinging by political parties has already commenced and a complaint was lodged by TRS leaders against a BJP worker, Srinivas Naik, who was arrested for creating a fake video.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Two die while cleaning septic tank in Azadpur||Two men died while cleaning a septic tank in north-west Delhi’s Azadpur area, the police said on Monday. On Sunday evening, information was received that in G-Block, gold factory, Azadpur, three men fell unconscious while cleaning the septic tank. Fire officials sent four fire tenders to the spot to rescue them. During enquiry, it was found that there was a factory at GT Karnal Road industrial area, the police said. The company manufacturers gold and silver chains. It stores chemicals used while making ornaments and water used in washing a septic tank. The tender for cleaning the tank was given by factory owner Rajender Soni to one contractor Pramod Dangi (35), a resident of Najafgarh, a senior officer said. Engaged for Rs. 400 each A case has been registered and the factory owner and contractor have been arrested. The labourers were not wearing any safety gears and had been engaged for Rs. 400 each, DCP (North-West) Vijayanta Arya said. “When seven persons were cleaning the tank, two became unconscious. They were taken to BJRM Hospital. On reaching the hospital, two persons — Idris (45) and Salim (45), both residents of Khurja in Uttar Pradesh — were declared dead,” the said. Abdul Saddam (35), Salim (35) and Mansoor (38) were treated and discharged later. Islam (40) is still undergoing treatment and is stable, the police said.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP has accepted its councillors are corrupt: AAP||Commenting on Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta’s recent interview to The Hindu wherein the veteran leader had said his party would field new candidates for the municipal elections, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said that Mr. Gupta had accepted that the current BJP councillors are “corrupt”. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said the BJP had changed candidates due to corruption in the 2017 civic polls too. “In the last 14 years, they have only spread corruption. Their councillors have only stolen from Delhi and filled their own pockets. I am not saying this, former BJP chief Manoj Tiwari agreed that corruption is up to the brim in the management that runs the civic bodies,” Mr. Pathak said during a press meet. “ Naye chehre nayi udaan, Dilli maange kamal nishan was the slogan the BJP used to cover up their corruption. They had said members from 2007-2017 have been banned from participating in the elections. With this promise, Delhiites voted for BJP in the majority. However, people who got elected under this campaign are worse than the ones before. They have stolen so much from the municipalities that the civic bodies are unable to pay the salaries of COVID warriors,” Mr. Pathak said, adding: “I appeal to Delhiites to not fall for the false promises made by the BJP. In the 2022 elections, I am sure citizens will be more aware and teach a lesson to people trying to ruin Delhi.”
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||DU’s second list admissions begin||On the first day of admissions to merit-based undergraduate courses under the second cut-off list, Delhi University colleges received 9,785 applications out of which 2,580 applications were approved. The second cut-off list, which was released on October 17, saw a minor dip in cut-offs for most courses with several colleges closing the list for geography, political science, psychology, Hindi and Sanskrit. The admission process under the new list will continue till Wednesday. Students have time till Friday to complete the payment process. They also have the option of cancelling or withdrawing their admissions and migrating to other colleges if they meet the cut-off criteria. A cancellation fee of Rs. 1,000 will be charged. Ramjas College principal Manoj Khanna said, “There were not many cancellations in our college. After the first list, we had 937 admissions. As of Monday evening, the total stands at 936. One issue is that we are receiving applications for courses that are already closed.” Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College principal Gyantosh Jha said around 100 applications were approved on Monday. “The only issue was that some aspirants with higher cut-offs were applying, which we had to reject as we cannot admit the first cut-off students under the second list,” said Mr. Jha.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Bidhuri blames govt.||Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Monday accused the Delhi government of being “fully responsible” for the death of four people and injury of five during the cleaning of septic tanks in two separate incidents in Delhi in the last 10 days. He demanded the Chief Minister provide compensation of Rs. 1 crore rupees to kin of the deceased and Rs. 50 lakh each to the injured. On October 10, two people were killed and one was injured while cleaning a septic tank in Badarpur. The second incident took place in Azadpur on 18 October in which two died while four were injured. “On November 15, 2019, the Chief Minister had held a press conference to announce the ‘Chief Minister Septic Tank Cleanliness Scheme’. Why has it not yet been implemented?” Mr. Bidhuri asked.
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Court grants bail to four accused in riots case after police fail to produce evidence||A Delhi court has granted bail to four persons — accused of arson and looting shops of minority communities during north-east riots in Bhajanpura here — as the police failed to produce evidence against them. A total of eight persons — Neeraj, Manish, Amit Goswami,  Sunil Sharma, Sonu Kumar, Rakesh, Mukesh, Shyam Patel — were named in 10 different FIRs of rioting, arson and loot during riots in Bhajanpura in the chargesheet filed by the police. The court granted bail to Sonu Kumar and Mukesh on furnishing a bond of Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 25,000 respectively with one surety of like amount in each of the 10 cases. The court also asked them to share their mobile numbers with SHO of Bhajanpura police station upon their release and keep their phones in working condition. It also asked them to get Aarogya Setu App  installed on their mobile phones .  Lawyer Saroj Kumar Jha, who represents several accused in connection with riots cases, said Shyam Patel, Mukesh and Sonu Kumar were granted bail after few days of arrest but released after three months as they were unable to deposit surety bonds. He said the fourth accused, Sunil Sharma, who too got a bail is still in jail as he is unable to deposit surety bonds. He said the releases came after the police failed to produce any direct evidence like mobile video, CCTV or any other thing to prove their presence at the crime spot. “In all the FIRs, the witness is common. How can it be possible for a single policeman to be present at all crime spots in the area at the same time,” said Mr. Jha. He said the police framed these people as they are poor — Mukesh is a rickshaw puller, Shyam a vegetable vendor, Sonu works as a dishwasher at a restaurant and Sunil is a daily wage worker. The police claim to have recovered women undergarments, cosmetic items, massage machines and bangles from the possession of Goswami on his disclosure that he had looted from the shop of one Gulshan Hussain during the riots. The other persons have sold the looted goods and spent the money on consumable items, an officer said. A constable, who is the eyewitness in the case, said on February 24, he was on duty in Bhajanpura when he 70-80 people — armed with iron rods, sticks and kerosene oil — raising “Jai Shree Ram” slogans. The crowd broke open a closed laundry shop, which belonged to a Muslim man, and set it on fire. The crowd targeted more shops in the area, the constable said. Later, he identified eight people — who were the part of the crowd.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Prosecutors move HC in riots case||The Delhi Prosecutors’ Welfare Association (DPWA) has moved the Delhi High Court challenging the city government’s decision to appoint special public prosecutors (SPPs), including Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, in cases pertaining to the north-east Delhi riots. The plea seeks quashing of Delhi government’s June 24 notification appointing the SPPs on the ground that it was issued on police recommendations, in violation of the scheme provided under the Criminal Procedure Code. It has sought appointment of independent SPPs by respecting the principles of fairness and impartiality. The plea is likely to come up for hearing later this week.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC questions Amanatullah’s appointment||The Delhi High Court on Monday questioned the city government as to how AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan can be allowed to be appointed as chairperson of the Waqf Board when he was facing allegations of irregularities. “Why should he [Mr. Amanatullah] be allowed to be part of the system when there are serious allegations against him,” the Bench asked. The High Court was hearing a petition by Mohd Iqbal Khan seeking quashing of the notification on the ground that if the AAP MLA is elected as chairperson, the report of a special audit initiated to look into allegations of irregularities against him would be placed before him. Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, appearing for the Delhi government, said the Board has nothing to do with the special audit and its findings would go directly to the government. The court has listed the case for further hearing on November 9.
20 October 2020||Ahmedabad,||Eight members of gang arrested in Jamnagar||In a rare move, the Gujarat Police have invoked the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act (GujCTOC), a law with stringent provisions, against 14 members of a powerful gang involved in several cases of extortion and land grabbing in Jamnagar. The gang is allegedly operated by one Jayesh Patel, who is believed to have fled the country in 2018. Of the 14 who have been slapped with GujCTOC, eight have already been arrested while one was in jail. “Five people, including Jayesh Patel, are at large and yet to be arrested,” said Jamnagar SP Deepan Bhadran, who was recently moved to Jamnagar after Jayesh Patel’s gang members became a major nuisance in the State. Earlier, Mr. Bhadran was Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) in Ahmedabad Crime Branch. While Jayesh Patel is believed to be hiding in Dubai, the police have arrested eight of the 14 people that include Atul Bhanderi, a sitting BJP municipal councillor of Jamnagar; Nilesh Toliya, a prominent builder; Vashram Miyatra, former head constable of local crime branch (LCB); and Pravin Chovatiya, owner of a local newspaper.
20 October 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. CM flays Nath for ‘indecent remarks’||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Monday hit out at Congress leader Kamal Nath for making “indecent remarks” against a woman Minister at a public meeting. Stating the remarks were made against the Dalit Minister born in a poor family, Mr. Chouhan told reporters, “He is shamelessly trying to justify them. I am upset about it. Whether he atones for it or not, I will atone for it and observe a two-hour silence with the resolve that respect for mothers, sisters and daughters will be kept in Madhya Pradesh and we will work for their welfare dedicatedly.” Subsequently, BJP leaders, including Mr. Chouhan, Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia and Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, observed silence in different parts of the State. At a public meeting in Dabra in Gwalior district on Sunday to canvass for Congressman Suresh Kumar Raje, Mr. Nath said, “Our candidate is of a simple nature. He is not like her. What is her name?” When the gathering named Imarti Devi, the former Chief Minister continued: “Why should I take her name? You know her better than I do. You should have warned me what item she is.” Accusing Mr. Chouhan of diverting voters from “real issues”, Mr. Nath wrote to him: “I have made no disrespectful comments... Besides, the word in question has several connotations. But, based on flawed thinking, you and your party are twisting the meaning to serve lies and mislead the public.” Meanwhile, Mr. Chouhan wrote to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi calling for a condemnation and Mr. Nath’s removal from all party posts.
20 October 2020||Bhopal,||Now, M.P. Minister uses derogatory words||A day after Congress leader Kamal Nath described a woman Minister in Madhya Pradesh as an “item”, a video on Monday showed Minister Bisahulal Singh describing the wife of his Congress opponent in the by-election a “mistress”. In a video clip that went viral, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Minister Bisahulal Singh is heard saying, “When nomination papers are filed, you give out details of properties. However, Vishwanath Singh [Congress candidate] has not provided details of his first wife. He has given details of his rakhail (mistress). It should be found out where his first wife is.” Writing to CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Mr. Nath said such remarks, let alone be spoken, were not even appropriate to be heard in Indian culture. While responding to Mr. Chouhan’s appeal to Congress president Sonia Gandhi to remove him from all posts for his comment, Mr. Nath retorted: “It would have been better if you had written to your party president instead and apologised to the State’s women.” Meanwhile, Vishwanath Singh said he was yet to see the video, and would take action accordingly. BJP State spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal refused to comment saying party officials had not been able to contact former Congressman Bisahulal Singh.
20 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha’s daily count dips below 2,000 mark for first time in two months||Odisha’s daily spike in COVID-19 cases dropped below the 2,000 mark for the first time after two months, indicating improvement in the pandemic situation. The State on Monday reported 1,982 cases. The last below 2,000 mark was recorded on August 13 when a single-day surge of 1,977 was reported and subsequently, the graph had seen a steady rise. On September 26, the highest single-day rise was recorded at 4,356. The drop in daily spike is attributed to continual decline in tests conducted in Odisha. The State government on Monday said 38,740 tests were conducted during the past 24 hours. The daily tests had once ranged from 50,000 to 60,000. During the past two months, Khordha district emerged as the worst-affected region, overtaking Ganjam. The COVID-19 tally increased to 2,70,346 on Monday after recording 1,982 fresh infections.
20 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Direct fight between Cong., BJP in Baroda||In a boost to the prospects of Congress in the Baroda bypoll, Independent candidate Kapoor Narwal, a BJP rebel, withdrew his nomination on Monday and announced his support to two-time Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The withdrawal of the candidature by Mr. Narwal now makes it a direct contest between Congress’ Induraj Bhalu and Bharatiya Janata Party’s Yogeshwar Dutt, an Olympic medalist. Besides Mr. Narwal, two more Independents, including Joginder Mor, withdrew their candidature and seven nominations were rejected leaving 14 candidates in the fray. Mr. Mor also announced his support to the Congress candidate. Welcoming the decision of Mr. Narwal, Mr. Hooda said it was an “important” decision and would enhance his political and social stature. Mr. Hooda added that Mr. Narwal had taken a “right decision” at the “right time” and would emerge as the “Kingmaker of Haryana”. Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda said the countdown of the ruling BJP-JJP coalition would begin soon after the counting of votes would end at Baroda. “The people of the State are now demanding change because this government has wasted six years of the State and has left it on the verge of total financial collapse,” said Mr. Hooda. Earlier in a day of hectic political activities, Meham Independent MLA Balraj Kundu, who had earlier supported the candidature of Mr. Narwal, withdraw his decision saying that it would benefit the BJP. He also made an appeal to Mr. Narwal to withdraw his nomination. Mr. Kundu said he had always fought for the poor, the workers and the farmers, and could not let BJP win at any cost. He also pledged support to the Hoodas.  Snubbed by parties Mr. Kapoor Narwal, a former Indian National Lok Dal leader, had joined the BJP in 2014 and was among the probables for the by-poll, but reached out to the Hoodas recently for a Congress ticket after failing to get any assurance from his party. However, the Congress too rejected his candidature, despite the Hoodas insistence, after state party chief Kumar Selja put her foot down for a party’s worker to be its nominee. Snubbed by both parties, Mr. Narwal, a strong Jat leader, then threw his hat in the ring as an Independent making it a triangular contest.
20 October 2020||JAIPUR,||Warehousing scheme for farmers||An agro-warehousing scheme coming up near Jaipur is set to benefit farmers, who will get the facilities of storage, weighing, testing and certification of produce in proximity to their agricultural fields. The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has earmarked 1.19 lakh sq. metre land in Amber tehsil for the project. The first-of-its-kind scheme will cover Akeda and Maheshpura villages, with 33,000 sq. metres of land being reserved for developing 18 big warehouse plots. JDA Commissioner Gaurav Goyal said here on Monday that the remaining land would have hotels, petrol pumps, banks, electric sub-station, commercial establishments, weighbridges and automobile shops. The project, to be developed on Jaipur-Sikar national highway west of Jaipur, is expected to give fillip to economic growth of the State Capital.
20 October 2020||JAIPUR,||Skill centre gets Rajasthan govt. support||A unique skill centre established by a charitable institution in Udaipur has received support from the Rajasthan government’s community-based rehabilitation programme for training the differently-abled persons after their corrective surgery. The centre, functioning on the premises of Narayan Seva Sansthan, has so far benefited over 2,430 persons. Five differently-abled persons, rehabilitated at the institution, earned distinction by offering health-related counselling to the people facing similar disabilities through live sessions on the social media platforms recently. Senior doctors in the city also joined them to provide medical advice to the needy. The dedicated team had earlier stitched over 53,200 face masks for the public at large and 780 personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for doctors and nursing staff during the COVID-19 pandemic.
20 October 2020||Lucknow,||Bhadohi MLA booked on charge of raping Varanasi-based singer||MLA Vijay Mishra of Bhadohi and his son have been charged with raping a Varanasi-based singer, said police. The four-time MLA, who was elected to the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on a Nishad Party ticket in 2017, was in August arrested for allegedly grabbing a relative’s house and extorting money from him. He was then detained from Agar Malwa of Madhya Pradesh a day after he released a video on social media expressing a fear that he “could be murdered” or arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police any day. In a fresh trouble for him, a case under gang rape, wrongful confinement and criminal intimidation was lodged at the Gopiganj police station in Bhadohi against him, his son Vishnu Mishra and another accused, Vikash Mishra, said police. In her police complaint, the woman has accused the MLA of sexually exploiting her since 2014. Superintendent of Police Bhadohi Ram Badan Singh said the complainant alleged that during the 2014 Lok Sabha election, Mr. Mishra invited her to perform at a programme. When she was changing in the changing room, the MLA barged in, held her hostage at gunpoint and raped her, the SP said referring to the complaint.  ‘Exploited since 2014’ The woman alleged that the MLA’s son and his friend later raped her in a car. From 2014, they continued to sexually exploit her and harass her and even called her to locations in Prayagraj and Varanasi under the pretext of offering her a job, said the SP.
20 October 2020||Mumbai,||State in favour of local train travel for lawyers||The Maharashtra government on Monday told the Bombay High Court that it has decided to increase the number of local trains and all lawyers may use them but only for professional reasons, to prevent crowding during the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a couple of public interest litigations stating that services rendered by advocates were essential services. Hence, lawyers should be included in the list of essential staff permitted to travel on special suburban/local trains. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the State is in favour of allowing all lawyers to travel in local trains but only for professional purposes. He also said that currently all women were being allowed to use the trains during non-peak hours. He said a meeting was scheduled with the Bar council of Maharashtra later this week to look into the request made by the lawyers. The court then said the State must also think of allowing people from all sectors and walks of life to use the trains while ensuring all COVID-19 safeguards were followed. The Bench said, “The opening up of services and offices has to correspond with the transport services. Someone whose sector has opened up must be allowed to travel.” On October 9, Mr. Kumbhakoni had said the State did not have any objection to increase the frequency of local trains and that even the general public could use the services provided they wore masks and followed social distancing norms. On September 15, the A-G had said advocates who need to be present in court could obtain a certificate from the Registrar concerned and get railway travel passes from September 18 till October 7 on an experimental basis.
20 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||APMC traders import 600 tonnes of onions from Iran||With the price of onions increasing, traders at the APMC market in Vashi have imported around 600 tonnes of onions from Iran, which reached the JNPT port on Monday. While some of them have been taken to the APMC market, some will be taken to Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. “Around 25 tonnes of the 600 tonnes have been brought to the APMC market. Those have been sold at Rs. 51 per kg in wholesale while the Indian onions are priced between Rs. 60 and Rs. 70,” Abdul Razak Memon, a trader from APMC market, said. Mr. Memon said more onions are expected from Egypt by the last week of October. “We had ordered the onions from Iran around 25 days ago. The process from Iran is slow and the payment methods are also tedious. Instead, we would be importing onions from Egypt. Onions from Turkey are also imported. This time, the rate there is also at the higher side and hence, we are going with Egypt,” he said. He said that last year, the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (Nafed) too had got onions from Turkey. On Monday, around 79 vehicles with 13,722 sacks of Indian onions entered the APMC market. They are sold up to Rs. 80 per kg in retail.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Air pollution can be tackled in less than four years: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that if all the governments work hard and make honest efforts together, then pollution caused due to stubble burning could be substantially reduced within a short period of time. Agreeing with Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar that stubble burning is a big problem, Mr. Kejriwal disagreed with his statement that the problem cannot be solved in a short time. “I completely agree with his views and I believe that all the State governments should come together and launch a battle against air pollution. But he also said that the problem of air pollution cannot be solved in one day and it will take a minimum of four years to solve the issue. I do not agree with this statement,” he said. “I believe that if all the State governments come together and all the political parties work honestly by keeping aside their political bias, then we can combat the issue of air pollution in less than four years,” he said. “Till now the Central government is only convening meetings with the Environment Ministers of the States of north India. I want to request the Union Environment Minister to call a meeting of the Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi every month because this is a big issue and it can’t be managed only at the level of the Environment Ministers of these States,” the Delhi Chief Minister said. Mr. Kejriwal said that while Indian Agricultural Research Institute (PUSA) scientists had developed a chemical that decomposes stubble and turns it into manure in Delhi, there was a factory in Karnal where stubble gets converted to compressed bio-gas (CBG) which can be used just as CNG. In Punjab, he said, there are around seven factories which make coal and coke from stubble. People from these factories go to the fields, cut the stubble and pay the farmers on Rs. 500-per-acre basis. Later these companies sell the coal to NTPC.  ‘Products from stubble’ “This means that from stubble we can produce coal, coke, CNG and cardboards. If the State governments of India start utilising these new technologies by which rather than burning the stubble the farmers can increase their income by selling the stubble, then it can put a halt to this problem,” he said.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Plea seeks paid leave for women govt. employees||A petition before the Delhi High Court has sought direction to the Centre and the Delhi government to grant paid leaves and periodic rest to women employees during time of menstruation. The plea by Delhi Labour Union said that women be provided special casual or paid leave as menstruation is intrinsically related to human dignity and by not providing separate toilet facilities, breaks to maintain hygiene during the particular period and paid leaves in form of special casual leaves, the authorities are depriving the employees of their dignity.  Overtime allowance The petition filed, through advocate Rajiv Agarwal, sought direction to grant paid leaves for four days a month to all classes of women employees including daily wagers, contractual and outsourced workers and to pay overtime allowance to menstruating women employees if they opt to work during that period.
20 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra reports its lowest surge in months||In its lowest surge in over two-and-a-half months, Maharashtra reported just 5,984 COVID-19 cases on Monday as opposed to a robust 15,069 recoveries, as the case tally reached 16,01,365 while its active cases continued to dip further to stand at 1,73,759. With 125 more deaths, the toll has reached 42,240. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 13,84,879 with the recovery rate standing at a robust 86.48%. However, the low surge has to be viewed in the context of an equally lower number of samples (just 46,000) being tested in the last 24 hours as opposed to the daily average of more than 80,000 samples. “Of the 81,85,778 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,01,365 (19.56%) have returned positive with around 46,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 2.64%. Pune district reported only 625 cases to take its tally to 3,24,267 while 15 deaths saw its toll climb to 6,503. As per the administration, the recovery rate has exceeded 91% with the number of active cases dipping below 21,000 to stand at just over 20,380. Mumbai reported the biggest surge among the major pandemic-hit areas, recording 1,234 cases to take its tally to 2,43,169 of whom just 19,906 are active cases though. 43 fatalities saw the city’s toll rise to 9,819. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported just 275 new cases taking the total to 96,611 of whom 6,081 are active. Six deaths saw the toll climb to 2,647. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported two deaths to take its cumulative toll to 1,361. 166 fresh cases saw the case tally rise to 44,821 of whom 6,141 are active. Sangli reported 137 cases to take the district’s tally to 44,783 of whom 3,536 are active. With four deaths, the toll has risen to 1,460. Kolhapur recorded just 72 new cases on Monday as its tally reached 46,458 of whom 2,436 are active. With three deaths, the toll stands at 1,558. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported just over 200 cases as its tally reached 89,100 of whom 11,355 are active. With just two deaths today, the district’s toll reached 1,496. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported just 88 cases and a single death as its total case tally reached 52,303 of whom only 2,921 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,314. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Thane reported a comparatively low surge of 350 cases as its tally crossed the 77,000-mark. Six new deaths saw its fatality count rise to 2,010. Dr. Awate said 24,14,577 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 23,285 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
20 October 2020||Pune,||Aid for rain-hit farmers: Uddhav tells Oppn. to not indulge in mud-slinging||Calling upon the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to desist from playing politics over the devastation wrought by the retreating monsoon, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday assured farmers that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government would not leave them in the lurch. Speaking after visiting parts of rain-affected Solapur district, Mr. Thackeray said that the State government had not announced details of an assistance package yet simply because the retreating monsoon crisis was not yet over. “I have not yet made any announcement as crisis is not yet over. We are collecting information regarding the extent of crop and property damage; the process of panchanamas (assessing damage) is already under way. We have started providing immediate financial assistance to the families of those who have died in rain-related incidents,” the CM said, adding that it was pointless announcing something in a hurry as the meteorological department had forecast more rain till October 24. Mr. Thackeray said that the State government would approach the Centre for any help needed. “The State will leave no stone unturned in helping farmers. If needed, only then we will be approaching the Centre for financial assistance. I had had a phone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday who had assured me of every possible help,” he said. The politics over excess rain was in full force with former CM and BJP’s Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis pointedly commencing his tour of rain-hit areas from Baramati — the bastion of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar.  Fadnavis hits out at CM Mr. Fadnavis criticised the Thackeray government for allegedly waiting for the Centre to step in without declaring financial assistance of its own accord. “The Centre will help. It has done so in the past and will continue to do so in the future as well. Prime Minister Modi, too, has assured Maharashtra of all help. But why isn’t the State declaring its own assistance package? Last year, we had announced a Rs. 10,000 crore package at the time of the Sangli-Kolhapur floods without waiting for the Centre to declare aid,” Mr. Fadnavis said. Speaking in Solapur, Mr. Thackeray, without naming Mr. Fadnavis, said that instead of canvassing for the Bihar polls (where Mr. Fadnavis had been appointed in-charge), “all of us together should be seeking relief for Maharashtra’s farmers from the Centre.”“We have started giving immediate relief to the rain-afflicted... The Centre is not a ‘foreign’ government. It is the Centre’s duty to come to the aid of any State suffering from a natural calamity. And I think after my phone call with Mr. Modi, I am convinced that if we request the Prime Minister for aid, he will never refuse us,” the CM said, urging the Opposition not to indulge in political mud-slinging at this juncture.
20 October 2020||Raigad,||19-year-old girl united with family by Damini squad of Raigad police||A 19-year-old girl undergoing psychiatric treatment, who had gone missing from her house at Nagothane on Friday, was united with her family by the Damini squad of the Raigad police. On Friday morning, the girl was found at Revdanda market, which is 30 km away from her residence, behaving violently and throwing things at people. The Damini squad of the Revdanda police reached the spot. But on seeing women police personnel, the girl got more violent and started tearing her own clothes. The police personnel changed their clothes to civil and then approached her again by keeping her busy in talks. “They collected her belongings that she had thrown including her clothes and a mobile phone, and brought her to the Revdanda police station,” police inspector Suresh Yamgar, PRO, Raigad police, said. At the police station, she was offered tea and snacks. The police tried asking about her family but she remained silent. Her mobile phone which was switched off, was charged and her father was contacted. The father, a farmer, revealed that in the early hours of Friday, she had left the house while all were asleep. The family had been looking for her everywhere. “Her father informed us that she had been under psychiatric treatment for the last few months,” Mr. Yamgar said. After leaving the house, the girl had taken a lift from a vehicle and also walked some distance to reach Revdanda. She was handed over to her father in the evening. Every police station in Raigad has a Damini squad that is headed by a woman police officer, along with other female staff. The squad looks into the issues of women and their safety.
20 October 2020||COLOMBO,||It’s China that happens to have the cash now, says Sri Lanka Minister||While government critics and the Opposition in Sri Lanka raise concern over the Rajapaksa administration’s growing reliance on China, in the wake of Colombo seeking a new $700 million loan from Beijing, a State Minister has said it is China that has the “most amount of cash now”. “In different times in world history, different countries have been the ones who have had the most amount of cash. And now it happens to be China, so China will naturally invest all over the world,” Ajith Nivard Cabraal, State Minister of Money and Capital Market and State Enterprise Reforms, told The Hindu in a recent interview, on Sri Lanka’s response to the economic impact of the global pandemic. “I think we should all respect that,” said the Minister, who was the Governor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka during Mahinda Rajapaksa’s last term in office. Amid the World Bank and International Monetary Fund’s (IMF) worrying forecast of a GDP contraction up to almost 7%, credit rating agency Moody’s downgrading of Sri Lanka by two notches to the “very high credit risk” category, the daunting $4.5 billion foreign debt due in the coming year, falling revenues and rising living costs, the Minister expressed optimism. Sri Lanka is exploring different options to repay its debt, including additional loans from China, currency swap facilities with India and China, and Samurai and Panda bonds, he said. Mr. Cabraal’s remarks came a week after a high-powered delegation from Beijing flew into Colombo, and met President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, who is also the Finance Minister. China, which sanctioned a $500 million loan in March to help Sri Lanka cope with the coronavirus’s blow, is likely to favourably consider the Rajapaksa government’s request for an additional $700 million now, having pledged support to the island nation’s pandemic recovery effort. Further, Sri Lanka is also negotiating a nearly $1.5-billion currency swap facility with the People’s Bank of China. Sri Lanka owes China over $5 billion so far. Trade practices “Nobody says China has given $1.5 trillion loans to the U.S.? We are talking about $700 million coming in... these are the trade practices, financing practices, prevalent in the world. Each country works out their own financing arrangements in line with what they feel is best for them,” Mr. Cabraal said, adding, other countries such as Japan, the U.S. and India have also been big investors in Sri Lanka. The U.S., for instance, “is a very strong investor in Sri Lanka’s sovereign bonds. I met the Indian CEO forum here, and I was quite surprised that there are more than 50 in Indian CEOs here.” ‘Different sources’ Government critics, including former Finance Minister Mangala Samaraweera, has urged the Rajapaksa administration to engage the IMF, rather than fall into a “Chinese debt trap”, but the government has ruled out an IMF bailout. While President Rajapaksa has vowed to disprove the “Chinese debt trap analysis”, few other sources seem as willing to lend readily. As for India, the Reserve Bank of India signed a $400 million swap agreement with Sri Lanka in July, to help boost Sri Lanka’s foreign reserves, and is perusing a further $1 billion requested by Sri Lanka. New Delhi is also yet to respond to PM Rajapaksa’s request for a debt moratorium — Sri Lanka owes $ 960 million to India — but Mr. Cabraal observed bilateral moratoriums cannot help much. “Emerging nations have all faced external sector stresses, which is not peculiar to Sri Lanka. Recently, some of the international agencies had provided some support for around 70 odd countries, which have been ad-hoc arrangements. This is a global problem, which needs a global solution,” he said. Despite the external sector weakening significantly, Sri Lanka is “fortunate”, in Mr. Cabraal’s view. The country’s foreign reserves have “not been affected too much”, exports have “held firm” and remittances have been “pretty strong”. In September, Sri Lanka recorded over $700 million from worker remittances. Exports in July crossed $1 billion and the government’s move to restrict imports “has paid off”, according to Mr. Cabraal. “Our foreign reserves will be around $5.8 billion. I would say that is not an uncomfortable level.” A clearer picture will emerge only by end of the year, as the Department of Census and Statistics postponed the release of the second quarter GDP figures until then. However, Sri Lanka’s challenge is far from over. It remains to be seen if the remittances will continue flowing in. Some 50,000 Sri Lankan migrant workers, who were employed in West Asian countries, want to return, while thousands lost their jobs and at least 67 succumbed to Covid-19 in their host countries. Domestically too, a new wave of COVID-19 infections is rapidly spreading within the garment manufacturing sector that is crucial to exports.
20 October 2020||KARACHI,||Pak. police arrest Sharif’s son-in-law||Pakistani police arrested the son-in-law of the country’s exiled former premier Nawaz Sharif on Monday after he led a crowd in chanting against the military at the tomb of the country’s founder. The arrest of Muhammad Safdar comes after Mr. Sharif’s akistan Muslim League (PML-N) joined a series of nationwide protests against the government of Prime Minister Imran Khan. His arrest drew condemnation from the Opposition, which said authorities wanted to target Mr. Sharif’s family. Police detained Mr. Safdar at a Karachi hotel room where he was staying with his wife Maryam Nawaz, who addressed a large anti-government rally on Sunday. Mr. Safdar on Sunday had visited the mausoleum of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, who led independence movement to get a separate homeland from Britain in 1947. Jinnah remains a revered figure in Muslim-majority Pakistan, with his tomb often drawing politicians and leaders. While at the tomb, Mr. Safdar led a crowd in chanting —“Give respect to the vote!” That slogan is viewed in Pakistan as criticism of the military, which ruled the country of 220 million people — directly or indirectly — for most of its history. Chanting political slogans at Jinnah’s tomb is widely considered taboo. Police say they arrested Mr. Safdar, himself a member of the PML-N, after receiving a complaint from a citizen alleging he was harassed. Ms. Nawaz added Opposition parties will continue their protests until Mr. Khan is removed from power. Mr. Sharif, 70, who has had a long uneasy relationship with the military, served as Pakistan’s Prime Minister three times. A court in 2017 ousted him from power over corruption charges. Mr. Sharif has been staying in London since November 2019.
20 October 2020||Bangkok,||Thai PM recalls Parliament as protesters raise pressure||Thailand’s embattled premier called on Monday for a special session of Parliament as protesters planned more rallies to demand his resignation, the release of jailed activists, and reforms to the monarchy. Tens of thousands of mostly young protesters have taken to the streets in the past week in defiance of an emergency decree banning gatherings of more than four people. Police said around 20,000 people protested across the capital on Sunday, although activists and local media estimated much bigger crowds. As they prepared to rally again on Monday, Prime Minister Prayut Chan-ocha said Parliament — currently in recess — would be recalled to discuss how to reduce tensions. “We support opening an extraordinary session to solve this conflict,” he told reporters, warning protesters not to break the law. “I request protesters rally peacefully. The government has already compromised to some degree,” he said. The largely leaderless movement is calling for the resignation of Mr. Prayut — a former Army chief and mastermind of a 2014 coup — as well as the re-writing of the military-drafted Constitution they say rigged last year’s election in his favour.  They want the abolition of a draconian defamation law that shields King Maha Vajiralongkorn from criticism, greater transparency of royal finances, and for the monarch to stay out of politics.
20 October 2020||Washington,||Candidates woo voters in key States as election day looms||With just over a fortnight to go until Election Day, U.S. President Donald Trump and his opponent Democratic nominee Joe Biden continued to woo voters in ‘battleground states’. However, the commonalities mostly stopped there — the two candidates delivered sharply contrasting messages on the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the U.S. economy and questions of policing and racial justice. On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Biden held a drive-in campaign event in Durham, North Carolina, while Mr. Trump flew to a rally in Sun City, Nevada, after campaigning in Wisconsin and Michigan. “Folks, times are hard, unemployment’s way up,” Mr. Biden said, linking job security to his own childhood in Scranton Pennsylvania and Claymont, Delaware; Mr. Biden’s father had to move for his father’s work. Mr. Biden said nearly 4,000 people had died of COVID-19 in North Carolina and over 217,000 had died in the U.S. but Mr. Trump was insisting that the U.S. had “turned the corner”. “And my grandfather would say, ‘This guy’s gone around the bend if he thinks we turned the corner.’” “Experts say we’re likely to lose as many as 200,000 additional lives nationwide between now and the end of the year. All because this President cares more about his Park Avenue perspective on the world, the stock market, than he does about you. Because he refuses to follow the science,” Mr. Biden said, emphasising what has become a theme for him in this campaign: his working class roots in Scranton versus Mr. Trump’s wealthy “Park Avenue” background. With regard to racial tensions and racial justice, Mr. Biden said the country needed “hope” and “to heal” and “needed to de-escalate tensions, open lines of communication.” He added: “But true justice is also about jobs, good paying jobs, financial stability.” Mr Trump beat 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hilary Clinton in North Carolina by almost 4 percentage points. Mr. Biden currently leads polling in the state by an average of 2.7%, according to Real Clear Politics. ‘Best year’ Mr. Trump, speaking later on Sunday on the other side of the country (in Nevada), struck a different chord on similar issues. He spoke about “rounding the turn” [turning the corner] on the pandemic. Mr. Trump said Americans were having the “best year you ever had” before the pandemic hit the country. “And then we closed it [the country] up and we saved over 2 million lives by doing what we did. They don’t like to say that. We did a great job,” he said. Studies (including one from Columbia University, for instance) have shown that had the U.S.’s March lockdown and social distancing guidelines been in place one week earlier, tens of thousands of lives could have been saved. The 2 million figure Mr. Trump repeatedly cites refers to the worst-case scenario result from a White House disease model released in the early days of the pandemic. He said the elections were a choice between a “Trump super recovery” and “Biden depression”; between “strong borders” and “no borders”; between “supporting the police” and “defunding the police”. “Between delivering a vaccine in record time to kill the virus or a Biden shutdown to kill the economy,” Mr. Trump said. The President mocked Mr. Biden’s approach to the pandemic.  “ He will surrender your future to the virus,” Mr. Trump said. He said Americans had voted in 2016 to “fire” the “decrepit political establishment”. “And you elected an outsider as President who is finally putting America first,” Mr. Trump said, calling the Biden family a “criminal enterprise.” At one point, when Mr. Trump made unsubstantiated allegations of corruptions against Mr. Biden and his son Hunter Biden, the crowd chanted “LOCK HIM UP!” Mr Biden leads Mr Trump in Nevada by an average of 5.2 percentage points (49% versus 43.8%) according to Real Clear Politics.
20 October 2020||TAIPEI,||Taiwanese, Chinese staffers clash in Fiji||China and Taiwan traded accusations on Monday over a violent altercation that broke out between Chinese diplomats and Taiwan government employees at a recent Taiwan National Day reception in Fiji. Both China and Taiwan confirmed the October 8 incident but each disputed the other’s claim of what precipitated the fight, which resulted in one Taiwanese staffer being sent to a hospital with a head injury. One of the Chinese diplomats also was injured. The confrontation, an extreme example of the tensions between the rival governments, erupted when Taiwanese at the gathering tried to stop Chinese diplomats from taking photos of guests at the reception marking Taiwan’s National Day, a Taiwan Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, Joanne Ou, said. "The Ministry of Foreign Affairs strongly condemns the Chinese Embassy in Fiji’s staff’s actions which severely violates rule of law and norms of civilized behaviour,” said Ms. Ou. She said Taiwan had made a formal protest to the Fiji government. China’s Embassy in Fiji said in a statement released on Monday that Taiwan’s account was “inconsistent with the facts.” It said one of its staff also was injured.  The Chinese side also criticised the celebration, saying it “violates the one-China principle”..
20 October 2020||Washington,||6 Russian military officers charged for cyberattacks||Six current and former Russian military officers sought to disrupt through computer hacking the French election, the Winter Olympics and U.S. hospitals and businesses, according to a Justice Department indictment unsealed on Monday that details destructive attacks on a broad range of political, financial and athletic targets. The indictment accuses the defendants, all alleged officers in the Russian military agency known as the GRU, in destructive attacks on Ukraine’s power grid, in a hack-and-leak effort directed at the party of French President Emmanuel Macron in the days leading up to the 2017 election, and to impede an investigation into the suspected poisoning of a former spy and his daughter. The indictment does not charge the defendants in connection with interference in American elections, though the officers are part of the same military intelligence unit that prosecutors say interfered in the 2016 U.S. presidential election by hacking Democratic email accounts. The 50-page indictment was filed in federal court in Pittsburgh. Those include cyberattacks that targeted the 2018 Winter Olympics in South Korea. "No country has weaponized its cyber capabilities as maliciously and irresponsibly as Russia,” said Assistant Attorney General John Demers.
20 October 2020||Lagos,||‘15 dead since start of Nigeria protests’||At least 15 people have been killed, including two policemen, since protests against police brutality erupted in Nigeria this month, according to Amnesty International on Monday. Anger over abuses by Nigeria police’s notorious Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) forced the government to scrap the unit, but protests have continued and snowballed into calls for sweeping changes in the West African powerhouse. One person died in the northern city of Kano on Monday while four others died in Benin City, Abuja and Osogbo over the weekend, Amnesty spokesman Isa Sanusi told AFP. Amnesty had reported a death toll of 10 last Thursday.
20 October 2020||Kabul,||Kabul, Oct 19, 2020 (AFP) -||The U.S. special representative Zalmay Khalilzad slammed Afghanistan's “distressingly high” levels of bloodshed on Monday, a day after a car bombing at a police headquarters killed at least 16 people.AFP
20 October 2020||Paris,||Police raid Islamist groups over teacher’s beheading||French police on Monday swooped on radical Islamist groups three days after the beheading of a teacher, who had shown his pupils satirical cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed. The raids came a day after tens of thousands of people took part in rallies countrywide to honour teacher Samuel Paty and defend freedom of expression, including the right to show cartoons regarded by many Muslims as insulting. Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said the swoop on Islamist networks was designed to send a message that “enemies of the Republic” would not enjoy “a minute’s respite”. Sources close to the operation said that individuals targeted in the operation were known to the police for radical preachings or hate speech. Mr. Darmanin said the government would also tighten the noose on NGOs with links to Islamist networks, including the high-profile Anti-Islamophobia Collective. “Fear is about to change sides,” President Emmanuel Macron told a meeting of key Ministers on Sunday to discuss a response to the attack. “Islamists should not be allowed sleep soundly in our country,” he said. The attack has drawn parallels with the 2015 massacre at Charlie Hebdo magazine, where 12 people were killed for publishing images of the Prophet.
20 October 2020||Hanoi,||Hanoi, Oct 19, 2020 (AFP) -||Japan and Vietnam agreed to step up security and defence cooperation on Monday, reaching an agreement in principle for Tokyo to export defence equipment and technology to Hanoi. The deal comes amid China's increasing assertiveness in the South China Sea.AFP
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Love in the time of polarisation||A new front has opened in the culture wars occurring in India. After silencing academics and print journalists, conquering TV news channels, maligning the Mumbai film industry, the trolls have made advertising the new battlefield. The release of the Tata-owned Tanishq advertisement was followed by a manic backlash with complaints about hurt Hindu sentiment, threats of violence, and its abrupt withdrawal. These threats were not empty; showrooms in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh were visited by goons demanding a written apology. Message and the attack What is the advertisement trying to communicate and what is hurtful about it? An affluent Muslim family is seen organising a baby shower for their Hindu daughter-in-law. Marriage brings unanticipated tensions for the families of the couple, and a particularly profound disturbance in the life of the woman who often moves into the home of her husband. Without an entire network of support led by the husband and the mother-in-law, this transition is painful. In the advertisement, the Muslim mother-in-law arranges a Hindu ritual, affectionately puts her arm around her surprised daughter-in-law and says that the custom of loving a daughter far outweighs the demands of religious tradition. Playing upon vile communal instincts, the trolls attacked it for its ‘secular’ message. One extremist reason they offer is “love jihad”, allegedly a design to marry Hindu women with the sole objective of multiplying Muslim numbers and change India’s demography. This is why these marriages, they say, are not a personal or family matter but concern the community, and offend its morality. This intolerance of Hindu-Muslim marriage is entirely politically constructed. Instances abound of such marriages being turned into hell, at least in the initial years, by politically encouraged intolerance. The trolling must be seen in the context of a long-standing practice of politically triggered harassment of inter-religious couples. A less hysterical reason is embedded in the assumption that the compatibility of two individuals due to their class, education and temperament is trumped by the natural incompatibility between a Hindu and a Muslim. This explains the social wrath against inter-faith marriages, particularly between Hindu women and Muslim men. There is something in this argument: if conversion and a change of the bride’s name is made a condition of inter-religious marriages, then an objection against it is understandable. But this is not always true. In any case, this advertisement emphasises that the young woman remains a Hindu. This should take the wind out of the sails of the objector. If it does not, it is because of a third reason: the impregnable belief that inter-religious marriages go against incontestable social norms. Thus, for one ‘realist analyst’, the advertisement proves the disconnect of secular elites from Indian social norms. How unrealistic to expect that Indians will tolerate inter-religious marriage, when social norms do not permit even inter-caste marriages within Hindus, Muslims or Christians? Moreover, inter-faith marriages are never arranged. The advertisement then appears to celebrate not only communal harmony but ‘love marriage’, individual choice, and the new egalitarian family that respects the distinctive identity and wishes of women. This provides an additional ground for conservative anger. Covertly, the trolls prey upon social anxieties surrounding the young falling in love, rebelling against the rigid traditions of community, and giving women equal respect. The backlash against inter-faith marriages comes from communalism’s juxtaposition with this asphyxiating conservatism. At odds with reality This deeply conservative general portrayal of Indians is a simplistic myth, at odds with the ever-changing, equally Indian social reality. Large towns and cities generate conditions for a partial collapse of the old community-dominated order. Public transport, the work-place, restaurants, malls, educational institutions — all facilitate and encourage inter-caste and inter-religious intermingling. This real and virtual proximity generates conflict as well as opportunity for friendship that can transform into love and even marriage no matter how much it enrages the socially orthodox and intolerant. No society has ever managed to completely control the emotional life of individuals. ‘Love marriages’ have a long ancestry. Even the Dharamshastras acknowledge and endorse love marriage at least for the Kshatriyas — the Gandharva Vivaha. The epics speak of Kshatriya women choosing their husbands too. Indian films build upon such long standing socio-mythical archetypes and frequently support individual choice and love as the only basis for marriage. Given this counter-current against caste and community-based arranged marriages, is it surprising that the young dream of falling in love and marrying the person of their choice? Not a general trait Moreover, the older generation is not as stubborn as is assumed. At least in metropolitan cities, the initial period of social boycott and disapproval gives way to acceptance, forgiveness, accommodation and reconciliation, particularly after couples have children. Many understand that beyond a point they cannot impose their own will on consenting adults. To ignore this fact portrays Indians as unalterable, heartless bigots for whom traditional custom has insuperable priority over love, which is an inaccurate depiction. A fanatical commitment to religious dogma may be common among habitual haters of other communities but this a hardly a general trait of all Indians. In short, social intolerance of inter-religious marriages exists but is exaggerated by the trolls. What then is the springboard of this intolerance and hostility? This is driven by the ambition of new power elites out to displace older ones. A minority within the majority community is forcing itself on everyone by claiming to be the voice of the people. It uses the rhetoric of ‘the people’, because in democracy, anyone who claims the backing of the larger number gains social and political power. If mass opinion matters, large political benefits can be had from passing off a sectarian view as mass opinion. If a choice is to be made between curbing the voice of corporates or of “the people”, as one television commentator put it, one must curb corporate voice. In reality, this wrath and hate is manufactured by a predominantly, male-dominated discourse of new elites with a surfeit of power and money. Love jihad is part of this discourse. There are two stories In this polarised climate, it takes courage by a commercial enterprise to convey a message of understanding, acceptance, love and communal harmony. Instead of supporting it, most electronic and social media have openly chastised this effort. The Indian state has stood by passively; at best as a silent witness and at worse as irresponsibly backing the disruptors Much is at stake in India today. Not just communal harmony but also individual freedom, gender equality, and freedom of speech, besides economic freedom and equality. Capitalist markets have many drawbacks but they allow buying and selling irrespective of a person’s religion, ideology, race, colour and sexual preferences. The withdrawal of the advertisement undermines principles of freedom and equality associated with a safe business environment. It is not true that all Indians are resistant to social change or that Hindus are inveterate Muslim-haters. Ground reports on ordinary people tell two stories, not one as the trolls and their followers would have us believe. Rajeev Bhargava is Honorary Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish’s claims and Bihar’s reality||As Bihar goes to the polls, it is important to scrutinise Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s repeated claims about delivering ‘ sushasan’ (good governance) and ‘ taraqqi ’ (prosperity). Does the reality justify these claims? Or are these boasts similar to the ‘Gujarat Model’, merely effective as propaganda? Poor on many indicators Bihar’s economy has performed poorly under the Janata Dal (United)-Bharatiya Janata Party coalition government. Its gross state domestic product (GSDP) is well below the average of other States. Between 2011-12 and 2018-19, its compound annual growth rate (CAGR) was 6.16%, while the average of all States and Union Territories was 7.73%. Given its low economic base, Bihar should have clocked immense growth if it was governed half as well as the propaganda would have you believe. A couple of good years of economic growth have been overhyped to hide the overall poor performance. The CAGR of Bihar’s per capita income (PCI) was 4% in the 2011-12 and 2018-19 period, while the average of all States and Union Territories was 5.61%. In fact, Bihar’s PCI is the lowest in the country. While in 2011-12, Bihar’s PCI was 26.11% of the overall average, it fell to 23.48% in 2018-19. In 2004-05, before Mr. Kumar took over, Bihar’s PCI was 26.48% of the overall average. An analysis of the suppressed National Sample Survey’s consumption expenditure survey revealed that between 2011-12 and 2017-18, poverty in Bihar increased by 17 percentage points to 50.47%. Does making Biharis poorer count as taraqqi ? Bihar’s debt burden has grown considerably: 375% since 2005 levels. Outstanding liabilities as a percentage of GSDP have been increasing since 2014-15. The Comptroller and Auditor General’s audit of Bihar’s finances noted, “Since 80 to 85 per cent of the borrowed funds were utilised for repayment of borrowings and interest thereon which implies that the State was spending less on developmental activities.” Jobs continue to be scarce. The National Sample Survey’s periodic labour force survey (2017-18) revealed that 87% of workers in Bihar do not have a regular/salaried job. In this respect, Bihar is the worst performing State in the country. The unemployment rate has remained in double digits since February 2019, peaking at 46.6% in May this year. Suicides due to unemployment have increased by 438% since 2015. Bihar was a pioneer in abolishing Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). Agriculture remains one of the largest employment-generating sectors but Bihar has the lowest average monthly income per agricultural household (Rs. 3,558) in the country.  The national average is Rs. 6,426. More than 86% of Bihar’s marginal agricultural households are in debt compared to the national average of 63.6%. The agricultural growth rate fell to 0.6% in 2018-19 and crops recorded a negative growth rate of 3.9%. A study by the National Council of Applied Economic Research post the APMC reforms concluded that net income had been declining. Mr. Kumar’s government has simply abandoned Bihar’s farmers, who receive a price much lower than the MSP due to inefficiencies by procurement agencies. More than 80% of procurement centres have shut down since 2015. This Rabi season, less than 1% of Bihar’s wheat was procured. This is neither sushasan nor taraqqi . The crown jewel of the good governance propaganda has been the claim of improved law and order. The reality is vastly different. Between 2010 and 2019, crimes in Bihar nearly doubled. Bihar ranks second in the country in violent crimes. Crimes against women and children increased at 26% and 73%, respectively, between 2017 and 2019. Every day, more than 12 minors are kidnapped for forced child marriages, the highest incidence of such crimes in the country. A government that doesn’t act Given these crime statistics, one would expect any responsible government to act. Unfortunately, not the Nitish Kumar government. Until June 2019, Bihar had not spent a single rupee out of the different programmes under the Nirbhaya Fund. Only after much criticism were some of the sanctioned funds actually utilised, but 59% of the funds still remain unspent. Further, the alleged ‘kidnapping raj’ seems to be thriving under the National Democratic Alliance: kidnappings have increased by 391% between 2005 and 2019. Last, migrant labourers who returned home to Bihar after the sudden announcement of a lockdown by Prime Minister Narendra Modi have been disillusioned by the Bihar government’s empty assurances of employment and livelihood opportunities. The government’s tall claims of issuing more job cards are moot when existing card-holders cannot find work. Bihar has more than 2.5 crore workers registered under MGNREGA (the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act). However, only 4,788 households have completed 100 days of MGNREGA work guaranteed under the Act. The Central government’s apathy combined with the Bihar government’s neglect are proving disastrous for the people. Bihar’s citizens regularly face the brunt of floods and havoc inflicted by nature. More than natural calamities and pandemics, it is Bihar’s elected leadership’s inability to deliver sushasan that ensures that taraqqi remains a distant dream. M.V. Rajeev Gowda is a former member of Parliament and chairman of the All India Congress Committee’s research department. Akash Satyawali is outreach coordinatorwith the department
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The sorry plight of the Andhra Pradesh higher judiciary||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has seen many a legal gem and it is unfortunate that today, one of the three organs of the state, the executive, appears to have lost faith in the judiciary and the very same High Court. Who can forget Justice Koka Subba Rao who was the first Chief Justice and later went on to become the ninth Chief Justice of India in 1966? Or that Justice O. Chinnappa Reddy was the beacon for other High Courts? The two sides Against such a backdrop, the letter by the Chief Minister of the State of Andhra Pradesh to the Chief Justice of India, with allegations against a sitting Judge of the Supreme Court of India is cause for concern. While some could argue that the executive could have a grudge against the judiciary and that the grievance aired by the Chief Minister of the State could be a reflection of this, at the same time, one cannot gloss over whatever the High Court has done. The Chief Minister’s allegation is that the High Court is being controlled by loyalists of his predecessor in office and political rival, passing orders against his regime and its actions. From the High Court’s point of view, the State police is reluctant to take action against those carrying on an online campaign against the court. The orders passed by the High Court of Andhra Pradesh are disturbing. For example, the order gagging the press and directing the media (print, electronic, and social media) to take down whatever has already been published is quite strange since this protects not only the petitioner, the former Advocate General, but also the others named or not named in the First Information Report (FIR). Those named in the FIR, other than the former Advocate General, are not even aggrieved as they did not approach the court for similar relief. But the gag-and-take-down order protects them too, without their being parties to the proceedings. This makes the writ petition a proxy litigation, filed not only on behalf of the petitioner, but also on behalf of all others. Considering the high profile of two persons named in the FIR who were not before the court, the stay of investigation, the stay of arrest of all those named and not named in the FIR, and the direction issued to the media not to publish and to take down whatever has already been published is shocking and the government is justified in making a grievance out of it. One that is self-inflicted But the damage caused by the High Court to its own reputation by something done on the administrative side is even more shocking. In a writ petition filed by the BC, SC, ST and Minority Student Federation seeking certain reliefs in the wake of the unfortunate death of the then Registrar General of the High Court, the court filed a counter affidavit. Paragraph 13 of the counter affidavit contained allegations as though the writ petition was engineered, at the behest of the State Government, by a former Acting Chief Justice of the combined High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad, who now holds office as Chairman of the Fee Fixation Committee for professional colleges. Had it been filed by any other party, paragraph 13 would have provoked the High Court to come down heavily on such a party. It reads as follows: ‘13. As per the preliminary objections, it is clear that this petition is filed by a political person to political gain and to malign the High Court. In this sequel it is relevant that former Justice V. Eshwaraiah, who was appointed as chairman of the A.P. Higher Education Regulatory Committee and chairman of the BC Association, has also submitted a complaint with the same allegations to the President of India referred herein above against the Chief Justice. His appointment on the said post was made by the State Government as per the recommendation (September 4, 2019) issuing notification in the second week of September 2019. The said recommendation was after the recommendation to appoint a regular Chief Justice of High Court of Andhra Pradesh on August 22, 2019 by the collegium of the Supreme Court. Thus, his appointment is under persuasion of the State Government to favour him. On having achieved his desire of appointment after post retirement, he wants to support the State Government under the cover of BC Association maligning the High Court... In fact, the State government is not happily accepting the verdicts of the High Court given in various cases against them. ... however, unscrupulous comments degrading the image of the institution are floated in social media by various persons, including the sitting Member of Parliament, the Speaker of the Assembly on which suo motu contempt proceedings have been initiated. Therefore, in view of the preliminary objections and the above facts, filing of this petition is mala fide and to achieve the oblique intention.’ That the High Court, in a counter affidavit to a writ petition, can: attack the State Government as being hostile; attack a former Acting Chief Justice as the person behind a litigation, and attack the senior-most serving judge of the very same High Court for obliging the State Government and recommending the name of the former Acting Chief Justice for appointment as the Fee Fixation Committee, is unthinkable. The statement now made by the Chief Minister that the High Court is being used and manipulated to trample on the democratically elected government has to be seen in the context of the High Court’s own stand in a counter affidavit filed in a writ petition that the State Government is hostile to the court. The issue did not end at that. In the writ petition, an application was filed by a subordinate judicial officer, who is now under suspension pending disciplinary proceedings, seeking intervention. In his intervention application, the judicial officer has claimed that the former Acting Chief Justice of the combined High court of Judicature at Hyderabad, whose name was dragged in by the High Court in its counter affidavit, made a call to him offering help in the departmental enquiries pending against him. The intervention application was accompanied by the transcript of the telephonic conversation he purportedly had. According to this transcript, the former Acting Chief Justice confessed to him that he had engineered the writ petition filed by the BC, SC, ST and Minority Student Federation. ‘Hold an inquiry’ After the filing of this intervention application by the suspended judicial officer, the case took an interesting turn. The High Court filed an application for deletion of paragraph 13 of the original counter affidavit, in which the court had alleged that the writ petition was engineered by the former Acting Chief Justice at the behest of the State government. Thereafter, a Division Bench specially constituted for the purpose took note of the contents of the intervention application and passed an order on August 13, 2020 holding that the conversation whose transcript was produced as a document along with a pen drive, prima facie disclosed a conspiracy against the Chief Justice of the High Court and the senior most Judge of the Supreme Court. After so holding, the Andhra Pradesh High Court passed an order to the following effect: ‘In view of the law discussed above in various judgments referred supra , this court while exercising power of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, more particularly, while deciding a public interest litigation, procedural technicalities will not come in the way. Hence, we find that it is a fit case to order enquiry to find out the authenticity/genuineness of the conversation contained in the pen drive. Therefore, we request Justice R.V. Raveendran, retired Judge of the Supreme Court of India, to hold an inquiry to find out the authenticity/genuineness of the conversation, contained in the pen drive, with regard to the plot designed against the Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh and being designed against senior most sitting judges of the Supreme Court and undisclosed interest of third parties. Registry is directed to obtain the consent of Justice R.V. Raveendran, retired judge of Supreme Court and provide necessary assistance. The inquiry is limited to find out the authenticity/genuineness of the conversation and third party interest behind the plot.’ It is clear that all is not well with the higher judiciary in the State of Andhra Pradesh. The letter of the Chief Minister of the State cannot be seen in isolation and it cannot be brushed aside as interference with the independence of the judiciary. Krishna Prasanna Vaitla is a law student
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Dormant but waiting to strike||During the pandemic, we have fortunately been hearing little about terror organisations of the likes of the Taliban, al-Qaeda, Islamic State, Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM). This is partly explained by the fact that open terror attacks have been reducing, presumably because terror outfits lack resources and because of temporary loss of support from those normally hostile to the non-Islamic world and tolerant Muslims. Still a threat But there is no ground to conclude that terror outfits have become less vicious or are irrelevant. Given their past resilience, they continue to pose threats to modern society, especially to India and its neighbourhood. They are also not less alluring to misguided youth in India whose loyalties are extraterritorial. Their numbers may not be formidable, but they can cause a ripple effect that cannot be underestimated. Terrorist cells are probably engaged in the quiet process of garnering resources for future lethal assaults against India and other countries in the neighbourhood, which are considered anti-Islamic by them. Once the pandemic eases, we may see a resurgence of terror. The aggravation of poverty in developing nations due to COVID-19 could offer a fertile ground for recruitment and intensified religious indoctrination, which are dangerous to peace. We should keep a particularly close eye on the al-Qaeda and the Islamic State because there is evidence that their recruitment remains undiminished by the problems posed by the pandemic. Reports say that these outfits have been reorganising and rebuilding during the pandemic. Only these two outfits have an impressive global reach backed by global ambitions. They are present not only in West Asia but also in Africa. The other outfits — JeM, LeT, etc. — are confined to the Afghanistan-Pakistan area. Of great import in this context is the Doha Accord signed on February 29 this year between the Taliban and the U.S., which has brought about an improved relationship between the two. The U.S. is now less of an adversary to the Taliban because it has agreed to a near total withdrawal of its troops in return for the Taliban’s promise to preserve peace in Afghanistan. Ironically, the U.S. intervened in Afghanistan immediately after 9/11 only to capture Osama bin Laden and his associates. However, it ended up getting entangled with the Taliban. After hostilities for several years, the U.S. and the Taliban have displayed some sagacity and are in the process of brokering peace. Implications of Doha Accord for India Considered a great victory for the Taliban, and possibly to a smaller extent for Pakistan, the Doha Accord has some serious implications for India. The Taliban’s assurance to the U.S. that, as part of the agreement, it will keep the al-Qaeda under check seems an exercise in deception. The U.S. is not so naïve as to take the Taliban’s promise seriously. The Taliban and the al-Qaeda need each other in many areas. Both are friendly towards Pakistan and could pose a problem or two to India in the near future. This is worrying. This scenario highlights the fact that India will have no respite from the al-Qaeda and the Islamic State, the two most organised and motivated groups. Many recent raids by the National Investigation Agency point to an al-Qaeda network in India. In one such raid, nine activists belonging to Kerala and West Bengal were arrested for conspiring to attack various targets, including the National Capital Region. Also relevant is the training support received from Pakistan. Once the situation gets better, the al-Qaeda, in cahoots with other aggressive Islamic outfits in and around Pakistan, is bound to escalate the offensive against India. Pakistan will be unabashedly privy to such manoeuvres though it will continue to pretend otherwise. This is one factor that makes the al-Qaeda and other terror outfits still relevant to India’s security calculus. These outfits may not indulge in spectacular attacks like 9/11, but they will have the determination and prowess to carry out operations that will unnerve our population on the border. How can India protect itself against terrorism in the neighbourhood? There are some observers who are inclined to downplay the al-Qaeda because it has not repeated anything on the scale of 9/11. They also cite as a reason the ease with which the U.S. tracked down bin Laden in Pakistan and killed him. They also say the outfit’s leadership is ageing. In the past few years, it is true that the al-Qaeda has lost many of its leaders in encounters with U.S. agencies. Vulnerability is writ large on the al-Qaeda’s face. But operational skill and swiftness can quickly turn peace into disorder. The al-Qaeda has a robust cadre from which a strong and young leader could still emerge to lead it in order to intimidate the civilised world. R.K. Raghavan is a former CBI Director
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Many gains in fighting HIV||In this challenging moment when we are confronted with one of the biggest health emergencies in our history, the COVID-19 pandemic, we find our strength in the gains we are making despite this disruption. Steps forward The newly released 2019 HIV estimates by the National AIDS Control Organization (NACO)/Ministry of Health and Family Welfare with the technical support of UNAIDS tell us that there has been a 66.1% reduction in new HIV infections among children and a 65.3% reduction in AIDS-related deaths in India over a nine-year period. The number of pregnant women living with HIV has reduced from 31,000 in 2010 to 20,000 in 2019. Overall, antenatal coverage has expanded, and HIV testing has increased over time and within target range. Treatment coverage has also expanded. Under the leadership of NACO, a ‘Fast-Tracking of EMTCT (elimination of mother-to-child transmission) strategy-cum-action plan’ was outlined by June 2019, in the run-up towards December 2020: the deadline to achieve EMTCT. The plan entailed mobilisation and reinforcement of all national, State and partners’ collective efforts — in a strategic manner, with district-level focus, and considering latest evidence — so that the States/Union Territories and the country as a whole achieve the EMTCT goal. Additionally, in March 2020, we began efforts to minimise challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. From 2010 to 2019, India made important progress in reducing the HIV impact on children through prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV. This was done through education and communication programmes; increased access to HIV services with innovative delivery mechanisms for HIV testing (community-based testing, partner testing or index testing); counselling and care; and treatment and follow-ups. India made HIV testing for all pregnant women free and HIV treatment is offered the same way nationwide without cost to pregnant mothers living with HIV through the national ‘treat all’ policy. Cognisant of the challenge of diagnosing 20,000 pregnant women living with HIV in an estimated 30 million pregnancies annually in India, for two years UNICEF has worked with the World Health Organization and NACO to identify high burden districts (in terms of density of pregnant women living with HIV) as the last mile towards disease elimination. Since 2002, when the EMTCT of HIV programmes or prevention of parent-to-child transmission of HIV were launched in India, a series of policy, programmatic and implementation strategies were rolled out so that all pregnant women can access free HIV testing along with other services at antenatal clinics, and free treatment regimens for life to prevent HIV transmission from mothers to babies. This has been made possible in government health centres and grass-root level workers through village health and nutrition days and other grass-roots events under the National Health Mission. Indeed, the approach being promoted by UNICEF in focusing attention and resources in high burden districts is supported by the HIV strategic information division of NACO and UNAIDS to better understand the locations and populations most HIV affected, so that technical support and HIV services can be directed towards these areas. Still a long way to go However, there remains a need for increased treatment saturation coverage and for early HIV testing and treatment initiation to become the normal. While periodic monitoring of the data and reviews are the mainstay of the programme response, by 2019 it was very evident to all the stakeholders that while there are successes, we have a long way to go towards the final targets. Using data-driven and decision-making approaches, we are certain that AIDS will no longer be a public health threat for children in India by the end 2030, if not before. Bilali Camara is UNAIDS Country Director for India
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||A tool for thought||A committee of experts — well-regarded mathematicians and infectious disease experts — appointed by the Department of Science and Technology to use mathematical modelling and forecast the course of the pandemic has brought good tidings. By their estimate, India passed its COVID-19 peak in September and the decline in the overall caseload being observed for nearly a month now is to continue. Active cases, about 7.5 lakh now, are expected to drop below 50,000 by December, and by February, the pandemic is likely to extinguish itself with only ‘minimal’ (not zero) infections. While it is reasonable to assume that the seven-member committee has been scrupulous, the caveat is that this is still a forecast based on mathematical modelling. There are some strong assumptions. The decline will continue only if there are no major mutations during winter, protective antibodies are durable, and current restrictions are maintained. There would be no significant gains from a strict lockdown beyond the district level, and current containment measures would suffice, except if there are local outbreaks that threaten to overwhelm health-care facilities there. Their calculation also showed a peak by July latest, with anything from six to 15 times the existing infections had there been no lockdown or if it had been delayed to April. The purpose of pandemic modelling is to generate a probabilistic overview of the future and mathematical modelling has become a popular, creative exercise, with several models and forecasts being made available on pre-print servers and pending peer-review. The latest model is expected to be published in the Indian Journal of Medical Research this week, but it appears to be a quotidian exercise. The datasets it has relied on are publicly available and the modelling employs a category of models called SEIR that estimates, within a population, those Susceptible, Exposed, Infected and Recovered. It is extremely dependent on the quality of data that is used as an input and relies as much on simplifying assumptions that sacrifice complexity for comprehension but there is nothing to suggest, from what is known about the exercise, that it is more likely to be true than similar estimates from scores of models the world over that subscribe to a certain degree of rigour. Experts associated with the pandemic have reiterated many times that mathematical modelling ought not to be taken literally. The latest assessment too should then be used not to critique or justify past decisions but dwell more on the future. For instance, if the model suggests that the pandemic would extinguish by February with a dramatic dip by December, then should the accelerated clinical trials of potential vaccines be top priority? Mathematical models, to be useful, must induce policy or behavioural change to avoid their own worst-case scenarios and this latest assessment must be seen — no more, no less — as a tool to this end.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The NEET challenge||In a year when merely executing the norm becomes an achievement, the conduct of two rounds of NEET, attendance at the test and the publication of results, all in the face of resistance from certain States, can presumably count as achievements. The results were declared last week, and the top score was a perfect 720, scored not by one, but two students, who will have their choice of college in the undergraduate medical programme. The decision to conduct the exam, when there was uncertainty about the ability of students to reach the centres, was probably bold, though it had not factored in the lowest common denominator. But then, the NEET is not about catering to the lowest common denominator, it is avowedly about standardising medical education, ensuring the quality of medical graduates who will hopefully go on to serve society. Working with the ideal of raising the quality is clearly a laborious, time-consuming process, and is bound to be uneven at the start, even if all States have begun to level the playing field. Different States have been allowed to offer their own education systems — different streams with varying standards and pedagogies — and NEET brings in an overarching single syllabus not all have access to. Therein begin the inequities. Students in certain circumstances, (poor, living in remote areas and disadvantaged, for instance), and in certain boards of education (State board, for instance) will remain at a disadvantage, as a result of this. Even as scores show an overall improvement over the years, States must not rest in their endeavour to ease the access to, and enhance students’ ability to clear the test successfully, even without the need to spend much on coaching classes. Certain measures, including Tamil Nadu’s move to reserve 7.5% of MBBS seats for State government school students who clear NEET, running State-sponsored, free or heavily subsidised coaching programmes, and a reassessment of the regional State syllabus, will all enable a more equitable scenario. If coaching can help bridge the yawning gap, then the State could mandate that private coaching centres do not charge exorbitantly for conducting year-long coaching programmes and even provide reasonable subsidies for certain groups of students. Meanwhile, the overemphasis by parents on medicine as the only career option for their wards, and wanton politicisation of NEET will merely serve to exacerbate the acute deficiencies of the process. Pandemic-related challenges notwithstanding, for true positive impact, any welfare state must build systems around the core ideas of equity of access and affordability — especially in education and health care.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The late Mr. Tilak||Mr. Jinnah in paying tribute to Mr. Tilak said it would be no exaggeration to say that the present political consciousness of the people of India was due in a large measure to Mr. Tilak. Mr. Tilak was the ideal of millions in India and his loss at the present juncture when they were passing through a most critical time was a great misfortune of India. Mr. Tilak was no dreamer but a very practical and sagacious politician and knew how far to lead his people. Mr. V.J. Patel next moved the main resolution:- That this public meeting places on record its deep sense of deep and profound sorrow at the death of Lokamanya Balgangadhar Tilak. The stainless purity of his life, his services and sufferings in the cause of his country, his deep devotion to the welfare of the people, his arduous endeavours in the fight for national autonomy... these will enshrine his memory in the grateful recollections of our people and will be a source of strength and inspiration to countless generations of our countrymen.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Over 300 arrested in Quebec||A Government offer to give Quebec kidnappers of the British diplomat, Mr. James Cross safe passage to Cuba stood to-day [October 19], despite the murder on Saturday of a second kidnap victim, Pierre Laporte. A letter from Mr. Cross yesterday said that he was still alive and asked the authorities to arrange for his release by meeting the main ransom demand of the Quebec Liberation Front (F.L.Q.). — passage to Cuba or Algeria for 23 “political prisoners.” By early to-day, 319 persons were being detained in the investigation, 183 in Montreal, the others in Quebec City, Sherbrooke, Hull and five other Quebec centres. The Quebec police last night named two men wanted for the kidnappings. A spokesman said warrants had been issued for the arrest of Marc Carbonneau (37), a taxi driver, and Paul Rose, a 27-year-old school teacher. Mr. Cross, senior British Trade Commissioner, was kidnapped from his home by members of the extremist F. L.Q two weeks ago. Mr. Laporte, who was seized six days later, was found shot dead early yesterday. Meanwhile, Mr. Laporte lay in state to-day in a courthouse ringed by armed troops and police. The Minister will be buried here [Montreal] to-morrow and three days mourning has been declared in Quebec province.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||China GDP growth accelerates to 4.9%||China’s economic growth continued to gain momentum in the third quarter, with the GDP expanding 4.9% from a year earlier in the July-September period, according to official Chinese data released on Monday. The pace of expansion was faster than the preceding quarter’s 3.2% and underlined the rebound in the world’s second-largest economy at a time when other major economies are struggling to recover from contractions triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdowns to combat it. Growth was, however, slower than the 5.2% pace forecast by analysts in a Reuters poll. The IMF has forecast China’s economy will expand by 1.9% in 2020, making it the only major economy to register growth in a pandemic-hit year. The economic rebound follows China’s broad return to normalcy this summer, following sweeping COVID-19 curbs including stringent lockdowns, extensive contact tracing, and restrictions on international travel through the first half of the year, which allowed the authorities to almost entirely stop transmission of the virus within China, with the exception of a few clusters that were contained locally. Travel rebounds The country’s week-long October national holiday saw 630 million domestic trips and a surge in local tourism that generated $70 billion in revenue, with travel reported at 80% of last year’s numbers, according to Chinese financial magazine Caixin. The recovery was driven by a 5.8% growth in industrial production and a revival of exports. A surge in investments in infrastructure projects, enabled by measures to boost liquidity, had been sanctioned by the government, which had to grapple with millions of job losses at the start of the year as a result of the pandemic’s first outbreak in Wuhan in December. Consumption lags Consumption, however, is yet to regain its normal vigour with retail sales in the January-September period still down 7.2% from a year earlier, even though growth rebounded in September to 3.3%, from August’s 0.5% pace. “Whether you look at the most recent month, the quarter, or the year-to-date, it is obvious that the recovery in production vastly exceeds the recovery in consumption,” Michael Pettis, Finance Professor at Peking University in Beijing, said on Twitter, adding this would inflate an already ballooning debt burden. “While private-sector business investment, which is driven mostly by growth in consumption and exports, was down 1.5% year-to-date, total fixed asset investment was up 0.8% for the year,” Mr. Pettis said. “As a result, China’s debt-to-GDP ratio rose dramatically, from roughly 252 last September to roughly 275 last month,” he added.
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Assessing hit on economy, will share GDP estimate in time: FM||The government has just begun its own assessment of India’s growth prospects for this year that would be shared in due course of time, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday evening. The Minister also said that the government’s new policy for public sector enterprises, which will notify strategic sectors where at least one public unit needs to operate, is being finalised and will be put up for the Union Cabinet’s approval soon. “We have only now started doing some kind of an assessment,” the Minister said. “We waited for the commencement of the second half of the year, which has just started. We have got a lot of inputs that are fairly different from what we had got in July, as ideally it should be,” she said, adding that a statement would be made in public or in Parliament once the exercise is complete. She was responding to a query on whether India will come up with its own official estimates as part of a mid-year review, following estimates from the RBI and the International Monetary Fund that expect the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to contract by 9.5% and 10.4% in 2020-21, respectively. She was speaking at the unveiling of the Fifteenth Finance Commission chairperson N.K. Singh’s autobiography Portraits of Power in the capital.
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Brookfield to buy 18% of RMZ’s assets for $2 billion||In one of the biggest deals in the real estate sector in the country, Bengaluru-based realty firm RMZ has agreed to sell about 18% of its commercial assets portfolio to global investment firm Brookfield for $2 billion. “RMZ has decided to divest a part of our core portfolio across Bengaluru and Chennai to raise $2 billion of fresh capital,” RMZ chairman Manoj Menda said in a statement. “Upon divestment, RMZ is now among the only zero debt real estate companies globally,” he asserted. Mr. Menda added that with this deal, the company now had ample headroom to achieve its next phase of growth. RMZ aims to grow its real asset portfolio to 85 million sq. ft. over the next six years. RMZ, whose debt is estimated at Rs. 12,500 crore, has sold 12.5 million sq. ft. of its total real estate assets of about 67 million sq. ft. The deal also includes divestment of the group’s co-working business CoWrks. The commercial real estate asset portfolio of RMZ is valued at about $10 billion.
20 October 2020||CHENNAI,||NCLAT junks Kymal’s plea against Siemens Gamesa||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), New Delhi, has dismissed an appeal filed by Ramesh Kymal, former chairman and managing director of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Power Pvt. Ltd. Earlier, the Chennai Bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had rejected an insolvency petition filed by him against the company over alleged non-payment of settlement dues. Mr. Kymal, who quit on April 30, 2020, had alleged in his petition that the company had not paid him dues of Rs. 104.11 crore. The NCLT had rejected the plea citing the insertion of Section 10-A in the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) through an ordinance that provided relief from insolvency proceedings on defaults that happened on or after March 25, 2020. The NCLAT noted that the bar created was retrospective as the cut-off date had been fixed as March 25, 2020 and the newly inserted Section 10-A had come into effect on June 5, 2020. It would be absurd to hold that the embargo would extend to an application in respect of such default after March 25, 2020, but before June 5, 2020, i.e. the commencement of the IBC (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, as the bar operates in respect of default arising on or after March 25, 2020 and not before such date, the appellate tribunal noted.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||CPSEs told to meet 75% capex target by Dec.||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday exhorted large central public sector enterprises (CPSEs) to achieve 75% of their planned capital expenditure (capex) target for FY21 by December, to support economic growth impacted by the COVID-19 crisis. She held a virtual meeting with Secretaries of coal and petroleum & natural gas, along with the Chairmen and Managing Directors (CMDs) of 14 CPSEs belonging to these Ministries, an official statement said. This was the fourth in the ongoing series of meetings that the Finance Minister has been having with various stakeholders with an aim to accelerate economic growth amid the COVID-19 pandemic. While reviewing the performance of CPSEs, Ms. Sitharaman said capex by CPSEs was a critical driver of economic growth and needed to be scaled up for FY21 and FY22. In FY20, against the capex target of Rs. 1,11,672 crore for these 14 CPSEs, the achievement was Rs. 1,16,323 crore, that is, 104%, the statement said, adding that the capex target was pegged at Rs. 1,15,934 crore for these firms for the current fiscal.
20 October 2020||COIMBATORE,||‘India may produce 310 lakh tonnes of sugar’||The Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA) estimates sugar production during the current sugar season (October 2020 to September 2021) at 330.23 lakh tonnes. As per an ISMA statement, the estimate is based on total sugarcane expected to be crushed by sugar mills during the season. However, a significant quantity of sugarcane juice and B-molasses would be diverted for ethanol production. This will bring down sugar production by almost 20 lakh tonnes. “ISMA will get a better idea of this diversion once the tenders happen and bids are given by millers for ethanol supplies,” according to a statement. So,the actual sugar production is expected to be close to 310 lakh tonnes. The season is estimated to have opened with stock of 106.4 lakh tonne. Domestic sales during the 2019-2020 sugar season were 257 lakh tonnes and exports, 56.5 lakh tonnes. Since higher production is expected during this season, “India will need to continue to export about 60 lakh tonnes of the surplus sugar,” said ISMA.
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paytm to issue co-branded credit cards||Digital financial services platform Paytm on Monday said it would be partnering with various card issuers to introduce co-branded credit cards, with an aim to issue two million such cards in the next 12-18 months. In a statement, the company said it had designed digital experience on its app that would allow users to manage their overall spends and have full control over the card usage. “Our aim is to provide credit cards that benefit India’s aspiring youth and evolved professionals,” said Bhavesh Gupta, CEO, Paytm Lending. “The cards are designed to help them lead a healthier financial life,”he added.
20 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Vineet Nayyar to exit IL&FS Group’s board||The board of IL&FS Group has announced the resignation of Vineet Nayyar as the executive vice chairman of IL&FS Group. “The board, in its meeting held on Monday, accepted Mr. Nayyar’s resignation with effect from October 31, 2020, and granted him leave till then, on medical grounds,” IL&FS Group said in a statement. In the interim, C.S. Rajan, MD, IL&FS, has been asked to discharge Mr. Nayyar’s responsibilities and, in consultation with senior management, put in place a revised organisational structure. Mr. Nayyar was appointed on October 4, 2018 in the first meeting held by the new board immediately after its constitution by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
20 October 2020||Chennai,||Hatsun Agro announces 1:3 bonus issue||Dairy products maker Hatsun Agro Product Ltd. has approved the issue of bonus shares in the ratio of one new equity share for every three shares held by shareholders. The record date is December 3, 2020. The board also approved a plan to raise Rs. 900 crore via the Qualified Institutional Placement route. On Monday, Hatsun named current MD, R.G. Chandramogan, as chairman, following the relinquishment of the post by K.S. Thanarajan. Executive director C. Sathyan was named MD. The firm also reported a 161% rise in second-quarter standalone net profit to Rs. 66 crore. Total income rose 3.8% to Rs. 1,329 crore.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Wadhawan offers assets of Rs. 43,000 crore||The jailed promoter of crisis-hit mortgage lender DHFL, Kapil Wadhawan, has offered his personal and family properties, which he claims are worth Rs. 43,000 crore, for repayment of outstanding loans of lenders to the company. He wrote to the RBI-appointed administrator R. Subramaniakumar on October 17 saying his offer would ensure maximum value for the assets that have been put on the block to repay loans. Currently under judicial custody, Mr. Wadhawan has proposed to the transfer of the right, title and interest in projects that form part of the real estate portfolio of his family to enable complete resolution of DHFL.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Royals trounce Super Kings, rise above bottom-half logjam||Jos Buttler slammed an unbeaten 70 off just 48 balls (7x4, 2x6) to guide Rajasthan Royals to a comprehensive seven-wicket win over Chennai Super Kings at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Monday. Chasing a modest target of 126, RR was struggling at 28 for three before Buttler and Steve Smith (28 n.o., 34b, 2x4) took charge and sealed victory with 2.3 overs to spare. RR’s fourth win in 10 games keeps its hopes of a playoff spot alive. CSK’s seventh defeat means its chances are remote. Walking in at five, Buttler slowly but steadily took control of the chase and was able to find the boundary when needed while Smith was happy to play second fiddle in their unbeaten 98-run stand for the third wicket. The Englishman started with a reverse sweep off Ravindra Jadeja before he attacked the CSK medium-pacers with his powerful shots down the ground as he got his eye in. In the 12th over, Buttler hit Shardul Thakur for a four over point and followed it with a six over long-off to switch gears. Facing Buttler’s fury Piyush Chawla faced the fury of Buttler’s willow in the 15th over, going for three consecutive boundaries, the first of which brought up the batsman’s half-century. CSK relied more on its pacers than spinners, with Chawla being introduced only in the 13th over. In contrast, the RR bowling effort was led by its leg-spinners Shreyas Gopal and Rahul Tewatia, who stifled the CSK middle-order on a wicket that was on the slower side.  Electing to bat, CSK lost Faf du Plessis and Shane Watson cheaply. The team appeared to build some momentum when Sam Curran and Ambati Rayudu got 15 runs off Ben Stokes in the fifth over. However, Shreyas accounted for Curran with a googly, forcing the batsman to chip it to long-off, while Tewatia found Rayudu’s top-edge off an attempted sweep to have him caught by the keeper. Boundaries dry up CSK failed to score a boundary from the seventh to the 13th over. The spinners conceded only 32 runs in eight overs between them and bowled a whopping 23 dot balls. Dhoni (28) and Jadeja (35 n.o., 30b, 4x4) added 51 for the fifth-wicket from 46 balls, but struggled to get the boundaries and power the side to a fighting total.   RR still in it  RR’s fourth win in 10 games keeps its playoff hopes alive. CSK’s seventh defeat means its chances are remote
20 October 2020||Milan,||‘Maestro’ Pirlo faces mentor Lucescu in opener||Andrea Pirlo takes his first managerial steps in the Champions League at Dynamo Kiev on Tuesday, a game which pits the fledgling Juventus coach against his vastly experienced former mentor Mircea Lucescu. Lucescu, 75, with four decades of coaching experience, and 41-year-old Pirlo have both taken over their respective clubs this season. It was the former Romanian international who gave a 16-year-old Pirlo his first Serie A start in the Italian’s hometown club Brescia 25 years ago. Juventus is chasing a third Champions League title after 1985 and 1996, with seven runner-up finishing including in 2015 and 2017. Under construction But for Pirlo, his Juventus is “under construction, a young team who need to gain experience”. To complicate the task, Cristiano Ronaldo is quarantined because of coronavirus, and will miss the Kiev trip and possibly the game against Barcelona in Turin. Meanwhile, Barcelona coach Ronald Koeman believes his side is not among the favourites to win this season’s title. Speaking ahead of Tuesday’s visit of Hungarians Ferencvaros in their Champions league Group G opener, Koeman played down media talk that the Catalans could be European champion. “When you’re at Barcelona you always want to be there fighting for trophies, be it in LaLiga or Europe. We aren’t the favourites, but we can go far,” he told a news conference. The Ferencvaros game comes four days before the first Clasico of the season at home to Real Madrid but Koeman said his side is only focusing on the Champions League for now.  Koeman will be without goalkeeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen and Jordi Alba plus long-term injury absentee Samuel Umtiti. Paris St. Germain will concentrate on combating Manchester United’s counter-attacks in its opener, 18 months after a heart-breaking elimination by the English side in Europe’s premier club competition. Coach Thomas Tuchel warned that previous achievements would mean nothing on Tuesday at the Parc des Princes, where PSG’s all-time top scorer Edinson Cavani could debut for the visitor. PSG will not have it easy as it is without injured mid-fielders Marco Verratti and Argentine Leandro Paredes, with the Italian out of action for three weeks with a thigh problem. In addition, Argentina striker Mauro Icardi is absent with a knee problem, while the defensive pair of Thilo Kehrer and Juan Bernat is also on the sidelines. Chelsea manager Frank Lampard believes reigning European champion Bayern Munich is a benchmark for his young players as it targets improvements on all fronts ahead of its opener against Sevilla. Chelsea has added Champions League experience to the squad in the close season with the arrival of defender Thiago Silva and forwards Kai Havertz, Timo Werner and Hakim Ziyech. Sevilla visits Stamford Bridge for Chelsea’s first match in Group E. Fans for Leipzig Meanwhile, RB Leipzig will be allowed to welcome fans to the Red Bull Arena for its opener against Istanbul Basaksehir. Despite rising numbers of coronavirus cases across Germany, the local health authority in Leipzig has granted permission for up to 999 spectators to attend, down from the usual number of 8,500 fans allowed for home Bundesliga games.
20 October 2020||Dubai,||On-a-high Rahul’s Kings take on Shreyas’ mighty Capitals||Riding on the high of two back-to-back victories, Kings XI Punjab takes on table leader Delhi Capitals here on Tuesday. Having lost two close games at the start of the season, KXIP managed to get on the right side of the results in the last couple of games, although it was too close for comfort. Death bowling and Glenn Maxwell’s form in a shaky middle-order remain a concern for KXIP, which needs to win its remaining five games to make the play-offs. Chris Gayle’s return has reduced the burden on skipper K.L. Rahul.  Delhi is clearly the team to beat in the tournament. While Prithvi Shaw needs to be back among the runs after a couple of ducks, his opening partner Shikhar Dhawan has elevated his game to a different level. Axar Patel has shown his utility not just with the ball but also with the bat. With an enviable bowling line-up, Delhi has shown it can defend even below-par totals. Dubey to replace Mishra Meanwhile, Delhi Capitals on Monday named Karnataka leg-spinner Pravin Dubey as replacement for veteran spinner Amit Mishra, who was ruled out of the IPL due to a fractured finger.
20 October 2020||Leicester,||Barkley’s strike ensures Villa’s unbeaten run continues||Aston Villa claimed a fourth straight win to open the Premier League season as Ross Barkley scored in stoppage time to secure a 1-0 victory over Leicester. Having scored seven goals against Liverpool before the international break, Villa just needed one to maintain its 100% start and move a point behind first-place Everton with a game in hand. Barkley collected a pass from John McGinn, drove forward and sent in a shot from 25 yards that found the bottom corner in the first minute of added-on time at the King Power Stadium. Touch and go “It was touch and go whether he started today,” Villa manager Dean Smith said. “He had a knock to the knee but (it was) a great goal and a real battling performance by the whole team.” The England midfielder has scored in both of his games since joining on loan from Chelsea. It was a game of few clear-cut chances, with fourth-place Leicester lacking a cutting edge without injured striker Jamie Vardy. Its best opportunity fell to Timothy Castagne, whose shot from an acute angle was smothered by Villa goalkeeper Emiliano Martinez in the first half. Real Sociedad continued La Liga’s unpredictable start to the season by going top of the table on Sunday, after a 3-0 win away at Real Betis. Villarreal had temporarily claimed first place earlier in the day by beating Valencia 2-1 at la Ceramica but Real Sociedad’s impressive victory put it ahead on goal difference. Real Sociedad took advantage as Cristian Portu and Adnan Januzaj scored goals either side of Mikel Oyarzabal converting a penalty to consign Betis to a third defeat in four games under new coach Manuel Pellegrini. It drops to sixth. Portu put Sociedad ahead shortly before halftime and Betis thought it had levelled early in the second period through Antonio Sanabria but the goal was ruled out for a marginal offside following a video review. Sanabria was then denied a penalty following another VAR review after grappling with Sociedad’s Robin Le Normand in the area and having his shirt torn by the French defender. Betis’s disbelief deepened when Sociedad was awarded a penalty for a challenge by Marc Bartra on Alexander Isak and Oyarzabal converted from the spot. Januzaj put an extra shine on the win with a superb late strike into the roof of the net from a tight angle after latching on to a pass from Isak.   The results: Premier League: Leicester 0 lost to Aston Villa 1 (Barkley 90).   LaLiga: Alaves 0 lost to Elche 2 (Milla Pena 39, Morente 86); SD Huesca 2 (Mir 52, Ramirez 56) drew with Valladolid 2 (Gonzalez 35, Rubio 51-pen); Real Betis 0 lost to Real Sociedad 3 (Portu 44, Oyarzabal 73-pen, Januzaj 88).   Serie A: Udinese 3 (Samir 28, Iacopini 52-og, Pussetto 89) bt Parma 2 (Hernani 26, Karamoh 70); Roma 5 (Pedro 31, Dzeko 35, 77, Veretout 69-pen, Perez 89) bt Benevento 2 (Caprari 5, Lapadula 55).   Bundesliga: Schalke 1 (Paciencia 69) drew with Union Berlin 1 (Friedrich 56).
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Kings rule after incredible finish||If two Super Overs in a day weren’t enough to fill the IPL fans’ appetite, outstanding exhibitions of executing yorkers by Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami meant Mumbai Indians and Kings XI Punjab created a first — a second Super Over after the first one was tied with both teams scoring five runs each. And since the rules prescribed that batsmen dismissed in the first Super Over, along with the bowlers who bowled, were ineligible, it put MI in the drivers’ seat as Kieron Pollard and Hardik Pandya walked out to bat in the second. However, Chris Jordan, who had leaked 20 runs to Pollard and Nathan Coulter-Nile in the 20th over of regulation time resulting in MI’s total swelling to 176 for six, conceded just 11 runs. Jordan had Mayank Agarwal to thank for saving four runs with a stunning leap off the last ball of the over. Trent Boult, who bowled an exceptional last over in regulation time that resulted in a tie, was then taken to the cleaners by Chris Gayle and Mayank as the duo scored 15 runs off just four balls. The nail-biting win in Dubai on Sunday meant KXIP has kept its IPL campaign afloat.   Kings 87 for two  Kings were 87 for two in 10 overs, with Rahul (38) and Pooran (11) at the crease. Mayank (11) and Gayle (24) were dismissed
20 October 2020||BENGALURU,||TT set to return from lockdown||Karnataka Table Tennis Association (KTTA) has announced its first State-ranking tournament of the year from October 30 to November 1 at the Sree Kanteerva Stadium. This will be among the first official sports competitions to be held in the State since the COVID-19 lockdown. India players like V. Kushi and Yashaswini Ghorpade are expected to participate. “We want players to get back into competitive mode,” said KTTA secretary T.G. Upadhya. “It has been a long break and we need to keep the interest alive.” Under-15 not allowed Events will be held only for men, women, junior boys and girls. Cadet and sub-junior category events have been shelved because players in that age group haven’t trained much owing to the coronavirus situation. Those below 15 years will not be allowed to participate. All COVID-19 protocols will be followed strictly, confirmed Upadhya. “Only 15 to 20 players will be in the hall [at a time]. No parents or siblings are allowed. All officials will be below 60. We will have sanitisers and temperature checks.” “There is talk of the Nationals being held January or February 2021. So we want to hold at least three tournaments before that. Whoever represented Karnataka last time in the Nationals can play this tournament. But most of the players will be from Bengaluru. It’s unlikely that players from districts will come,” added Upadhya. Entries close on October 26th at 6 p.m. Contact: Chief Referee Manoharan: 94488 08663
20 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Amazing performance from Lockie: Cummins||Pat Cummins was happy for fellow Kolkata Knight Riders paceman Lockie Ferguson whose brilliant performance enabled the team defeat Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Super Over on Sunday. “It was a pretty easy decision to pick Lockie (for the Super Over) because he bowled absolutely beautifully during the main innings. He was unbelievable today. Great skills to take two wickets and then we were trying to get those three runs,” Cummins said in the post-match press conference. “Amazing performance from Lockie. So happy for him. You have to remember he has not played the last month here and also through the lockdown he has been working so hard for this chance. When we knew he was ready, he got out there. He is one of the best in the world.” The Aussie said Ferguson’s performance lifted the whole side. “A person who has been a fast bowler always loves seeing a bit of pace out there. Hope to see more of him,” he said.
20 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Missed Bhuvneshwar: Muralitharan||Sunrisers Hyderabad bowling coach Muttiah Muralitharan said his team felt the absence of Bhuvneshwar Kumar during the loss to Kolkata Knight Riders on Sunday. However, he didn’t want to find fault with the bowling attack. “They have been doing a good job, restricting teams to below 160,” he said. “It is in batting that we are lacking. We can click and still have a chance, for it is a matter of winning three or four games to qualify for the playoffs,” said Muralitharan at the post-match briefing. Williamson as opener The legendary spinner said Sunrisers preferred Kane Williamson as opener because of his injury and also the fact that he was finding it difficult to run twos and threes. “We wanted Kane to use the PowerPlay and put up a good total. He did his job,” Muralitharan said. “There was nothing wrong with the pitch. The pressure levels were different, chasing is always difficult,” he added. “Lockie Ferguson bowled well to pick up those wickets and we didn’t rebuild the innings after that,” he said. “I repeat, it is all about winning one game and getting back the momentum as this time one team with seven wins will make it and our net run-rate should come in handy,” said Muralitharan.
20 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Bhagat determined to win Paralympics gold||Para shuttler Pramod Bhagat is chasing a dream — win gold in the next edition of Paralympics. The double gold medallist (single and doubles in the SL3 category) at the 2019 Para World championships said the pandemic had not dampened his preparations to realise his ultimate goal. “When the pandemic broke, the whole scenario was uncertain and all the training facilities were closed. We had to do the basics at home but then slowly the Government made arrangements for us to train at home. So did Go Sports by providing me a gym,” the 32-year-old, World No. 1 told The Hindu . “I am sure the sport will come back stronger. With some major events already scheduled, it is a very good sign for us,” said Bhagat. Time to introspect “Though the pandemic has come at the wrong time, it has given giving me time to introspect and make necessary changes to come out stronger. “Fortunately, the training facilities are good and the Odisha Government has been very supportive,” added the Biju Patnaik for Excellence in Sports awardee. On the kind of support he is getting, Bhagat said there were no issues on this front with the Government of India helping through the TOPS scheme. “Go Sports and the State Government are continuously helping me with many aspects.” Bhagat said para athletes shouldn’t feel bad about what was not in their control. “Para sports are much better off in India since I started in 2009. I would like to say that one should never give up and keep trying till you succeed.”
20 October 2020||Odense,||Okuhara ends two-year drought with Denmark Open crown||Japan’s former world champion Nozomi Okuhara won her first title since November 2018 on Sunday with victory in the Denmark Open final. The 25-year-old defeated 2016 Olympic gold medallist and three-time world champion Carolina Marin 21-19, 21-17. “Compared to other opponents, Marin is faster and has a harder attack. I was focused on defence and footwork, and my feet moved very well today. Overall the match went well,” said Okuhara, whose last title came at Hong Kong in 2018. Marin admitted she had made too many errors. “I think the main reason was the mistakes I made. I made all the winners but also all the errors. The game was on me,” said the 27-year-old Spanish star. In the men’s final, Anders Antonsen defeated fellow Dane Rasmus Gemke 18-21, 21-19, 21-12. The Denmark Open was the first top-level international badminton tournament in seven months after the calendar was suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic.  Compared to others, Marin is faster and has a harder attack. I was focused on defence and footwork, and my feet moved very well
20 October 2020||Coimbatore,||Yokohama Tyres returns to INRC with Chetan leading the challenge||The FMSCI-Indian National Rally Championship (INRC), promoted by Champions Yacht Club, will see the return of Yokohama Tyres. And, leading the team’s challenge will be defending champion Chetan Shivram from Bengaluru. The presence of the Japanese Tyre major for the new season, set to commence later this year, will not only add weight to the show but also raise the level of the competition. Yokohama will be competing in the championship under the banner ‘Team Yokohama’. It has an impressive line-up consisting of Chetan, Denn Thimayya, Lokesh Gowda, Vaibhav Marate and Arjun Rao. Denn will compete in INRC 1 category driving the R2 Cedia, while Lokesh and Chetan, driving the Cedia and Polo respectively, will lead the team’s charge in INRC 2 class. Arjun (Polo) and Vaibhav (City-VTEC) will exhibit their skills in the INRC 3 and INRC 4 categories respectively. Pleased promoter Vamsi Merla, the INRC promoter, was pleased with the new development. “This is a great achievement on our part to be able to bring on such a reputed brand on board the INRC. It is wonderful to have them with us and, I really would like to thank them for showing their faith in the property. “Yokohama’s entry now will take the competition a notch higher and further add a renewed zing to this year’s championship,” he added. Giving insights Harshwardhan Honmode, director of Yokohama India said, “Globally Yokohama has been participating in various motorsport events including FIA championships like WTCR (World Touring Car Cup) and Super GT. “Motorsport not only gives us insights to develop better products but is also an extension of motoring lifestyle, which, we at Yokohama strive to provide motorists all over the world. “With the Government recognising the sport, promoters and organisers are putting their best foot forward to further promote it and, we do see a changing scenario of Indian motorsport. Global philosophy Taking the global philosophy of association with motorsport ahead, we decided to participate in the INRC 2020,” he added. INRC 2020 will see a shortened calendar with a total of five rounds of which two will be held in Itanagar in December, followed by three in Coimbatore, Hampi and Bengaluru.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The permanent wealth||Vallalar finds Lord Muruga delightful. His mind is filled with joy whenever he thinks of Muruga. He extols Him as the One who is always young. Vallalar sees Him as his wealth. Appar says that all you need to do is to contemplate on Lord Siva’s feet. The moment you do that, it seems as if honey has dropped by your side. In Peria Puranam, Sekkizhar speaks of Sundaramurthy Nayanar’s delight upon seeing Lord Siva’s divine dance. When a devotee’s mind is full of thoughts of his favourite deity, then wherever he looks, he sees his God, said M.A. Manickavelu in a discourse. Whatever he hears, it seems as if that deity’s name is being recited. Varagunapandian, king of Madurai, was a devotee of Lord Siva. Once, he asked his ministers to build a roof over a neem tree, because of the many lingas in it. The ministers were puzzled, for how could there be any lingas in a tree? Varagunapandian, however, insisted that there were indeed many lingas on the neem tree, and he pointed to the fruits in the neem tree as lingas. So engrossed was he in thinking about Lord Siva, that the fruits of the neem tree appeared as lingas to him. The same king once happened to pass a pond, and he called out to his ministers and told them to cast rice and ragi into the pond. Again, his order seemed bizarre to the ministers. Varagunapandian then explained that there were devotees of Lord Siva inside the pond chanting, “Hara, Hara.” Actually, the only inhabitants of the pond were frogs, and their croaking sounded like the chants of Siva bhaktas to the king. Every sight, every sound reminded him of Siva. Vallalar says Muruga is his wealth. This wealth is never destroyed. There is always the danger of losing any other wealth, but Lord Muruga is always there for His devotees.
20 October 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Sanchit in quarterfinals||Sanchit Gupta bounced back from a tough start to beat Avinash Kumar 20-44, 6-44, 50-3, 16-33, 67-5, 44-13, 40-1 and made the quarterfinals in the Suresh Sharma memorial Delhi State 6-Red snooker championship.  The results: Sanchit Gupta bt Avinash Kumar 20-44, 6-44, 50-3, 16-33, 67-5, 44-13, 40-1; Shoaib Khan bt Tarun Batra 40-29, 12-29, 16-24, 25-34, 29-26, 40-2, 42-23; Jaison Malhotra bt Tanmey Chakraverthy 39-3, 55-48, 38-13, 39-15 .
20 October 2020||Ernakulam:,||Sreejith wins Ernakulam leg||G.S. Sreejith (Thiruvananthapuram) won the Ernakulam leg of the qualifiers for the all-Kerala online Open chess tournament here on Monday. Sreejith was first with 8.5 points in nine rounds.  Final standings (Open): 1. G.S. Sreejith (Tvm, 8.5 points), 2. Chandar Raju (Ekm, 8), 3. M. Abijith (Ekm, 7.5), 4. C.R. Raveendran (Ekm, 7.5), 5. Ebin Benny (Tsr, 7.5), 6. Arpit S. Bijoy (Knr, 7.5), 7. U. Abhijith (Koz, 7), 8. John Veny Akkarakaran (Koz, 7), 9. Hari R. Chandran (Ekm, 7), 10. Jubin Jimmy (Klm, 7).   Qualifiers from Ernakulam: Chandar Raju, M. Abijith, C.R. Raveendran, Hari R. Chandran, M.B. Muralidharan, Bright Lee, M. Sunil Kumar, D. Ajith, V.P. Jolly, P.V. Gireesh and Vishnu Surendran.
20 October 2020||ABU DHABI,||It feels good but it’s just a number, says Dhoni||Chennai Super Kings’ match against Rajasthan Royals on Monday marked the 200th appearance of Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the IPL but, as is his wont, the skipper said he was oblivious to it and played down the milestone. “You spoke about it and that’s how I got to know,” CSK skipper Dhoni told presenter Danny Morrison at the toss. “It feels good but at the same time it’s just a number. I feel fortunate to play for such a long time without many injuries.” Captain since inception Dhoni has been the captain of three-time champion side since the IPL’s inception in 2008. When the franchise was suspended for two years, the veteran represented Rising Pune Supergiant. Earlier this month, he had overtaken Suresh Raina (194 games) to become the player with most appearances.
20 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Mohd. Sporting finishes unbeaten||Champion Mohammedan Sporting finished its I-League Qualifiers campaign unbeaten as it played out a goalless draw with FC Bengaluru United in the final round match at the Salt Lake Stadium on Monday. Sporting tallied 10 points from four matches and finished on top, while Kolkata city rival Bhawanipore FC, which beat ARA FC 2-0 in its final outing, took the second spot with nine points. Bengaluru United finished third with five points.  The results:   Mohammedan Sporting 0 drew with FC Bengaluru United 0; Bhawanipore FC 2 (Jiten Murmu 17, Supriya Pandit 21) bt ARA FC 0.
20 October 2020||London,||Mourinho questions Tottenham’s bottle||Jose Mourinho questioned Tottenham’s mental strength after a stunning late collapse saw West Ham come from 3-0 down in the final eight minutes to draw 3-3 on Sunday. No side in Premier League history has ever come from 3-0 down after the 81st minute. “This was a game we had in the pocket and we lost two points,” said Mourinho. “My guys were not strong enough to cope with it psycho«logically in the last few seconds.”  The results:   Premier League: Tottenham 3 (Son 1, Kane 8, 16) drew with West Ham 3 (Balbuena 82, Sanchez 85-og, Lanzini 90+4).   LaLiga: Athletic Bilbao 2 (Berenguer 68, Williams 79) bt Levante 0; Villarreal 2 (Alcacer 6-pen, Parejo 69) bt Valencia 1 (Guedes 37).
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 08:19 IST,||Sudoku - October 20, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Not so corny||Nineteen-year-old Madhumita Karan from South Delhi is fascinated with the idea of making art from waste. This is how her corn husk doll came to be. Madhumita then sent this particular doll to Chitra Mukherjee’s residence, where her mother is employed as the domestic help. “These corn husk dolls are amazing. I was impressed by the fact that it was created using waste material. These dolls are part of the culture and tradition in Western countries and are rather expensive,” says Chitra, who then posted the photos of these dolls on social media. Madhumita used to collect corn husk from roadside vendors in Delhi to make these dolls. But during the pandemic, she began to buy whole corn and use the husk to create dolls. Corn, is a summer crop, which is available only from July to September. She collects husk from wholesale markets, and stocks it for later. “After seeing photographs of my dolls on social media, more orders are pouring in,” says Madhumita, adding that, “This is the first time I am selling my work of art, and my first order for six dolls came from Chennai.” City-based architect, S Thirupurasundari, is the first to have placed an order for the dolls as they rekindled fond memories of her childhood. “Twenty-three years ago my grandfather had gifted me a corn husk doll from Italy. It is still in good condition. This shows that these dolls have a long life if preserved well. I was impressed by the detailing Madhumita has given to each of her dolls. Corn husk dolls will be the highlight at our golu this Navratri,” says Thirupurasundari. After doing extensive research online about corn husk dolls, Madhumita learnt about the different techniques used to make them. “I have made about 23 different types of dolls so far, and I am in the process of creating them in ethnic Indian outfits,” she says. Dolls by Madhumita, as she calls them, has detailing such as buttons, bow ties, laces, frills, bonnets, baskets, flowers, cap, scarves and hats. “It takes almost an hour and a half to make one doll, but the processing and preparation take an entire day,” says Madhumita. She carefully removes the husks, washes them in clean water, wipes with a clean cloth and lets them dry in the shade. Once the husk is pruned and damaged edges are trimmed, it is ready to use. The colour is made by mixing water, salt and and dye and boiling them for 20 minutes. The artist also uses natural leaves, twigs and flowers for embellishments. “Twigs, twine and maida paste are used to design and bind the doll. The toughest part is making the hat,” she says. Says Chitra, “So many queries began to pour in soon after I posted the images of these dolls. I am glad to see this young girl transform into a young entrepreneur.” “I am overwhelmed,” says Madhumita, discussing the response. “I wonder how I am going to keep up with the demand.”  Prices start at Rs. 250. For orders, email: madhumita.karan2000 @gmail.com
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||Hot on the trail of a brigand||Following Attahasa , filmmaker AMR Ramesh is back with another project based on the infamous forest brigand Veerappan. Titled Veerappan — Hunger for Killing , the story follows the attempts of the Special Task Force to nab the sandalwood smuggler. Ramesh notes that he is aiming for a pan-Indian release either as a film or a four-part web series with the project. Edited excerpts: Why make another film on Veerappan? What I failed to narrate in Attahasa is being fulfilled in this project. We have shot 12 hours of content, and simultaneously in Kannada, Tamil, Telugu and Hindi. This film is about the policeforce’s struggles to nab Veerappan; it talks of their sacrifices, hopes and struggles. Is it a work of fiction?  No. The characters are based on real people. The story is built on facts, which I wrote after 15 years of research. I always write my stories and screenplay based on reality. Suniel Shetty is a part of the film...  He plays Shankar Bidari, the IPS officer who, between 1993 and 1996, was instrumental in bringing the number of Veerappan’s gang down from 180 to eight. During Bidari’s term, Veerappan went underground. Suresh Oberoi plays Dr Rajkumar and Kishore plays Veerappan again (after Attahasa ) while Suchendra Prasad plays DFO Sreenivas, an honest man who went the extra mile to conserve the forest and was beheaded by Veerappan. We are trying to bring Vivek Oberoi on board too. Can you explain this fascination you have for Veerappan?  I will not call it a fascination. It is curiosity for the truth. It is also because I was closely associated with one of his kidnappings cases. When Veerappan kidnapped Dr Rajkumar, I was one of the first people to go into the forest. Nagappa, who was abducted with Dr Raj, is a close associate of mine. What about the storytelling bias?  This film has been put together from an investigative journalist’s point of view. We will not be taking sides nor will we pass judgement. What other projects are you working on?  I am also working on LTTE, which tells the story of Velupillai Prabhakaran. I worked on this script for almost 25 years but have stalled it for the moment. LTTE will be a 100-hour story, and will also cover the Rajiv Gandhi assassination.
20 October 2020||October 20 2020 00:00 IST,||The women of Mirzapur||Mirzapur is a testosterone-heavy show. Set in the eponymous city of Uttar Pradesh, the web series has crime, corruption, mafia, and more men. But the women, despite being outnumbered by men in this violent world, are neither inconsequential nor damsels in distress; they, too, are powerful agents. Their character arcs are as dramatic as that of their male counterparts. The trailer for the show’s second season promises interesting developments especially for Beena Tripathi (played by Rasika Dugal) and Gajgamini ‘Golu’ Gupta (Shweta Tripathi). Excerpts:  Firstly, how was your experience during lockdown?   Rasika : I was working continuously for the last one-and-a-half years . I welcomed this pause, though I wish the circumstance that led to it was different. A lot has happened in the news, starting with the migrant labour crisis, which was a big humanitarian one. I still can’t understand how something as careless as that could have happened in our country.  Shweta: After shooting for Mirzapur last September, I was at home waiting for the right kind of project. So, my lockdown, in a way, started early. That phase leading up the actual lockdown, was tough. I was not happy with the work I was getting. There were tears, mood-swings and all that. But during the lockdown, I had a lot of work. I had promotions for my new releases: Raat Akeli Hai , and The Gone Game , which was shot at home. That was exciting.  Was it challenging to get back into your characters after season one?   Rasika : It was challenging to revisit the character after listening to people talk about it. Once you have heard many opinions about it, your personal equation with that character gets corrupted. So, I felt like I had to forget all that before going into season two.  Shweta: I signed up for Mirzapur because of season two. In the first, there isn’t much drama in Golu’s life. And, I am someone who loves drama. Also, we did season one without much expectation. But the show became a big hit. And, the kind of love I received for Golu put some pressure on me. The character has completely flipped from season one. Her situations have changed.  Mirzapur has a sprawling cast. Do you closely follow the story arcs of all characters?  Rasika: I read the whole script. I have, however, watched the show only once in its entirety. It is a disconcerting experience to watch yourself on screen all the time.  Shweta: I don’t follow the character graphs of others. When you are reading the script for the first time, you want to know what happens. So, that is exciting. But in a long show, it is difficult to store all the information about everyone.  As actors, do web series liberate you in terms of your performances and the choice of roles?   Shweta: Good roles liberate us. It depends on the project. It could even be a radio show with just my voice. A web series allows more time to explore characters. I love sinking my teeth into fleshed-out characters. The characters you see in OTT platforms aren’t dry-cleaned. They are flawed yet you love them.    Rasika: A well-written story liberates me. It does not matter if it is for a film or OTT. Streaming platforms have written path-breaking content over the last few years. The long format also gives room for the entire ensemble to flourish.  Do you see OTT platforms as a totally different ballgame compared to cinema? Do you prioritise one over the other?   Shweta: I think the priority is always for good stories and roles. It depends on who you are working with. Web series, however, are a bigger commitment. In a way, it is a bigger risk too. If a film of yours is bad, you can move on to the next one. If the first season of a series is bad, however, you still have to do the next season. You have to stay with the character for a long time in a series.  Rasika: I actually enjoy shooting in the longer format. You get more time to sink into the character. With a film, I have to walk in very prepared. In case my preparation is not in sync with the director’s vision, then I have to realign quickly. In a series, I have more time to warm up to my character. Mirzapur: Season two streams on Amazon Prime Video from October 23.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Odd-even to be last weapon to fight pollution’||Environment Minister Gopal Rai on Monday said that the odd-even vehicle rationing policy will be used as a “last weapon” if everything else fails in the fight against air pollution in the city. The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram and Noida were in the ‘poor’ category on Monday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. “We have implemented the odd-even policy many times and it will be our last weapon. If everything else fails, then the government will think about implementing odd-even,” the Minister said during a press conference. Mr. Rai further said the government will launch an awareness programme from October 21 about the “red light on, gaadi off” campaign to reduce air pollution. “We will run the campaign from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. As many as 100 busy traffic intersections have been selected for the purpose. A total of 2,500 environment marshals will be deployed at these junctions,” he said, adding: People who are not turning off their vehicles at red lights will be given a rose and environment marshals will appeal to them to turn off their vehicles.” Delhi’s AQI was 244 (poor) on Monday. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 245 and 236, respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin on Monday, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The AQI of Delhi is expected to be in the ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday and is likely to worsen thereon, as per SAFAR. “A change in surface wind direction is forecast by Wednesday, which is likely to bring on calm surface wind conditions leading to low ventilation and deterioration of AQI. ‘Very poor’ AQI is predicted for Wednesday and Thursday,” it added.  Meanwhile, the Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority on Monday wrote to the Chief Secretaries of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to review emission standards of eight thermal power plants in the two States and inform them about it. Closure of power plants “We may have to direct closure of the plants, which do not meet 2015 standards as air quality deteriorates in the coming days,” the letter read. The closure of the plantshas been a major demand of the Delhi government. Three of the plants are in U.P. and five are in Haryana.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Over 2K fresh infections||As many as 2,154 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,33,171. The toll has reached 6,040 with 31 more deaths, said the Monday health bulletin. In a related development, the Delhi government has almost completed collecting 15,000 samples for the fourth serological survey to understand the spread of the virus, said officials. The result of the survey is expected later this month. Meanwhile, the Federation Of Resident Doctors’ Association India on Monday wrote to the Union Minister of Health and Family Welfare Harsh Vardhan asking the Centre to take over healthcare facilities run by the BJP-led North Delhi Municipal Corporation.
20 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. to cut cost of RT-PCR test||The Delhi government is planning to reduce the price of the RT-PCR test and is expected to come out with a new rate in a week’s time, said multiple officials. “Currently, the rate is capped at Rs. 2,400 in Delhi... it is only Rs. 1,200 in Haryana, Rs. 1,600 in U.P. and Rs. 1,500 in Karnataka. A committee is being formed to recommend new rates for Delhi,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The move comes after the Delhi High Court directed the government to increase RT-PCR testing. “The government has been planning to reduce the cost of the RT-PCR test for a while.,” a second official said, confirming the development. Both tests are done for free at government testing centres and hospitals. After public uproar, the Delhi government had on June 18 capped the rates of different COVID-related procedures, including RT-PCR tests — considered as ‘gold standard’ when it comes to COVID-19 testing.
