21 May 2020||KOLKATA/BHUBANESWAR,||Amphan batters West Bengal, Odisha||Three persons were killed as super cyclonic storm Amphan made landfall near Sagar Islands in South 24 Parganas district of West Bengal on Wednesday, while a baby died in Bhadrak district of Odisha and a woman drowned in Kendrapara. Thousands of kutcha houses in the coastal parts of West Bengal were damaged. Embankments were breached in the low-level areas because of the massive storm surge. Preliminary reports said one person each died in Minakha and Basirhat of North 24 Parganas district and a third in Howrah. According to the Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Kolkata, the landfall started at 2.30 p.m. and continued till 7 p.m. The landfall was reported near Sagar Island of the Sunderbans between Digha in Purba Medinipur and Hatia in Bangladesh. Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a senior official at the Alipore centre, said wind speeds of 150-160 km per hour were recorded in the coastal areas after the cyclone made a landfall. In Kolkata, wind speeds of 112 km per hour were recorded. Heavy rainfall was reported across all districts of south Bengal. The super cyclone was one of the fiercest the State has witnessed in recent years — more powerful than Bulbul (2019) and Aila (2009). “The trajectory of Amphan is conforming to what we have been forecasting,” M. Mohapatra, Director-General of the India Meteorological Department, said at a press briefing in New Delhi. Electricity supply was disrupted in certain coastal areas after electric poles were uprooted by strong winds. In other districts of south Bengal, there were reports of old houses collapsing and trees being uprooted. The storm surge in the coastal areas of South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas was predicted to be about four to five metres above the astronomical tide level, which would inundate low-level areas in the Sunderbans. The weather office has predicted that the cyclonic storm will remain over Gangetic West Bengal in different intensities till Thursday morning. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, along with senior officials, was monitoring the situation at the State Secretariat. Heavy damage: Mamata “Entire south Bengal is hit. South Bengal is finished. I would request [the Centre] to provide humanitarian relief and not to engage in any politics,” said Ms. Banerjee.  The West Bengal government has evacuated three lakh people, two lakh from South 24 Parganas alone. Restrictions have been imposed on the movement of people in Kolkata and adjoining areas, and ferry services have been suspended in the Hooghly. The Kolkata Airport has suspended the movement of cargo flights for Wednesday. Two lives were lost and power infrastructure was damaged as four coastal districts bore the brunt of the cyclone in Odisha. A three-month-old child died when a wall collapsed in Tihidi block of Bhadrak district. A woman drowned when she had gone for fishing in Kendrapara district. Thousands of trees were uprooted as gusty wind blew over coastal districts. Balasore, Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Bhadrak districts were severely affected.
21 May 2020||Madurai,||Keeladi excavation resumes after nearly two months||The sixth phase of archaeological excavation at Keeladi in Sivaganga district resumed on Wednesday, after nearly two months of COVID-19 lockdown. Tamil Nadu State Department of Archaeology (TNSDA) that has taken up the excavation in the Keeladi cluster, also comprising nearby villages of Konthagai, Agaram and Manalur, started the work on February 19. However, with just about one month of work having completed, the excavation was stopped on March 24 in view of the lockdown. “We resumed our work in Keeladi and Agaram on Wednesday,” said TNSDA Deputy Director R. Sivanandam. While over 60 persons were involved in the job before the lockdown, now only 40 persons have been deployed in the two villages. “As a precautionary measure, we have provided masks and hand sanitisers to all the workers,” he added. He said with the recent rain having soaked the soil in Konthagai, where the excavation was focused on the burial site, the work was likely to resume after the stagnant water receded. The lockdown was announced before excavation in Manalur could begin, Mr. Sivanandam said, adding that it would begin next week. The one month’s excavation has found the link to the brick-work structure that was unearthed during the previous excavations. The excavations so far have revealed that Keeladi had a 2,600-year-old civilization. This phase of excavation will go on till September.
21 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,||Maharashtra returnee tests positive in Krishnagiri||A Thoothukudi man, who hitch-hiked his way from Maharashtra and collapsed due to starvation near Kaveripattinam in Krishnagiri district, has tested positive for COVID 19. The 34-year-old was intercepted near the Kaveripattinam checkpost, in a fragile state, before he was directed to the Kaveripattinam Government Hospital by the police on Sunday. The man was given first aid at the Kaveripattinam Government Hospital, said a hospital source. A doctor had also collected the man’s swab in view of his travel from Maharashtra. He was later referred to the Government Headquarters Hospital, where he was admitted to the isolation ward on May 17. His swab results returned positive on Tuesday. The man had run away from his house in Sathankulam in Thoothukudi for Mumbai three months ago, over a domestic tussle, according to his travel account to the hospital authorities. Left without food or money during the lockdown, he was helped onto a southward-bound truck by a policeman in Mumbai. The man had hitch-hiked his way across the two States, before a truck dropped him off at Athibelle at the inter-State border between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. However, the cause of concern for the authorities was his travel trajectory from the border into Krishnagiri. The man has claimed to have taken rides from two-wheeler riders for some part of the way. When he could find no vehicles that would give him a ride, he walked on the highway till he took the bypass into Kaveripattinam, where he was found on the verge of collapsing. According to a medical department source, the man was asymptomatic and was frail from starvation. Otherwise, his condition was stable, said the source.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||AP complains against TS projects on Godavari||Perturbed by Telangana’s complaint against its plans to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water everyday from Srisailam reservoir, Andhra Pradesh has lodged complaints on several ongoing projects of the former not only in the Krishna Basin but in the Godavari Basin too where a huge surplus is available. Following its complaint lodged with the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against seven projects that include three completed ones too, whose head works were completed during the combined AP dispensation itself, the AP government has also lodged a complaint with Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) against Telangana’s six ongoing projects. Besides, AP has also complained to the the river boards against drawing of the two river waters for Telangana Drinking Water Supply Project – Mission Bhagiratha. Telangana projects In its complaint to the GRMB on May 14, AP has pointed out that Telangana has taken up Kaleshwaram, Godavari (Devadula) Phase-III, Thupakulagudem (P.V. Narasimha Rao Kanthanapally), three barrages across Lower Penganga, a tributary of Godavari – Rajapet (Bhimkund), Chanakha-Korata and Pimparad-Parsoda – and Ramappa lake to Pakala lake diversion without furnishing the projects reports to the river board and approval of the Apex Council. Further, AP has pointed out in its letter to the GRMB that “there is hardly any water left for projects to be taken up by the two States at 75% dependability after taking into account the utilisation for existing and ongoing projects in the two States. AP has also pointed out in its letter that construction of several lift schemes and barrages in violation of the AP Reorganisation Act and without any detailed studies would have negative impact on the availability of water in Goadavari. Besides, Telangana has also enhanced the utilisation capacity of Kaleshwaram from 225 tmc ft to 450 tmc ft and that of Sita Rama lift scheme from 70 tmc ft to 100 tmc ft, the AP’s complaint to GRMB stated. Responding to the AP’s complaint, Member of GRMB P.S. Kutiyal has asked Telangana to “furnish views on priority basis” on the issues raised by AP. When contacted, a senior irrigation engineer of Telangana said AP has been talking about shortage of water in Godavari when the Centre had proposed to divert the water to further South with Godavari-Cauvery linking. “Telangana is yet to avail its allocation of 950 tmc ft water in Godavari so far and there’s huge surplus available and as being stated by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao repeatedly it’s Godavari on which the two States could depend on for meeting emerging needs”, the engineer told The Hindu unwilling to be quoted. For the record, the engineer said, there was about 3,800 tmc ft of surplus that went into the sea from Gadavari so far this year and even in the scorching May about 6,000 cusecs of water was flowing into the sea from Dowlaiswaram barrage in AP.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||RTC all set to operate limited services||The APSRTC will start operating intra-State buses from Thursday (May 21) in a phased manner. At a press conference, APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Madireddy Pratap said the first bus would start at 7 a.m. The buses would be operated strictly in adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, he added. The APSRTC buses will come out of the depots after a gap of 58 days due to the lockdown announced in the wake of the outbreak of the pandemic. Mr. Pratap said, to begin with, only 70% (1,683) buses would be plied. He said there was no plan to increase the bus fare, and added that it would take some more time to resume the city services. People would also have to wait for inter-State bus services to resume, he said, informing that the number of seats in Super Luxury buses had been reduced to facilitate physical distancing. In the Palle Velugu and Express services, seats that were not supposed to be used had been marked in red colour. “Face mask is mandatory for people boarding the bus. Masks will be sold in the bus stands for Rs. 10 each. Adequate stocks of sanitisers will also be made available in the bus stands, and passengers should clean their hands before boarding the bus,” he said. Online sale of tickets He said tickets for ordinary, Express, Ultra Deluxe and Deluxe buses could be booked only through online mode, and no reservation charges for bookings on a day-to-day basis.
21 May 2020||UPPADA (EAST GODAVARI),||Fishermen hamlet reels under cyclone impact||At least 35 houses collapsed after seawater entered Sooradapeta, a habitation on the Uppada coast, near Kakinada city, in the district on Wednesday. However, no casualty was reported. The sea turned rough since Tuesday under the influence of Cyclone Amphan. The revenue and police authorities evacuated about 400 persons, all of them fisherfolk, till reports last came in. They were accommodated in four government schools in Uppada panchayat. According to a report prepared by the Fisheries Department, several houses were partially damaged and could collapse any moment. Fisheries Development Officer, Uppada, Ch. Umamaheswara Rao, told The Hindu that the damage was being enumerated. “People living next to the geo-tube, erected to prevent sea erosion in recent years, are being persuaded to shift to relief camps,” he added. “We are carrying out a detailed study to determine the number of families living on the shoreline of Uppada to provide them permanent housing facility far from the shore. Directives in this regard have been issued by Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Pithapuram MLA P. Dorababu, ” said Kakinada RDO G. Chinni Krishna.
21 May 2020||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM,||Haryana rolls back decision to resume inter-State bus service||Two days after it announced to resume inter-State bus service, the Haryana government on Wednesday rolled back its decision. State Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said the decision to not ply inter-State buses was taken after he apprised Chief Minister Manohar Lal about the practical difficulties amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Bus services within the State, however, will continue to run on selected routes, he said. Mr. Vij said he had also written to the Chief Minister on May 19, raising concerns over high possibility of spread of the virus if people started travelling freely from one State to another. “It would be difficult to test or quarantine so many people. Besides, the number of cases is high in some neighbouring States such as Delhi,” he said. In Gurugram, the district administration has allowed opening of all markets and also increased the operation timings and days for different categories of shops. However, the restrictions on cross-border movement between Gurugram and Delhi remain. Industries, including e-commerce activity, have been allowed to run with 100% staff, while the private offices can operate with half staff strength. The four-page order by Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri paved the way for opening of the posh Galleria Market, Sector 29 market and Sadar Bazar in Old Gurugram. Essential commodities shops can now remain open from 7.30 a.m. to 6.30 p.m. all through the week. The remaining shops have been divided into two categories, from the three earlier, and can remain open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Each shop can open three days a week. Responding to the opening of Sadar Bazar, Gurugram Vyapar Mandal president Bablu Gupta said that market in Old Gurugram mostly catered to the migrant workers and not much business was expected as majority of them had left for their hometowns.
21 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State to seek 10 NDRF teams before monsoon onset||Kerala has decided to ask the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to position 10 of its teams in the State ahead of the southwest monsoon onset in June. The decision to ask the NDRF to strengthen its presence here was finalised at a meeting convened by V. Venu, State Relief Commissioner, here on Wednesday. A formal request would be placed before the NDRF this week, an official said. ''We have two teams of the NDRF stationed in the State. Since the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has announced that the onset would be around June 5, we want the teams to be in position before that. The locations will be finalised shortly,” the official said. The IMD has predicted a normal monsoon for the country as a whole. Devastated by back-to-back floods in 2018 and 2019, Kerala is faced with a possible situation where it may have to simultaneously tackle COVID-19 and monsoon-related emergencies this year. By June 1, the State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC) under the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) — already operationalised for the COVID-19 pandemic — will switch its focus to handling monsoon-related exigencies. Representatives of various State and Central government agencies will be assigned to the SEOC for coordinated disaster mitigation from June 1. As part of its monsoon preparations, the government had allowed the SEOC to access weather inputs from private agencies in addition to the IMD. ‘State prepared’ The State is fully prepared for the 2020 monsoon season, the government said after a meeting convened by V. Venu, State Relief Commissioner, to assess the situation.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Domestic flights to resume on May 25||Domestic flights across the country will resume on May 25 after a two-month ban. The government will also cap airfares for different routes. “Domestic civil aviation operations will recommence in a calibrated manner from Monday 25th May 2020. All airports and air carriers are being informed to be ready for operations from May 25. SOPs for passenger movement are also being separately issued,” Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri wrote on Twitter. One-third capacity “Airports will operate at one-third of their capacity, and airlines will start a third of their flights,” a senior official of the Ministry of Civil Aviation said, speaking on condition of anonymity. “The government will also fix minimum and maximum airfares as a temporary measure,” the official added. Airlines will not be required to leave seats empty, but it is learnt that passengers may be required to wear face shields. The Ministry of Civil Aviation will meet officials of airlines on Thursday to finalise modalities. Domestic flights have been grounded since March 25 after the government banned air travel to check the spread of COVID-19. A decision on international flights is likely to take time.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Not time for games yet despite govt. nod, say sporting fraternity||The Karnataka government’s announcement on Wednesday that permissions will be granted to make preparations to conduct sporting activities,, has not found enthusiastic takers in the sporting fraternity, given the riders they come with. Minister for Tourism, Youth Empowerment and Sports C.T. Ravi said except for swimming, kabbaddi, and gyms, sportpersons can commence practice and play games in stadiums without spectators. He added that they will have to strictly follow rules such as social distancing, wearing masks and sanitisation of play areas. However, these rules make it very tough to conduct any sports activity, administrators explained. K. Krishnamurthy, secretary of Bengaluru Hockey Association, said team sports will find it tough to adhere to the rules. “You cannot consciously maintain distance while playing hockey. All State and national-level tournaments have been postponed, so there is no reason to rush into training. Matches, training, nothing can happen right now,” he said. The Karnataka Badminton Association took a similar stance. Courts will not be opened until there’s clarity on the rules. It said it would be best if the State government forms a specialised committee to look into how and when to reopen sports activities. The risk of contracting the disease is much too high under the current circumstances, officials said. The Karnataka State Cricket Association, meanwhile, will form its own guidelines and SOP before restarting. “We want to start cricket activities, but first, we must get things in order. We will have work out the dos and dont’s, precautionary measures and so on,” KSCA hon. treasurer Vinay Mruthyunjaya said. The KSCA will also replan its tournament calendar for the year. Mr. Mruthyunjaya added that as of now, the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium can be used by players for jogging and exercising, but not for cricket activities.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||100% attendance mandatory in govt. offices||The State government has made 100% attendance mandatory in all government offices that are not in the containment areas. However, pregnant women and employees with high-risk health conditions are permitted to work from home. Also, the government has prohibited the practice of chewing paan, gutka, and tobacco at workplaces. In a G.O. dated May 18, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney said, “All government offices should function as usual with immediate effect and not later than May 21. Arrangements should be made for thermal scanning of employees before entering the office premises. Sanitisers should be provided at the main door,” she said. Arrangements should be made for sanitising the office premises daily, especially frequently touched surfaces. Similarly, facilities for washing hands should be made available. “No employee should be allowed into the office premises without wearing mask. Every employee should abide by the norm of maintaining physical distance and should maintain hygiene by washing hands with soap / sanitiser once in every two hours. They should cover their mouth with a tissue paper or elbow while sneezing, she added. Employees should also follow the standard protocol while using elevators, computers, tables and chairs, and door handles. Files and ‘tapaals’ should be processed through e-Office only, she said. “Employees should leave the workplace immediately if they have symptoms such as fever or respiratory trouble, and observe home quarantine,” she added.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records 743 new cases, tally surpasses 13,000-mark||Tamil Nadu saw another sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. A total of 743 persons, including 83 who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive, taking the State’s tally past the 13,000-mark. This, even as 987 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State. Tamil Nadu now has a total of 13,191* cases. The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in Chennai, with its count climbing to 8,228. The city recorded 557 new cases, while its neighbouring districts Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur reported 58 and 23 cases, respectively. Three deaths As on date, a total of 5,882 persons have been discharged in the State. There are 7,219 active cases. Three more persons, including two women, died, taking the toll to 87. A 44-year-old woman from Tiruvallur was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 18. She died on Tuesday due to respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome and viral pneumonia. A 70-year-old woman, a resident of Chennai, was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 17. She had coronary heart disease. She died on Tuesday due to cardiogenic shock, acute coronary syndrome and old inferior wall myocardial infarction coronary heart disease. The third patient, a 52-year-old man from Chennai, was admitted to RGGGH on May 19. He was a diabetic. He died on Wednesday due to respiratory failure, acute respiratory distress syndrome, sepsis and septic shock, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. A health official said that overall, cases had reduced in many districts of the State, and the spurt in cases in places such as Chennai was mainly due to the Koyambedu cluster. “However, the situation is under control now,” he said.  Of the 743 fresh cases, there were 14 in Kancheepuram and one each in Pudukottai, Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Theni, Thoothukudi, Villupuram and Virudhunagar. A total of 83 persons, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive in various districts — 21 in Thoothukudi, 16 in Tirunelveli, 11 in Tiruvannamalai, nine in Madurai, six in Villupuram, five each in Pudukottai and Virudhunagar, three in Chengalpattu, two each in Tenkasi and Theni, and one each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi and Krishnagiri. One more person, who had returned from New Delhi and was under railway quarantine, tested positive for COVID-19. The number of samples tested stood at 11,894, while the number of persons tested was 11,441. So far, a total of 3,60,068 samples have been tested in the State. As on date, a total of 1,308 samples of persons who returned by train are under process. Of the total 3,891 samples lifted from these passengers, 2,580 returned negative for COVID-19, while three tested positive. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||24 new cases in State, five persons recover||Kerala’s COVID-19 caseload spiked again on Wednesday when 24 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, and all except one being imported cases of infection. Briefing media, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that while 12 of the new positive cases were persons who had returned from abroad, 11 cases were persons who had come from other parts of the country. One case in Kannur is believed to have contracted the disease through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Seven of the new cases are located in Palakkad, four in Malappuram, three in Kannur, two each in Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram and Thrissur, while one case each was reported from Kasaragod, Kozhikode, Ernakulam and Alappuzha. Five persons were declared as having recovered from COVID-19. Kerala has reported 666 COVID-19 cases so far, of which 161 are active cases. The total number of persons recovered so far is 502. There are 74,398 persons under surveillance, of whom, except for 533 who are isolated in hospitals, the rest are in home or institutional quarantine. The State tested 48,543 samples so far, of which 46,961 showed negative result. From the sentinel surveillance studies, of the 6,900 samples tested so far, 5,728 turned negative. Mr. Vijayan said that given the manner in which the caseload was going up, the State should brace for a serious situation ahead. However, the government would have to be very strict about the control measures, surveillance and quarantine because it was important to keep disease transmission down for the safety of everyone, he said. New posts The government, through the National Health Mission, has created an additional 2,948 temporary posts in 21 categories to strengthen containment activities. This is apart from the 3,770 such posts created earlier. All new recruits would be deployed in first-line COVID care centres, COVID care hospitals and dedicated COVID hospitals.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID-19 toll rises to 40 in Telangana, 27 more test positive||Two more people died due to COVID-19 in Telangana on Wednesday. This takes the number of COVID related deaths in the State to 40. Four people had succumbed to the infectiious disease on Tuesday. Of the two people who died, one is a 61-year-old man from Motinagar and another an 81-year-old man from Chandrayangutta. Besides, 27 more samples tested positive for the virus on Wednesday. Of them, 15 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, and 12 are migrants from Jagtial and Jangaon districts. Two people were discharged. Active cases Till date, a total of 1661 cases were reported in the State. While 608 are active cases, 1013 were discharged, and 40 died. On the whole, 89 migrants tested positive for the virus. With the easing of lockdown restrictions from Tuesday, more number of people are coming out of their homes, travelling to work and other places, officials from the Health department are expecting a spike in coronavirus cases in the coming weeks. They have asked people to take precautions such as maintaining physical distancing at markets, workplace, wearing masks wash hands regularly. Any person in need of information on COVID-19 can call 104. In case of mental health counselling services, dial 108.
21 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Compensation sought for all workers of SRTCs||The KSRTC Staff and Workers Federation on Wednesday urged the State government to bring the entire workforce of the State Road Transport Corporations (SRTCs) under the ambit of “COVID-19 Compensation” announced for crew of road transport unions. Federation president H.V. Ananthasubba Rao in a letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also wanted the State government to enhance the compensation from Rs. 30 lakh to Rs. 1 crore. He said that the federation wrote to the government on May 6 highlighting the difficult circumstances under which SRTCs workforce had been working and had sought a compensation of Rs. 1 crore each to the kin of workers in case of death due to COVID-19.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal’s new political map unacceptable, says India||Nepal’s new official map is “artificial” and unacceptable to India, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Wednesday after Kathmandu unveiled a new political map that claimed Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh of Uttarakhand as part of its sovereign territory. “This unilateral act is not based on historical facts and evidence. It is contrary to the bilateral understanding to resolve the outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue. Such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India,” said official spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, urging Kathmandu to opt for diplomatic dialogue to settle border disputes. Earlier in the day, the new map was launched at a press conference in Kathmandu by Minister of Land Management Padma Kumari Aryal, who said the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli is committed to protecting the territorial integrity of the country.
21 May 2020||MADURAI,||PIL plea to decongest prisons closed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday closed a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to address the issue of overcrowding in prisons in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi took cognisance of the fact that steps were already taken by the State government and the Prison Department for providing sanitisers and masks to the prisons and conducting medical tests. Prison adalats were being held to release petty offenders, the State said. However, the judges allowed the petitioner to file a fresh petition with regard to premature release of convicted prisoners, granting parole to prisoners and extending parole period for prisoners. The PIL petition was filed by P. Thangaraj, coordinator of the Prisoners Reform Intervention Support Mission.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||China accuses India of trespass, LAC heats up||China accused the Indian Army of crossing into its territory and “blocking” its patrols and “attempting to unilaterally change the status” on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) between the two countries in Sikkim and Ladakh. As both sides increased troop strength at points of conflict along the LAC, sources indicated that military commanders were holding talks to defuse the situation. In a statement released on Tuesday in Chinese, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Beijing referred to the recent skirmish in Sikkim, claiming that “the Indian Army crossed the line across the western section of the Sino-Indian border and the Sikkim section to enter Chinese territory”. The statement said the Chinese side had taken up the matter with India, asking it to “immediately withdraw personnel across the line, restore the status quo of the relevant areas, strictly restrict the front line troops, observe the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries and the agreements signed by the two sides, and jointly maintain peace and stability in the border areas”. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to respond to the comments by the Chinese Ministry. Official sources said deliberations were on and they were at a “crucial stage”.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Two in five COVID-19 patients have recovered’||After a gap of nine days, the Union Health Ministry held its daily press briefing on COVID-19 on Wednesday, along with officials of the India Meteorological Department and the National Disaster Response Force, who were briefing on the progress of Cyclone Amphan. Lav Agrawal, Joint Secretary at the Ministry, said India’s recovery rate had climbed to 40%. On May 4, when Lockdown 3.0 commenced, India’s recovery rate was 26.59% and on April 15, when Lockdown 2.0 began, it was 11.42%. According to data from the State Health Departments, 5,437 new cases were recorded on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,11,862. The number of active cases stood at 65,067. With 132 deaths, the tally rose to 3,436.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Elderly migrant labourer dies outside railway station||A 69-year-old migrant labourer from Madhya Pradesh, who worked at a coffee estate in Chikkamagaluru, collapsed and died while getting off a bus at Chikkabanavara Railway Station on Wednesday. He was set to board a train to his home town. Prabhulal Ahirwar had left Balehonnur in Chikkamagaluru district, on a KSRTC bus organised by the district administration on Wednesday morning and reached the city by evening. He collapsed as he was alighting the bus, police sources said. Though he was rushed to a hospital, he was declared brought dead.Mr. Ahirwar was suffering from age-related ailments. “Those working with him said he was keen on returning home as he was ailing,” said Sashikumar, DCP (North).
21 May 2020||Belagavi,||Police arrest man after he assaults seer with machete||Bailhongal Police have arrested a man on the charge of assaulting the seer of Sri Guru Madiwaleshwar Mutt and also trying to take away a pumpset from the mutt in Hosur village in Bailhongal on Tuesday night. The mutt is considered by the faithful as a branch of the Hubballi-based Mooru Savira Mutt. Seer Sri Gangadhar Swamy (60) suffered injuries on his head and back. Villagers brought the injured seer to a hospital in Bailhongal, from where he was sent to the district hospital in the early hours of Wednesday. He is out of danger and is recovering, doctors said. The accused, Mallikarjun Gudushetty (42) is said to have gone to the mutt to take away a pumpset motor after midnight on Tuesday. A dog started barking and the seer woke up. He went out to the backyard and saw the accused trying to remove the pumpset. The seer reprimanded him for the act, which angered the accused. Gudushetty then attacked the seer with a machete. Gudushetty is facing various criminal charges, including theft and assault. He is out on bail now, a police officer said. A case has been registered at the Bailhongal Police Station.
21 May 2020||Vijayawada,||68 new cases in State||The State registered 68 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours after testing 9,159 samples. With this, the total number of cases increased to 2,560, including 153 from other States (Maharashtra 101; Gujarat 26; Odisha 10; Rajasthan 11; Tamil Nadu 3; and West Bengal and Karnataka one each). While the number of active cases is 843, the death toll stands at 53. The number of persons discharged from hospital is 1,664. Of the 68 new cases, 10 have links to the Koyambedu market (six in Chittoor district and four in Nellore).
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on the road||
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||SSLC, HSE exams as per schedule||The State government will hold Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC), higher secondary education (HSE) and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations as per schedule from May 26 to 30. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the Central government had allowed the conduct of the public examinations in a communique on Wednesday. The decision of the Cabinet early in the day to postpone the tests until June stood annulled. Special buses Special buses could be arranged to transport students to the examination centres, a letter to the State Chief Secretary said. Mr. Vijayan said parents or students who found it challenging to reach examination centres could seek the help of the district or State authorities. The government would ferry them to the examination centre and back. Invigilators would seat students well apart in halls. Candidates have to subject themselves to a thermal scan. They have to wear face masks and use the sanitiser compulsorily. Mr. Vijayan said there would be no examination centres in containment zones. If a school was in a containment zone, any other school outside the containment zone would be earmarked as an exam centre.
21 May 2020||Chennai,||‘India has to come to terms with inequality’||Both in the battle against COVID-19 and in the broader context of making social investments and reducing inequality, “huge variations” persist across India, according to economist Thomas Piketty. “India has to come to terms with its problem of inequality,” he said in an interview to The Hindu, adding that the political mobilisation to bring about a meaningful change could emerge from a crisis such as the pandemic. While inequality between lower castes and the rest of society was large, it had reduced more over time than the gap between African-Americans and the rest of U.S. society has, he said. India’s system of reservation quotas does not offset the deficit of reform in areas such as land reform and investment in basic schooling facilities and health, he said.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC bus driver, conductor suspended||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) suspended the driver and conductor of a bus for ferrying more passengers than the seating capacity on May 19, the first day when services resumed after the extended lockdown. According to officials, it was the last bus to depart from Majestic bus stand to Yelahanka and many people were waiting to take it.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Mumbai-returnees continue to test positive||Mumbai-returnees continued to test positive in the State, with 51 of the 67 new cases reported on Wednesday having a travel history to the Maharashtra capital.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Steps to resume activities at Victoria hospital||Two-and-a-half months after converting Victoria hospital into a COVID-19 facility, plans are afoot to restore its normal functioning. A three-member panel will study if it is feasible to resume non-COVID-19 activities here.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘How will govt. preserve gains on lake health?’||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board to spell out in what manner it is going to take steps to keep Bellandur and Varthur lakes and Vrushabhavati river bodies as clean as they stand today due to reduced cause for pollution in view of lockdown.
21 May 2020||UDUPI,||1,104 migrant workers leave for Jharkhand||As many as 1,104 migrant workers left Udupi on a Shramik Special (Train No 01642) on Wednesday to Hatia in Jharkhand. The train left the railway station at 5.45 p.m. and will reach Hatia at 7.15 a.m. on Friday. The workers were given food packets. This is the second Shramik Special train originating from the temple town and it was organised by the district administration here.
21 May 2020||YADGIR,||Four booked for assault, violating norms||Kodekal Police registered three different cases in connection with assault and violation of COVID-19 regulation by a man and his relatives under institutional quarantine at Rajkollur in Hunsagi taluk on Wednesday. According to the police, Venkatesh Ramji Chawan and his wife, Anusubai, Jagadish Ramji Chawan and his wife, Lakshmibai, have been charged with violating COVID-19 norms and carrying out an assault on Assistant Sub-Inspector of Police Bhimashankar. The four accused are from Paratu Naik Tanda near Rajan Kollur village and had returned from Mumbai recently.
21 May 2020||Chennai,||Sufficient hospital beds: in Chennai: Health Dept.||With at least 300 to 500 new cases being reported in Chennai daily, the question of how all patients are being accommodated and cared for arises. While the Health department says the city’s bed capacity in hospitals and COVID Care Centres was sufficient to handle the current inflow, doctors say the real probem is with manpower.
21 May 2020||Chennai,||AAI plans to install UV tunnel at airport||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) plans to install ultraviolet tunnels for disinfecting baggage at the Chennai airport when flight services resume.
21 May 2020||Chennai,||People prefer cash aid to free rations in T.N.||Going by the figures on beneficiaries who have opted for the cash aid being offered by the government to family cardholders during the lockdown, more people are choosing the dole over free rations.
21 May 2020||Chennai,||Govt. sharpens focus on Chennai, nearby districts||Aiming to consolidate anti-COVID efforts in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, the government reconstituted the field support teams to facilitate effective management of containment zones, contact tracing, testing and quarantine facilities.
21 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Locusts cross Thar desert to invade Rajasthan||The invasion of locusts had started from the India-Pakistan border on April 11 and they have now crossed the Thar desert and affected 16 of the 33 districts in Rajasthan. State Agriculture Minister Lal Chand Kataria described the locust attack as the “biggest threat” in the midst of the lockdown.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five held for ferrying migrants on fake passes||Five persons have been arrested in Bawana for allegedly ferrying migrant workers to Bihar with forged e-passes issued to a different person in Panipat, the police said on Wednesday. Twenty-four labourers were found travelling inside two vehicles to Muzaffarpur.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Work begins to colour code Delhi districts||The Delhi government has started the process of dividing the city into red, orange and green zones based on the number of cases. Currently, all 11 districts of the Capital are red zones and ostensibly under lockdown.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Spike in COVID-19 cases for second day in a row||Delhi reported 534 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 11,088, said the government health bulletin. This is the highest single-day jump in the number of cases so far. Ten more deaths have pushed the toll to 176.
21 May 2020||New Delhi/Chennai,||Railways to start reservations||In a relief for passengers, the Railways will begin accepting booking for 200 time-tabled trains that will be run from June 1 onwards, from 10 a.m. on Thursday. The booking for these trains, which will have both AC and non-AC coaches, can be done only online. “These special services shall be in addition to the existing Shramik Special trains being run since May 1, and Special AC trains [30 trains] being run since May 12, 2020,” the Railways said, adding that other regular passenger services continue to remain cancelled. As per the Railway guidelines, the advance reservation period for these trains will be 30 days. While RAC and waitlist tickets will be generated, passengers with only confirmed tickets will be allowed at the station. In addition, no tatkal and premium tatkal booking will be permitted in these trains. “First chart shall be prepared at least 4 hours before the scheduled departure and the second chart shall be prepared at least 2 hours [unlike the present practice of 30 minutes] before scheduled departure. Only online current booking shall be permitted in between first and second chart preparation,” it added. All passengers will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers are allowed to enter /board the train. They will need to reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance. The Railways said no catering charges would be included in the fare. The IRCTC, however, will make provision for limited eatables and packaged drinking water on payment basis in limited trains. “Passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water... No linen, blankets and curtains will be provided inside the train. Passengers are advised to carry their own linen for the travel. The temperature inside AC coaches shall be suitably regulated for this purpose,” it added. “All passengers must download and use the Aarogya Setu application. Passengers are advised to travel light,” it said. New SOP issued Meanwhile, the Railway Ministry has decided to detrain all passengers travelling in a coach even if one or more passengers show symptoms of COVID-19. Acting on reports that some passengers who reached their destinations tested positive, the Railway Board on Wednesday wrote to the General Managers of Zonal Railways to detrain passengers and empty the coach for cleaning. A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on disinfecting and sanitising the coach was also issued. “In the event of a passenger or passengers being found infected or showing symptoms, the train would be stopped at the next major station and all travelling public in that particular coach or coaches would be detrained,” a senior official told The Hindu .  (With inputs from      S. Vijay Kumar)
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,||U.K. trial to test efficacy of five drugs||With a range of approved drugs now being tested on COVID-19 patients, there is no clarity on which one will turn out to be more effective in treatment compared with the standard hospital care that all patients receive. A recovery trial aims to study the effectiveness of four different drugs and anti-inflammatory drug tocilizumab for those with worsening clinical symptoms. HIV drugs in list The recovery trial, coordinated by the Nuffield Department of Population Health at the University of Oxford, will randomise patients to receive either standard of care or one of the four approved drugs. The drugs being tested are HIV drugs Lopinavir (400 mg)-Ritonavir (100 mg), anti-inflammatory corticosteroid (dexamethasone), anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine and antibiotic azithromycin (500 mg).  Second shot Patients enrolled in the trial and have progressive COVID-19 with clinical evidence of hypoxia and inflammatory state may undergo a second randomisation to receive either tocilizumab (which blocks the inflammatory protein called IL-6) or no additional treatment. “The trial hopes to recruit 12,000 patients in all and will receive one of the four drugs or the standard of care for 10 days or till the date of hospital discharge and a second randomisation to receive tocilizumab or no treatment. The trial will be conducted across 170 hospitals in the U.K., including Bradford Institute for Health Research,” said Dr. Dinesh Saralaya, consultant respiratory physician & director for Clinical Research at the Bradford Institute for Health Research and the principal investigator of the trial at Bradford. “We have already recruited over 100 patients. The primary objective of the recovery trial is to provide reliable estimates of the effect of study treatments on all-cause mortality within 28 days after randomisation,” said Dr. Saralaya. The secondary outcomes to be evaluated were reduction in hospital stay, number of patients who needed ventilation and the number of days it was required, and the number of patients who needed renal replacement therapy.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Board exams exempted from lockdown steps||The Union Home Ministry on Wednesday exempted the pending Class 10 and 12 examinations to be conducted by the State and Central Boards from the lockdown. Students and teachers will have to wear masks compulsorily, and there should be provision for thermal screening and sanitisers at all examination centres. Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted on Wednesday, “Taking into consideration the academic interest of large number of students, it has been decided to grant exemption from the lockdown measures to conduct Board examination for classes 10th & 12th, with few conditions like social distancing, face mask etc, for their safety.” Several State Boards and the Central Board of Secondary Education were about to start, or were in the middle of, the examinations when the lockdown was imposed. The CBSE recently released the date sheet of the remaining 29 papers of Classes 10 and 12 to be held from July 1 to July 15. Kerala postponement Earlier this week, the Kerala government postponed the Secondary School Leaving Certificate, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examinations to be held in the last week of May as the lockdown was extended. Under the fresh lockdown measures guidelines issued by the Ministry under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 on May 17, opening of schools has been prohibited. “Requests have been received from the State governments and the CBSE for conducting the Board examinations and the matter has been examined in the Ministry of Home Affairs. Taking into consideration the academic interest of large number of students, it has been decided to grant exemption from the lockdown measures to conduct Board examinations for Classes X and XII,” a letter by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla to all States said. The Ministry said examination schedules should be staggered and “special buses may be arranged by the States and the Union Territories for transportation of students to the examination centres.” Admit cards Asked how the students living in containment zones will be allowed to take the examinations, a senior Ministry official said, “They should be allowed with their admit card. Earlier also students living in curfew-hit areas have been allowed on the basis of admit cards.” The official said that in case a student had high temperature on the day of examination, there were provisions for such students to appear for exams.
21 May 2020||Kolkata,||Trees fall like ninepins in Amphan rage||Kolkata witnessed one of its most severe cyclones in many decades on Wednesday. The Alipore Meteorological office said that, under the impact of cyclone Amphan, the wind speed was 90 km per hour (kmph) on an average and over 110 kmph in Alipore. In many areas, the wind uprooted trees, damaged houses and snapped power lines. The city, especially the green sections of south Kolkata, presented a macabre sight on Wednesday evening. Almost every road was blocked by fallen trees. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s administrator Firhad Hakim said they would assess the situation shortly, but it appeared that hundreds of trees had been uprooted. Howling wind, slamming doors, shattering window panes and pouring rain created an eerie atmosphere in the city. “It turned suddenly dark and a strong gust of wind broke the glasses of three windows. Both happened almost simultaneously. Water rushed in and in trying to stop that, I fell and hurt myself. It is a dark night,” said Dhrupadi Ghosh, a sociology researcher at Jamia Milia Islamia University in Delhi, who lives in Bhawanipur in south Kolkata. Electricity lines snapped as falling trees pulled them down. “I have not seen such wind ferocity even during Aila in 2006,” said a meteorological centre employee. Roofs of many old houses collapsed. One family in Sealdah area told The Hindu that everyone was confined to one room after their roof was damaged. “We are a big family of 10 members. Water entered from all rooms, barring one, so we all moved to that one,” Anadi Roy said. The municipal corporation evacuated residents from many old houses, Mr. Hakim said, in the face of resistance. “Some families think they will lose their right to live in their homes as some tenancies are disputed. It took us some effort to convince them that they can move back,” he added. Policeman Muzaffar Mondal of South Traffic Guard was on duty on arterial Red Road. “My job is to ensure that the road remains clear, as I remove the guard rails and road dividers which often are brought down road by the wind,” Mr. Mondal said. Some cars too were damaged. Small shanties, tea shops and roadside eating joints were blown away in many places. Many stranded people were resigned to spending the night sheltered in the basement of high-rise buildings.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 300 seafarers fly back to Goa||More than 300 seafarers returned to Goa from Italy on two chartered flights on Wednesday. This is the first batch of mariners who have been able to return by air, after the Union Home Ministry allowed three flights to be chartered to bring them back. Italian cruise company Costa Cruise chartered the services of Italian leisure airline, Neos, for this exercise which pressed into service its Boeing 737 aircraft. “The first aircraft landed at 10.40 a.m. with 168 passengers on board, and the second plane landed around 6 p.m. with 167 seafarers,” Airport director Gagan Malik said. A third flight was yet to land along with 81 on board at the time of going to print. Sent to quarantine The swabs of passengers were taken at the Dabolim International Airport from where they were taken to paid quarantine facilities identified by the Goa government. The president of Goa Seamen Association of India, Dixon Vaz, told The Hindu that he had moved the Goa High Court opposing the demand from the government that seafarers pay for the quarantine facility, following which the court had sought a reply from the State. The Home Ministry had earlier announced that passengers returning from around the world aboard special Air India flights would have to pay for the isolation facilities identified by the States. While the Shipping Ministry allowed cruise companies to operate flights on May 25, the shipping industry rues the lack of standard operating protocols in procuring permissions which have delayed many applications. “Without a protocol in place we have to run from pillar to post for permissions. We don’t know whether the application process will start in India, or in a foreign country where seamen are stranded,” said a senior executive on condition of anonymity. 15,000 seamen stranded There are an estimated 15,000 India seamen stranded around the world either aboard cruise ships or on foreign soil. The government has also allowed them to avail special Air India flights being operated under the Vande Bharat Mission to return to India. “Out of the 7,000 seafarers who have registered on the MEA’s website, only 350 have been able to return. These are mostly from the U.K.,” said Captain Sanjay Parashar, chairman of the International Maritime Federation. Two cruiseliners so far have also been able to disembark seamen at Mumbai port.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Nationalism is not going to solve the big challenges of the day’||The seminal work of Thomas Piketty , Professor of Economics at the Paris-based School of Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences and at the Paris School of Economics and Co-Director at the World Inequality Lab and World Inequality Database, is particularly salient at the present moment, when the first wave of the catastrophic human toll of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has been followed by the second wave of its severe economic consequences, including loss of livelihoods, internal displacement and starvation among the poor in India and elsewhere. Edited transcript:  Please explain what you mean by “participatory” socialism, a concept you discuss in your latest book, Capital and Ideology. The basic idea of participatory socialism in my view is where everyone has the power to participate in the economy. This means access to private property — I believe in private property and do not want state property or communism — which requires a more progressive tax system in order to reduce taxation on the poorest groups in society and possibly pay for an endowment that everybody will receive. We say that we believe in equal opportunity, but we live in a world where the bottom 50% of the population does not receive any inherited wealth from the upper rungs, whereas some other people receive millions or billions. The other dimension of participatory socialism is that workers should be able to participate more in the governance of their companies whether or not they have a share in the capital. I think it could and should become the norm in the future. If you look at different societies historically, prosperity comes from equality and education and not from the pursuit of more and more inequality. That is the basic idea of participatory socialism — to use the good aspects of private property and the market forces, but to put them in the service of a much more equal and equitable development model and economic system. You argue that deliberation over ideology can change the political balance of power and resource allocation system, and that impacts inequality. Is this more important than redistributive conflict and property rights in historically driving economic development? Both logics are at work. You have conflict between different interests and groups, but I also want to stress the dimension of learning, deliberation, and intellectual or ideological dimensions. Pure class conflict in itself does not determine a unique outcome in terms of institutions, policy and legal systems. Your class position, though it is important, does not fully determine your view of the world about how the property rights, tax and educational and frontier systems should be organised. What kinds of relations should you have with other countries? There is an international and transnational dimension of the inequality regime, which is very important. The pure, class-conflict view of the world does not really allow for this rich set of ideologies to play their full role. However, if you give a bigger role for ideas and intellectual transformation, that means that democracy has a role to play, that indeed you also have a theory of elections and deliberation, and you should pay a lot of attention to how this is organised, how you form political parties, and the role of the media. We have in recent years seen the tendency towards the ideologies of nationalism, populism, protectionism and nativism, across countries. Do you think that this direction of systemic change, said to be linked to disappointment with Bretton Woods institutions, will be exacerbated or turned back by the COVID-19 pandemic? There is a risk that the pandemic could reinforce pre-existing trends of nationalism and a return to the frontier and identity of the nation state. But I think this will not last forever, because in the end, nationalism is not going to solve the big challenges of the day, including global warming, inequality, public lands problems. It will require cooperation, some form of internationalism. Even in the short run, nationalism will not necessarily win the day if something else is being promoted and proposed by political actors. The problem that starting with the Bretton Woods systems and the rise of neo-liberalism, we have organised globalism, internationalism and the international economy in a way that has been very beneficial for the highest wealth and highest human capital individuals. But that is forgetting social and redistributive objectives. We have to rebuild internationalism in a different manner. For instance, you cannot trade or have free capital flow between any two countries, if at the same time you do not have some common regulation and taxation of the most powerful economic actors, or if you do not have some system or targets for carbon emissions, and taxing those who do not respect these targets, or if you do not have social rules about minimum wages. If we do not move in that direction, then nationalism will win the day because it at least proposes to break with the current system of globalisation with no sort of regulation of any kind, and which people are not convinced by any more.  ...prosperity comes from equality and education and not from the pursuit of more and more inequality
21 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Woman gives birth in fire service van in Odisha||A woman gave birth to a girl inside a fire service van while being shifted to hospital in Odisha’s Kendrapara district, which recorded heavy and strong winds under the impact of cyclone Amphan on Wednesday. At 9 a.m., the Mahakalapada fire station received a call about the woman experiencing labour pains and her inability to go to hospital as the road to her house was blocked by uprooted trees. The family members of 20-year-old Janaki Sethi had made frantic calls seeking an ambulance but none came. “The family members made best efforts to contact ambulance services. They had lost all hopes. On receipt of information, our two teams rushed with equipment to the spot,” said P.K. Dash, Deputy Fire Officer. The Fire Service personnel cleared 22 fallen trees, using power saws, to reach the woman’s house. “The lady was undergoing severe labour pain and the team immediately picked her up . However, on the way to the Community Health Centre (CHC), Mahakalapada, she gave birth to a girl inside the vehicle,” said Mr. Dash.  The team tried its best to provide assistance to both the mother and the baby, Mr. Dash added. They later took the duo to the Community Health Centre. Praise from doctor “The timely and dedicated effort of Fire Service personnel saved the two precious lives. Both the mother and the child are doing fine,” said D.N. Malla, a doctor at the CHC. Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena said that as part of disaster management strategy, pregnant women got top priority in evacuation. As many as 1,885 women, who were in the advance stages of pregnancy, had been shifted to different hospitals in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts well before ‘Amphan’ started impacting the coast. ASHA workers and anganwadi workers were assigned to identify these women and facilitate their shifting.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||New scheme for Chhattisgarh farmers||Farmers in Chhattisgarh would get up to Rs. 13,000 an acre a year under a new income support programme announced by the State government. The Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyaya Yojana would kick off on Thursday, the 19th death anniversary of the former Prime Minister. In the first instalment, Rs. 1,500 crore would be distributed among 18 lakh farmers, more than 80% of them small and marginal, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel told The Hindu. The annual cost of the scheme would be Rs. 5,700 crore. Mr. Baghel said the scheme would cover rice, maize and sugarcane farmers to begin with, and would expand to other crops later. Rice and maize farmers would get Rs. 10,000 an acre, while sugarcane farmers would get Rs. 13,000. The money would be distributed in four instalments. “This will help them through the agricultural cycle and hopefully help with extension activities. Chhattisgarh gets more than 50 inches of rain annually, but our irrigation facilities need improvement. Most farmers are able to cultivate only one season. That needs to change.” Centre’s disapproval The additional income to farmers would increase rural demand and also act as a stimulus for the State’s economy, he noted. Chhattisgarh had paid farmers above the Central Minimum Support Price (MSP) last year but the Centre disapproved of this. The State government was told that if it continued with the incentive, its rice would not be entirely picked up into the central pool. The State’s attempt was to meet the standards set by the Swaminathan Commission that farmers must get 150 percent of their cost of production as MSP. “We gave Rs. 2,500 for rice based on that calculation, but the Centre would not let us do that,” Mr. Baghel said. The new scheme would compensate the farmers through a different track.
21 May 2020||PAtna,||As cases peak, Bihar Health Secretary is transferred||As the COVID-19 pandemic peaks in Bihar, the State government on Wednesday transferred Principal Health Secretary Sanjay Kumar with immediate effect. Mr. Kumar has been transferred to the State Tourism Department in the same capacity. Sanjay Kumar, a 1990 batch IAS officer, was considered a tough taskmaster and was said to be close to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. His regular updates on COVID-19 on Twitter were the prime source of information for many in the State. Sources told The Hindu that Mr. Kumar had been transferred under pressure from a BJP Minister in the State Cabinet. He had come out unscathed when the State Health Department was in the eye of a storm last year when an outbreak of encephalitis in Muzaffarpur district killed over 200 children in a month. Mr. Kumar was replaced with a 1993 batch IAS officer, Uday Singh Kumawat, who was serving as the Secretary of the State Tourism Department. Mr. Kumawat has also been given additional charges of Bihar Public Administration and the rural development organisation in Patna till further orders. Meanwhile, COVID-19 cases in Bihar have gone up to 1,607 with 571 recoveries. A total of 53,361 tests have been done so far in the State’s seven laboratories.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Only 2,132 used AB-PMJAY for COVID-19 treatment||Only 2,132 people have made use of the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY) for COVID-19 treatment. The figure, released by the insurance authorities on Wednesday, comprises those who had recovered and those undergoing treatment out of the one lakh cases reported in the country. Testing for, and treatment of, COVID-19 is free for the 53 crore beneficiaries of India’s cashless and paperless healthcare access service for poor and vulnerable families. The flagship scheme of the Union government provides a cover of up to Rs. 5 lakh a family a year for secondary- and tertiary-care hospitalisation. On Wednesday, it crossed one crore treatments (for various listed diseases, including COVID-19), worth approximately Rs. 13,412 crore offered. The programme was launched in September 2018. “The National Health Authority (NHA), mandated to implement AB-PMJAY, has focused on how to get the private sector more actively involved in offering treatment for both COVID-19 as well as non-COVID-19 health conditions,” the AB-PMJAY said. It added that to increase the number of hospitals providing COVID-19 treatment and to ensure continued treatment such as haemodialysis, cardiovascular procedures, and chemotherapy for non-COVID-19 critical illnesses, the NHA had started an express empanelment mechanism with less stringent criteria for temporary empanelment of hospitals in March, when COVID-19 cases started rising in the country. Among the 21,565 hospitals, more than 1,385 have been empanelled since April 1. Of this, 1,310 are through the regular empanelment route and the remaining 75 under express empanelment. Of the total new hospitals on board, nearly 58% per cent are private ones. Indu Bhushan, CEO, AB PM-JAY and NHA, said: “We have also supported COVID-19 preparedness and response in the form of managing the national COVID-19 helpline 1075 besides strengthening our network of hospitals and service capabilities to ensure continued service delivery to non-COVID-19 patients under the scheme.’’ More than 600-700 dedicated agents were answering calls round the clock, he added.
21 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Quarantine centres back to being cyclone shelters||Super cyclone Amphan may have driven a vast majority of people and the governments of two States into a frenzy. But for some people, being quarantined in temporary medical centres, it meant that they could go home sooner than they had thought. Hundreds of people, who had recently returned from other States and were required to undergo 21 days of mandatory institutional quarantine to curb COVID-19, were sent home to free up space for those who had to be sheltered from the storm. In Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur districts, COVID-19 tests of 1,000 people put up in quarantine centres were fast-tracked. They were asked to undergo home quarantine after they tested negative. “There are 117 cyclone shelters in Kendrapara. We had converted eight of them into temporary medical centres, as required under COVID-19 management. When the Amphan threat loomed large, we needed these shelters,” said Samarth Verma, Kendrapara district collector. “We sent 250 people to their homes after their test results came back negative. They have reports of the tests in hand,” said Mr. Verma. Sanitisation done Kendrapara district administration had completely sanitised cyclone shelters before throwing them open to people evacuated from low lying areas. In neighbouring Jagatsinghpur district, 815 people quarantined in temporary medical centres were discharged early. As many as 37 quarantine centres were reconverted to cyclone shelters. The Jagatsinghpur district officials took written undertakings from those being discharged prematurely that they would complete the remaining quarantine period at home. People were also released from quarantine centres in Balasore and Bhadrak, which were affected by Amphan. The Odisha government had made it mandatory for all those returning from other States to undergo 21 days of institutional quarantine and seven days of home quarantine.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NSD takes part of its syllabus online||Students recording videos of themselves doing yoga poses, making stage lighting plans and practising the Stanislavski method of acting have all become part of the National School of Drama (NSD)’s online learning initiative during the COVID-19 lockdown. While about 70% of the classes for the NSD’s three-year course in dramatic arts required practical training, the remaining syllabus could be adapted to virtual teaching, NSD director-in-charge Suresh Sharma said. “We can’t teach improvisation in acting or model-making for stage online, but certain theoretical aspects can be taught online,” he said. After classes were suspended on March 13 on the directions of the Culture Ministry, online classes started from March 28 and students were given projects to submit by May 15, according to an official. Various approaches First-year students were asked to record videos doing yoga and explaining their observations of the changes experienced. For the movement projects, students were asked to work on different exercises they had learnt in class and choreograph a small piece based on that, the official said. Second and third-year students were asked to continue rehearsing for the productions planned before the lockdown. While acting students were told to make videos of their work, direction and design students were asked to prepare the set design, light and ground plan. Webinars for aspirants In addition to the virtual classes for students, NSD has also launched a “theatre for all” webinar series on topics such as acting, sound and video technology for the stage and festival management for aspiring students and theatre enthusiasts, Mr. Sharma said. He added that two online workshops of 10 days each – on theatre appreciation and playwriting – would be launched in June. About 30-35 people would be able to register for these, he said. The Union Culture Ministry was planning to promote theatre during the lockdown through virtual initiatives, Ministry secretary Anand Kumar said. “We are trying to create interest in drama and are moving towards virtual classes. We will be engaging with some leading personalities connected with the NSD,” Mr. Kumar said.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Birla orders review of House panels’ work||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has initiated an exercise to assess the effectiveness of the Parliamentary Standing Committees, from taking stock of the rate of attendance at their meetings to the list of recommendations that have not been accepted by the government. This comes in the backdrop of efforts by both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha secretariats to hold online meetings of the committees, after pressure from the Opposition parties. The Parliament session abruptly ended on March 23. None of the department-related standing committees (DRSCs) have met since then. The Rajya Sabha secretariat had done a similar analysis. Briefing the House, Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu, on March 1, pointed out that a total of 95 MPs did not attend a single meeting of the eight DRSCs that reviewed allocations for 18 Ministries after the presentation of the 2020-21 Union Budget on February 1. As per sources, Mr. Birla had given over a dozen directives after a conclave held on May 12-14. He asked the Secretariat to “follow up intensely” with the members to ensure that they attended meetings of the panels, the sources said. The Speaker also asked all the committees to give suggestions to improve the rating/ranking of India in global indices. Govt. orders In similar orders in March, the government gave blanket instructions to all Ministries to improve Indian’s position on various global markers, including the World Press Freedom Index. The Lok Sabha secretariat, according to the sources, had been asked to prepare a list of cases where a committee’s recommendations have not been accepted by the government or where required action is pending for more than three months. Mr. Birla also sought a compilation of major recommendations of all the committees that have had a significant impact on common citizens. Mr. Birla and Mr. Naidu have met twice on the issue of resuming the meetings of the committees. So far, at least three panel chairpersons — Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and B. Mahtab — have written to the respective presiding officers to hold meetings online. The secretariats had stalled the suggestion, claiming that the confidentiality clause will be violated if a meeting is held via videoconference. However, now both Mr. Birla and Mr. Naidu have acceded to the demand and the National Informatics Centre will provide a safe platform for holding meetings.
21 May 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra adds 2,250 cases in a day||Maharashtra reported yet another surge of more than 2,000 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. The State recorded 2,250 new cases, taking the tally to 39,297, while 63 fatalities saw the death toll rise to 1,390. This is the second-highest case surge reported after the spike of 2,347 cases reported on May 17. Of the total cases, 27,581 are active, said State Health Department officials. As many as 679 patients were discharged on Wednesday, taking the total number of discharged till date to 10,318. Mumbai city recorded a staggering 1,372 of the new cases to breach the 24,000-case mark as its total case tally soared to 24,118. As per figures, 41 of the fatalities were reported from Mumbai as the city’s death toll shot to 841, while 15 deaths were reported from Pune district (including two from Pimpri-Chinchwad) to take its death toll to 226. However, as per Pune district authorities, the toll till Wednesday evening had risen to 229, with eight deaths during the day. “About 74% of the deaths on Wednesday had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer, Dr. Pradeep Awate.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||60% of farmers faced losses, finds survey||Most farmers managed to harvest their crops despite the COVID-19 pandemic, but 60% of them still faced losses, mostly related to the lockdown, according to a new survey in 12 States. A majority of farmers also say the lockdown has hurt their preparations for the upcoming sowing season either because they cannot afford inputs such as seeds and fertilizer or because of labour shortages. The situation is worse for wage workers, with four out of five seeing their incomes fall over the last month. On average, wages were 76% lower compared to the same time last year. These are some of the findings from a telephonic survey of almost 1,500 agricultural households in 200 districts of 12 large States, conducted in the first half of May by researchers from Harvard University’s T.H. Chan School of Public Health, in association with the Public Health Foundation of India and the Centre for Sustainable Agriculture, Hyderabad. This was a baseline survey, and is expected to be repeated in June and July, to track the impact of the pandemic on agriculture and food security. The survey found that 26% of respondents had harvested a crop in the past month, while 26% said this was not a harvesting season for them. Only 10% were unable to harvest their rabi or winter season crop, due to lockdown-related issues such as low market prices, difficulty in market access, government curbs and a shortage of labour and machinery. The situation becomes more complicated when looking at different crops and different States. Wheat is the biggest rabi crop and harvesting rates were especially high in northern States like Punjab (95%) and Haryana (81%) which also have high rates of mechanisation. However, while almost 90% of the wheat harvested in Punjab has already been sold, that figure falls to just above 60% for Haryana.
21 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Women walking home get free sanitary pads||On the Andhra Pradesh-Odisha border in Odisha’s Ganjam district, women and adolescent girls among migrant workers walking on the NH16 to their homes are being given sanitary napkins, along with food and relief material, by NGO Youth for Social Development (YSD) for the past six days. “It is a small effort to ensure menstrual hygiene for women already burdened by economic and physical woes,” said Bibhu Prasad Sahu, director, YSD. Women prefer not to discuss menstruation publicly and families often don’t have money to buy even food, he said, leading to neglect of menstrual hygiene. The suggestion came from a group of girls living in slums in Berhampur, who are part of YSD’s ‘Kishori Shakti Project’ and involved in preparing relief packets for migrant workers. A woman walking to West Bengal from Tamil Nadu said she was worried about infections caused by the use of dirty cloth as protection over the long walk.
21 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||1,041 returnees have tested positive, says U.P.||A total of 1,041 inter-State migrants have tested positive in Uttar Pradesh so far, the State Health department said. This is out of a total of 5,175 cases in the State as of Wednesday, while the death toll went up to 127. While the government officials have of late stressed that the COVID-19 load in U.P. had increased due to the influx of migrants workers, this is the first time the government has acknowledged it in terms of figures. Compared to this, the number of persons linked to the event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin and their contacts who tested positive in the State stood at 1,304 on Tuesday, as per the government. Of the 249 cases reported on Wednesday, 50 were from Barabanki, all of whom were migrants workers who recently returned, according to a Health official in Lucknow. Ayodhya also reported 21 fresh cases, while 15 positive cases were found in Etawah, 12 in Prayagraj, 11 in Pratapgarh and 10 in Rampur. The total number of samples collected of inter-State migrants stands at 43,625, while over 5.36 lakh are under surveillance of ASHA workers.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Domestic flights to resume on May 25||Capping of airfares is an unprecedented decision taken by the government, which has often maintained that the cost of an air ticket should be a function of demand and supply. “Even though temporary, fare capping is an unfortunate decision. CAPA India strongly disapproves of this decision. This is likely to push up airfares, which will affect passengers already struggling to get their refunds,” Kapil Kaul, CEO of CAPA India, told The Hindu . Maharashtra Minister Jayant Patil said the State had reservations about resumption of flights. He said precautions were important as Mumbai and Pune had reported a large number of cases. Goa Health Secretary Nila Mohanan said the State would follow the same protocols as those adopted for anyone entering the State — testing everyone using the Truenat swab test. In Kerala, the Thiruvananthapuram, Cochin, Kannur and Kozhikode airports are geared up for domestic operations. The State is confident that quarantine facilities for those coming by these flights are adequate.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Two in five COVID-19 patients recovered: govt.||For a pandemic to be under control, those who recover every day must consistently be more than those freshly diagnosed daily. However, India is among 11 countries that has over a 1,00,000 cases, but has fewer deaths — 3,316 — and only behind Russia’s 2,972. Only 2.94% of Indians confirmed positive are on oxygen support, 3% in Intensive Care Units and 0.45% on ventilator support, Mr. Agrawal said. However, this assessment belies the high variability of case loads and fatality rates within India. Just four States — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Delhi — account for 70% of India’s case load and 64% of fatalities. The recovery rate of Maharashtra is only 26%, and Gujarat, with 719 deaths, has a case fatality rate (deaths per confirmed cases) of 6%, which is nearly twice that of India’s overall case fatality rate of 3.1%. On Wednesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) resumed its practice of disclosing the number of samples tested per day. This amounted to 1,08,121, and on the whole, its laboratories have tested 25,12,388 samples since the pandemic started. In absolute numbers, India may have conducted a large number of tests, but as a proportion of its population it is among the world’s stingiest testers.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Amphan batters West Bengal, Odisha||According to a preliminary assessment, 65 33-KV feeders have been affected, impacting 19,38,382 power consumers in Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Mayurbhanj, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts. The State government was yet to confirm any death. As for telecommunication, 90% of the telecom towers were found intact, the Special Relief Commissioner’s office said. From the late evening of Tuesday, most coastal districts and some interior areas had started recording heavy rain and strong wind. In the morning, while Dhamra recorded the highest wind speed of 120 kmph, Paradip followed with 106 kmph. The IMD measured wind speed at 91 kmph in Balasore. By afternoon, the intensity of rain and wind velocity started to drop. In Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur, people left for their homes from cyclone shelters. In Balasore district, where the impact continued till evening, people remained in shelters. Twenty units of the National Disaster Response Force, 16 teams of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and 231 fire service units were deployed for rescue operation.  ( With inputs from Jacob Koshy in New Delhi )
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||China accuses India of trespass, LAC heats up||The statement marked an escalation in the current tensions at the LAC, threatening to bring what India has thus far maintained were “actions by both armies on the ground” into a diplomatic face-off between the countries, the most serious such event since the Doklam face-off in 2017. Sikkim’s Naku La pass is one of four areas that had seen aggressive action between the troops since mid-April this year, according to sources. Similar skirmishes had been reported along a stretch in eastern Ladakh at the Pangong Tso lake, Demchok and the the Galwan river nalah. Both sides had rushed more personnel to the area, and more than a dozen new Chinese boats had been observed on the lake, the sources added. At Demchok, there is a huge accumulation of Chinese troops, two sources independently confirmed. ( With inputs from Ananth Krishnan   in Chennai )
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Nepal’s new map claims territories of India||India said Nepal was aware of the understanding on this issue and asked the government of Mr. Oli to return to dialogue. Nepali diplomatic sources maintain the region of Kalapani and the contiguous areas to the east of the river Kali and Susta on the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar border are the only parts of the nearly 1,800-km boundary that remain unresolved. The area of Susta near Gorakhpur can also be noted in the new map. Kathmandu says India has encroached upon this area and wants New Delhi to evacuate its population from the location. The newly inaugurated Darchula-Lipulekh link road passes through the disputed region and will cut travel time for the Mansarovar pilgrimage. Nepal claimed the area and Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli said his government was willing to give a road towards Tibet on lease to India without surrendering the region.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Not the time to play politics, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a video message on Wednesday, said the BJP and the Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) government can use its own banners and posters, but the buses should ply to ferry migrant workers as it is the time to serve people and not indulge in politics. “I want to urge the Chief Minister that our buses will remain parked where they are at the borders [with Rajasthan] till 4 p.m., and it will be 24 hours since they were made available there ... If you want, you can paste your posters or banners on them, but kindly allow them to ply so that the migrants can be ferried in them and they reach home safely," said Ms. Vadra. However, she made the appeal barely half an hour before the 4 p.m deadline was to expire. Ms. Vadra said if the issue had not got embroiled in politics, at least 92,000 migrants could have reached home safely. “This is not the time to play politics. I urge every political party to set aside their political ideology and help people instead,” she said.
21 May 2020||Jaipu,||Locusts invade 16 districts in Rajasthan||Locusts, which started swarming in from the Pakistan border on April 11, have crossed the Thar desert and affected 16 of the 33 districts in Rajasthan. Locust swarms have travelled far in search of food because the Rabi crop has been harvested in the fields en route . State Agriculture Minister Lal Chand Kataria described the locust attack as the biggest threat in the middle of the lockdown at an official meeting here on Wednesday, while giving instructions for controlling the spread of the insects with the cooperation of farmers. The locust swarms have reached Sikar, Bundi, Bhilwara, Pratapgarh and Chittorgarh districts, situated far away from the desert. Mr. Kataria said the State government had provided 45 vehicles to Jodhpur-based Locust Warning Organisation of the Union Agriculture Ministry and Farmers’ Welfare for their sprayers and deployed 70 vehicles for surveys in the fields. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot had sought Central assistance to deal with the locust attack earlier this month.
21 May 2020||Kolkata,||At least 10 feared killed as of now, says Mamata||At least 10 persons are feared killed as of Wednesday night, said West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. “Entire south Bengal is hit. South Bengal is finished. I would request [the Centre] to provide humanitarian relief and not to engage in any politics,” said Ms. Banerjee. “The damage caused by Amphan is far, far bigger than corona,” the Chief Minister said. The cyclone also hit the State Secretariat, where Ms. Banerjee was located for last 24 hours, and damaged it too. “We are in the middle of ruins,” Ms. Banerjee said. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said it was expected that the cyclone would make a landfall between Digha and Bangladesh, a wide area, but it actually hit Sagar Island at the edge of the Bay of Bengal, about 100 km south of Kolkata. “The scale of damage is huge in North and South 24 Paraganas districts,” Mr. Sinha said.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Vamana arrives||When Indra’s rajya is taken over by Mahabali, his mother Aditi asks her husband sage Kashyapa for a solution. He asks her to observe payo vrata in the month of Phalguna, beginning from Sukla paksha, prathama and continue it for 13 days until trayodasi. She must offer milk porridge to Vishnu, and at the end of the vrata, Vishnu will appear as her son. Only He can recover Indra’s rajya from Mahabali, says the sage. Aditi observes the vrata, and Vishnu is born as her son. This happens in the month of Shraavana, in the star Sravana, on Dvadasi. The baby grows up at once into a boy of about seven years. Why does the Lord assume a short stature when He goes to meet Mahabali? He has to impress Mahabali, and find a soft spot in his heart. What better way to do this than to assume the form of a child? In the Divya Prabandham, there are many verses which extol the loveliness of Krishna and Vamana in the same verse, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. Both were children; both were attractive. Yasoda, in one verse, even addresses Krishna as ‘Vamana nambi.’ Kamban says that Vamana’s form was adhbhuta — a form to marvel at. Only jnanis could understand His sukshma roopa. Mahabali was taken in by the charm of Vamana. Nammazhvar refers to Vamana as Kalvan, implying that His cleverness in deceiving Mahabali was amazing. Andal, in Her Nachiar Thirumozhi talking of the Lord making His entry, says, ‘adira pugutha.’ Adira would mean a shake. But what She is saying here is not that the earth shook at His approach. Parasara Bhatta had an interesting explanation. He said that it was a reference to Vamana, who had only been a giver. The Lord had never been a seeker. So, when He had to ask Mahabali for some land, He was not sure how to do it. Hence, He shook with anxiety!
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdown did little to stem infections’||The Congress on Wednesday questioned the Central government’s strategy of handling the COVID-19 pandemic through lockdown and gave out statistics to argue that it had little impact on containing infections. At an online press conference, party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said COVID-19-positive cases went up from 28,000 to 1 lakh between May 3 and 18 when Lockdown 3.0 was in force. He slammed a report by an expert of the NITI Aayog that predicted no fresh cases post May 16, based on earlier calculations of the rate of growth of infections. “India’s experience on account of an unplanned, knee-jerk and blanket lockdown has probably been the opposite. Is the government running on autopilot? Is it shamelessly misleading its people without any apology...?” he said.
21 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Bus row: U.P. Cong. chief, ex-MLA held||Uttar Pradesh Congress president and MLA Ajay Kumar Lallu and former legislator Vivek Bansal were arrested by the Agra police for protesting against the administration’s refusal to allow buses to ply into Uttar Pradesh from Rajasthan. Mr. Lallu was granted interim bail by a local court, but was arrested again by the Lucknow police in connection with an FIR lodged against him and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's secretary Sandeep Singh for allegedly sending a faulty list of buses. The two leaders, along with four or five unidentified Congress workers, were booked under the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said the Congress was indulging in a political stunt and claimed that around 460 vehicles submitted in the list were bogus.
21 May 2020||Guwahati,||Assam lets off 308 ‘foreigners’||A court directive to decongest Assam’s infamous detention centres to prevent COVID-19 has led to the release of 308 “declared foreigners”. Prison officials said most of those who fulfil the conditions of release set by the Supreme Court on April 13 had been released. The remaining few would be released when formalities such as securing sureties were completed. “Till Tuesday, 3,396 prisoners were released from jails across Assam according to the Supreme Court’s March 23 directive to decongest jails. We have also released 308 of the 802 declared foreigners from the detention centres,” Inspector-General of Prisons Dasarath Das told The Hindu on Wednesday. A declared foreigner, or DF, is a person so marked by any of 100 Foreigners’ Tribunals (FTs) in Assam for allegedly failing to prove their citizenship after the State Police’s Border wing detects him or her as an illegal immigrant.
21 May 2020||Bhopal,||Police beat up lawyer for being ‘Muslim’||The Madhya Pradesh police on Wednesday suspended a sub-inspector for telling a lawyer he was allegedly beaten up by the police as they mistook him for a Muslim. The lawyer, Deepak Bundele, who is diabetic, was going to the district hospital in Betul on March 23 to seek treatment, with only prohibitory orders in force ahead of the lockdown, when the police reportedly thrashed him. On May 17, two policemen, including the official now suspended, visited him to take a statement. “Police, whenever there are Hindu-Muslim riots, always sides with the Hindus, even Muslims know it. But this happened, it was a mistake,” one of the policemen is heard in an audio clip Mr. Bundele recorded. “So you are saying they thrashed me thinking I am a Muslim,” he asked them, to which one of them replied, “Yes, that is the case, your beard is long too.”
21 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||398 new cases, 30 deaths in Gujarat||Gujarat on Wednesday reported 398 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 12,539. With 30 deaths, the fatality count has climbed to 749. For the last three weeks, the State continues to add 300 plus cases per day while the death count remains above 20 per day. The total recoveries stand at 5,219 which include 176 patients discharged on Wednesday. There are now 6,524 active cases, while 47 are surviving on ventilator support. In Ahmedabad, 271 new cases were detected and 26 deaths reported, bringing the total to 9,216 cases and 602 deaths. Ahmedabad’s mortality rate is 6.5%, which is double than the national average. Meanwhile, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has further relaxed the lockdown norms, allowing economic activities with conditions in containment zones as well.
21 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha sees 74 new cases, crosses 1,000-mark||Odisha crossed the 1,000-mark of COVID-19 cases as 74 more people tested positive on Wednesday, taking the total to 1,052. According to the State Health & Family Welfare Department, 72 of the 74 new cases were detected in the quarantine centres. The new cases include 28 in Boudh district, 11 from Puri, nine from Cuttack, seven from Khordha, six each from Ganjam and Jajpur, two in Malkangiri districts. The number of active cases stands at 703. While 343 persons had recovered and six persons died, 36 persons were discharged on Wednesday.
21 May 2020||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||Man killed by Indian gaur||A daily wage earner was attacked and killed by an Indian gaur on Tuesday. Police said Lakshmanapandi, 46, of Kunjampatti and Sekar, 52, of Kodangipatti left their homes in Kolukumalai to buy essential goods. When they were returning through a prohibited pathway, a gaur attacked them at Othaimaram. Lakshmanapandi died on the spot, while Sekar escaped with injuries. Police and forest officials reached the spot and sent the body for post-mortem to government hospital. Kurangani police registered a case. Blaming forest officials for the incident, activists said absence of surveillance and failure to create awareness of the consequences of using prohibited pathways led to the death. A forest official said after the fire incident in Kurangani, the pathway was banned. However, villagers used it some times to reach home and the market as it was a short-cut.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Ramping up testing is the way forward’||There is no question now that Tamil Nadu conducts the highest number of tests for COVID-19 in the country. The question is whether the State should be testing more. As the epidemic has progressed in the State, throwing up a high number of cases every day, over the weeks, the number of tests has also been increasing. But what is the sweet spot that the State has to hit? Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that on average, Tamil Nadu does over 12,000 tests a day (over the last 10 days), and on some days, even 14,000 tests. Without doubt, it is the best figure in India. But as a State that has been hard hit by COVID-19, epidemiologists recommend that it must increase the number of tests dramatically, especially as the lockdown is being eased across the country. A new analysis from the Harvard Global Health Institute (HGHI) and STAT for the United States provided a guide about by how much each State should up their testing numbers, based on their number of cases. Its director Ashish Jha said: “You can’t just take the national number and scale it to States by their population. You have to base it on the size of the outbreak in the State.” As per the analysis published in STATnews.com, the researchers, recommending a massive ramp up in testing in some States, work back from the number of deaths on a particular day, say 545 on May 15. They then say that it will be reasonable to assume that this will be an indication of the number of cases on May 1. This is because two weeks is said to be the average time between infection and death. “If 1 out of every 100 people diagnosed with COVID-19 dies (for a “case fatality rate” of 1%), then on May 1 there will be 100 times as many new cases as there will be deaths on May 15; call it 54,500 (545 * 100) cases on May 1 for the country as a whole.” To use the same metrics for Tamil Nadu, where the fatality rate is lesser (0.68 %), the total number of people infected will be higher (80,147). “We need to ramp up testing in Tamil Nadu. Chennai, which continues to get the majority of cases, must definitely test more — at least 8,000 cases a day, double of what we are doing now, so that we do not go the Mumbai route,” said Prabhdeep Kaur, epidemiologist and deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology. There are no two ways about whether Tamil Nadu has to increase the number of tests, P. Kuganatham, expert committee member and former Corporation Health Officer, said. “It has to. But I suggest that we target everyone in hotspots, close contacts of symptomatic people, front line health workers, elderly with co-morbidities. Let’s not be afraid of the numbers this will throw up,” he added. A targeted approach J. Amalorpavanathan, who recently retired from service in the State health sector, also recommended the targeted approach. “It’s quite clear that respiratory droplets are the main source of spread, and the spread has been, by and large, contiguous. This is clear in Chennai, where contiguous areas of some wards have been affected. Take a street that has a large number of index cases, draw a circle covering streets to the north, south, east and west of that street. Test everyone there,” he said. A top official said the State was also seized of the idea. “The number of tests have gone up, and they will go up further. Our strategy in Chennai to go into one ward and do an intense screening is in that direction,” he said.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. sharpens focus on Chennai, nearby districts||Aiming to consolidate anti-COVID-19 efforts in the northern districts of Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday reconstituted field support teams (FSTs) to facilitate effective management of containment zones, contact tracing, testing and quarantine facilities in these zones. While the FST for Chennai has been retained in its present form, new teams have been constituted for Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. The decision was taken after a review of the prevailing situation. “In respect of other districts, the respective district monitoring officers will monitor the COVID-19 management activities,” stated a G.O. The special nodal officer for the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), J. Radhakrishnan (also the Commissioner of Revenue Administration), supported by four senior IPS officers for each zone, will coordinate with the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the officers assigned to the GCC on COVID-19-related matters to prevent the disease from spreading further. FSTs have been appointed for all 15 zones of the GCC. Senior IAS officer Rajendra Kumar will coordinate efforts from the headquarters by working out appropriate intervention strategies. IAS officers C. Kamaraj (zone 1), Amar Kushwaha (zone 2), A. Gnanasekaran (zone 3), K.P. Karthikeyan (zone 4), K. Nanthakumar (zone 5), A. Arun Thamburaj (zone 6), C. Munianathan (zone 7), S. Gopala Sunkara Raj (zone 8), Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri (zone 9), S. Vineeth (zone 10), N. Venkatesh (zone 11), M.S. Shanmugam (zone 12), J.U. Chandrakala (zone 13), T.N. Venkatesh (zone 14) and M. Karunakaran (zone 15) will lead FSTs in the respective zones. While senior IAS officer T. Udhayachandran and IPS officer T.S. Anbu have been tasked with handling Chengalpattu district, IAS officer K. Baskaran and IPS officer V. Vanitha will handle Tiruvallur district. IAS officer L. Subramanian and IPS officer K. Bhavaneeswari are the designated officers for Kancheepuram district. “In respect of Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, the team of officers will coordinate with the respective District Collectors,” the G.O. stated. Regular meetings Noting that the State government was planning to carry out micro-level interventions, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam told The Hindu that he would be having regular meetings with the newly-reconstituted teams. “Let us hope that our intervention works,” he said, adding that the government would step up awareness campaigns through NGOs, besides strengthening its efforts with regard to critical assessment of cases, effective contact tracing and focused testing. In Chennai, a team had been formed for each zone. The teams have been given specific tasks. “The team[s] will analyse each and every case and come out with a micro plan,” he added.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People prefer cash aid to free rations in Tamil Nadu||Going by the figures on beneficiaries who have opted for the cash aid being offered by the government to family cardholders during the lockdown, more people are choosing the cash dole over free rations. In April, over 4.35 lakh more beneficiaries of the public distribution system received cash handouts when compared to those who got free rations. This is despite the State government having provided a ‘give up’ option to PDS beneficiaries. Of the 1,98,61,635 people who collected the cash aid, only 1,94,26,123 received free rations as well. The gap came to light based on a perusal of the district-wise distribution of cash and essential commodities, which include rice, 1 kg each of sugar and toor dal, and 1 litre of edible oil. The Civil Supplies Department has divided the State into 38 districts. In Chennai, the department has two districts — one for the north and the other for the south. The north Chennai district is the biggest in the State, with 10.04 lakh cards, and Perambalur, the smallest, with 1.78 lakh cards. As for the distribution of cash in April, the coverage achieved by 22 districts was at least 99%, the highest being 99.79% in Tirupattur. The south Chennai district, regarded as having relatively more well-off people than many other parts of the State, recorded 94.29% coverage, while north Chennai’s figure was 96.46%.  Officials of the Department are, however, not surprised by the greater charm of cash, given its multi-purpose nature. This was the case even during the Pongal festival A key factor was that cash was largely delivered at the doorstep of the beneficiaries. K.R. Shanmugam, Director of the Madras School of Economics, said another reason for the relatively lower coverage of essential commodities was that certain sections of PDS beneficiaries were not inclined to get the commodities. T. Sadagopan, a consumer activist, pointed out that there was a “strong feeling” among PDS beneficiaries that if they don’t receive what the government is offering, their entitlements may be stopped.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Domestic flights to resume with contactless regime in place||To the relief of hundreds of people stranded across the country, domestic flights are expected to resume soon in a calibrated manner. But passengers will have to brace for a completely new airport experience. Sources at the airport said that as soon as a passenger reaches the gate of the departure hall, he will have to show a copy of the ticket and his ID proof to CISF staff, seated inside a glass booth. When the passenger steps inside, his temperature will be checked. Passengers will have to wear masks at all times. To maintain physical distancing, floor markers in the terminal will guide passengers on where to stand. Self check-in kiosks will allow passengers to print boarding passes. For those who prefer the traditional check-in mode, alternate counters, enclosed in glass, will be available. After airline staff enter passenger details, passes can be collected from a machine. After completing security procedures, passengers can sit in marked seats while waiting to board the aircraft. The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security has said that stamping of boarding passes too will be done away with. Arriving passengers too will be subjected to temperature screening and only alternate conveyor belts will be used, said sources.  Awaiting order Airports Authority of India officials said that they were yet to receive any official order from the Centre regarding standard operating procedures to be followed. “Airlines and airports will receive separate instructions in the coming days. Regarding testing and quarantine of passengers, too, we will hear from the State government on what needs to be done and how to carry out the work,” an official said.  Airlines and airports will receive separate instructions in the coming days
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||UV tunnel to disinfect baggage?||The Airports Authority of India plans to install ultraviolet tunnels for disinfecting baggage at Chennai airport when flights resume. Officials said that they had been considering the option and a number of firms had approached them recently. They added that the facility would be brought in only if a company managed to obtain certification from an authorised government lab, indicating that usage of the tunnel would kill viruses on the surface of baggage. “There needs to be a validation from health authorities and a certification to this effect. Then we can use it. If we don’t find a firm that has the certification, then we have an alternate option as well. We are looking at ways to spray disinfectants on the baggage,” an official said. Sources said that airline staff as well as CISF personnel had raised concerns over having to touch baggage. “Though they will wear gloves and will be provided with hand sanitisers, they are still apprehensive,” another official said. Recently, Delhi and Kochi airports installed UV-based disinfection facilities. Sameer Abdul Azeez, a scientist at DRDO’s Naval Physical Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL), Kochi, said that they had developed and operationalised a UV baggage disinfector at the Kochi airport. NPOL has been in the process of developing standalone equipment, the Automated Luggage Disinfector - Using UV Bath. After developing a prototype, the lab has been doing tests, along with the Government Medical College in Ernakulam, which will then be evaluated by the National Institute of Virology. “Once medical validation comes by the month-end, the industry partner will commence commercial production so that they can be put to use at airports and other establishments,” he said.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK supports relief for crisis-hit print media||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Wednesday said that the party would stand by the print media as it faces a serious crisis on account of the COVID-19 lockdown. He said a delegation of newspaper publishers briefed him about the problems faced by the print media and the steps the government should take in this regard. The steps include removing tax on newsprint and doubling of government ad rates. The delegation comprising N. Ram, chairman, THG Publishing Pvt. Ltd., R.M.R. Ramesh, Editor, Dinakaran and L. Adhimoolam, Publisher, Dinamalar , also spoke to PMK founder S. Ramadoss from Mr. Anbumani’s residence.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||210 Australians head home from city||The Australian Consulate-General in Chennai helped 210 passengers return to Australia from Chennai on Wednesday. It also marked the first time a Qantas plane flew to Chennai, and returned to Sydney with passengers. The Australian government supported the flight, the 18th such service the country has operated or facilitated to help Australians return home since the COVID-19 crisis began, said Susan Grace, Consul General of Australia in Chennai.  The Australian Consulate-General in Chennai and other posts in India have supported Australians in arranging thousands of movement passes so that passengers can make these flights, the Consul General said, thanking the Central and State governments for assisting.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Chennai hospitals have sufficient beds for patients’||Chennai remains a hotspot for COVID-19, with at least 300 to 500 new cases being reported every day. This raises the question of how all the patients are being accommodated and cared for. While the Health Department said the bed capacity in the city’s hospitals and COVID Care Centres (CCCs) is sufficient to handle the current inflow of patients, and may be increased if required, doctors say the real problem lies with manpower. As of Wednesday, the city accounted for 5,345 active cases. “The current bed capacity is sufficient. In fact, we can increase the bed strength two-fold or three-fold, if required. Once the cases from the Koyambedu cluster subside, we will be in a comfortable position,” an official said. There were nearly 3,000 beds in government hospitals in Chennai, he said, adding that they included 1,700 beds at the four government medical college hospitals - the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, all of which were designated COVID-19 facilities. “Along with this, we have 300 beds in the ESI Hospital at Ayanavaram. There are about 450 to 500 beds in the peripheral hospitals at K.K. Nagar, Anna Nagar, Tondiarpet and Periyar Nagar,” he added. Besides, there were 6,000 to 7,000 beds in CCCs in Chennai, he said, adding, “There are nearly 10,000 beds available. The capacity can be increased if required. For instance, RGGGH, which has 400 beds at present, can accommodate 4,000 beds. Similarly, KMC can have 2,000 beds; it currently has 400. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital has a capacity for 2,500 beds.” However, a senior doctor at one of the government hospitals said that the Chennai Corporation was ensuring that persons who test positive are isolated in hospitals. “We have sufficient beds, but we need manpower. Already, several of our doctors, including senior doctors, and nurses, have tested positive for COVID-19. Their morale has been affected. We also have to depute doctors and nurses to COVID Care Centres. We are ready to work, but need sufficient manpower,” he said.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin must apologise for Maran’s remarks: Murugan||DMK president M.K. Stalin must publicly apologise for the comments of his party colleague and DMK MP Dayanidhi Maran alluding to scheduled castes last week, president of BJP’s Tamil Nadu unit L. Murugan said. He also said Mr. Stalin must take action against his party members who have insulted the community. Mr. Murugan demanded that the State take necessary action against Mr. Maran for his comments, which were an offence under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities Act). He said the DMK often spoke in demeaning terms of people from the community who had fought against the odds and attained top positions in various fields.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvallur brick kiln workers sent home||Over 350 migrant labourers who were rescued from a brick kiln in Tiruvallur district on Tuesday, after they were assaulted by the owner, boarded a train to Odisha on Wednesday. The migrant workers, working in a brick kiln in Pudukuppam in Tiruvallur district, wanted to leave for their hometowns and had begun walking. But they were stopped and assaulted by their employer and his agents on Monday. The Vengal police have registered a case. On Tuesday, the district administration rescued all of them. “Arrangements were made to help them travel to their hometown. On Wednesday afternoon, they boarded the Shramik special train from Tiruvallur to Rourkela. A total of 1,464 passengers are on the train. All of them underwent thermal screening. Tiruvallur officials claim that they have accommodated labourers in eight shelters in Ponneri, 13 in Gummidipoondi, seven in Tiruvallur, five in Poonamalee and three in Avadi. ‘Not enough manpower’ “People from Chennai, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram are being sent to our district. We don’t have enough manpower. Despite this, we are coordinating with nodal officers from other States and making arrangements to send them home,” said an official.
21 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Special train||The Indian Railways has reintroduced the Rajdhani superfast special trains between New Delhi and Chennai from Thursday. The special passenger trains were stopped based on a request from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami last week, after two services were operated. In a press release on Wednesday, Southern Railway said the trains would be operated on Mondays and Thursdays from New Delhi. In the return direction, these trains would proceed from Dr. MGR Chennai Central station on Wednesdays and Saturdays. From Chennai, the trains would start at 6.35 a.m. and would stop at Vijayawada, Warangal, Nagpur, Bhopal, Jhansi and Agra before reaching New Delhi at 10.30 p.m. on Thursdays and Sundays. The press release added that the passengers would have to adhere to the guidelines (on COVID-19 safety) of the destination States.
21 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Hairdressers move court||The Tamil Nadu Hair Dressers’ Union has moved the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Central and the State government to permit reopening of salons across the State without any conditions related to the lockdown. Justice K. Ravichandrabaabu ordered notice returnable by a week.
21 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Publicise train timings: HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the Central and the State government to publicise timings of special trains being operated to transport migrant workers to their home States and the location of shelters where they can be accommodated until departure. They also called for detailed status reports on steps taken to transport the workers.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aptel stays TNERC order||The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity (Aptel) has stayed the order of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) directing the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) to provide a 70% concession to high-tension consumers on minimum demand charges as per existing norms, during the lockdown period from March 24 to May 3. Tangedco had moved Aptel against the order and raised concerns.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in cases of violence||The State government on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court that as many as 616 complaints of domestic violence were received through helplines, Anganwadi workers and protection officers between March 25 and May 14.    The submissions were made in an additional status report filed in response to a PIL petition.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assistance for unregistered weavers||The Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday announced that handloom and silk weavers, not registered under the Tamil Nadu Handlooms and Handlooms Silk Weaving Workers’ Welfare Board, would be given cash assistance of Rs. 2,000, as relief during the lockdown. The government said the decision followed weavers’ representations.
21 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||New principal of MCC||P. Wilson, head of the Department of Chemistry in the aided section, has been appointed the Principal by the Madras Christian College Association. The decision was announced at a meeting of the Association on Wednesday.
21 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No penal proceedings for delay in PF contributions during lockdown: EPFO||Proceedings should not be initiated for levy of penal damages for delay in PF contributions for any period during the lockdown, as these delays are without mens rea of the employer, the Employees Provident Fund Organisation said.
21 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. looks for alternative sites to house traders of T.K. Market||For quite a few days now the Coimbatore Corporation has been trying to find alternative locations to house traders who were at the T.K. Market, closed since the COVID-19 lockdown was enforced. Though it provided two alternative locations – first the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand and the Gandhipuram Central Bus Stand – to help the traders sell vegetables and fruits and consumers get what they want while ensuring that both maintained physical distance norms, the developments have not been good for both the civic body and the traders. Adding to the confusion was a Madras High Court order asking the Corporation to evict the traders who had encroached the Then Vadal Veethi, the lane that led to the market from both Raja Street and Big Bazaar Street. Sources familiar with the development say the Corporation accommodating 80 traders at the makeshift market at the Town Bus Stand and 120-plus traders at the makeshift market at Central Bus Stand was not enough because there were 422 traders who wanted allotment. And, the 422 traders fell under three categories – the first category (popularly stall shops) that paid rent to the directly to the Corporation and then the second (floor shops with roof) and third categories (floor shops without roof) that paid toll on a daily basis to the contractor who had bid for the market from the Corporation. To add to the confusion were the Then Vadal Street traders who, too, wanted a place to sell their goods. A few days ago, when the Corporation wanted to shift the traders at the makeshift markets at the Town and Central Bus Stands to the exhibition ground, abutting the Coimbatore Central Prison, on Dr. Nanjappa Road, the traders demanded that they all be accommodated. At the time of shifting the traders had also asked the Corporation to reopen the T.K. Market so that at least a few of them could resume selling vegetables. They wanted the civic body to allow 50 from the first category (stall shops) and 50 from the second and third categories. And, then they also demanded that the Corporation permit at least 150 traders to set shop at the exhibition ground so that 250 of the 422 traders who had lost their livelihood could resume business. But failure in last-minute parleys and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation deciding not to run buses until further orders from the State Government resulted in the traders continuing to sell from the two makeshift markets. The Corporation meanwhile began searching for alternative locations for other traders, including those it had evicted from the Then Vadal Street. The sources said that the evicted traders had told the Corporation that they were not interested in moving away from the market unless and until the Corporation also moved the two categories of floor shop traders. Their reason was that if the Corporation were to shift them alone they would lose business. This demand had angered the floor shop traders who argued that it would be unfair to equate the evicted traders with them because they were inside the market and were paying toll to the contractors. Even as it got caught in the demand and counter demand from the traders, the Corporation started surveying and marking spaces within the T.K. Market in the last couple of days. Corporation sources said the civic body only tried to explore the possibility of reopening the market while allowing for physical distance but it was yet to take a decision as it wanted the Government’s clearance so to not repeat a Koyambedu in the city.
21 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Miyawaki forest with 30,000 trees to come up at Ondipudur||In a major greening drive, the non-governmental organisation Siruthuli, Rotary Club of Coimbatore Smart City and Spark Round Table 323 came together to inaugurate Hope Vanam at Ondipudur, Coimbatore on 10.87 acres of land provided by the Indian Railways. Thirty thousand saplings will be planted to create a forest on the space that is currently a dumping site for garbage and building debris. Sponsor Minal Jeswani from USA who has connections to Coimbatore has sponsored the ‘one crore’ project through the Rotary Club and Round Table. The clearing of the land, planting and growing the saplings will be executed by Siruthuli. Afforestation Head of Siruthuli, V. Chandrasekar addressed the gathering of Rotarians, Round Tablers and Siruthuli members. He explained, “We will plant the saplings in three phases using the Miyawaki method of five by five feet matrix.” The actual planting will commence in mid-June as the site has to be first, cleared, levelled and prepared. Hope Vanam will be Siruthuli’s 11th Miyawaki project. The saplings will be of species endemic to the Western Ghats. It is also the first project to use public sewage water, that will be treated before watering the saplings. Because the water is so rich in nutrients, the saplings grow much faster, said Chandrasekar. Aparna Sunku, secretary of Rotary Smart City, said the project was particularly significant as Smart City was not even a year old. “We are proud to be part of this greening drive that will create a green lung space for our city,” she said. Also present at the launch were Manish M Vyas, president – Rotary Club of Smart City U. Sridhar, chairman of Spark Round Table 323, Ritane Pasricha, project convenor of the Table, B. Saravanan, chief co-ordinator of Siruthuli. R. Murugan, Senior Section Engineer - Railways and other senior members of Siruthuli.
21 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Handlooms lie idle as weavers struggle without transport||For handloom weavers in the region, relaxation of lockdown norms do not seem to have helped much as public transport is yet to resume and demand for products remains low. Vijayalakshmi Nachiar, founder of Pollachi-based Ethicus, says that only two of the 30 handlooms with her are operating. “As there is no bus service, our weavers are unable to come to the unit.” Further, some weavers had returned to their hometowns and are unable to return now. “Hand weaving is a highly skilled job. Even if the workers come back, we can only stock the products till the markets revive,” she says. Most of the sales of cotton handloom products happen during summer and promotional events and exhibitions are organised during these months. This year, with the COVID-19 threat starting in January-February, almost all the events were cancelled. The sales in the coming weeks will be focused on e-commerce. “We are worried if these skilled workers will switch over to other jobs,” she says. Catering to international orders is also a challenge as international parcel service is mainly for essentials, she adds. Shree Bharathi Devarajan, founder and CEO of Nool by Hand, points out that 70 % of her weavers have returned to work because they live within the vicinity. “They come in their vehicles. The rest are dependent on buses,” she says. However, she is concerned about the market. Most of the products of Nool by Hand are for exports. “Some markets such as Australia are positive and there is uncertainty in some like the United States. Since we weave for customised orders, we cannot make the products now and stock,” she says. The weavers, who have returned, are now doing the orders that were placed earlier and the buyers have not cancelled these. “We are carrying out weaving now. But we do not know for how long we will be able to engage the weavers,” she says. An official at Co-optex said that almost all showrooms of Co-optex in the State have reopened. The weavers who supply handloom products to it are resuming activity gradually. They mostly weave from their houses that are located near the societies that they are attached to. In some areas, the industrial societies have looms and there the weavers who are able to come in their own vehicles do come. They are asked to maintain personal distancing and wear masks. The societies are supplying the weavers the yarn stock that is available with them. Only when spinning mills resume full-fledged activity and are able to transport yarn will the societies get further stock of yarn. Chenkumar Cooperative Society Managing Director Sankareshwari adds that the society has 500 handloom weavers attached to it and all of them have their looms at home. Hence, they are able to weave. The society has re-opened sales. But, the public are not coming out or spending much. Hence, sales volume is very low. Regarding supply of yarn to the weavers, she says, there is no problem at present. But, the situation cannot continue the same way and transport of yarn from the mills should take off.
21 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Demand high for industrial e-passes||Construction contractors, engineering industries, and several small and medium-scale businesses that resumed operations in Coimbatore district over a week ago are now applying to the district administration seeking e-passes to help their workers return to the district. With the nationwide lockdown in place for more than a month, several workers who were employed at the manufacturing industries and construction sites in the district had returned home. With resumption of activity because of relaxations in the lockdown, they need to come back to work. The State government has introduced an online system for e-passes and it is managed in the district by the District Industries Centre (DIC). Karthigaivasan Kachirayar, general manager of the DIC, said that in the last two weeks, nearly 12,500 of the 15,000 or so applications for e-passes have been cleared. Some of these are multiple applications from the same industry to bring back more workers. “If the industry is in Coimbatore and it wants to bring back its workers from their home towns within the State, the units can apply for e-passes. The number of workers the units can apply for depends on the vehicles used for transportation. Industries do not need a pass to bring workers from one part to another within Coimbatore district,” he said. There is a steady flow of applications and these are cleared in an hour or two if it is supported with the required documents, he claimed. Officials say that a minimum of 50,000 workers have returned to the district in the last two weeks. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy says the industries do not face any problem in getting the pass, provided they feed in the right details and documents. “It takes time to understand the requirements and apply properly. The application should be in the name of the industry,” he says. However, another trader, who did not want to be identified said he has workers who need to return from Kotagiri. He had applied for e-pass six times and it was rejected. “The reason should be specified. Otherwise, those who are managing the e-passes can call up the applicant and verify before rejecting,” the trader said. “If three people are coming with a pass, only two are permitted. There are several challenges. When the industry is struggling to resume work with minimum workforce, delays in getting the e-passes affects the activities,” adds a builder here. According to K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, there should be transparency and clarity on how the passes should be applied, why these are rejected, and how the industries should re-apply if an application is rejected. The labourers are without work for weeks and when they want to return to their jobs, they are facing problems. The government has introduced e-passes so that workers and industries can apply online. If an application is rejected, the reason should be stated clearly and there should not be any necessity for the applicant to visit the officials in person. He said he plans to take up the issue with the officials concerned in the State government.
21 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees operation of 20th special train||With the operation of three special trains for migrant workers on Wednesday, the Coimbatore Junction has seen the operation of 20 Shramik special trains in a span of 13 days. The first train on Wednesday was bound for Darbhanga in Bihar, which left at around 2 p.m. The second train was bound for Basti in Uttar Pradesh that left around 4 p.m. The third train for the day, which was the 20th special train from Coimbatore, was bound for Rewa in Madhya Pradesh which left at around 8.30 p.m. This was also the first Shramik special train from Coimbatore Junction operated to Madhya Pradesh since the train services began on May 8, officials from the Salem Division of the Southern Railway said. All these trains ferried 1,464 passengers each. So far, the special trains from Coimbatore have been operated to seven States namely Bihar (8), Uttar Pradesh (4), Odisha (3), Jharkhand (2) and one each for Assam, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. RPF helps differently abled passenger The Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel helped a differently abled migrant worker by carrying her to the platform at the Coimbatore Junction on Wednesday. RPF officials said that Sub-Inspector Rajendra Kumar Meena, Head Constable Senthil Arasu and Constables Roopesh and Ajeet Kumar carried the woman along with her wheelchair and helped her board the train bound for Bihar. Tiruppur The ninth Shramik special train was operated from Tiruppur Junction on Wednesday. The special train bound for Sitamarhi in Bihar ferried 1,464 passengers. As on Wednesday, six trains left for Bihar and one train each for Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh.
21 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom weavers wait for job orders||Job working powerloom units in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts are unable to resume activity, though industries in rural areas are permitted to operate, because of lack of orders. “We are not textile manufacturers (master weavers). We are dependent on job givers to supply yarn. The master weavers have asked us to wait till June 1 as most of the textile markets in the northern States are shut,” says R. Velusamy, one of the directors of Palladam Powerloom Weaving Cluster. The two districts together have more than one lakh job working powerlooms. Just about 25 % of the job working powerlooms are operating in Palladam area. The situation is bad and our survival is under question,” he said. In Somanur and nearby areas in Coimbatore district, just about 10 % of the job working powerlooms are operating. “There are several reasons that the master weavers give us for not providing orders. Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts sell woven fabric mainly in the north. Lorry drivers are not willing to drive to the northern States fearing the spread of COVID-19 in those States. The master weavers are not getting payments for the fabric already supplied and the demand is poor in the north,” says M. Palaniswamy, president of the Somanur job working powerloom weavers’ association. Further, yarn and cotton prices have fallen and those who have stocks now have to sell the fabric at lower price, incurring losses. Hence, the market is weak. It will take two or three weeks to get a clear picture, he said. Till then the job working powerloom units will remain shut, except those who have stock of yarn.
21 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cargo flight to Dubai soon||Coimbatore, which has not had a direct flight to Dubai so far, is expected to get direct flight connectivity to Dubai for cargo movement. Sources said FlyDubai is looking at operating its first flight between Coimbatore and Dubai soon and it will be only for cargo. This is an opportunity for exporters of flowers, fruits, vegetables, and essential products from the western districts. So far, the cargo from here to Dubai was transported to Sharjah and from there to Dubai. Now that there will be a direct flight, the cargo movement to the west Asian countries fill get a boost, the sources said. Perishables There is a large volume of perishables that are sent from Coimbatore to Dubai. The first flight, expected before the weekend, is likely to carry nearly 14 tonnes of cargo from here. The volume will go up in the future, when FlyDubai may increase its frequency for cargo movement, the sources added.
21 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner reviews progress of projects||Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath on Wednesday reviewed the progress in various projects in South Zone, said a release from the civic body. He visited the site where the Corporation was constructing a new bus stand at Rs. 168 crore in Vellalore. He also reviewed the progress in laying underground sewer lines in Kovaipudur and Kuniamuthur and the lake development work under Smart Cities Mission on the Muthannan tank bund. Senior Corporation engineers accompanied the Commissioner, the release said.
21 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance works at Kurichi and Seeranaickenpalayam substations, there will be no power supply on May 21 between 9 a.m and 2 p.m. in the following areas:  Kurichi substation: Sidco, Podanur, Kurichi, Housing Unit, M M Patty (part), Sundarapuram, Eachanari and L.I.C Colony.  Seeranaickenpalayam substation: Seeranaickenpalayam, P.N. Pudur, Vadavalli, Vedapatty, Veerakeralam, Telungupalayam, Velandipalayam, Saibaba Colony, Sundapalayam (Part) and Selvapuram.
21 May 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||1,600 migrant workers from Dindigul, Theni districts leave for Bihar in special train||About 1,600 migrant workers from Dindigul and Theni districts left by a special train for Bihar from the railway junction here on Wednesday. Collector M. Vijayalakshmi flagged off the train at 2 p.m. Elaborate arrangements were made by officials for their departure. The passengers were provided with a kit containing bread, jam, biscuits and juice for their onward journey. According to a revenue official, 1,334 workers were employed in various parts of the district for many years. A majority of them spoke fluent Tamil. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, they became jobless. However, they were given free rice, wheat, and other essentials like vegetables and oil for cooking purposes. Special buses In neighbouring Theni, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said that 256 workers were seen off in special buses from Periakulam to Dindigul railway station. The migrant workers, who wished to go back to their native places in Bihar, were made to assemble at a private college campus. According to officials, the workers were employed in private spinning mills and engaged by private contractors in road and railway projects at Bodi, Cumbum, Andipatti, Theni and Periakulam. After verification of their identity and approval from the home State, the workers left amidst supervision of senior officers. Superintendent of Police E. Sai Charan Tejaswi and other officers were present. Two days ago, 180 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh living in the district left by bus to Madurai, from where they boarded a special train to their State, officials said.
21 May 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||FOP member murdered||A 21-year-old ‘Friends Of Police’ member, M. Naveendran, of Kamarajapuram was allegedly murdered by a motorist of the same locality on Tuesday. Police said Naveendran, worked as JCP operator. In the wake of the pandemic, he was assisting local police in maintenance of law and order and implementation of curfew norms such as physical distancing and wearing face masks. On Tuesday night, Naveendran and his friends stopped a biker. When the FOP was advising him to stay indoors, the biker allegedly stabbed him with a weapon and fled. Naveendran died on the spot.  As news of the death spread, relatives of the victim demanded that the police take action. Following this, police picked up the suspect and identified him as Sheik Mohamed. Further investigation is on.
21 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,400 workers leave for U.P. from Erode||A total of 1,464 migrant workers left for Uttar Pradesh in a ‘Shramik’ special train from the Erode Railway Station here on Wednesday evening. Following lockdown, migrant workers in the district wished to return to their native places and a total of 17,000 workers had registered with the district administration. A total of 1,464 workers boarded the train that left for Mau district in Uttar Pradesh at around 9 p.m. Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan, District Revenue Officer S. Kavitha, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, revenue officials and others were present. Likewise, another 247 workers went sent to Coimbatore from where they boarded a special train for Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Kathiravan said that 2,400 persons from other States had arrived in the district and all tested negative for COVID-19 and were sent home. He said that 3,400 persons from other districts had arrived in the district and they were being tested. Likewise, 1,401 persons, including 82 children, boarded a special train to Uttar Pradesh from Salem Railway Junction on Wednesday evening. Also, another 415 persons comprising 201 persons from Salem district, 36 from Kallakurichi, 51 from Perambalur and 127 persons from Villupuram boarded another train at Salem that left for Madhya Pradesh.
21 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Powerlooms start functioning in Erode||Complying with the restrictions imposed by the district administration, including operational of looms from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., powerlooms that is a major industry providing job opportunities to people, started functioning from Tuesday. There are over 55,000 units functioning in the district. Due to outbreak of COVID-19 in the district, all the units that employ over a lakh people, were closed on March 20. Members of Erode Vhisaithari Urimayalargal Sangam (Erode Powerloom Owners Association) have been urging the administration to allow them to reopen the units as they are unable to pay wages to the workers. The administration laid down various norms like timings for operation of looms, owners should not employ workers from other districts, ensure personal distancing while working and workers should wear mask. Agreeing to the norms, over 25,000 units in Veerappanchatiram, Lakkapuram, Chithode, Gangapuram and other areas started functioning from Tuesday. Collector C. Kathiravan inspected a powerloom unit in Lakkapuram and asked owners to follow the norms.
21 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Seven arrested for murder||The Modakurichi police have arrested seven men in connection with the murder of a daily wager here. The deceased was identified as M. Prabhu (36), a native of Dindigul district. Prabhu was residing at Muthugoundanpalayam village in Modakurichi Taluk with his wife Sangeetha (30) and three children. He left home on May 16 and two days later, his body was found in a well outside the village. Accusing seven men of murdering her husband, Sangeetha lodged a complaint with the police. The police picked up Vetrivel, Siva, Manikandan, Jegadeesan, Ajith, Satheesh and Sugapriyan. Vetrivel told the police that Prabhu frequently entered into altercation with villagers after consuming alcohol. On May 17, Prabhu beat Vetrivel’s father Annadurai. Following this, Vetrivel and his six others murdered Prabhu and threw the body into the well. All the seven men were arrested.
21 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||First batch of U.P. workers in Hosur to board train today||The first batch of 1,500 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh will board train from the Hosur Railway Station at 8 a.m. on Thursday. This will be the first such train commissioned to ferry migrant workers from Hosur in Krishnagiri district, with significant number of them working in industrial estates and the hundreds of granite quarries and factories. The Hosur revenue administration is working the night arranging food for the workers. “There are approximately 1,500 migrant workers, who have registered for the Uttar Pradesh train,” said Hosur Tahsildar G.Venkatesan, who was overseeing the arrangements. The workers had started to arrive at the government arts college in Hosur late evening, after the timing of the train was advanced from evening to morning. “We will start screening through the night, and food including chappathis are being prepared for the workers for their two-day journey,” said Mr.Venkatesan. “We are prepared to accommodate more number of workers if they land at the venue, even if they have not registered. We can do spot registration on the website.” Explaining the process, the tahsildar said, registration data is shared with the respective district administration and the data is sent to the respective state chief secretaries. “We speed up the process. But the process hinges on the speed of the destination states,” Mr.Venkatesan clarified. By the time the trains arrive there, their quarantine facilities will have to be ready. This is different from e-pass, which is issued by the destination State and the applicant arranges for their own vehicle for travel, said the Tahsildar. In the meantime, Denkanikottai tahsildar K.Ramachandran was also organising the transport of Uttar Pradesh workers to a wedding hall in Denkanikottai from where they were being taken to Hosur to catch the train to their home State. There are over 59 workers belonging to Bastar in Chattisgarh working in various granite quarries in Kelamangalam in Denkanikottai. The workers are registering to leave for their State. “Even if they are not able to register, we will take down their list and register for them,” Mr.Ramachandran said.
21 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cradle Baby scheme almost faded from public memory||The recent case of yet another female infanticide in Madurai district has brought to focus a lack of awareness of the once popular Cradle Baby scheme. A man, along with his mother, was arrested in Sholavandan for murdering his four-day-old baby girl on Sunday - the second case of female infanticide in two months. The first case was reported in Usilampatti where a 31-day-old baby girl was killed by her parents and grandfather in March. Tamil Nadu government introduced the Cradle Baby scheme in 1992 under which female babies who could otherwise be killed by their parents and relatives are given away to the State for care and adoption. Cradles were provided at government hospitals, Primary Health Centres and private nursing homes to receive unwanted newborns who would be given for legal adoption. However, over time, the scheme has gone out of public memory. Under the scheme, four babies were sent to two approved adoption centres in Madurai district since January this year. A source from the District Child Protection Unit says the four babies were, however, not placed in the cradles of any hospital but abandoned on the roadside and parks. Valli Annamalai, national vice-president of Indian Council for Child Welfare, says the vigour of the Cradle Baby scheme has fizzled out over the years. “Female infanticide cases vastly came down after 2001. So non-governmental organisations and the State government diverted their attention to more pressing issues,” Ms. Valli says. Child psychologist and activist Rani Chakravarthy says once the issue moved away from the limelight, the Cradle Baby scheme was forgotten by one and all. “Those who put their babies in the cradle usually do so surreptitiously to save face. Usually the child dumped into the cradle is either the second, third or fourth girl child of the family. Or it can be born out of wedlock or illicit relationship,” she says. If the parents feel there is no scope for confidentiality while putting the baby in the cradle, they tend to kill or sell it. “They also want to avoid the embarrassment of the ‘cradle baby’ tracing its roots one day in future to see the ditched parents,” she says. There were seven cases in Madurai district so far this year where parents chose to surrender their babies instead of opting for the Cradle Baby scheme, says Child Welfare Committee member B. Pandiaraja. However, Dr. Chakravarthy says increasing the number of cradles in a discreet manner and creating awareness of the scheme will bring down the number of infanticide cases.
21 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Catering licensees seek fee refund||All Railway IRCTC Catering Licensee Organisation has sought refund of licence fee for stalls on railway premises for the COVID-19 lockdown period to help licensees tide over their loss and pay wages to their employees. In a memorandum submitted to the General Manager of Southern Railway, its president M. Mohammed Akbar said passenger train services had been suspended from March last week to June 30. “This has hit our business badly. Even after resumption of train services, we cannot expect normality in catering services and full passenger patronage,” Mr. Akbar said. The lockdown had resulted in huge financial loss for the licensees who had invested much in their business. They also had additional expenditure in the form of staff salaries, deterioration of stocked materials, time-expired raw materials and date-expired Rail Neer water bottles. The closure of stalls had also led to indirect losses in licence fee and other taxes. As the licensee pay their annual licence fee at the start of the year, it must be proportionately refunded for the lockdown period. “This fee can be paid by the licensee at the time of extending the licence period to compensate for the lockdown period. This measure will facilitate the catering licensee to tide over the financial crunch,” he said. Similarly, the railway can collect any late payment interest and fine amount, if any, while extending the licence period. Security deposit Security deposit must be refunded to those licensees who had completed their licence period. While Madurai and Tiruchi railway divisions had made some refunds recently, other divisions have not done so, Mr. Akbar said. Earnest Money Deposit Another major demand was the refund of earnest money deposit (EMD) paid by unsuccessful bidders in the catering tenders. “Each stall will have a minimum of 10 unsuccessful bidders and their EMDs have not been refunded for nearly three years. This alone would run into few crores,” Mr. Akbar added. Southern Railway has Chennai, Tiruchi, Madurai, Salem, Palakkad and Thiruvananthapuram divisions.
21 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Testing times are not yet over||Class 12 students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) stream are relying on e-classes and tutorials to score well in the two yet-to-be-conducted papers among Computer Science, Informatics Practises, Business Studies and Geography - mainly optional subjects. Subha Manikandan, Principal of Mahatma CBSE School in Madurai, says though students could have prepared well, they would have lost their tempo. “The last exam was conducted two-and-a- half months ago, when they were attentive and eager to complete the exams at one go. After the lockdown, they are just revising the same concepts umpteen times. However, teachers regularly engage them through online classes and clear their doubts,” she says. S. Haritha of Keswick Public School says since the lockdown began, teachers from schools across the country have flooded the internet with notes and lessons. “I understand better through videos than notes as the concepts are broken down for easy comprehension,” she says. Having revised so much, she plans to prepare for the exam again only by June 15. M. Karthikeyan, who will take the Computer Science exam on July 7, says the choices on the net are vast. “Rote learning never helps, but a good grasp of the subject does. One month is all it takes for a good revision before the exam,” he says. M. Srilatha, Karthikeyan's mother, says most students did not take a complete break from their studies and were instead anxious about when the entire ordeal would be over. “They couldn’t quite give themselves a complete break during the lockdown. Of course they should not write their exams during the pandemic, but they are stressed because of the uncertainly of the exam schedule,” she says. P. Selvaraj, Principal, Kendriya Vidyalaya-Narimedu, says teachers are only a call away. “It will not be much of a hassle to complete the exams,” he says.
21 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister stresses caution in coastal areas||Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management R.B. Udayakumar said as per India Meteorological Department (IMD) warning, coastal districts, particularly those along the Gulf of Mannar and Kanniyakumari sea stretch, must be cautious during Cyclone Amphan’s landfall, and fishermen should stay away from the sea. Addressing a press meet here on Wednesday, he said Tamil Nadu would not have any major impact but officials would be monitoring the situation constantly. “We expect lightning and rainfall in the districts lining the Western Ghats – Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Tiruppur, Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli and Kanniyakumari,” he said. He said although the cyclone’s severity had reduced, telephone lines, advertisement boards, huts and old buildings could be affected. “We have undertaken measures to evacuate people,” he said. People must not leave their houses to take pictures or selfies in the rain. Speaking about the relaxation of norms during ‘lockdown 4’, Mr. Udayakumar said entrepreneurs would benefit as all industries could function in rural areas, except in containment zones, with 50% capacity. Although e-passes were still required for those crossing district borders, there was no need for people to have government-issued passes within the district, he said. He said the State government was working towards ensuring safe return of migrant workers to their States. “We are also making all efforts to bring Tamils from other States,” he said.
21 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of dugong found near shore||The carcass of a three year-old Dugong was found floating near Sethukarai shore on Wednesday. Local fishermen informed forest officials of Kilakarai division. Kilakarai region is part of the Gulf of Mannar (GoM) marine habitat. The last Dugong death occurred around a year ago in the division. Led by Forest Range Officer S. Sikkandar Batcha, the officials drew the carcass to the shore and conducted a postmortem. Mr. Batcha said the mammal was 2.2 m long and 1.6 m wide. It had a circumference of 3.3 m. There were minor injuries on the face. Although the cause of death was yet to be ascertained, the animal could have hit a rock or a vessel. It was buried along the seashore. The estimated population of Dugongs in the GoM region and Palk Bay habitat is estimated to be around 140. In December last, a Dugong died after colliding against a boat in Anandapuram seashore near Azhagankulam.
21 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Report sought on PPEs||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to file a comprehensive status report on the distribution of PPE to non-medical front line workers. The petitioner had said that non-medical frontline workers were seen without PPE, except for masks.
21 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water shortage looms large||The Nagapattinam Municipality has warned residents that water pilferage from drinking water connections with motors will result in disconnection of supply and imposition of fine of Rs. 5,000 for residential unit and Rs. 10,000 for commercial establishment in view of acute drinking water shortage in summer, accentuated by saline water incursion from seashore. It said that water supply re-connection will warrant payment of another Rs. 1,000 and water would be supplied only after summer season for those facing action. In fact, the accrual from the Kollidam Combined Drinking Water Scheme has been decreasing. Households and commercial establishments were instructed to ensure establishment of rainwater harvesting structures and their proper maintenance to avoid closure of borewells. On Monday, Collector Praveen P. Nair inspected collection wells, main pumping stations and distribution lines under the water scheme. Though the district is drained by the Kollidam and the Cauvery in the north, the Virasolanar, the Uppanar in the central part and Arasalar, Tirumalairajanar, Vettar, Vedaranyam canal and Harichandra Nadi in the south, several studies have established that artificial recharge of groundwater is not an easy task. The eastern part of the district being tail-end of the canal system, the inferior quality of groundwater has caused setback to agriculture and lands are increasingly being used for aquaculture. The discharge of untreated waste water of aquaculture farms and chemicals used for growing prawns are affecting the shallow fresh water pockets in sand dune areas. Also, the rise in sea level affects the inland through backwater channel causing salinity of the water table, research studies have stated. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board that is monitoring the quality of water at more than 16 places in Cauvery river bed has found the TDS and chloride contents of water to be in excess of the standard value because of the influence of backwater.
21 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Police gesture to rescued woman||Superintendent of Police P.Ve. Arun Sakthi Kumar christened a male baby after S.S. Srripathi. He did so in deference to the wish of the kid’s visually challenged mother Savithri, 32, of Dharapuram who was rescued by the police and volunteers in February here. She was abandoned by her husband Selvaraj when she was eight months pregnant. She managed to board a bus to Tiruchi and from thereon to Pudukottai on February 11. A co-passenger led Savithri to a blind school and the teacher of the institution informed documentary film maker Selva, who was running a group of volunteers called ‘Thunaivan.’ Mr. Selva brought the woman to the SP who asked the Anti-Child Trafficking Unit Inspector S. Lakshmi to accommodate her in a home. She was accommodated in a home at Gandharvakottai where ‘valaikappu’ was performed later. The SP said arrangements were made for taking the woman in an ambulance for delivery at Thanjavur when prohibitory orders were in place to check the spread of COVID-19. The woman delivered a baby on March 24. The baby and the mother were under observation at the hospital and discharged thereafter. It was a joint effort of the police and volunteers in rescue of the woman and in ensuring her safe delivery and well-being. Savithri has been put in a home at Pudukottai and the child is being taken care of by Mr. Selva engaging a caretaker. Savithri wanted the officer to name the child. The day for naming the child was fixed on May 13 and the kid along with its mother was brought to the SP office. It was on that day that the Chief Minister’s conference with Collectors and SPs was scheduled. Efforts were now on to unite the woman and the child with her relatives in Coimbatore, he added.
21 May 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in accident||Two youth – Sultan Syed Ibrahim, 21, of East Street and his friend Afrideen, 21, of Salai Street in Keelakarai – were killed in a road accident at Thonipalam near Tiruppulani in the early hours of Wednesday, when the bike hit a fertilizer-laden lorry coming in the opposite direction. Police said the duo had been to Ramanathapuram where Afrideen was staying in Vaigai Nagar. They came in the bike two days ago and returned home in the small hours. Sultan was said to be riding the bike. As they approached Thiruppulani, the accident occurred in which both of them died on the spot. Lorry driver Sorimuthu, 28, of Pudukottai district was arrested.
21 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Quarantined patients order food delivery to Salem GH||It was a temptation they could not resist. Four patients who were quarantined at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital ordered biriyani on an online food delivery application. However, the delivery was stopped just before the delivery agent stepped into the COVID-19 ward area at the hospital. As on Tuesday, 22 patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital for COVID-19. The patients had travelled to Salem from hotspots within the State and from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. According to hospital authorities, the patients are provided with a vegetarian diet, and eggs, to improve their immunity against the COVID-19 disease. However, four quarantined patients who had access to their mobile phones had ordered food they were craving for - chicken biriyani and some tandoori side dish - through the app, for delivery to the hospital on Tuesday. The delivery person, who was unaware that the location provided was the quarantine premises in the hospital, followed the instructions on his mobile phone. However, he was stopped by authorities and doctors before entering the premises. Doctors turned away the delivery man and enquired with the patients. They were advised to not make such food delivery orders and stick to the diet provided by the hospital. Hospital authorities said that a few persons had done this hoping such acts would help them get discharged from the hospital.
21 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||3 detained under Goondas Act||Three persons, who were arrested for desecrating the statue of former Chief Minister K. Kamaraj in Omalur in an inebriated condition on May 7 were detained under the Goondas Act on Wednesday. The arrested were E. Aanji alias Suganeswaran, A. Aravind and G. Somu alias Vetrivel, all belonging to Adi Dravidar Street in Thekkampatti. Following recommendation, City Police Commissioner T. Senthilkumar invoked provisions of the Act and ordered their detention.
21 May 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A 53-year-old man, P. Narayanan, was hacked to death outside his house in Munees Nagar under Maraneri police station limits here on Wednesday. The victim came out of his house after there was a knock on his door around 4.30 a.m. As soon as he opened the door, the assailants pounced upon him and hacked him to death. Narayanan, who runs a two-wheeler workshop in the town, recently reprimanded a local man after he quarreled with his brother-in-law. Police suspect that this incident could have led to the murder.
21 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Now, from Colombo||As part of its Operation Samudra Setu, INS Jalashwa will repatriate 700 Indians stranded in Sri Lanka to this port town on June 2. A total of 1,200 Indians are stranded in the island nation due to lockdown in the wake of the epidemic. INS Jalashwa, which rescued 658 Indians stranded in Maldivian capital of Male earlier this month, will leave for Colombo from Kochi to bring 700 of them back. Two special flights will also be operated from the Sri Lankan capital to Mumbai and Bengaluru. Iimmigration facilities that were set up at the port when a mini cruise liner was briefly operated between Thoothukudi and Colombo would be revived and used to clear the Indians landing here on June 2 after a 10-hour voyage. Upon immigration clearance, they will be allowed to leave for their States where COVID–19 screening would be done, sources here said.
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Needle left in baby’s thigh, allege parents||Parents of a newborn claimed a needle was left inside the baby’s thigh when she was given vaccination soon after birth. They are said to have found the needle after over 70 days and rushed to file a complaint at the Manapparai Government Hospital where the baby was born. Thamaraichelvi, wife of P. Pichandavar of Maravanur was admitted to the labour ward. On March 9, she gave birth to a baby. Hours later, the infant was given an injection on her thigh and the doctor told us it was a vaccine, said Mr. Pichandavar. As the baby suffered from jaundice and the wife was anaemic, they were discharged seven days later. On returning home, the baby continued to cry non-stop, the parents said. “She was suffering from fever and would cry all the time and did not even sleep well,” he said. They took the baby to a Primary Healthcare Centre at Maravanur on March 25 when they noticed that the thigh where the vaccine was administered was swollen. The nurses at the PHC said that the fever, swelling and crying was normal after a vaccination. They asked us not to worry, he said. On April 25, the couple took the baby to the Maravanur PHC again for second vaccination as they were unable to travel to the Manapparai GH during the lockdown. Nurses ignored the swelling and said that the second injection would be administered on the other thigh. “We asked them to check the swelling but they ignored our pleas,” he said. On Wednesday, the couple was bathing the baby when Tamaraichelvi squeezed the swelling and saw a needle protruding from the baby’s skin, said Mr. Pichandavar. “When we put some more pressure, a half-an-inch long needle came out of her thigh. The baby writhed in pain so that we rushed her to the Manapparai GH,” he said. At the GH, officials asked for a written complaint. They then asked us to go to Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for treatment, he added. The couple and the baby were later sent to Tiruchi on a ‘108’ ambulance. Doctors at the Manapparai GH said that an internal inquiry into the matter has been ordered. “The family did not come to GH even once after they were discharged in March. If a needle was in the body for over 70 days, it would have caused severe infection. However, an investigation is on,” a senior official at the Manapparai GH said.
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Theatre artistes in dire straits||The extended lockdown has left stage and folk artistes in the lurch. While many ‘sabhas’ or drama troupes run by amateur artistes have managed to stay afloat with their savings and part-time employees, professional actors and technicians in Tamil Nadu’s once-vibrant performing arts sector have been badly hit. While a few drama companies have tried to adapt to the new situation by uploading short films or recorded versions of their dramas online, it doesn’t work as a long-term solution, say veterans.“Dramas are about personal interaction,” points out N. Sekhar, honorary secretary of Tiruchi’s Rasika Ranjana Sabha. The sabha hosts around 25 plays from companies around the State every year, but the lockdown has put paid to all that in 2020. “We haven’t had a programme since end-March, and while we will try our best to host our annual music competition in June, the accommodation and travel rules for the contestants are still in doubt. I feel it will be December before we return to work,” he said. The sudden poverty has affected folk artistes in rural areas. “Summer is a busy time for us, and most of us rely on our earnings from February to May to sustain us for the rest of the year. The pandemic has hit us in the peak of our schedule. We don’t know how to overcome the problem,” said M S Mohamed Masthan, general secretary, Tiruchi District Nadaga Nadigar Sangam. “People are unable to pay their rent because their income has dried up; those with children and dependants with medical needs are suffering. So while we have many guidelines on combating the virus, we don’t know how to fight our penury,” he rued. He estimates that around 40,000 people involved in stage dramas, folk dances and temple-related festival programmes in the district were affected by the lockdown. “Certified artistes are being given a grant of Rs. 1000 by the government but those above the age of 60 are not eligible for it. How can it be justified,” he asked. For artiste Shanthisri, who gave up her career as a staff nurse to pursue theatre, the lockdown has been a steep learning curve. “I think we have realised that it isn’t wise to depend on theatre for existence,” she said. A classical dancer, she belongs to the T.T. Sri La Sri Sankadaras Swamigal Iyal Isai Nadaga Sangam in Pudukottai, which specialises in plays with historical or mythological themes. Troupes dedicated to Sankadaras Swamigal, are spread across Dindigul, Madurai, Manapparai, Karaikudi, Pudukottai and Aranthangi, performing Swamigal’s plays such as ‘Valli-Thirumanam’, ‘Harishchandra’, ‘Arjuna Mayanakandam’, ‘Pavalakodi’, ‘Sathyavan-Savithri’ and ‘Kattabomman’. These are called ‘special’ dramas, and are usually held at night, following harvest festivals in villages. “An actor performs a role for at least 200 times in a year. Each appearance fetches Rs. 2000 to 3000 per performance, which forms our savings. We have lost this kitty this year,” Ms. Shanthisri said. M.P. Singaravelan, Sankaradas Swamigal Nataka Sangam, Manapparai, and deputy head of the Rural Drama Artistes Association, says actors cannot hope to recoup their losses soon after the lockdown is lifted. “We cannot re-perform dramas that we have missed, because they are held on auspicious days of the year, which are related to specific festivals. What is worse is that we are not even being considered for roles in public service announcements by the Government for COVID-19 awareness messages. They are getting the police to act instead,” he said. Facing destitution after portraying grand roles on stage is a bitter pill for many thespians, said Vanathi Kathir of Tamil Nadu Professional Drama Directors and Actors Association. “Many people have donated monthly provisions and money to laid-off artistes. But it is difficult to accept charity when you have been a celebrity,” he said. “The lockdown has simply turned our life upside down.”
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||24 coaches dispatched||After resuming operations on May 7 with 33% of employees, the Golden Rock Railway Workshop in Tiruchi has dispatched 24 broad gauge passenger coaches, including two air-conditioned compartments, after overhauling them. With the workshop functioning with 50% of its workforce from Wednesday, it has planned to dispatch 50 more passenger coaches by this month-end. The workshop which remained shut due to the lockdown since late March re-opened early this month adhering to due precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram said on Wednesday that the workshop had begun to function with 50 % of its total employee strength from Wednesday consequent to further relaxations. The workshop would function in single shift with revised timings from 8 a.m. to 5.30 p.m and night shift has not been permitted. Engaged in core activities of periodic overhaul of passenger coaches and broad gauge diesel locomotives besides manufacturing container wagons for the Container Corporation of India, the workshop has a total workforce exceeding 4,000. He said the workshop would be dispatching six broad gauge diesel locomotives by this month-end to the Southern Railway. The workshop had been dispatching over 1,000 passenger coaches and more than 100 diesel locomotives every year before the lockdown was announced. Simultaneously, intermediate overhaul of bogies were also under way at the workshop which has over 30 units functioning within its premises. Core activities have resumed by ensuring personal distancing among employees to whom masks have been given, he said. Thermal scanning of employees was being done at the entrances and disinfectants was being sprayed twice a day inside the establishment. Disinfectant was being sprayed on freight vehicles entering the workshop.
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||328 from Delhi test negative for virus||All the 328 passengers, who returned to Tiruchi in a Shramik special train from New Delhi on Monday, have tested negative for COVID-19 and were sent to their hometowns in special buses arranged by the district administration on Wednesday. Of the 328, 43 hailed from Tiruchi while the rest belonged to 24 other districts including Erode, Karur and Dharmapuri, officials said. All of them had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in New Delhi and were stranded there. The passengers who travelled on May 18 had been accommodated at a private college which had been converted into a quarantine facility. After test results determined that the travellers were all negative for COVID-19, preparations to send them home were made and officials in the districts concerned were informed of their arrivals. All of them have been asked to self-isolate themselves for at least 14 days. Meanwhile, seven patients, six from Pudukottai and one from Thanjavur, tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday while 16 people, hailing from Ariyalur and Perambalur districts recovered from the infection and returned home. In Pudukottai, six patients, all returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for the infection here. Of the six, five hail from Pudukottai district while the sixth patient arrived at Pudukottai but originally hails from Sivaganga. The patients have been admitted to the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Hospital in Pudukottai. With this, the hospital has seven active cases. Officials here said that 3,179 people were received by the district administration over the last few weeks from other States. The people were immediately kept in home quarantine. A total of 179 people are being monitored at 23 quarantine facilities. In Thanjavur, a woman staff member of a court tested positive for COVID-19 infection on Wednesday. According to sources, the samples taken from her during the special camp for judicial service personnel turned out positive. She was admitted at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, 16 people hailing from Ariyalur and Perambalur districts were discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Wednesday. The patients who had recovered were sent to their respective hometowns in ‘108’ ambulances. As on Wednesday, nine patients, two from Tiruchi and seven from Perambalur, are undergoing treatment at the MGMGH and will soon be discharged, officials here said. In Ariyalur district, only seven active cases remain, among the total 355 positive cases. The quarantine facility centre and the COVID Care centres are empty as all patients have been discharged. However, 35 new samples, two from the Ariyalur GH and 33 from various Primary Healthcare Centres were lifted and have been sent to the Tiruchi K.A.P Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing.
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lecture programme||There are more participants to the weekly meetings conducted by the Institution of Engineers (I),Tiruchi Local Centre through video conferencing mode, in view of the lockdown. The last three meetings witnessed participation of members from beyond the Tiruchi region and from other States. With the support of Tamil Nadu State Centre, the IEI Tiruchi Local Centre has been conducting online lecture on the link in Webex. On an average, the weekly meeting conducted on Tuesdays used to attract 25 participants. The number of participants has 100 after switching over to the online mode. Members view the proceedings through youtube live streaming, N Kumaresan, Chairman, IEI TLC, said. Speaking on ‘Challenges and contributions of Engineering Institutions to combat COVID - 19’ at one of the webinars earlier this month, Mini Shaji Thomas, Director,NIT,Tiruchi, explained the efforts taken by residential engineering institutions to ensure health, safety and security of students, faculty and staff; continuation of academic activities on face to face/digital mode; and conduct examinations and declare results in time for outgoing students for placements/higher studies, research continuity, internship, training and admissions to 2020-21 sessions. The NIT-T has prepared a short-term strategic plan to handle the situation in post Covid 19 scenario. The weekly lecture programme will continue to be conducted through video-conference until normalcy is restored and social gathering is permitted by government, Anand, hon. secretary, Tiruchi Local Centre, said.
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Employees plan protest||Thousands of civilian employees in Ordnance Factory and the Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project Factory will send letters to the Prime Minister and Defence Minister against corporatisation of ordnance factories on May 21. On May 22, members of All India Defence Employee Federation unions will wear black badge/ ribbon to express their disapproval of the increase in working hours and freezing / scrapping of labour laws. The unions are opposed to the arbitrary decision to convert the 219-year-old state-owned Indian Ordnance Factories into a Corporation and listing it in the share market. They fear that corporatisation will affect their service conditions and future, and emphasise that the ordnance factories need to function as a government organisation in the interest of national security and defence preparedness. They intend to convey through the protests their anguish over the government decision to abolish 9,304 posts in Military Engineering Services and abolition of posts in other army units, denial of National Pension Scheme for defence employees, and the move to bring in foreign direct investment in defence. Denial of fixed term employment takes away job security and reservation in government jobs The first phase of programme opposing corporatisation of ordnance factories involving participation of 82,000 employees have been formulated by the AIDEF, Indian National Defence Workers Federation, and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, C. Srikumar, general secretary of AIDEF said. Depending on developments, the protest will be intensified by employees of 41 ordnance factories, he said.
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi switches to online mode||Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi (IIM-Tiruchi) will be switching over to online mode for conducting its executive MBA and regular MBA programmes in the upcoming semester. Plans have been devised for conduct of online examination under remote proctoring and for preparing e-books. The e-learning centres of the institute will be fully functional in the next two weeks tentatively to start the executive programme (PGPBM). ‘The institute is preparing to take up online classes if required for regular PGPM and PGPM-HR incoming batches. The PGPM-HR programme will be launched by the Institute for the first time this academic year,’ Upam Pushpak Makhecha, Chairperson, Media Relations, said in a press release. Roping in industry experts IIM Tiruchi Alumni Chapter has initiated knowledge sharing sessions through webinars for students. The session on ‘Product benchmarking’ was held on May 9 by Mark Limage, MD, Munro Associates (UK) Ltd. The next on ‘The Growth Story of Amrutanjan’ by Sambhu Sivalenka, Chairman and MD, Amrutanjan Health Care Ltd. will take place on May 23. As a part of Unnat Bharat Abhiyan activities, IIM Tiruch recently organised a camp to create awareness of the COVID-19 virus in Suriyur, the adopted village, through demonstrations on social distancing, wearing masks and proper disposal, correct method of washing with soap and effective use of sanitiser. Masks were distributed to villagers and sanitisers were handed over to the panchayat cleaning staff for their safety and well-being. Shanmugasundaram, president of Suriyur panchayat, presided. Elixir, the Social Responsibility Club of IIM Trichy, distributed funds to Renaissance Malarchi Special School, Tiruchi and Karunai Kangal, Old Age Home, Tiruchi. The club has tied up with Donatekart, WWF India, India Co-win Action Network, and CSR clubs of other IIMs, collectively known as Robin Hood Army for volunteering and relief related activities.
21 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of electronic goods yet to pick up||Mobile phone and electronic goods showrooms in the city have reported dull sales upon resumption of business over the last few days, following relaxations in the lockdown norms. Big and small showrooms for electronics including mobile phones opened for the public after nearly 50 days on Monday, but sales have been lukewarm, say shop owners. The summer season is usually a period for a spike in sales, especially for gifting, a mobile phone shopkeeper in Thillai Nagar said. With children graduating from school and go to college, parents would purchase mobile phones for them. Sales of other devices would also go up, R. Manohar, an electronics shop owner said. A large mobile sales showroom in Shastri Road would see at least 40 customers on an average day. In the last three days, however, only three or four have entered, a salesperson at the store said. “Even stocks are low. We do not have too many models on hand and do not expect new deliveries soon,” he said. Meanwhile, service centres too rued that the spare parts are hard to come by. “We would usually place orders for spare parts which would come from Bengaluru or Chennai. With transport hit, it is difficult to access,” said R. Vinoth, service personnel in Woraiyur. Customers visiting service centres are comparably high, he said. “There are people who need their refrigerators, microwave oven repaired and had to wait till the services opened. We are mostly tending to them,” said P. Arun, a service person.
21 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New lake to be created by PWD near Valliyoor||Public Works Department officials on Wednesday inspected a site at Therkku Karunkulam near Valliyoor to explore the possibilities of creating a sprawling lake ( kanmaai ) for storage of rainwater and supply of drinking water to 15 village panchayats in the region. It may be recalled that after Valliyoor Periyakulam, which gets water from Kodumudiyar dam on the foothills of Western Ghats, was desilted and given a facelift, the water stored in the kanmaai improved groundwater table around Valliyoor, which was reeling under acute drinking water crisis during summer till two decades ago. The waterbody also meets the irrigation needs of farmers having ranches in the area. The PWD has planned to create a similar kanmaai near Therkku Karunkulam following an announcement made by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in the Assembly in response to an appeal from Radhpuram MLA I.S. Inbadurai. The PWD has zeroed in on the spot and also plans to acquire additional land around it to ensure huge storage because wild streams flowing from the Western Ghats during the monsoon converge there. If water can be stored in the proposed kanmaai , it can be converted into a source for supply of drinking water to 15 village panchayats including Pazhavoor, Chettikulam, Lebbaikudiyiruppu, Aavaraikulam, Vadakkankulam, Karunkulam, Chidambarapuram – Yakobupuram and Kaavalkinaru. Drinking water crisis is a major issue in these places. “Though all village panchayats have been included in the Tamirabharani Combined Drinking Water Scheme, sufficient supply to these rural local bodies cannot be ensured. Hence, we are planning to create a lake at Therkku Karunkulam from where drinking water can be supplied,” said PWD officials, who surveyed the proposed site. Led by PWD Executive Engineer Padma, the officials inspected the proposed site during a preliminary visit conducted on Wednesday along with Mr. Inbadurai. “Following a soil test to be conducted in the area soon, the extent of the water body and other project specifications will get finalised,” the officials added.  Feasibility study  PWD officials inspect proposed site at Therkku Karunkulam Plan to store streams of water flowing down the Western Ghats during monsoon  Soil tests to be soon conducted in the area Project aims to supply drinking water to 15 village panchayats and for irrigation
21 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Hardly a sweet time||Be it personal or business, any trip to Tirunelveli will be incomplete without buying the famous halwa tagged to its name. The mouthwatering confection made from wheat, sugar and ghee is a huge revenue spinner as tourists and other visitors make it a point to fill their baggage with at least a few kg of the translucent reddish-brown slabs before leaving the city. Not surprisingly, huge crowds can be seen milling around leading sweet shops located near the railway junction. Like other MSME units, these traditional establishments too have been badly hit by the raging pandemic. After the lockdown came into effect, they had to down shutters. Now, with loosening of restrictions, the shop owners hope to resume business. But they also realise it is not going to be easy. “Business is yet to pick up as the lockdown has badly hit everyone, more importantly, everyone’s income,” says Balasubramanian, a sweet shop owner from Palayamkottai. Also, with the continuing ban on public transport, the ‘floating population’ — tourists and visitors — are yet to come back. “So, our business will be back on track only after transport is restored,” he points out. For now, local fans are expected to keep business afloat. In fact, many senior citizens and retired government employees, who are not diabetics, can be seen ending their evening walk at the halwa shops. After a 58-day hiatus, they can be seen in front of the shops again enjoying their favourite sweet and savoury along with friends, even as their owners await regular customers. However, not all are despairing. Hari Singh, owner of the popular Iruttu Kadai , is a happy man. Instead of the usual long queues, he has customers coming in small groups now. “If customers wait in long queue in front of the shop, police and civic officials will ask them to maintain physical distancing,” he says. “And if our customers ignore the instruction, they will ask me to close down the shop.” Since he has reopened the shop after nearly two months, he thinks it makes better business sense to abide by the instructions of officials while also serving his customers.
21 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Relief for establishments covered under EPF||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation on Wednesday said that any minor delay in the deposit of contributions or administrative charges by EPF-covered establishments will not be treated as default. Such delays would usually attract penal charges. In a statement, Regional Provident Fund Commissioner–I Ganesh Kumar Jani said due to prolonged lockdown announced by the government to control the spread of COVID-19 and other disruptions due to the pandemic, establishments covered under EPF & MP Act, 1952 were distressed and unable to function normally and pay the statutory contributions in time. Considering the difficulty faced by the establishments in timely deposit of contributions or administrative charges due for any period during lockdown, the EPFO had decided that such delays due to operational or economic reasons shall not be treated as default and penal damages should not be levied for such delay. A circular had been issued to Field Offices of EPFO instructing them that no proceeding shall be initiated for levy of penal damages in such cases, which was available on home page of EPFO website. The aforesaid step shall ease the compliance norms for 6.50 lakh EPF-covered establishments and save them from liability on account of penal damages, Mr. Ganesh Kumar said in the statement.
21 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||More cases in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi||While Tirunelveli district recorded 16 new COVID–19 positive cases on Wednesday, all returnees from Maharashtra, Thoothukudi had 21 of the 22 new patients with the viral infection from the State. Of the 21 patients, five were from a family in Kayathar. Tenkasi had three patients, including two from Maharashtra, with the total number of patients going up to 75. Kanniyakumari did not add any new cases on Wednesday. In Madurai, nine persons who returned from Mumbai, including a few from the Dharavi cluster, tested positive. All the nine fresh cases were working in eateries in Mumbai. Eight of the nine persons had permanent residential addresses in Usilampatti. One was from Sedapatti. All of them had been sent to separate quarantine facilities, Collector T.G. Vinay said. He said there were no local cases reported on Wednesday. The number of active cases in the district stood at 62 – 38 in rural areas and 24 in Madurai Corporation limits. The Collector said there were 34 active containment zones in the district.  Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district reported six more positive cases, five of whom had returned from Maharastra. The number of positive cases went up to 61 and the number of active cases to 24. One of the positive cases was a 44-year-old man from Sivakasi. Official sources said he was admitted to Sivakasi Government Hospital on Monday for fever and cold. He was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai, where he tested positive.
21 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Mobile TB screening unit flagged off in Tiruppur||A mobile tuberculosis (TB) screening unit with digital X-ray machine was flagged off in Tiruppur on Wednesday. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan flagged off the van on the Collectorate premises in the presence of Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy, Deputy Director of Health Services K. Jegadeesh Kumar, a release said. The mobile X-ray van will test 40 to 50 persons in one day, said D. Dheenadayal, Deputy Director (Tuberculosis). Health Department personnel will engage in “verbal screening” in a given area, which involves inquiring residents experiencing symptoms of tuberculosis such as persistent coughs, fever and weight loss. Based on the verbal screening, the van will reach the particular area for tests, Dr. Dheenadayal said. Commencing its operations from Thursday, the van will first visit Perumanallur and then move on to Avinashi. The van will cover all parts of the district in the next one month, he said. Based on the X-ray tests, the sputum (mucous from lungs) samples collected from the patients will be sent to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, where the testing for tuberculosis will be done using the cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification test (CBNAAT) method. Disinfection The healthcare personnel in the van will take COVID-19 precautionary measures such as wearing masks and routine disinfection. “We will disinfect the vehicle three times a day,” Dr. Dheenadayal said. If patients subjected to X-ray test show COVID-19 symptoms, their swab and sputum samples will also be collected, he said.
21 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man held with illegally brewed liquor||Officers from the Dharapuram Prohibition Enforcement Wing (PEW) of Tiruppur District Police arrested a 47-year-old man on charges of possessing illegally brewed liquor near Kangeyam on Wednesday. Police said that S. Balan was caught with 10 litres of fermented wash in Malayampalayam during a raid conducted by the PEW. The accused was booked under provisions of Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and was remanded in judicial custody.
21 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Old bus stand in Tirupur to be demolished in 10 days||The demolition of old bus terminus by Tiruppur Corporation is expected to be completed in the next 10 days, an official said on Wednesday. The old bus terminus on Kamaraj Road will be renovated under the Smart Cities Mission at a cost of Rs. 38 crore within a period of two years. The demolition drive began earlier this week. A temporary bus terminus has been set up at Kovilvazhi and the TNSTC will decide on the allocation of buses to the new bus terminus on Perumanallur Road and the temporary bus terminus. The workers will be asked to follow the COVID-19 prevention guidelines, such as thermal scanning, personal distancing and wearing masks, he noted.
21 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Essentials distributed||The Nilgiris district administration distributed essential commodities to more than 240 people from tribal communities in Devarsholai in Gudalur and Vazhaithottam in Masinagudi on Tuesday. A release said that revenue officials were routinely visiting tribal hamlets, which are far away from the nearest towns to distribute supplies.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Airport ready to resume domestic flight services||Madurai airport is fully geared up to resume domestic flight operations with government-stipulated social distancing norms, said Airport Director S. Senthil Valavan. The union Government has announced that domestic flights will resume from May 25. Stating that the airport was kept ready for operating flights throughout the lockdown period and all maintenance work were carried out regularly, Mr. Senthil Valavan said, “We operated a few cargo flights earlier this week and even on Wednesday a special aircraft was handled here,” he added. Prior to lockdown, the airport was handling 28 schedules. “All that we are waiting is for the schedule of the airlines,” he added. The airport is ready with the social distancing measures. Glass cubicles would be provided for Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel who check the boarding pass and identity of the passengers at the entry of the terminal. Similar cubicles would also be provided for airline staff. “This will prevent physical contact between the staff and passengers,” he added. Passengers will be asked to check in at least two hours prior to the scheduled departure. “Passengers will be allowed into the terminal four hours ahead of the departure so as to have adequate time for health screening to be done by the State health department officials,” he added. The district administration is also in close touch with the airport authorities.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ex-MLA and sons booked||Former AIADMK MLA P. Ponnambalam and his two sons have been booked on a charge of attempt to murder police personnel during a group clash near here on Monday night. The M. Chathirapatti police have arrested his son Thillaiyambalam. The group clash erupted following a drunken brawl near an irrigation tank at Karuvanur. When one Sarath Kumar complained that Rs. 10,000 and his mobile phone were stolen by people from another group, it resulted in a quarrel. He was supported by former MLA of Samayanallur Ponnambalam and his sons. When R. Muthupandi, belonging to the other group, pelted stones on the tiled roof of houses of the rival group, one C. Ravi was injured. The police had booked 22 persons and arrested 11. Meanwhile,, a team of police led by Deputy Superintendent of Police ((Training) Prasanna attempted to prevent a clash between the two groups on Monday late night, Tillaiyambalam and his brother Thiruchitrambalam, along with the former MLA and 13 others, attempted to assault the police team. The gang had threatened the police party. Thillaiyambalam reportedly attempted to assault a police constable of Tamil Nadu Special Police with an iron rod. He sustained bleeding injuries on his forehead. When the DSP attempted to prevent the attack, Thiruchitrambalam attacked the DSP with a rod on his shoulder. Others pelted stones on the police team.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu records 743 new cases, tally surpasses 13,000-mark||Of the 743 fresh cases, there were 14 in Kancheepuram and one each in Pudukottai, Tenkasi, Thanjavur, Theni, Thoothukudi, Villupuram and Virudhunagar. A total of 83 persons, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive in various districts — 21 in Thoothukudi, 16 in Tirunelveli, 11 in Tiruvannamalai, nine in Madurai, six in Villupuram, five each in Pudukottai and Virudhunagar, three in Chengalpattu, two each in Tenkasi and Theni, and one each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi and Krishnagiri. One more person, who had returned from New Delhi and was under railway quarantine, tested positive for COVID-19. Samples tested The number of samples tested stood at 11,894, while the number of persons tested was 11,441. So far, a total of 3,60,068 samples have been tested in the State. As on date, a total of 1,308 samples of persons who returned by train are under process. Of the total 3,891 samples lifted from these passengers, 2,580 returned negative for COVID-19, while three tested positive. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Clarification||In the article ‘100 tests per lakh population required in Chennai, says expert’, published on May 20, in these columns, it should read ‘Chennai requires around 100 tests per lakh population per day’, and not as published.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As on May 20||Persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Wednesday) Persons recovered: 145 Death: 1 Active cases: 0    House quarantined: 1,465 Persons released after 14 days of house quarantine: 588 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 20) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
21 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||35 from Maharashtra stuck at Kuganoli check-post||As many as 35 persons from Maharashtra are stuck at the inter-State border at Kuganoli, near Nippani, for four days now, waiting to enter the State to go to Hassan and Mandya districts. They had applied for e-passes on the sevasindhu portal on May 11, but they were not issued them. They hired a bus and came up to the border. Officials stopped them on Saturday as they did not have proper documents. Their problems were compounded as the State government decided not to let anyone from Maharashtra enter without e-passes on Monday. They are yet to get clearance to enter the State. Most of them are workers, while some were doing other jobs and engaged in small business. They complained that there are no proper facilities for them at the border. “We are sleeping in the bus as there is no hotel or other place to stay. There are no toilets either,” said Yogesh Gowda, one of those stranded. “We have some women and children among us. They are facing inconvenience,” he said. He said that they were not considering the option to go back to Maharashtra. “We met Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi when he came to visit the check-post on Monday. He promised to get us e-passes in two days. But we have not get them till now,” he said. Mr. Jarkiholi said that he had asked Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli to talk to his counterparts in Maharashtra and see if they could be issued passes. “I will also ask officers in Bengaluru in charge of sevasindhu to find out why passes were not issued if the applications were filed on May 11,” the Minister said. “We will take all steps to see that they are sent home,” he added.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Migrant workers set up camp outside police stations||For the last seven days, Brijmohan Das, 46, has been camping out at an open-air vegetable market next to Varthur police station, desperate to secure a berth on that elusive train home. The carpenter from Bihar was working on a residential project that is now completed, and has nowhere to live. “The contractor said he was helpless and stopped rations. Then the landlord asked us to vacate the room we were staying in. I became homeless so I came to the police station with my luggage to go home on a train. But today [Wednesday] is the seventh day and I am still here waiting,” he said. Hundreds of migrant labourers desperate for a train ticket have been camping outside police stations in Whitefield. Police stations are now the nodal agencies responsible for ensuring that migrants who want to go home get a train ticket. Even a few days ago, hundreds of migrant labourers were gathering outside police stations in Whitefield, which has the largest concentration of migrant labourers in the city. But according to the police, their numbers have reduced as over 26,000 people in Whitefield have boarded trains over the last few days. “We will clear the backlog in the next few days by putting them on trains,” a senior official said. The problem at hand is crowd control and ensuring social distancing. Despite several requests by the police, the labourers are refusing to return to their residences. “We are trying to put as many of them as possible on trains. Though we have asked them to return to their accommodations, they refuse as they fear that if they go they may not get a berth on the train,” said Putta Obala Reddy, inspector, Varthur Police. Umesh Jadhav, 38, a construction labour from Bihar, has been living in the market for five days. “Recently when there were heavy rains, we had to rush into a nearby school for the night,” he said. Police and volunteers from Whitefield Rising have been serving them food. “We are trying to do our best to help them by providing food and coordinating with the police to ensure they find a berth on trains as soon as possible. But it is a humanitarian crisis where many of us are helpless,” said Nitya Ramakrishnan of Whitefield Rising. Those who register on the Seva Sindhu portal are allotted trains and an SMS is sent to their phones when they need to report to the railway station. However, the system is not working as planned as labourers are packing their belongings and reporting to police stations immediately after registering themselves. Many have paid middlemen Rs. 200 to Rs. 300 to register on the portal as they are not familiar with the technology. “The SMS system sounds great on paper, but it doesn’t work for labourers,” a senior official said. There was a sudden rush of excitement Wednesday afternoon, as a constable from Varthur Police called for people from Jharkhand to line up. Hundreds of them queued up in front of an adjacent school, hoping their turn will come today. “I have been camping here for three days and I hope I will be able to make it to the train today. This is not the first time I have stood in such a queue though,” said Sudhama Ram, 48, a mason from Jharkhand. He eventually made the cut and left the city on a train home on Wednesday, even as others returned to wait for their turn.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC bus crew suspended for carrying passengers beyond seating capacity||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC ) on Wednesday suspended the driver and conductor of a bus for ferrying more passengers than the seating capacity on May 19, the first day when services resumed after an extended lockdown. According to officials, it was the last bus to depart from Majestic bus stand to Yelahanka and many people were waiting to take it. “Passengers pressurised the crew to allow them to board. By allowing them to board, the driver and conductor flouted social distancing norms. They have been suspended and an investigation is under way,” said a BMTC official. The incident came to light after a passenger travelling on the bus recorded a video and released it on social media. On the second day too, BMTC recorded low ridership, with passengers demanding that they do away with daily passes for short distances. KSRTC buses The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation on Wednesday operated 4,239 bus services and ferried 81,593 passengers. This is a noticeable increase from the first day of operations on May 19, when it ran 1,606 bus schedules carrying 53,506 people. The corporation had received flak from passengers for not operating to various destinations in northern parts of the State. Many families with children spent Tuesday night at KSRTC Majestic bus stand as they could not get a bus to travel to their destinations. On Wednesday too, KSRTC ran services only till 7 p.m. From Bengaluru, it operated 752 buses from Majestic to over 60 destinations. People also returned to the city from various destinations such as Vijayapura, Shivamogga, Kalaburagi, and others. However, many passengers who arrived at Majestic late evening from other districts struggled to reach their accommodations after 7 p.m. Many spent hundreds of rupees on autos.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Mumbai-returnees continue to test positive||Mumbai-returnees continued to test positive in the State, with 51 of the 67 new cases reported on Wednesday having a travel history to the Maharashtra capital. While the total number of positive cases have touched 1,462, one more person, with inter-State travel history, succumbed to the infection in a private hospital in Bengaluru, taking the death toll to 41. The 43-year-old male resident of Bengaluru with a history of hypertension and myocarditis had returned from Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who is the COVID spokesperson for the State, told presspersons on Wednesday that 52 of the 67 new cases are inter-State travellers. While 51 are from Mumbai, one is from Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, he said. Highest in Hassan Of the new cases, the highest is from Hassan which reported 21 cases. While 20 of these have a travel history to Mumbai, one patient had returned from Visakhapatnam. While eight cases were recorded in Mandya, seven in Kalaburagi and six in Udupi, Raichur and Tumakuru saw four cases each and Yadgiri one case. All these cases have a travel history to Mumbai. Of the 180 passengers of Rajdhani Express, who arrived here on Wednesday, 22 had symptoms and their samples were taken for tests at the railway station.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NICE can’t develop housing scheme at interchanges of BMIC project, says SC||In a huge setback to Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprises (NICE) Pvt. Ltd., the Supreme Court has declared that the company cannot construct housing scheme outside the demarcated five townships under the Bangalore-Mysore Infrastructure Corridor (BMIC) Project as per the Project Technical Report (PTR) and the Frame Work Agreement (FWA) of 1997. The apex court also clarified that neither the High Court nor the SC, in their earlier judgements in the All-India Manufacturers’ Organisation case, had not answered the question that the company was free to construct standalone group housing scheme and at location(s) of its choice outside the demarcated five townships as per the FWA and PTR. A Bench comprising, Justice A.M. Khanwilkar and Justice Dinesh Maheshwari, delivered the judgement on May 19 while allowing an appeal filed by the BMIC Area Planning Authority (BMICAPA) and the State government questioning the Karnataka High Court’s October 15, 2019 judgement. The High Court had directed BMICAPA to issue commencement certificate to NICE and Nandi Economic Corridor Enterprises (NECE) for construction of a group housing scheme in 42 acres and 30 guntas of land handed over to the companies for the BMIC project at Kommaghatta Village, Kengeri hobli, Bangalore South taluk (at interchange 5/7, Section A of the BMIC project on the peripheral road). Making it clear that the housing scheme can be executed only at five demarcated township as per the FWA, the SC said that any other proposal of NICE/NECE would be nothing but deviation from the FWA. “The purpose of intersections is to provide for free flow of traffic across the area. All the five Townships referred to in the PTR are indisputably far away from intersections. Despite that, the project proponents have proposed for group housing scheme in Section A of the project at intersections 5/7 thereat on the peripheral road,” the SC observed. If the project proponents (NICE/NECE) wants to deviate from the PTR, then, as per Article 7.1 of the FWA, they have to take prior written approval for such proposal from the State government before approaching the BMICAPA for plan approval as per the applicable laws, the SC said. It further observed that “if such proposal was to be submitted to the State, it would be open to the State to examine the same on its own or refer the matter to the Empowered Committee constituted for resolving such issues, as envisaged in Article 4 of the FWA.” “We may assume that the Empowered Committee may not agree with the proposal, as it may be of the view that the deviation is quite substantial and would disrupt the core objective of the Integrated Infrastructure Corridor Project), which has been designed with purpose of holistic and orderly development of the region as a whole,” the SC observed.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hebbagodi station staff quarantined after two accused test positive||The Hebbagodi police station in the outskirts of the city was deserted on Wednesday as more than 30 personnel, including the inspector and sub-inspector, were sent to institutional quarantine centres after two youths they had arrested recently tested positive for COVID-19. One of the accused is a resident of Padarayanapura, which has recorded a high number of cases, and the other is from K.R. Puram. Theft case According to the police, on May 16, a steel supplier lodged a complaint with the police about steel being misappropriated. The police tracked two suspects, a 28-year-old resident of Padarayanapura and his associate from K.R. Puram who allegedly stole 1,000-1,600 tonnes of steel and raw material. After preliminary inquiry, the accused were arrested and produced before court. As per the protocol, they were tested for COVID-19 before remanding in police custody. On Tuesday, their results came and both accused tested positive. The staff at Hebbagodi police station, including vehicle drivers and other station staff, were sent to quarantine as they had come in direct contact with the accused, said a senior police officer.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM tells RDPR officials to ensure jobs for migrants under MGNREGA||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday reviewed the progress of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and instructed officials of the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Department to provide more jobs under the scheme to rural people since the State has seen reverse migration. A sum of Rs. 6,315.79 crore had been set aside for the job scheme for providing 13 crore manual jobs during 2020-21. The Chief Minister appreciated the work of self-help groups who have distributed nearly eight lakh masks in different districts. Task forces have been set up at the gram panchayat level for delivering various services and goods during the lockdown. He told RDPR officials to take steps to mitigate drinking water shortage in villages. RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa and senior officials of the department attended the meeting.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New Labour Secretary||The State government late on Tuesday appointed Rajkumar Khatri as Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Labour Department. He replaces M. Maheshwar Rao, who held this as a concurrent charge along with that of ACS, Commerce and Industries (MSME and Mines). The appointment of Mr. Rao last week had drawn the ire of labour unions as a “conflict of interest” at a time when the government is mulling crucial changes in labour laws in Karnataka to make them “industry-friendly.” He had been appointed following the controversial transfer of P. Manivannan from the post.  The Hindu had reported on this issue, stating that Mr. Rao as MSME and Mines Principal Secretary had suggested changes in Factories Act to increase working hours per shift from the current 8 to 12. He had also sought postponement of implementation of the revised minimum wages notified under the Minimum Wages Act, which was to have come into force from April 2020.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress protests against amended APMC Act||State Congress leaders on Wednesday staged a protest in front of the Mahatma Gandhi statue on the State Secretariat premises here opposing changes in the Agricultural Produce and Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. Wearing masks, the Congress leaders raised slogans against the BJP government and criticised the changed in the APMC Act. They claimed the amended Act, brought in through an Ordinance, will benefit only rich farmers and a chain of supermarkets involved in trading farm commodities. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah, KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar, and legislators participated. They also opposed the government’s plan to postpone gram panchayat polls and change in labour laws.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel on anti-defection law seeks suggestions||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla constituted a three-member committee of the Speakers of Karnataka, Rajasthan and Odisha Legislative Assemblies to review the relevance of the Constitution’s 10th Schedule introduced in 1985 to check defections (anti-defection law). The panel has undertaken the task of studying the relevance of the law in the present context and sought suggestions from legal experts and other experts on the matter, said an official press release.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Many clubs dipping into emergency cash reserves||Most social clubs across Karnataka could be staring at an unprecedented financial problem, having been shut for more than two months, translating to zero income but high overheads. Karnataka has about 200 clubs, including 90 top social clubs, with memberships running into lakhs. Several clubs are already digging into emergency reserves, as payments needs to be made to employees and others. One of the main sources of incomes for the clubs, coming from the bar and the canteen, has stopped since March 13 when the State government directed them to stop vending liquor. The guest quarters that brings substantial revenue too has closed. In addition, many clubs are now waiving, completely or partially, the monthly subscription fee for March, April and May as members could not use the sports facilities. Club sources say that these constitute 90% of revenues. “We are anticipating business to be dull for another 6-8 months or at least till December. The monthly dip in revenue is expected to be anywhere between Rs. 55 lakh and Rs. 58 lakh a month for our club,” said H.S. Srikanth, secretary of one of Bengaluru's premier clubs, Bowring Institute. At least for the next six months, clubs will not have entertainment or sports activities, which will also bring good revenues, he added. The government decision to allow clubs to exhaust their liquor stocks from May 8 has also not augured well. Mr. Srikanth, who is also the president of Federation of Clubs, Karnataka, said: “Allowing us to sell at MRP rate and treating us on a par with wine store was a bad move. Unlike a wine store, our overheads are huge and we did not benefit from the decision. It is not viable, and clubs also operate on credit system. So cash flow is also less.” Clubs that have guest quarters are not expecting many people to occupy rooms as most may avoid travel. Among the few options before the clubs is increasing the subscription fee. While any such decision has to be approved by the general body, where members are likely to oppose drastic increases, COVID-19 has also made convening a general body a challenging task, Mr. Srikant added.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bank officials slammed for lending to sugar factories||Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekar has taken officials of the district credit cooperative (DCC) banks to task for sanctioning loans to sugar factories located outside the Bengaluru division and instructed them to give priority for lending short- and medium-term loans to farmers. Mr. Somashekar asked officials to refrain from lending to factories outside their jurisdiction. The Minister reviewed lending operations of DCC banks of the Bengaluru division and said Rs. 14,500 crore would be disbursed in the form of small- and medium-term loans to farmers during 2020-21. He instructed officials to activate defunct Kisan Credit Cards to ensure lending to small farmers during the kharif season. Till now, Rs. 916 crore had been disbursed to 1,35,977 farmers in Bengaluru division, he said.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Probe into youth’s plaint||The police are under fire for allegedly behaving rudely with a student from Kerala who had visited Hebbal police station on Wednesday to inquire about transportation to his hometown.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tech summit postponed to November||The prestigious Bengaluru Tech Summit (BTS) has been postponed to November 19-21 in view of the prevailing conditions. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who is also the Minister for IT/BT. Originally, the BTS was scheduled for September 21-23 this year. However, owing to anticipated inability of international delegates to attend the summit in view of COVID-19, BTS has been postponed, informed Dr. Ashwath Narayan. This year, BTS will be special from several perspectives. The focus will be on leveraging technology to tackle challenges brought to the fore by the pandemic. There will be symposiums and tech-related talks by experts and technologists.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sports without spectators||The State government has said that clubs can open their sports complexes, but without spectators, and guidelines to this effect will be issued on Thursday. The Federation of Clubs had sought clarity over the Lockdown 4.0 guidelines if sport activities can be resumed. This comes in the light of golf associations, including Karnataka Golf Association, being allowed to be opened. The federation, in a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, had requested for sporting activities to be allowed in clubs.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congregational prayers during Ramzan suspended||The Karnataka State Board of Auqaf has suspended all congregational prayers of Ramzan during Jumatul-vida, Taraveeh, Shab-e-Qadr and Salat-ul-Eid-ul-Fitr in all masjids, dargahs and eidgahs till May 31. This is in view of lockdown being extended till the end of the month to check the spread of the pandemic. The board also stated that to maintain social distancing, Eid milan gathering and physically wishing relatives and friends should be avoided. Citizens have been asked to avoid shaking hands, hugging, meeting friends and relatives with travel history or those from containment areas.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Test for teachers||The much-awaited Teachers Eligibility Test for appointment of teachers will be held on July 5.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister accused of verbally abusing women||An inspection of a lake in S. Agrahara, Kolar taluk, went awry, when Minister for Minor Irrigation J.C. Madhuswamy was accused of verbally abusing women representatives of Karnataka Raita Sangha and Hasiru Sene on Wednesday. The situation has now taken a political twist, with Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah demanding Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa drop the Minister from the Cabinet. According to reports, when the Minister was inspecting the lake, the women submitted a representation on clearing lake encroachments. It is alleged that the Minister verbally abused one of them, prompting the women to gherao him. The Minister reportedly then directed the police present to take them away. The situation was tense for a while as police attempted to follow the Minister’s directions. Mr. Siddaramaiah has demanded Mr. Madhuswamy tender an apology to the women.
21 May 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctor’s contacts being traced||Chikkamagaluru district administration is making efforts to find out how the doctor, working in Mudigere taluk, contracted the COVID-19 infection. The 43-year-old, working as a government primary health officer, had not gone out of the district since March this year. The district, which remained in green zone with zero cases, reported five cases, including the doctor, on Tuesday. There were reports that he had been to Bengaluru and Kodagu districts in the recent past. Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Harish Pandey, on Wednesday, clarified that he had not gone out since March. The doctor has been on duty at the health centre and treated many patients. The administration made a list of patients and staff members who had come in contact with him and contacted them all after he was found infected. Among those in the list, the administration has traced 68 people till Wednesday morning. The officers in Belur taluk in Hassan district are also tracing people who had come in contact with the doctor, whose health centre is close to the district border. Hassan officials have identified 15 people in Belur taluk and quarantined them.
21 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Two more Dharwad patients discharged||Two more patients were discharged after their recovery from COVID-19, from the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, on Tuesday night, Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has said. The throat swab samples of the two patients, a 30-year-old woman (P-430) from Mulla Oni and a 13-year-old girl (P-431) from Azad Nagar in Hubballi, tested negative on two occasions. Doctors have also confirmed that no lung-related problems were detected in both of them during X-ray screening, she said. Meanwhile, Ms. Deepa has issued orders de-notifying the containment zone at Mulla Oni as all seven persons from this area who had tested positive for COVID-19 have been cured and discharged from KIMS and no fresh cases have been reported during the last 28 days. The de-notification of the containment zone became effective on Wednesday and orders declaring buffer zones too have been withdrawn, stated a release.
21 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Seven cured of COVID-19 in Davangere||Even as the number of COVID-19 positive patients is increasing in Davangere district, the district administration had something to cheer up for on Wednesday as seven patients have been cured of the pandemic. While three of these patients were discharged from hospital and sent home, four who have been cured of the pandemic but have different health issues were shifted to non-COVID-19 hospitals. With this, the number of patients cured of the pandemic has gone up to nine in the district. Davangere has so far recorded 112 cases with four deaths. There are 99 active cases. The three patients discharged from the hospital were contacts of staff nurse (P-533) and they now have been cured. As they were discharged from the hospital, Davangere Deputy Commissioner Mahanthesh Bilagi, Superintendent of Police Hanumantharaya, Mayor B.G. Ajay Kumar and health officials, including District Health Officer Raghavendra Swamy, and staff showered flower petals on them to give them a farewell even as others clapped. Mr. Bilagi told presspersons that the 16-year-old son (P-585) of the staff nurse, an 11-year-old boy (P-635) and a 52-year-old woman (P-616) tested negative after medical treatment and they have now been discharged from the hospital. “Four patients (P-580, P-584, P-583 and P-617) who have been cured of COVID-19 are suffering from other health issues, including cardiac problems. They are being shifted to other hospitals for further treatment,” Mr. Bilagi said. Mr. Bilagi said that 12 patients had almost recovered and steps would be taken for their discharge from hospital based on the advice of doctors. He said that due to the efforts of the health team, more patients would soon get discharged from the hospital and appealed to the general public not to panic. Mr. Hanumantharaya sought cooperation from the people, particularly those in the containment zones, in the fight against COVID-19, and warned that action will be taken against violators of lockdown norms.
21 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Delivering iftar parcels||As the Ramzan month of fasting is ending soon, lockdown restrictions have forced total cancellation of iftar parties hosted by organisations, individuals and families. However, a few have found ways to still host the same without violating restriction norms. Old Hubballi saw conclusion of one such event on Monday with a former municipal councillor hosting iftar party the ‘corona way’. The family members of Altaf Navaz Kittur decided to take ‘iftar’ to the doorsteps of those fasting. For three days till Monday, nearly 1,500 families of different localities received food packets by the Kittur family daily. The usual dish on the menu, biryani rice and mutton khurma were neatly packed and delivered to the families by volunteers following safety measures. President of Anjuman E Islam Mohammed Yousuf Savanur had symbolically inaugurated the ‘iftar party’ in the presence of Mr. Altaf Kittur who is also vice-president of Anjuman E Islam.  Meanwhile, Mr. Savanur told The Hindu that under the supervision of Anjuman E Islam, thousands of food packets had been distributed through 130 mosques and local jamats. “Considering the lockdown restrictions, we routed the distribution through jamats as it is they (jamats) who know who is poor and who is in need,” Mr. Savanur said.
21 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar reports 10 new cases, Kalaburagi registers seven||As many as 10 new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Bidar on Wednesday taking the total number of infected persons in the district to 67 that included two deaths and 21 discharged upon recovery. As per a media bulletin from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, all the new patients were contacts of one or the other previously detected COVID-19 cases. The new cases included three children. The new cases are P-1,430, a 24-year-old woman and P-1,431, a 38-year-old woman (both were contacts of P-1,041, a 52-year-old man who had visited Hyderabad and died of COVID-19 on Many 15); P-1,451, a 12-year-old girl and P-1,456, a 72-year-old man (both were contacts of P-981); P-1,452, an 18-year-old man and a contact of P-943; P-1,453, a 56-year-old man and a contact of P-772; P-1,454, a 15-year-old boy, and P-1,455, a 45-year-old man (both contacts of P-943); P-1,457, a nine-year-old girl and a contact of P-648, and P-1,458, a 40-year-old woman and a contact of P-590. Kalaburagi reported seven new cases on the same day, taking the total number of infected persons in the district to 134 which included seven deaths and 55 people discharged upon recovery. The new cases don’t have any specific source of infection but do have the history of travelling to Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Nandurbar and Jalgaon in neighbouring Maharashtra. The new cases are P-1,423, a 22-year-old man, P-1,424, a 35-year-old man, P-1,425, a 25-year-old man, P-1,426, a 22-year-old woman, P-1,427, a 46-year-old man, P-1,428, a 26-year-old man, and P-1,429, a 50-year-old man.
21 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Girl kidnapped||A 17-year-old girl was kidnapped from Nandur village in Kalaburagi district on Wednesday. The parents of the victim have, in a complaint, said that Suresh Lakshman from the village has kidnapped their daughter. A case has been registered at the Woman Police Station.
21 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Protest in Kalaburagi||Maintaining minimum physical distance in view of COVID-19 pandemic, activists associated with the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration outside the district administrative complex here on Wednesday, putting forward a set of demands, including the withdrawal of the Ordinance to the APMC Act. The activists, led by Sharanabasappa Mamshetty, district secretary of the party, also condemned the governments for their attempts to dilute the hard-earned labour laws by introducing 12-hour shifts.
21 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||ZP officials told to take up new work to revive rural economy||Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday asked the zilla panchayat officials to explore new activities under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) to create job opportunities to revive rural economy which has remained hit due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the district. At a meeting to review the programmes under MGNREGA Mr. Kateel said that rural economy should come back on track after the lull. Circulation of money should start from local daily wage and migrant workers. More job cards should be given to the eligible. Mr. Kateel said that beedi workers can be identified for issuing new job cards as the beedi industry has collapsed. He asked the Horticulture and Agriculture departments to identify land which have been left uncultivated. These departments should organise camps for farmers to give them suggestions on taking up alternative crops on such land, other than the traditional arecanut farming. Mr. Kateel said that many youth who have returned from other States, especially from Maharashtra due to the global pandemic, are now ready to take up farming and allied activities, if they are profitable. The departments should talk to such persons on the prospects of taking up cultivation of alternative crops, other than arecanut. Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Selvamani R. asked the Horticulture Department to promote vegetable cultivation in the district as Dakshina Kannada received vegetables from other districts. There is enough scope to cultivate vegetables under MGNREGA. He asked the Social Forestry Department to develop more medicinal gardens in the district under MGNREGA. Mr. Selvamani directed the officials to identify people to issue new job cards as per the 16 new guidelines issued by the government. They should be identified in a week, he said.
21 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Green signal for two special intra-State trains||Two days after the Karnataka government gave green signal to commence train services within the State, the Railway Board has approved South Western Railway’s proposal to operate two special trains between Bengaluru-Belagavi and Bengaluru-Mysuru from Friday. Ministry of Railways had cancelled operation of all regular trains till June 30. In a communiqué to SWR on Wednesday, the Board said the trains may be operated at the earliest convenient date to the zone. Both the trains should be operated as fully reserved with tickets being booked on IRCTC website and strict maintenance of social distancing norms, the Board said. The Bengaluru-Belagavi service would depart Bengaluru at 8 a.m., reach Hubballi at 3.25 p.m. and Belagavi at 4.30 p.m. In the return direction from Saturday, it would leave Belagavi at 8 a.m., Hubballi at 10.50 a.m. to reach Bengaluru at 4.30 p.m. It would have stops at Yeshwantpur, Tumakuru, Arsikere, Birur, Chikkajajur, Davangere, Harihar, Ranebennur, Haveri, Hubballi, and Dharwad. From Bengaluru, it would operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays and from Belagavi, it would operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. The Bengaluru-Mysuru daily express special would depart Bengaluru at 9.20 a.m. to reach Mysuru at 12.45 p.m. while in the return direction, it would depart Mysuru at 1.45 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 5 p.m. It would have stops at Kengeri, Ramanagaram, Maddur, Mandya, Pandavapura, and Naganahalli. “On May 18, Chief Minister of Karnataka has stated that inter-district trains can be started. Ministry of Railways has considered this recommendation and has approved running of four trains,” SWR said.
21 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Congress seeks CBI probe into Nanjangud pharma firm case||After investigations by the police, health officials and senior IAS officer Harsh Gupta to identify the source of COVID-19 outbreak among employees of Jubilant pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud near here came to naught, paving the way for the reopening of the plant, the Congress has accused the State government of “succumbing to pressure from BJP leaders in Delhi” and sought a CBI probe into the matter. R. Dhruvanarayan, former MP, sought an impartial probe while suspecting the Centre as well as the State government of adopting double standards in dealing with COVID-19 outbreaks. “When you can book a police case against Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi, why was no case booked here,” he said. He added that Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has given a notice to raise the issue in the next session of the State legislature. Health and police officials indicated three probabilities of COVID-19 outbreak at the company — the visit in March first week by management representatives from Pune and Delhi, one of whom showed symptoms of COVID-19 as noted in company records; company employees visiting Thanisandra in Bengaluru for a religious gathering and to Kerala in February, and the employees from the plant visiting different places in the country, including Delhi. Though he made it clear that he was not against the reopening of the factory, which incidentally has entered into an agreement with U.S.-based bio-pharmaceutical company Gilead Sciences to manufacture and sell its investigational drug remdesivir, considered to be a potential helpful in COVID-19 cases, Mr. Dhruvanarayan said the people had a right to know how COVID-19 broke out among the employees of the plant before spreading to many others in the company and their contacts, accounting for 74 of the 91 cases in Mysuru so far. Meanwhile, BJP MLA representing Nanjangud Assembly segment Harshavardhan said the company has been permitted to reopen after it agreed to distribute 50,000 grocery kits and adopt 10 villages.
21 May 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Four test positive in Raichur district||As many as four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Raichur district on Wednesday. They are P-1,459, a 26-year-old woman from Wadlur village, P-1,460, a 40-year-old woman, P-1,461, a 12-year-old girl and P-1,462, a 30-year-old woman, all are from Raichur city. According to a press release from the district administration, all of them returned from Mumbai and are now getting treatment at the designated hospital in Raichur. In Yadgir, a 55-year-old woman tested positive on Wednesday. A native of Empad Tanda in Gurmitkal traluk, P-1,448 returned from Mumbai recently. A pregnant woman (30) in the district, who has been admitted to a hospital in Kalaburagi, tested positive taking the number of those infected to 13 in the district. All of these patients have been admitted to the designated hospital in Yadgir. Meanwhile, a 50-year-old woman, who was travelling from Mumbai in a private vehicle to Yadgir district, is said to have died due to health-related issues. She developed weakness even as officials were screening her at a check-post near Yargol village. She was shifted to the COVID-19 hospital where she died. However, the authorities concerned are yet to confirm the cause of her death.
21 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Six test positive in Udupi||As many as six persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said here that the six persons are a 77-year-old man, a 55-year-old man, a four-year-old girl, a 15-year-old girl, a 31-year-old woman and a 47-year-old woman. All these six persons returned from Mumbai recently and were staying in quarantine centres in the district. They have been shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital here, he said. The district reported five cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday.
21 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||New COVID-19 app||The faculty and students of the Nitte-based NMAM Institute of Technology (NMAMIT) have come up with an app, “Covid-19”, providing the latest info on COVID-19. The application/website provides information about State-wise, State-wise test centres in India, list of symptoms and helpline numbers. The app may be accessed at: coronavirus-covid.org.
21 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Tests for senior citizens in containment zone||As a precautionary measure, the Vijayapura district administration has decided to conduct swab tests for all those aged 60 and above in the containment area in the city. Addressing presspersons here, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil said that all persons having SARI and ILI cases in the area will also be tested for the pandemic. The decision was taken after a 65-year-old person from the containment area died of COVID-19 infection on Monday . The swab sample which was sent after the demise of the elderly man was found to be positive for the pandemic. The deceased was suffering from several ailments, including pneumonia. “As a precaution, we will conduct tests for all those aged 60 and above in the area. If anyone is found positive for the disease, then he will be immediately shifted to hospital. This will not only help in early treatment of such people but also prevent the spread of infection,” he said.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Steps to resume normal activities at Victoria hospital||Two-and-a-half months after converting Victoria hospital into a dedicated COVID-19 facility, plans are afoot to restore its normal functioning. The Medical Education Department is setting up a three-member committee to study if it is feasible to resume all non-COVID-19 activities in the hospital. Several patients with non-COVID-19 ailments are finding it difficult to get affordable treatment in the city. Also, heads of other centres on the Victoria hospital campus, such as Minto and PMSSY, have been urging the government to permit them to restart their normal functioning. Although Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), said that the exit plan for Victoria hospital is being chalked out, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar told The Hindu that the decision could not be taken in haste at this juncture when the number of cases is going up. “We will set up a three-member committee to study if it is feasible to restore the hospital’s normal functioning. As of now, only COVID-19 patients are admitted in the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre. Let us wait and watch for one more month,” he said. Victoria hospital, a referral tertiary public healthcare facility that houses the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, PMSSY Super-speciality Hospital, Institute of Nephro Urology, Minto Ophthalmic Hospital and Vani Vilas Hospital, had been converted into a designated COVID-19 facility in mid-March. Although Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced that all the 1,200 beds in the hospital will be used for COVID-19, after rearranging the beds with adequate space in between two beds, 550 beds had been made available in Victoria, PMSSY and Trauma Care Centre. As of now, all the 100 beds in the Trauma Care Centre and less than 10 beds in the multi-storey building are occupied. Availability of beds With Bowring and Lady Curzon, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases and the facility on Broadway Road being readied for COVID-19 by Infosys Foundation, also being designated for COVID-19, there are adequate number of beds. “Our bed occupancy in the entire State is 6.09% as of now. Sooner or later, general activities of Victoria hospital will have to resume. But we have to decide if we should wait for one more month or do it now, especially when the numbers are going up,” Mr Sudhakar said.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||One giraffe in BBP adopted||Yadunandan, the 18-month-old giraffe who came to Bengaluru’s Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) from Mysuru just a few weeks ago, has been ‘adopted’ by Wing Commander (retd.) G.B. Athri, who donated Rs. 1,00,000. While the city was in lockdown in April, the male giraffe was relocated to Bengaluru to give company to BBP’s lone female giraffe, Gowri. Incidentally, Gowri, who is aged around four years, was also acquired from the Mysuru zoo in April 2018. A first for BBP In a press release, BBP said that Yadunandan is the first giraffe to be adopted in the history of the BBP. In all, 95 animals have been adopted by 79 people, who have donated a total Rs. 15.5 lakh.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two new containment zones||With more positive cases in the city, the civic body has demarcated two new containment zones – at Jnanabharathi and in Nagawara. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, accompanied by senior civic officials, visited Muthu Compound in Nagawara and Mallathalli in Jnanabharathi on Wednesday. He issued instructions on fixing perimeters and sealing the areas. BBMP stated that a patient from Nagawara had ILI (Influenza-like Illness). Three primary contacts and 50 secondary contacts of the patient have been identified and placed under institutional quarantine. According to the BBMP war room report, there were 124 active COVID-19 cases in the city’s 20 containment zones. The maximum number of active cases are in Shivajinagar ward (46), followed by Padarayanapura (36), Hongasandra (17) and Mangammanapalya (9). To check the spread of the pandemic, especially in the containment zones, the BBMP has taken up Adaptive Stratified Random Sampling method for testing. “We identified people with co-morbidities, pregnant women, those with ILI and SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection), and tested them,” said Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, who is in charge of the BBMP’s war room. Citing the example of Padarayanapura, she said that nearly 400 samples were collected for testing based on the Adaptive Stratified Random Sampling method. Of these, only seven tested positive.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Not time for games yet, says sporting fraternity||“We want to start cricket activities, but first, we must get things in order. We will have work out the dos and dont’s, precautionary measures and so on,” KSCA hon. treasurer Vinay Mruthyunjaya said. The KSCA will also replan its tournament calendar for the year. Mr. Mruthyunjaya added that as of now, the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium can be used by players for jogging and exercising, but not for cricket.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fighter aircraft on test sortie caused big bang||As the plane flies, depending on the height it flues at, the high speed creates a “sonic boom” or sound waves that ‘hit’ the areas below. The present boom was one such, a former senior technical officer of the IAF said. If this sortie needed to test the speed or height, ideally it could have flown over fields around Bengaluru, the former IAF engineer said. IAF clarifies IAF’s Headquarters Training Command based in the city said in the evening, “No aircraft of training command was flying in the area. However, ASTE and HAL could have been undertaking their routine test flying, which necessitates going supersonic at times. These are done well beyond the city limits in specified sectors.” It said, “However, considering the atmospheric conditions and reduced noise levels in the city during these times, the aircraft sound may become clearly audible even if it happened way out of the city.” HAL spokesman Gopal Sutar said, “HAL aircraft or test flights have nothing to do with today’s sound in Bengaluru.”
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Border restrictions||
21 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha reports a fresh case||One person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Wednesday. The patient, hailing from Mavelikara taluk, is the husband of a pregnant woman who tested positive for the disease on Tuesday. The couple came from Kuwait on May 9. He has been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, for treatment. The district has so far reported 11 COVID-19 cases. At present six are undergoing treatment — five at MCH and one at Government MCH, Manjeri, in Malappuram. Meanwhile, five people were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease on Wednesday, taking the number of people in isolation at hospitals to 20. A total of 3,189 people are in quarantine/isolation.
21 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Munnar back to lively days||Munnar, initially a COVID-19 hotspot, is returning to normalcy with the government announcing more concessions. People from plantation areas visited the main market on Wednesday since shops started functioning. The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is operating buses and autorickshaws are plying. The police relaxed curbs on vehicular traffic, though vehicles from outside the district and Tamil Nadu are being closely monitored. Three KSRTC buses conducted service from the Munnar depot on Wednesday. Though the shops are allowed to function till 7 p.m., most shut shop by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. The shop owners said the business was slowly returning to normalcy.
21 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmers urged to be alert||The Coffee Board has issued an advisory to coffee farmers in the wake of the grasshopper infestation in some areas of Pulpally and Panamaram in Wayanad district. Nymphs should be collected before their development into winged adults, it said. Contact 8940010059 or 9958324261 for details.
21 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||3 more cases in Kannur||Three persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur district on Wednesday. Among them, two are expatriates who had returned from Dubai. The other infected person is a 62-year-old woman from Dharmadam. Meanwhile, a 42-year-old from Kelakam, who was being treated at COVID-19 Medical Centre, Anjarakandi, was discharged on Wednesday. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod district, a 15-year-old resident of Thrikaripur who returned from abroad was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. A total of 2,498 persons are under observation in the district.
21 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Very few use KSRTC services||The resumption of KSRTC services after nearly two months of lockdown following the COVID-19 outbreak was met with lukewarm response in the district on Wednesday. Though the occupancy was nearly halved for ensuring compliance with physical-distancing norms, most buses plied with the majority of the seats remaining vacant for most part of the day. “It is unsurprising since people are aware and conscious of the need to avoid travelling and it will be sometime before the collection picks up,” said Thajudheen Shahib V.M, District Transport Officer. From nine depots KSRTC operated 157 services from its nine depots in the district — Ernakulam, Aluva, Angamaly, Perumbavoor, Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha, Koothattukulam, Piravom and Paravur. This was in addition to the services operated for the transportation of expatriates who arrived at the airport. The services were mainly to Ernakulam town and destinations such as High Court, Kakkand, and Infopark. Services were limited within the district and not beyond the border points such as Kumbalam, Eda Kochi, and Puthenkavu. ‘In good condition’ He made it clear that buses didn’t have any mechanical trouble owing to the prolonged suspension of services. “Since the second extension of the national lockdown, mechanical staff had been regularly checking buses. Besides, KSRTC buses were being deployed for the movement of migrant workers, expatriates, and those engaged in essential services like health and medical workers,” he said.
21 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||It’s a slow start for salons on Day One||A contended smile lit up the face of Alex Thomas as he looked at his reflection on the big rectangular mirror set across the chair in the salon. “I feel comfortable after getting rid of the overgrown hair,” said Mr. Thomas, who was wrapped in a disposable cape at a popular hairstyling centre on the first day of its reopening on Wednesday since the COVID-19 lockdown. “It was in March that I had a haircut last,” said Mr. Mathew, managing director of a snacks manufacturing company in Kochi, as his hairdresser, wearing a face mask, looked on. Phone bookings While most of the upmarket salons started taking telephonic bookings from their customers by providing a spacing of 15 minutes between one another, customers walked into the low-end barber shops sans prior appointments. “Should I bring a towel to wrap myself for a haircut,” asked a customer over telephone while seeking an appointment. “We provide disposable capes for the customers. They can also bring their own towels. It’s their choice,” said B. Satheeshkumar, who owns the salon. The towel warmer installed inside the salon can heat up and dry 15 pieces in minutes and cloth towels can be disinfected and dried quickly, he said. Mr. Satheeshkumar has stocked enough number of face masks for the customers. It felt stuffy inside the salon as the air-conditioner was switched off. Hand sanitisers were there for the customers. All four hairdressers were seen sporting face masks. Slow pace Till forenoon, appointments were given to 12 customers, a reflection of the slow pace at which the business was picking up after 50 days. At a local salon in the city, things were quite different. Though Muhammad Shameer, a Hindi-speaking hairstylist, applied hair gel on his customer after wearing a surgical glove, the face mask was prominently missing. However, another hairdresser, wearing a mask, was busy talking over the telephone to the malik , who rang up to ask about the business. There were four men inside the one-room shop as Mr. Shameer applied the hair gel on the spiked hair of a young customer. It was business as usual and the advisories issued by health experts and the government for such shops went for a toss.
21 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bring back migrant workers, industrial units tell govt.||Industry owners have called on the government to take steps to bring back workers from other States who have left Kerala in the wake of the lockdown to help streamline production and services after the easing of the restrictions. While it is important that steps are taken immediately to ensure workers’ returned, it is a fluid situation here, full of uncertainty despite industrial units beginning production and businesses opening gradually, says Joseph Paikada, a food processor in Kannur. He says many migrant workers still in Kerala are waiting for train services to go home. “With pressure from their homes, they are unwilling to stay on,” he said. M. Khalid, president, Kerala State Small Industries Association, representing 1.5 lakh small and medium units, says the government must take steps to bring back them to ensure that production and services got into full stride. Pineapple farmers have already sought a protocol to welcome back workers so that proper care is taken to prevent another outbreak of the pandemic here. Industry owners such as Mr. Khalid say skill acquisition programmes must be initiated and the State should lay down rules to pave the way for hiring of workers on hourly basis so that both the stakeholders benefit from the arrangement. This will help create competition in the labour market and increase productivity.
21 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||186 arrive in Kochi from London||As many as 186 Indians arrived here on Wednesday morning by Air India flight AI130 from London as efforts continue to bring back Indians stranded in different parts of the world owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. Among them were nine children below the age of ten, three senior citizens, and 24 pregnant women. A pressnote from Cochin International Airport said 123 of those who arrived here had been shifted to various COVID-19 observation centres and 63 sent home but will be under observation. Among those arrived, there were eight persons from Alappuzha, 38 from Ernakulam, one each from Idukki and Kasaragod, 13 each from Kozhikode and Kannur, eight from Kollam, 22 each from Thrissur and Kottayam, nine from Malappuram, 10 from Palakkad, seven from Pathanamthitta, 25 from Thiruvananthapuram, and four from Wayanad. There were five people from other States.
21 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ensure disposal of debris, municipality told||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has made it clear that the Maradu municipality cannot shirk its responsibility in ensuring the disposal of debris resulted out of the demolition of the four apartment buildings, as per the Municipal Solid Waste Rules, 2016. The Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta noted in an order issued on May 14 that the civic body could not disobey the direction given by the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) and the committee constituted by the tribunal in order to protect environment under Article 48-A and 51-A(g) of the Constitution as they had equal responsibility in this regard. The tribunal has directed the State Pollution Control Board and the Ernakulam District Collector to take steps to implement the direction given by the SLMC. The Bench said that the State authorities were duty-bound to protect the nearby Vembanad Lake.
21 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Self-immolation by auto driver’||A person died and two others suffered serious burn injuries after the former threw petrol at a tea stall at Pachalam, triggering a fire before setting himself ablaze on Wednesday evening. The deceased was identified as a 63-year-old resident of Pachalam. The police said that he was undergoing treatment for mental illness. Tea stall owner P.V. Pankajakshan, 67, and Rijin Das, 34, were admitted at Lourdes Hospital with 20% and 75% burns respectively. “The deceased reportedly held a grudge against the tea stall owner in the belief that he used to mock him,” the North police said. Suicide prevention helpline numbers: Maitri — 0484-2540530, Chaithram — 0484-2361161.
21 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Police protection for Orthodox faction vicar||The Kerala High Court has ordered police protection for an Orthodox faction vicar and his assistants to conduct services at the Marthoman Church, Mulamthuruthy, Ernakulam. Justice Muhammed Mustaque has issued the directive while allowing a petition filed by vicar Fr. Geo George and three assistant vicars of the Orthodox faction seeking police protection for conducting services at the church. The court has directed the police to ensure that no person other than the petitioners are allowed to conduct religious services in the church. Besides, the police should ensure that the affairs of the church are not obstructed by priests of the Jacobite faction. The court has also ordered that if any force is required to take over the management and entrust it to the petitioners, it shall also be done by the police. The court made it clear that all parishioners are free to attend the services of the church and the petitioners shall not deny them any religious services.
21 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Migrants keen on returning home||Unable to find jobs during lockdown 4.0, several migrant labourers in the district are desperate to return to their native States. Though the district administration has arranged food and accommodation for them, most migrant labourers were left jobless during the lockdown. “At present we have no job or income and we are unable to go home as there are no trains. We were all working before the lockdown, but only a handful of us have jobs now,” said Deepak, who lives with 19 others, all of them from Assam. Employers’ directive Many of the labourers employed in tourism-related sectors, MSMEs, and restaurants have been asked to go back by their employers. “My employer said they can easily manage with half the workforce as only parcel service is permitted in restaurants,” said Raj from West Bengal. According to the district administration, the first batch of migrant workers from the district will leave for their homes on Friday. “A list of 1,400 migrant labourers have been finalised,” said an official.
21 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fishers a worried lot after double blow||Fishers in the mechanised sector, who have lost over 50 working days during the pandemic, are a worried lot as the annual monsoon trawling ban comes into effect from the midnight of June 9. The boat owners are not prepared for an extended lean season and have approached authorities requesting a one-time exception to revive the industry. “Currently many sectors are facing huge crises. By lifting the ban the government can help lakhs of people and give the industry a chance to bounce back. Mechanised fishing boats in Kerala bring to shore seafood worth Rs. 50 crore every day and this is not a time to overlook that fact,” says Peter Mathias, president, All Kerala Fishing Boat Operators Association. ‘Unscientific practice’ Reiterating the argument that the trawl ban in Kerala is unscientific, Mr. Mathias says June-July is normally the breeding season for pelagic fish only. “In the current situation, a lot of people, including those working in allied activities, will be affected. Exporters will not be able to deliver owing to the lack of product. We are still hopeful that the government will realise the gravity of the situation and make some exceptions,” he says. Thousands of boats in the mechanised sector have been lying idle since the lockdown and according to the fishers, many of them could not resume operations even after the relaxation of norms. “In the first phase, only small boats were allowed and the entire sector became operational last week only. But half the crew members are not available now as migrant labourers have returned to their homes,” says Lal, a fisher. This week, we were asked to suspend all fishing activities on a couple of days owing to the cyclone and the weather may continue like this till June 9. By July, we will complete nearly five months without work,” he adds.
21 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||His stardom gifted artistic cinema to mainstream||Forty years ago a young actor made his screen debut in the role of a villain that the audience loved to hate in Manjil Virinja Pookkal . It did not take the movie camera long to fall in love with that rare talent. That incredibly gifted actor, Mohanlal, turns 60 on Thursday. According to the Malayalam almanac, his birthday was on Tuesday, but according to the Gregorian calendar it falls on Thursday. Already celebrations have begun, but in a low-key manner on account of the lockdown norms in place. By now, his fans’ associations have delivered the traditional Kerala lunch to his dearest friends at their homes. It is an irony that he has reached a major milestone in his life at a time when cinemas across the world are closed in the wake of the COVID-19-induced lockdown. In these times of social distancing, Mohanlal may not be able to celebrate his birthday in the presence of too many people, but the occasion will give him time to reflect on a remarkable career. It is a career that has given joy to so many and showed the world how much difference an actor could make to the art of filmmaking. Only a few Indian actors have been admired so much. Fewer have deserved such respect. Still fewer have made acting an art of such nuances. Remember Mohanlal’s expression in Iruvar when he sees Aishwarya Rai auditioning with a dance sequence for the first time? Remember the look on his face when he is forced to murder a young girl in Sadayam? Or any of those moments he shared with Jagathy Sreekumar in Kilukkam.  Many of Mohanlal’s blockbusters have been laced with humour such as Kilukkam, and his unparalleled skill at comedy may have played a big role in making him one of Malayalam cinema's most loved actors. That, of course, is only one part of him. One of his strengths lies in acting out a man's intense emotions in most trying situations. He does that, making you forget he is acting at all. There is a naturalness to his acting that you would find in very few actors. In Indian cinema, the only mainstream hero that would resemble Mohanlal is probably the late Sanjeev Kumar who too was brilliant at subtle comedy even as he excelled in emotional scenes. Unlike him, Mohanlal has also been able to become one of the biggest superstars of all time. His stardom – like that of Mammootty -- encouraged the directors and scriptwriters to make artistic cinema for the mainstream. That perhaps is his biggest contribution to Malayalam cinema.
21 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode corpn. office resumes most of its services||With the State government relaxing lockdown norms further, the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation Office has resumed offering many of its services in full swing. “All services, including issuing of various certificates, licences, building permits and tax payment, are now in full swing,” Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said. However, the entry remains restricted. “We advise the public to visit the office only if it is a dire situation and also to follow the COVID-19 protocol by using mask and sanitisers and ensuring physical distancing if they visit,” the official said. One tests positive A 22-year-old native of Arikkulam who reached Kozhikode from Mumbai was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday even as 10 people, including pregnant women and health workers, were put under surveillance after a doctor working in a private clinic was found infected at her native place in Karnataka. Sources said the doctor had been working as a gynaecologist at the clinic and had gone home on May 5. There are now 5,608 persons under observation.
21 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Seven new COVID-19 cases reported in Palakkad||Seven more COVID-19 cases were confirmed in the district on Wednesday. While three of them had returned from Chennai, four had come from Maharashtra.  Those who came from Chennai were a 38-year-old man from Anamari, Kollangode; a 27-year-old man from Kavassery, Alathur; and a 49-year-old man from Mannampatta, Sreekrishnapuram.  Those who came from Maharashtra were 45-and 42-year-old men from Panamanna, and 50-and 39-year-old men from Thrikkaderi.  The number of COVID-19 patients currently under treatment in the district has risen to 20, including a man each from Malappuram and Thrissur. Two men from Palakkad are under treatment in Ernakulam.  The two men of Anamari and Kavassery reached the Walayar check-post on May 17. They had reportedly tested positive for COVID-19 while in Chennai and had been advised quarantine and vigil.  When the district authorities came to know about it, the two were directly admitted to the District Hospital here. They tested positive for COVID-19 again on Wednesday. The foursome who returned from Maharashtra had reached here on May 14 via the Thalappady check-post.
21 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Online training for CBSE teachers||The Council of CBSE Schools, Kerala, (CCSK) has chalked out an online training programme for teachers of CBSE schools in the State with the objective of meeting the challenges thrown up by COVID-19. CCSK chief patron Indira Rajan and president P. Unnikrishna Menon said here on Wednesday that the training would strengthen the pedagogical skills of the teachers using the web technology. CBSE schools interested in the programme can contact the respective CCSK district heads.
21 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||2 more NoRKs test positive||Two more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) in quarantine tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday taking the total number of COVID-19 patients under treatment in the district to seven. A 37-year-old man who came to his home at Mezhuvely from Colaba in Mumbai on June 13 and a pregnant woman, who was working as a staff nurse in Kuwait and reached her home at Perinad in Ranni on June 14, tested positive. They have been shifted to the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. The Mezhuvely native and two others from the district came to Kozhikode on a bus with 17 others from Mumbai on June 13. By car The three along with a Kottayam native then travelled to Pathanamthitta in a car. Two of them tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 so far. A 30-year-old man from Kadapra, near Thiruvalla, tested positive on Tuesday and the clinical examination of the throat swab of the third person is awaited. Some others who travelled with them on the bus from Mumbai too tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The patient from Mezhuvely was quarantined at a corona care centre at Elanthoor before he was taken to the General Hospital on Wednesday. The woman was in home quarantine since her arrival on June 14.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A tightrope walk between NoRKs, containment strategy||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the government was constrained to walk a tightrope between ensuring the welfare and safety of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) returning from abroad and other States returnees and the State’s containment strategy. “One could not be at the cost of the other. The government has to ensure both at a stroke,” he said. Mr. Vijayan’s comment came against the backdrop of reports of an increase in the State’s COVID-19 caseload after Kerala opened its air, sea and land borders to NoRKs from within the country and abroad. The Chief Minister hinted that the government might be constrained to limit the intake of arrivals from epidemic hotspots if positive cases, chiefly among entries, swelled. (A senior official clarified that the government had informally set 300 positive cases as the safety threshold. If the number of infections crossed the tentative lower limit, the State might be constrained to phase out the arrival of returnees further.) The Chief Minister slammed the attempt by some ‘vested interests’ to portray NoRKs as spreaders of the infection. A family which returned to their home at Pathanamthitta from Thane, a high-risk locality in Maharashtra, had to contend with threats and abuse from neighbours. They had to spend several hours in their vehicle on the road, without being able to enter their home. Ward-level neighbourhood watch committees at the village and municipal level should work in tandem with the police to ensure that such instances did not repeat. The scourge was not anybody’s fault. Gatekeepers could not determine whether an asymptomatic person was a covert transmitter of the infection or not accurately. Carriers, for no fault of theirs, might escape detection on land borders and at ports. Neighbourhood watch committees should increase house-level visits to ensure that returnees were adequately isolated. Mr Vijayan said Kerala stood steadfast behind its vast diaspora.“Kerala cannot and will not forget their contributions. They could come home any time. It is like returning home to their mothers,” he said.
21 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||52-day trawling ban from June 9 midnight||The 52-day annual monsoon season trawling ban will come into effect in the State from the midnight of June 9, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma said on Wednesday. Fishing vessels from other States operating along the Kerala shores must leave the region before June 9 midnight. The Fisheries Department will hire 20 private vessels for carrying out search-and-rescue operations and patrolling. Local youth The department will also utilise the services of 80 youth from the fishing communities for search-and-rescue operations, the Minister said. Diesel bunks at fisheries harbours and landing centres will remain closed for the duration of the ban. Services of marine ambulances will be available during June and July. The government enforces the fishing holiday to soften the impact fishing practices have on the marine ecology and to provide a conducive ecosystem for the breeding of different types of fish, Ms. Mercykutty Amma said. The 52-day ban, designed to coincide with the fish breeding season, will help replenish marine fishery resources, the Minister said.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Capital has two more cases||Two men who reached the district from abroad in the past few days tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. One is a 46-year-old Balaramapuram native and the other a 26-year-old youth who hails from Kattakkada. The former reached the city from Dammam on May 12 and was sent to institutional quarantine at IMG here. He was asymptomatic. The youth, who came from Abu Dhabi on May 17, had COVID-19 symptoms and was taken to General Hospital. Meanwhile, 149 entered the State through the inter-State border at Inchivila. Of them, 71 were men and 78 women. While a chunk – 138 – arrived from Tamil Nadu, four were from Maharashtra, six from Karnataka, and one from Bihar. Thirty-eight were from red zones. While 36 were sent into home quarantine, two who intimated that they lacked facilities at home were shifted to government surveillance centres. The district administration put 608 people under surveillance as part of disease containment measures. With this, the number of people under surveillance has touched 5,936. Of them, 5,356 people are in home quarantine. As many as 533 people are under surveillance in 17 institutions in the district. As many as 586 people completed their surveillance period without any symptoms on Wednesday. Fourteen people were admitted to hospitals in the district with symptoms. Ten were discharged. Forty-seven people remain under treatment. A total of 130 samples were sent for testing. Results of 100 samples returned negative. A total of 12,653 people in 7,154 vehicles were screened at various check-posts. Case registered The City police registered a case against a man who violated home quarantine and ventured out, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyaya said in a statement here. He reached the city from Tamil Nadu on May 9 and was in home quarantine under the Medical College police station limits. He was then shifted to institutional quarantine. The City police registered petty cases against 102 people for not wearing masks. Three people were booked for violating lockdown norms.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SCTIMST to launch RNA extraction kit||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) is commercially launching Agappe Chitra Magna, a magnetic nanoparticle-based RNA extraction kit it has developed along with Agappe Diagnostics Ltd, a Kochi-based invitro diagnostics manufacturing company, here on Thursday. Chitra Magna is an innovative RNA extraction kit developed by the SCTIMST, the technology for which had been transferred to Agappe Diagnostics last month. The kit, which can be used for RNA extraction for RT-LAMP, RT-qPCR, RT-PCR and other isothermal and PCR-based protocols for the detection of SARS-CoV-2, had been validated by the National Institute of Virology, following which the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had given the go ahead for its commercial production. It uses an innovative technology for isolating RNA using magnetic nanoparticles to capture the RNA from the patient sample and is very sensitive, an official release said here. Agappe Chitra Magna RNA Isolation Kit will be formally launched by V.K. Saraswat, NITI Aayog member and president of the Institute Body of the SCTIMST. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, is expected to be present at the function, which will be held at the BMT wing of the SCTIMST at Poojappura. Thomas John, Managing Director, Agappe Diagnostics, will hand over the first sale to officials from the Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi. The indigenously developed and manufactured RNA extraction kit would reduce the nation’s dependence on imported kits which are expensive and bring down the cost of COVID-19 testing, the official release said. Agappe Diagnostics has a manufacturing capacity of 3 lakh kits per month, each priced at Rs. 150. Imported RNA extraction kits cost double the amount, it said.
21 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSEB allays fears over storage in its dams||The storage levels in dams managed by the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) do not give cause for concern at present, a meeting convened by Electricity Minister M.M. Mani concluded on Wednesday. The storage in each dam was scrutinised at the meeting. Inspection of dam shutters has been completed and repairs carried out. The KSEB has been directed to closely monitor the water levels and issue alerts to the public. The meeting decided to approach Tamil Nadu for regular updates on the water level in the Mullaperiyar dam. On Tuesday, the combined storage in the KSEB dams stood at 32% of the total storage capacity. This was adequate to generate 1,315.2 million units (mu). On the same day in 2018, the storage stood at 1,359.2 mu and 879.3 mu in 2019.
21 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF house visits from May 25||Left Democratic Front (LDF) workers will launch a house visit programme from May 25 to 31 in connection with the fourth anniversary of the State government, front convener A. Vijayaraghavan has said. The government had decided to drop its anniversary celebrations in the wake of the COVID-19 threat. The plan is to inform the people of the development and welfare initiatives of the government and to elicit their opinion, he said.
21 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jan Shatabdi from June 1||The popular inter-city Jan Shatabdi Express trains between Thiruvananthapuram Central and Kozhikode and between Thiruvananthapuram Central and Kannur will commence operations from June 1. The 02075/02076 Jan Shatabdi expresses running in the Kozhikode- Thiruvananthapuram- Kozhikode sector and the 02081/02082 Kannur- Thiruvananthapuram Central- Kannur sector figure among the 100 pairs of mail and express trains commencing operations from June 1 in the country. In all, 21 pairs of Jan Shatabdi Expresses have been cleared.The 02618/02617 Hazrat Nizamuddin- Ernakulam- Hazrat Nizamuddin Mangala Express and the 06345/06346 Mumbai LTT- Thiruvananthapuram Central- Mumbai LTT Netravati Express figure among the 73 long-distance trains cleared by the Railway Board for operations. The 12283/12284 Ernakulam- Nizamuddin- Ernakulam Duronto Express also figures among the five trains having non-AC coaches cleared for operations.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Water supply disruption||Drinking water supply to Thiruvallam, Poonkulam, and Vellar wards and Venganoor and Kalliyoor panchayats in the Vandithadam section limits of the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) will be completely disrupted from 6 a.m. to midnight on Friday.
21 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Youth commission||The Kerala State Youth Commission has begun offering its services online by launching its online complaint redressal mechanism. The first complaint has been submitted by V.Rahul from Alappuzha, who lost his sports certificates and wanted to get copies of the same. The commission plans to expand its online services after the lockdown.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KTU exams||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University (KTU) will conduct the BTech eighth semester regular and supplementary examinations from July 1. The S7 honours and MBA T5 exams that were postponed from March 16 will be conducted on June 26 and the S8 honours exams will be held on June 29. The exam duration has been reduced to two hours and 15 minutes. While there will be no change in the question paper structure, the total marks will be reduced to 70.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Flight from Moscow reaches capital||A Royal Flight aircraft from Moscow reached the international airport here at 9 a.m. on Wednesday. The flight had 104 passengers. An Air India Express flight from Kuwait with 158 passengers, scheduled to arrive here 11 p.m., is on the way as The Hindu goes to press.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Automatic sanitiser dispensers to be installed (with pic)||The Health Department, in association with the Social Security Mission and the Departments of Social Justice and Women and Child Development, is installing automatic sanitiser machines under the second phase of the Break the Chain campaign. The machines including a sensor-operated sanitiser dispenser and mechanical foot-operated machine will be installed in public places and institutions. Health Minister K.K.Shylaja inaugurated the distribution of the machines here on Wednesday.
21 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||New nutritional supplement for kids||Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has developed a new nutritional supplement, Thenamruth-nutribar, for children below 18 years. The supplement is developed as part of Sambushta Keralam, being implemented by the Department of Community Science at the College of Horticulture, Vellanikkara. The nutritional supplement seeks to improve the general immunity and disease resistance capacity of children, says KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu. Each nutribar of 100g will cater to one-third of the daily nutrient and calorie requirement of children, says principal investigator of the project Seeja Thomachan, who is also Head of the Department of Community Science, College of Horticulture. E.R. Aneena, C. Sharon and P.S. Lakshmi are the co-investigators. “The product, developed from over 12 components including rice, wheat, corn, ragi, soya, Bengal gram, ground nut, sesamum and Jaggery, is a rich source of minerals such as iron and calcium,” says Dr. Seeja. Distribution plan The plan is to distribute 1,15,000 nutribars across the State through the Women and Child Development Department and complement the State government’s efforts for a nutritional secure Kerala. The product is a step towards popularising the concept of ‘nutraceuticals’, in which food is taken as medicine by combining nutritional elements. All efforts are under way for its commercial production for the benefit of the public, Dr. Chandra Babu says.
21 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Two more cases in Thrissur; 7,746 under observation||COVID-19 was confirmed in two more persons in Thrissur district on Wednesday. A 61-year-old man who reached Chavakkad on May 13 from Mumbai, tested positive on Wednesday. Another positive person, a 41-year-old man from Choondal, who came from Abu Dhabi, was shifted to the Ernakulam Government Medical College Hospital from the airport itself when he showed symptoms of the disease. In all, 7,746 persons are under observation in the district. Meanwhile, the first batch of NRIs who reached the district on May 7 will complete the institutional quarantine period of 14 days on Thursday. The police on Wednesday registered a case against Bethany English Medium School, Kunnamkulam, for conducting the admission test for first standard students despite lockdrown restrictions. The Health Department sent five persons who arrived from Bengaluru into quarantine on Wednesday. They were waiting for buses at the KSRTC stand to go home.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Verdant beginnings||
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Writing on the wall||
21 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Containment clusters redrawn in Anantapur||The district administration, in association with the police and municipal authorities, has redrawn the containment clusters. There are 41 clusters now in which 1,15,915 people reside in 29,170 households. In the non-containment zones, people will be allowed to move out of their houses from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Night curfew will, however, continue. Anantapur city has seven containment zones. The entire Hindupur town is a containment zone. “About one lakh population lives in the buffer zones of the ‘very active’, ‘active’ and ‘dormant’ containment zones,” district Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu said at a joint press conference on Wednesday. The total number of households in all the three containment zones, including buffer zones, is 40,000. In the ‘very active’ zone, while the core area is 500 meters, the buffer zone is 500 meters. In the ‘active’ zone (less than 10 active cases), 200 metres will be core area and 200 metres buffer zone. In the ‘dormant’ zone (where there are no cases in the last 14 days), 200 meters will be the core area. Shopping malls, restaurants and cinema halls will not be allowed in the non-containment zones too and stadia will be opened for sporting activities without spectators. Regional Joint Director and Municipal Commissioner (FAC) P.V.V.S. Murthy, who was also present, said talks were going on with commercial establishments on the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for reopening them in the non-containment zones. Alternative shops in a row would be allowed to open. Standalone shops can open in colonies.
21 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discom employees decry transfer||As many as 68 employees of the AP Southern Power Distribution Company Limited from Kurnool and Anantapur districts, who were transferred to the Telangana Northern Power Distribution Company Limited on Tuesday, in lieu of as many employees from there posted in the AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited, strongly opposed the action and threatened to go on strike. Addressing a press conference, Divisional Engineer (operations) Sampath Kumar said that 10 out of the 68 transferred on Tuesday were from among the SC/ST communities. As per the provisions of the A.P. Reorganisation Act these employees needed to be posted wherever they choose.
21 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Praja Science Vedika finds fault with latest billing method||The latest Low Tension domestic power bills generated by the Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited in Anantapur are flawed and is against the principle of natural justice, said Praja Science Vedika State president M. Suresh Babu. Producing the latest bills of some persons from Ram Nagar area (Non-COVID containment zone) in the city, he said the usual meter reading is taken on 9th of every month with just a day of variation, but due to the lockdown the bill was taken on May 19 or May 20. The last meter reading was taken on March 9 and current one on May 20.
21 May 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. complains to Godavari board against TS projects||Perturbed by Telangana’s complaint against its plans to divert 8 tmcft Krishna water every day from the Srisailam reservoir, Andhra Pradesh hit back by lodging complaints on several ongoing projects of the former not only in the Krishna Basin but in the Godavari basin too where a huge surplus is available. Following its complaint lodged with the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) against seven projects that include three completed ones, A.P. has also lodged a complaint with the Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) against Telangana’s six ongoing projects. Besides, AP has also complained to the the river boards against drawing of the two river waters for Telangana’s Mission Bhagaritha. In its complaint to the GRMB on May 14, A.P. pointed out that Telangana has taken up Kaleshwaram, Godavari (Devadula) Phase-III, Thupakulagudem (P.V. Narasimha Rao Kanthanapally), three barrages across Lower Penganga, a tributary of Godavari – Rajapet (Bhimkund), Chanakha-Korata and Pimparad-Parsoda – and Ramappa lake to Pakala lake diversion without furnishing projects reports to the river board and approval of the Apex Council. Further, A.P. pointed out in its letter to the GRMB that “there is hardly any water left for projects to be taken up by the two States at 75% dependability after taking into account the utilisation for existing and ongoing projects in the two States.” It maintained that that construction of several lift schemes and barrages in violation of the AP Reorganisation Act and without any detailed studies would have negative impact on the availability of water in the Godavari. Besides, Telangana has also enhanced the utilisation capacity of Kaleshwaram from 225 tmcft to 450 tmcft and that of Sita Rama lift scheme from 70 tmcft to 100 tmcft, A.P. alleged .  Board responds Responding to AP’s complaint, Member of GRMB P.S. Kutiyal asked Telangana to “furnish views on priority basis” on the issues raised by AP. When contacted, a senior irrigation engineer of Telangana said AP has been talking about shortage of water in Godavari when the Centre had proposed to divert the water to further south with Godavari-Cauvery linking. “Telangana is yet to avail its allocation of 950 tmcft in the Godavari so far and there’s huge surplus available and as being stated by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao repeatedly, it’s the Godavari on which the two States could depend on for meeting emerging needs,” the engineer told The Hindu on condition of anonymity.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC asks how KSPCB plans to preserve lakes||The Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) to spell out in what manner it is going to take steps to keep Bellandur and Varthur lakes and Vrushabhavati river bodies as clean as they stand today due to reduced cause for pollution in view of the lockdown. “Pollution level of these water bodies appears to be nearly zero today due to lockdown. It is proof that pollution was due to effluents,” a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Hanchate Sanjeevkumar observed orally while hearing a PIL petition, filed by Geetha Misra, a resident of Rajajinagar. The bench also orally observed that “perhaps the only benefit from coronavirus on environment is this.” No froth Appearing for the petitioner, advocate G.R. Mohan said that several water bodies in the city, particularly Bellandur and Varthur lakes and Vrishabhavati river, are not frothing due to clean environment resulting in natural process in view of the closure of industries and commercial activities due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Pointing out that the cause for pollution of these water bodies are mainly effluent and sewage from industrial and commercial establishments, the petitioner has sought a direction to authorities not to permit industrial production in and around Bellandur and Varthur lakes, and Vrishabavathi river catchment areas within the limits of the BBMP. The petitioner had said that she had submitted a representation to the State government on April 23 requesting encashing the benefit of lockdown that has reduced cause for pollution of water bodies by ensuring that the industrial and commercial establishments in catchment areas of these water bodies are not allowed to operate till they comply with all environmental norms.
21 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bengaluru residents jolted by deafening burst||A fighter aircraft on a test sortie, supposedly a Sukhoi-30 MKI, flew too fast and perhaps low enough to shatter Bengaluru’s midday peace on Tuesday. At 1.20 p.m., people living in the east and south-eastern parts of Bengaluru, already harried by COVID-19 fears, were jolted by a deafening burst. Residents of almost half of the city reported on social media platforms that they felt tremors and rattling of windowpanes and objects at home for about 9 seconds. After hours of confusing information, the mystery was somewhat cleared by the Indian Air Force, around 9.30 p.m. Spokesperson of the Ministry of Defence in Bengaluru tweeted, “It was a routine IAF test flight involving a supersonic profile which took off from Bluru Airport and flew in the allotted airspace well outside City limits. The aircraft was of Aircraft Systems and Testing Establishment (ASTE.)” Felt across many areas The sound was heard as a boom, thunder, blast, and felt across Marathahalli, areas around the Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. Whitefield, Electronics City, Fraser Town, Kammanahalli, Sarjapur, the football stadium, and Ulsoor in the east; Bannerghatta Road, M.G. Road, Jayanagar, and J.P. Nagar in the south, among other areas. People in Anekal, 35 km away, and Malur, about 50 km away, also reportedly heard it. The ASTE is located in the HAL belt at Marathahalli. Its experienced test pilots — who guarantee that a plane is safe to fly — routinely test-fly military aircraft that are under development, or every time a military aircraft is slightly tweaked, upgraded, serviced; or a device or part on the plane is added or replaced. According to multiple unofficial sources, a Sukhoi-30 MKI fighter plane, probably being test flown by ASTE pilots, was flying over the city around the time.It may have gone supersonic — that is, breached the speed of sound (beyond Mach 1 or around 1,200 km per hour.) As the plane flies, depending on the height it flues at, the high speed creates a “sonic boom” or sound waves that ‘hit’ the areas below. The present boom was one such, a former senior technical officer of the IAF said. If this sortie needed to test the speed or height, ideally it could have flown over fields around Bengaluru, the former IAF engineer said. IAF clarifies IAF’s Headquarters Training Command based in the city said in the evening, “No aircraft of training command was flying in the area. However, ASTE and HAL could have been undertaking their routine test flying, which necessitates going supersonic at times. These are done well beyond the city limits in specified sectors.” It said, “However, considering the atmospheric conditions and reduced noise levels in the city during these times, the aircraft sound may become clearly audible even if it happened way out from the city.” HAL spokesman Gopal Sutar said, “HAL aircraft or test flights have nothing to do with today’s sound in Bengaluru.”
21 May 2020||BHIMAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||They eagerly wait for arrival of kin from abroad||“My son Charan went to the U.S. to pursue higher education. I saw him a year ago and we are worried about his health as COVID-19 is rampant there. He is planning to return soon. We are very eager to see him,” said Narsayamma. “We have been chatting with Charan on social media and he explained us about the spread of virus, which killed several thousands of people in the U.S.,” she said. With the Centre bringing back stranded Indians from different countries under the Vande Bharat mission, parents of many children expressed happiness and thanked the government for making the arrangements for the move. “Saranya is staying with her family at California. We saw her two years ago. Once the Centre resumes international flight services, she is planning to come to India. All our family members and Saranya’s friends are waiting for her visit,” said her sister Nayana of Bhimavaram. Lockdown experience Explaining the torture they experienced during the lockdown, a senior citizen, Lakshmana Rao, said many parents, whose children were staying away suffered a lot during the pandemic. There was nobody to get medicines, essentials and recharge the phones in the last two months, he said. “Our children are staying far away from us. Domestic helps have stopped coming and there is nobody to help us. My daughter Sirisha is staying at Bengaluru and son Sujit is Australia. We asked both of them to visit our hometown, Naraspuram,” said Sirisha’s father P. Narayana Rao. “From there, my son is enquiring us about our health regularly. He is worried about our well-being. Sujit’s friends are also waiting for him,” says Mr. Rao, a farmer in West Godavari. “My son is ready for state or paid quarantine after landing in India. We are ready to follow COVID-19 protocol, but want to see my son ,” said M. Saraswathi of Vijayawada. Many NRIs settled in UK, Australia, Singapore, Canada, USA and other countries are planning to return once flight services are resumed.
21 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||We are prepared, say officials as tally touches 308 in Chittoor||Even as the tally in the district touched 308 on Wednesday, officials reiterated that the District COVID Hospital is geared up to meet any exigency and allayed fears among public. “We are geared up to cope with the fast-emerging cases. If need be, we will enhance the bed capacity of the hospital,” said District COVID Hospital administration head P. Naresh Kumar Reddy while addressing mediapersons. ‘Guidelines followed’ The hospital(Level 1), administered by the Apollo Medical College, had only six isolation beds when it started functioning in March before the lockdown kickstarted. Now, the capacity has been increased to 400 isolation and 30 ICU beds, as per officials. Of the 400 isolation beds, 230 of them are designed to treat critically ill COVID cases. The isolation facilities are in tune with the guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and World Health Organization (WHO), Mr. Naresh Kumar Reddy said. Samples collected “Right from the last week of March, the hospital collected samples of over 3,000 suspect cases and conducted the tests. Apart from providing a nutritious diet, we arranged vaporizers in the isolation wards. As per the guidelines of the State COVID-19 control room, we did not immediately discharge patients who tested negative to the virus,” he said. The official said that at present, out of 58 positive patients who were being treated in Chittoor, 21 of them were discharged. “Shifting critical patients to Tirupati was not a viable option. Having a COVID dedicated hospital in the district has enabled the administration to respond to the patients quickly and manage the situation,” Mr Naresh Kumar Reddy said. ‘Safety ensured’ On a side note, all the medical and paramedical staff were provided with PPE kits, N-95 masks. Apart from the COVID Hospital staff, the personnel going for surveys were also provided with the requisite safety equipments, officials said.
21 May 2020||DWARAKA TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man tries to kill girl for rejecting love proposal||An agriculture worker, G. Satyadev of Nagulapalli village, allegedly tried to kill a girl after she reportedly rejected his love proposal. Satyadev allegedly engaged a hired killer, Kothapalli Suresh, for eliminating the victim. The police, who suspected the behaviour of the gang rounded them up, and during questioning they spilled the beans. Kothapalli Suresh is an auto driver in Eluru town. According to SI D. Madhu Venkata Raju, Satyadev was allegedly harassing the girl for the last few months on the pretext of love. Recently, the girl got engaged to another person. Unable to digest this, the accused allegedly hired the auto driver to kill the girl and agreed to pay Rs. 3 lakh.
21 May 2020||G. Venkataramana Rao,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT puts brakes on Seema lift scheme||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has granted an interim stay on the construction of the Rayalaseema Lift Scheme which has become a bone of contention between the two Telugu States. In response to a plea filed by G. Srinivas through his counsel Sravan Kumar and Kothai Muthu Meenal to the southern zone Bench in Chennai, the tribunal granted an interim stay on the irrigation project for two months. The petitioner appealed to the NGT to declare the scheme illegal as no eco-clearance was obtained. ‘Detailed study needed’ The petitioner asked the NGT to direct the Centre to conduct a detailed study on the adverse impact of the scheme on the Krishna River, flora and fauna, livelihood of the people in Telangana and the downstream Srisailam project. South Zone Bench judicial member K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta, in an order, issued an interim stay and constituted an expert panel to submit a report within two months. The State government was responded by senior NGT advocate D. Madhuri Reddy.
21 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM’s actions prove that he is wedded to people’s welfare’||Government Advisor (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said on Wednesday that Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has been carrying out the welfare agenda braving crisis after crisis while TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu has been trying to politicise COVID-19, a global pandemic. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy told reporters at the party central office that by announcing Rs. 1 crore to kith and kin of those who were killed in the gas leak at the LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, Mr. Jagan had shown his magnanimity. Mr. Naidu, on the other hand, had shown his indifference in dealing with compensation in the ONGC gas leak and Godavari Pushkarams. The State’s contribution in the ONGC incident was just Rs. 2 lakh and the rest was filled up by the Centre and the company. “Our Chief Minister did not wait for the company or the Centre’s contribution to come in but distributed the amount immediately like never before even in the tough times of COVID-19 and financial constraints,’’ he said.  ‘Right stand on COVID’ Mr. Jagan had been completely engaged in curbing the spread of the virus by taking effective decisions and standing as a role model for other States. “When the Chief Minister took a stand on COVID-19, and said one must try to live with it, the Opposition parties created a fuss. But today, everyone is accepting it and appreciating the CM’s decision. Despite going through these emergency situations, Mr. Jagan has not neglected public welfare and managed to launch schemes such as Rythu Bharosa, Vidya Deevena and zero-interest loans,’’ Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said.
21 May 2020||JANGAREDDYGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed in road mishap||A lorry driver and cleaner were killed when their vehicle rammed a stationary lorry on Tallada-Devarapalli road at Vegavaram village in West Godavari district on Wednesday. According to the police, Ramulu (50) and cleaner Anjaneyulu (45), of Nalgonda district, got stuck in the vehicle cabin and died. The lorry was coming Anakapalle to Telangana with timber load. Police retrieved the bodies and shifted them to Government Hospital mortuary. The Jangareddygudem police registered a case.
21 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 labourers test positive in E. Godavari||As many as four labourers, in the age group of 23-30, have tested positive for COVID-19 during their stay at a quarantine centre at Bommuru in East Godavari district. They had been observing 14-day quarantine after returning from Hyderabad and Pune, District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela told The Hindu.  Three of those who tested positive on Wednesday are natives of Dowleswaram and one belongs to Rajamahendravaram.
21 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre will consider plea on virus tests: HC||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday observed that the Central government would consider the request of the State to conduct reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for expatriates before allowing them to board flights to the country. The Bench, comprising Justice Anu Sivaraman and Justice M.R. Anitha, while closing a public interest litigation, observed it had no doubt that proper procedures would be put in place and revised in a time-bound manner by the Central government after considering the situation and taking note of requests made by individual States, besides expert medical advice and available data. The court said the Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) had been framed after proper application of mind and consultation with medical experts. The concerns expressed by the State would be considered by the Centre while formulating and revising the SOP in respect of the required testing. Petitioner C.R. Neelakandan of Kochi contended that lack of proper testing before allowing expatriates to board flights could pose a danger. If asymptomatic passengers were permitted after an inconclusive temperature test alone, there was every possibility of the virus being transmitted to others during travel.
21 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to run 126 buses from Kurnool, 111 from Anantapur||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation will run 126 and 111 buses in Kurnool and Anantapur districts respectively from Thursday with a limited number of services to neighbouring districts. Kurnool RTC Regional Manager T. Venkataramam said in all, 126 buses would be operated from various depots in the district and of them only six would be run to two different destinations out of the district -- three each to Kadapa and Anantapur. “Passengers need to maintain social distancing inside the vehicle and there will be on-board conductors. All passengers need to buy ticket at the starting point and buses will have only one or two stops instead of stopping at all stations in between,” Mr. Venkataramam said. Payment mode For the time being the Dynamic QR Code for UPI payments for various destinations was being developed and it could take a month, hence cash would be accepted at the ticket issue point with the help of Ticket Issuing Machines (TIMs). Anantapur Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said out of the regular 873 buses of the district, only 111 would be run from 12 depots and none would be operated to and fro Hindupur as the entire town have been placed under the containment zone in the latest map. Six buses would be run to Kurnool, two to Kadapa, four to Adoni and five to Madanapalle and these were included in the 111 buses to be run on the first day.
21 May 2020||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cattle-killer tiger finally trapped in Kodagu||A tiger that had killed 24 heads of cattle and was on the prowl in the Virajpet territorial division in Kodagu district for many weeks was caught and shifted to Mysuru early on Wednesday much to the relief of the locals. The capture comes within hours of another tiger being trapped in Bandipur, after it killed about 20 heads of cattle over a month. The tiger, identified by its stripe pattern as N-186, had the villagers and the Forest Department on tenterhooks as it repeatedly killed cattle only to disappear for some time and re-emerge elsewhere. It was operating within a radius of 4 km. Nearly 100 camera traps set up in the area helped confirm its identity. It was captured on a coffee estate in Belluru village in Virajpet taluk late on Tuesday.  Missing tooth DCF in-charge Konerira Roshni told The Hindu that the tiger was around 7 or 8 years old and was missing a canine tooth. Video footage indicated that it was using only the side of its jaws to chew. It was therefore unlikely that the tiger would be released into the wild again, she added. The Forest Department was on the tiger’s trail ever since reports started emerging of cattle being killed in the Virajpet territorial division nearly two months ago. A combing operation was conducted from March 5 to 17, but the tiger proved to be elusive. Combing commenced again on April 27 and this time the department sought the assistance of Dr. Sanath Krishna Muliya and his team from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, who were studying and radio-collaring elephants in the area. Experts said combing using elephants had proved to be futile given the terrain, and suggested the foot trap method which proved to be successful, said Ms. Roshni. This entailed laying traps designed in such a way that it restrains the animal but does not injure it. Six traps were laid after tracking the pugmarks and studying the tiger’s movements, she added.
21 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chennai link proves costly for Nellore||Frequenting of traders dealing with farm produce to neighbouring Tamil Nadu proved costly for Nellore, as 25 more persons with Koyambedu link tested positive in red zone district of SPSR Nellore in the last 24 hours. There was no let up in the spread of the dreaded disease in Sullurpeta, about 80 km from Chennai, as traders from the area shuttle to the metropolis for sale of farm produce in the Asia’s largest market for perishable goods. Sullurpeta, which has emerged as COVID-19 hotspot, accounted for 23 new cases and Nellore two, health officials said. Those who tested positive were traders and their primary contacts. With this, the number of confirmed cases went up to 182 in the district. Nine persons who had contracted the disease after visiting Delhi were discharged during the period in the district on recovery. The number of active cases stood at 76, as 103 patients had recovered so far, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. Three persons succumbed to the disease in the district so far. The health staff members were on their toes implementing the containment action plan in Sullurpeta. Police implemented the lockdown stringently in the town closing down all entry and exit points in the town. Meanwhile, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar led a team of officials in implementing the cluster containment strategy in Darsi, where one person, who had returned from Maharashtra, had tested positive. All the primary and secondary contacts of the person were isolated by the health staff, who conducted door-to-door survey on Wednesday. The number of active cases was only four in the district as 63 persons have been cured of the disease so far in the district.
21 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl rescued, truck driver held||Within four hours of the alleged kidnap and sexual assault of a 13-year-old girl, the Nellore police nabbed a truck driver and rescued the girl near Vedayapalem on the city outskirts in the early hours of Wednesday. Nellore Rural Deputy Superintendent of Police Y. Harinadha Reddy said the Nellore North traffic police after a hot chase nabbed the lorry driver. The driver was booked under IPC Section 376 (rape) read with IPC 511 (commiting offences punishable with life imprisonment and section 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act by the Sangam police. In view of the lockdown, the girl, accompanied by her uncle, had boarded the truck at Singarayakonda in Prakasam district to go to her grandmother's house at Bodigadithota here reportedly after a tiff with her father and step-mother. The driver after loading some consignment from a company at Marripadu asked the girl’s uncle to make enquiries at a motel on the way. Without waiting for the latter's return, the driver drove away the vehicle and allegedly sexually assaulted the girl.
21 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 held for life bid on church functionary||The police on Wednesday arrested six persons in connection with the alleged attempt on the life of a church functionary, from Kandukur in Prakasam district and Kavali in the neighbouring Nellore district. The accused have been identified as Sujay (41), Ashok (35), Balaji (32), Ramaswamy (23), Roop Kumar (28) and Bhaskar (33). The police are on the lookout for two others in this connection. Producing the accused before the media, Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said following the groupism in a church at Kandukur, Sujay allegedly planned to kill Kondiah, secretary of the church committee, after an altercation during the anniversary celebrations of the church. Sujay allegedly hired three persons for Rs. 2 lakh through three others. He paid Rs. 50,000 to the trio as an advance. The three hired persons went on a motorcycle on February 29 and attacked Mr. Kondiah with an iron rod on his head, the SP said. The CCTV footage helped the police identify the motorcycle used during the crime and zero in on the assailants.
21 May 2020||RAJAMAHEDNRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter found murdered||A rowdy-sheeter was murdered allegedly by his rivals, reportedly after he passed objectionable comments on a woman belonging to the rival’s family, on the outskirts of Rajamahendravaram late on Tuesday night. The incident came to light on Wednesday after Addepalli Sateesh (40) was found dead in a pool of blood with injuries on his head on the roadside on the outskirts of the city. The victim lives in Anand Nagar in the city. ACcording to the police, Sateesh, a daily-wage worker and rowdy sheeter, was reportedly invited by his rivals to discuss the issue of the alleged verbal abuse of the woman on Tuesday night and allegedly murdered.”
21 May 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||The fragrance of jasmine is missing this year||“We try hard to raise the jasmine gardens throughout the year and feel happy when we pluck the buds, which will attract customers with fragrance. But this year, ‘mallelu’ (jasmines) brought tears to us, which never happened,” say its growers. Hundreds of tonnes of jasmine flowers were withered and in many acres farmers did not pluck them unable to bear the labour charges. There was severe labour problem too. Though the government gave some relaxations for marriages, there are no ‘muhurtams’ in the next few days, lament the farmers. “Chandrugudem greet the visitors with the fragrance of jasmines and no family can pass our village without buying the flowers. Many women sell the flowers on the borders of AP-Telangana in Chandragudem and the neighbouring hamlets and heavy rush is seen at the local market,” say the villagers. Speaking to The Hindu , jasmine farmers poured out their woes on how the demand had fallen due to the lockdown, cosensequent ban on marriages and other functions and closure of temples. Each grower suffered more than Rs. 1 lakh loss this year, they say. “Jasmine gardens are raised in Pulluru, Pondugula, Budawada, Kothagudem and other villages around Mylavaram in the district. During peak season, we get Rs. 200 and above per kg. When there are more marriage ‘muhurtams’, we sell them even at Rs. 400 per kg. But, this year is a bad season for us and COVID-19 has shattered our dreams,” says a farmer, Ramachander Rao. “Ban on marriages and pujas in temples and lack of transport facilities affected the jasmine market this year. Jasmines are used exclusively for decorating the deities in all temples. Usually, we used to get orders over phone in advance and supply huge quantity of jasmines to the neighbouring cities every day,” says a woman grower. Many lose livelihood “Many farmers, commission agents, workers, retail sellers, vehicle owners and others depend on the flower market in and around Mylavaram. Some students pluck the buds and earn Rs. 200 and above every day and help their families. They buy books and school dresses later. Owing to lockdown some hundreds of families lost livelihood,” says a labourer, K. Ramanamma. “The government should help in rescheduling the loans,” demands another farmer, Nageswara Rao of Kadiyapu Lanka. “February to May is the season for ‘malle puvvulu’. We go to the gardens by the sunrise, pluck them, complete the work by 10 a.m., earn some money and take ration to homes. But, this year the curfew-like situation makes our lives miserable,” says a jasmine seller, Manemma.
21 May 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staff of women’s home arrested on sexual harassment charges||Director of Women Development and Child Welfare Department Krithika Shukla has said the watchman and matron of Bommuru Swadhar Home (Government Shelter Home for destitute women), at Rajamahendravaram, have been arrested for allegedly sexually harassing the inmates of the home. Ms. Shukla said a complaint has been received by Women Helpline No.181 around 11 a.m. on Tuesday, who alerted the East Godavari district Disha Centre. Staff of the centre rushed to the home, conducted an enquiry and recorded the statements of the victims. “Of the eight women staying in the home, four alleged that watchman Reddy Babu and matron Aruna Kumari, allegedly abused them and forced them to do illegal activities,” the Director said on Wednesday. Case registered The Disha Centre staff immediately alerted the district WD&CW Project Director and other higher officials lodged a complaint with Dowleswaram Police, who swung into action. Police registered a case under Section 376 IPC and other Sections and arrested the accused. The victims were sent to Government Hospital, Rajamahendravaram, for medical examination, Ms. Shukla said. “The government will take departmental action against the watchman and the matron of the home. Based on the departmental enquiry and police investigation, further action will be taken against them. The remaining inmates of Bommuru Swadhar Home have been shifted to another State-run home,” the Director said. “We are enquiring on since how many days the accused were harassing the women in the home. The role of other staff in the incident and negligence of local officers, is also being probed,” Ms. Shukla said. Meanwhile, Women and Child Welfare Minister Taneti Vanitha visited the home ob Wednesday and interacted with the victims.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 die in Telangana, Karnataka; 24 cases add to Kerala’s tally||Two more people died due to COVID-19 in Telangana, and one in Karnataka, on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu saw three more deaths, taking the toll in the State to 87. In Kerala, the COVID-19 case load spiked again on Wednesday, when 24 persons tested positive, all except one being imported cases of infection. Briefing the media, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that while 12 of the new positive cases were persons who had returned from abroad, 11 had come from other parts of the country. One person in Kannur was believed to have contracted the disease through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. Five persons had recovered from COVID-19. Kerala had reported 666 COVID-19 cases in all, of which 161 were active. The total of recovered cases was 502. The government put 74,398 persons under surveillance, of whom, except for 533 who were in hospitals, the rest were in home or institutional quarantine. The State had tested 48,543 samples, of which 46,961 have returned a negative result. In the sentinel surveillance, of 6,900 samples tested so far, 5,728 were negative. Mr. Vijayan said that given the manner in which the case load was going up, the State should brace for a serious situation. From just 16 cases in hospitals on May 8, in two weeks, the number of patients undergoing COVID-19 treatment rose to 161, he said. The State anticipated this and containment strategies had been devised. COVID-19 was a pandemic which spared no nation and there should be no discrimination against returning non-resident Keralites. The Government, through the National Health Mission had created an additional 2,948 temporary posts in 21 categories, anticipating the need to strengthen COVID-19 containment activities. This was apart from the 3,770 such posts created earlier. 15 cases in Hyderabad With two more people dying of the virus in Telangana on Wednesday, the COVID-19 toll in the State was 40. Besides, 27 samples tested positive on Wednesday. Of these, 15 were from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, and 12 were migrants from Jagtial and Jangaon districts. Two people were discharged. A total of 1,661 cases had been reported in the State. While 608 were active cases, 1013 were discharged. Among migrants, 89 tested positive for the virus. With the easing of lockdown restrictions from Tuesday, more people were coming out of their homes, travelling to work and other places. Health officials expected a spike in coronavirus cases in the coming weeks. Mumbai-returnees continued to test positive in Karnataka, with 51 of 67 new cases on Wednesday having a travel history to the city. While the total number touched 1,462, one more person, with travel history, succumbed to the infection in a private hospital in Bengaluru, taking the death toll to 41. The 43-year-old male resident of Bengaluru with a history of hypertension and myocarditis had returned from Vellore in Tamil Nadu. Primary and Secondary Education Minister, Suresh Kumar, said 52 of the 67 new cases were inter-State travellers. One was from Visakhapatnam, he said. Andhra Pradesh registered 68 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, after testing 9,159 samples. The case tally rose to 2,560, including 153 from other States. Active cases stood at 843, and the death toll at 53. The number of persons discharged from hospital is 1,664. Of new cases, 10 were linked to the Koyambedu market (six in Chittoor district and four in Nellore). Tamil Nadu saw another sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. A total of 743 persons, including 83 who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for COVID-19, taking the State’s overall tally across the 13,000-mark. This, while 987 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State. Tamil Nadu now has a total of 13,191 cases. As on date, a total of 5,882 persons were discharged after recovery and there are 7,219 active cases. Three more persons including two women died, taking the total deaths to 87.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Vijayawada, Chennai bureaus)
21 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Russian team at Kudankulam to address problems in generator||A seven-member Russian technocrat team reached the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project (KKNPP) site on Wednesday to inspect the ‘unusual vibrations’ in the generator section of the second reactor that has temporarily hampered the operation of the reactor at its maximum power generation capacity of 1,000 MWe. The Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL) is operating 2 x 1,000 MWe VVER reactors at Kudankulam with Russian assistance. The first reactor has been generating power since July 2013 even as the construction of the third and fourth reactors is under way at a cost of Rs. 39,747 crore. Excavation work for the construction of the fifth and sixth reactors is progressing ahead of schedule and the ‘first pouring of concrete’ for these last two reactors, to be built on an outlay of Rs. 50,000 crore, is likely to happen any time as decided by the NPCIL, the project proponent. While the first reactor that attained criticality in July 2013 is generating 1,000 MWe power, the quantum of power being supplied by the second reactor cannot be elevated to its maximum capacity — though this reactor too generated in the past 1,000 MWe electricity — owing to “some unusual vibrations” noticed in the generator section. To address these technical glitches, the KKNPP sought the help of the Russians tasked with creating the nuclear park at Kudankulam with six reactors for the NPCIL. After arriving in Ahmedabad, the Russian team landed in Madurai on Wednesday on a chartered flight and reached the KKNPP site by road in the afternoon. ‘Rectify problems’ Highly placed sources in the KKNPP told The Hindu that the Russian team would take stock and rectify problems as agreed upon in the Inter-Governmental Agreement signed between India and Russia while finalising the nuclear deal. The team is expected to leave for Russia on June 2, the sources added.
21 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD decides to accept bulk orders for laddu||As the Tirumala temple remains closed in view of the lockdown, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management has decided to at least commence distribution of the famous laddu to the devotees on reduced rates. The laddu, costing Rs. 50, is now available at Rs. 25 till the lockdown ends. The plan is to prepare laddus on receipt of request/indent from bulk takers in major centres. Once they are prepared, laddus will be transported to the nearest TTD Kalyana Mandapam or information centre. Buyers can then take the laddus home for distribution. “We have no idea of when we can provide darshan to the devotees. Based on the steady flow of requests, our plan is to at least reach the prasadam to the devout,” said TTD trust board Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy at a media conference here on Wednesday. As India Post or private courier services have not yet become fully operational and given the logistical hassles involved, the TTD’s role will be confined to shifting the consignment from its Tirumala kitchen to the information centres located in select cities. “The buyers will have to collect the laddus from our centres,” Mr. Subba Reddy added.   Helpline Even as the broad contours of the scheme are being worked out based on the demand-supply mechanism, the preparation will largely be based on orders received on a daily basis.  “For placing orders, people can call Tirumala temple Deputy Executive Officer Harindra Nath at 98495 75952 and Potu Peishkar Srinivasan at 97010 92777,” said Additional Executive Officer (Tirumala) A.V. Dharma Reddy. The potu has a capacity to prepare 3-4 lakh laddus every day. The laddus will be sent to the information centres in the 13 district headquarters of Andhra Pradesh, apart from Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. e-hundi sees rise There are regular visitors to Tirumala from across the Telugu States and Tamil Nadu, some even visiting once every month. As if to compensate their inability to offer prayers to their favourite deity, many devotees have apparently contributed online extensively to the e-hundi, which is evident from the increase in collections. The e-hundi received Rs. 1.97 crore for the month of April against the Rs. 1.79 crore netted in April 2019.
21 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vande Bharat’ flight from Kuwait to arrive today||The special flight carrying stranded Indians from Kuwait will land at the Tirupati international airport by around midnight of Thursday (May 21). Passengers bound for Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore, and Kurnool districts are arriving by this aircraft. Commissioned under ‘Vande Bharat’ mission, the Kuwait – Hyderabad – Tirupati Air India flight will reach Hyderabad at 9 p.m. and depart at 10.30 p.m. to reach Tirupati at 11.30 p.m. “This flight has a seating capacity of 150, but the number of passengers we will receive is still not clear as the booking process is still on,” Airport Director S. Suresh told The Hindu . On arrival at Hyderabad, the passengers will undergo the immigration, customs and other formalities before they are allowed to travel to Tirupati. At Tirupati, the passengers will be checked for body temperature and other COVID-19 specific parameters, following which they will be segragated district-wise. Meanwhile, the district administration has readied the housing colony at Vikruthamala village, located close to the airport compound, for passengers wishing to be quarantined free of cost.
21 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 held after ‘ambulance cartel’ takes a patient’s life||Three persons were taken into custody on Wednesday after a private ambulance driver was roughed up by a local cartel of ambulance drivers at SVR Ruia Government General Hospital the previous day. A 75-year-old patient was admitted to Ruia on complaint of paralysis and as his condition worsened, his family members decided to take him home on Tuesday. According to the police, the ambulance driver, who was part of the cartel, reportedly demanded Rs. 8,500 for the short travel, for which another driver charged Rs. 3,500. The 15 to 20 ambulances that are always “unofficially” parked in front of the hospital not only prevented the entry of the ‘outsider’, but also allegedly roughed up the driver. As the tiff continued for 40 minutes, the patient died on the road, causing outrage among the public. “I came to know of the incident after the drivers staged a dharna,” Ruia Superintendent of Police S. Bharathi told the mediapersons here on Wednesday.
21 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati eyes for 5-star ranking for cleanliness||After obtaining a ‘three star’ ranking under the ‘Garbage-free city’ category, Tirupati is desirous of obtaining a ‘five star’ ranking the next year. The city was given the ranking by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. “We owe this achievement to our health workers,” said MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha on Wednesday. Mr. Girisha also referred to the glitches that made the city slip the ‘5 star’ it had applied for, and vowed to overcome them this year.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eco-compliance mechanism for industries to be revamped||The gas leak tragedy in Visakhapatnam appears to have prompted the State government to bring in a new legislation titled Andhra Pradesh Environment Improvement Act (APEIA) for revamping the compliance mechanism laid down for industries. The law also envisages introduction of third party audit system and installing real-time pollution monitoring equipment in industrial units. Besides, the proposed legislation provides for a monetary penalty regime for the violation of pollution norms and Environment Damage Compensation (EDC). Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has discussed the modalities of the APEIA with Special Chief Secretary (environment, forest, science and technology) Neerabh Kumar Prasad, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) member- secretary Vivek Yadav and other officials concerned at his camp office at Tadepalli on Wednesday. It was observed during the deliberations that the existing Environment Protection Act (EPA), the Water Act and Air Act were more oriented towards clearance and no-objection certificate than having sufficient provisions to ensure strict compliance to the norms and environmental audit. The APEIA is intended to ameliorate the shortcomings when it comes to compliance with environmental standards by all industries. According to the officials close to the deliberations, the new law will be applicable to all industrial activities governed by the EPA and Water and Air Acts. The industries will be under the obligation to submit periodic reports on compliance with the conditions and audited annual environmental statements. Air quality All the red and orange category industries will have to set up Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations and Continuous Effluent Quality Monitoring Systems and submit the data to APPCB control centres. Green Fund For violations causing damage to human property, flora and fauna including ecosystem functions, the industries will have to pay the EDC. The penalties paid towards the EDC will be credited to a ‘Green Fund’ which will be utilised for the protection, improvement and management of environment.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||145 Telugus return to Vijayawada from London||The first repatriation flight from London with 145 passengers on board landed at the Gannavaram airport near Vijayawada at 8 a.m. on Wednesday. Airport Director G. Madhusudhan Rao said it was a transit flight that came via Mumbai. All passengers were made to undergo screening for coronavirus before they could reach the immigration counter. The government has made all arrangements for Telugu people returning home from abroad through special flights arranged by the Centre as part of the Vande Bharat Mission. COVID-19 protocol “All the passengers approached five different counters set up in a hall for thermal screening and other health protocol. They were given Indian SIM (Subscriber Identification Module) cards by the government before being led to their respective district counters where they exercised the option of government and paid quarantine. Home quarantine was not allowed for the passengers,” said Mr. Madhusudhan Rao. Buses were kept ready outside the airport terminal to take the passengers to their respective districts. Mr. Madhusudhan Rao said a direct flight from Jeddah was scheduled to land at Gannavaram Airport on Wednesday night and one flight each on Thursday and Friday from Kuwait.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Community policing can help prevent virus spread’||Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Central zone, P. Nagaraja Reddy has appealed to colonies and associations’ presidents to take measures to minimise movement of public in their respective areas and keep a vigil on strangers to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Mr. Reddy held a meeting with the association presidents of Teacher’s Colony, RTC Colony, Vasavi Colony and members of various apartment associations and appealed to them to extend their cooperation. “Community and friendly policing is the only way to arrest COVID-19. We request the association members and the local youth to arrange patrolling at night to check public movement and entry of strangers, ” the ACP said. Responding to the appeal, residents of Teacher’s Colony arranged barricades at the entrance of the street and youth were doing duties round the clock along with the police. Gesture to migrants The ACP also distributed chappals, fruits, masks, energy drink and juices to migrant workers, who were trekking from Chennai, Nellore, Guntur and other places and passing through Vijayawada. “I saw a few migrant workers tying rubber tubes to their feet to escape the searing heat while walking on the national highway. Many labourers were seen taking a nap under the flyovers, trees and on the dividers along the highway, which moved my heart. I thank Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, Additional CP B. Srinivasulu, DCPs and other officers for distributing the material to the workers,” Mr. Nagaraja Reddy said. Help had been extended to 3,500 migrant workers in the last few days, he said. “We are arranging meal to the workers and arranging transportation for them. Patamata CI R. Suresh Reddy, Penamaluru CI M. Satyanarayana, Machavaram CI G.V. Vinay Mohan and owners of many showrooms and shops helped me in rendering the service,” the ACP said.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Consumers will pay more under dynamic billing system’||TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu has asked the State government to restore the old billing system in the power sector and waive off the three months’ power bill in view of the COVID-19 crisis. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Mr. Naidu said the new dynamic billing system based on monthly power consumption would be burdensome to the people. “The old system based on yearly average consumption is an appropriate method of deciding the slabs. The State government has introduced the new system that affects all walks of life,” Mr. Naidu said. Stating that the YSRCP, in the run-up to the elections, had promised to bring down the power tariff, Mr. Naidu said people who had voted for ‘Fan’ (YSRCP election symbol) were not in a position to use it now as they were forced to cough up huge amounts following abnormal increase in tariff. The was no truth in the government’s claims that it had increased the tariff of consumers who consumed more than 500 units, argued the TDP chief. “The slab changes automatically even if one unit is consumed additionally. The tariff too will go up drastically,” he pointed out, adding, “BJP leader Kanna Lakshminarayana got an unusually higher bill of Rs. 20,000 against Rs. 11,521 previously. TDP leader Bonda Umamaheswara Rao got a bill of over Rs. 50,000 while his previous bill was around Rs. 9,000.” ‘TDP ushered in reforms’ The TDP had spearheaded the power sector reforms during the year 2000, he claimed. “Regulatory Commission was established and T&D loses were brought down. The reforms had become a role model for others. Andhra Pradesh could overcome power shortage. The governments that had come to power later failed to maintain the momentum. The State, therefore, slipped into power deficit of 22.5 million units. After regaining power, the TDP government had streamlined the sector,” he claimed. The State lost its credibility after it cancelled the PPAs. The YSRCP government did not heed the Centre advice not to cancel the PPAs, Mr. Naidu observed. The High Court had to intervene and restrain the government from going ahead with its proposal, he added. “Finally, the Centre has come up with one nation one Act,” he added.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC tells DISCOMs to file counters in three weeks||Andhra Pradesh High Court has directed the power distribution companies (DISCOMs) to file counter-affidavits on power tariffs in three weeks. Hearing a plea seeking to declare the new tariffs purportedly imposed with effect from April 1 as unconstitutional and against the principles of natural justice, Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice K. Lalitha Kumari directed the DISCOMs to make their position clear within three weeks. The petitioners appealed that the respondents be directed to issue separate bills for the power consumed in March and April and to implement new tariffs after the lockdown. ‘Inflated bills’ The DISCOMs issued inflated bills for March and April saying that meter readings were not taken due to the lockdown and explained it was new slab rate structure that gave the impression that the bills had increased. The Energy Department has denied that the tariffs were jacked up and that it was doing random checking of the bills to ensure there were no discrepancies.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||AgriGold victims plan fast from May 23||Members of the AgriGold Customers and Agents' Welfare Association will observe 48-hour fast across the State on May 23 and 24, according to association State honorary president Muppalla Nageswara Rao and secretary B.V. Chandrashekar. Addressing the media on Wednesday, they said the government assured the victims of making a budgetary allocation of Rs. 1,150 crore and repay the deposits who invested less than Rs. 20,000 in the firm. But, the amount was not released so far, they alleged. Mr. Nageswara Rao urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to release the amount during the one-year completion celebrations of the YSRCP rule. The association members would submit representations at Grama Sachivalayams from Thursday, and observe fast on May 23 and 24 in all revenue divisions across the State, he said.
21 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC gets new Asst. Solicitor General||Senior advocate N. Harinath has been appointed as the Assistant Solicitor General of India for the High Court of Andhra Pradesh for three years. The Union Ministry of Law and Justice issued an order to this effect on Wednesday. Mr. Harinath is replacing B. Krishna Mohan.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA:,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reforms in education sector reviewed||Education Minister A. Suresh on Wednesday asked officials of the department to educate the people about the reforms, the welfare programmes and the infrastructure development works taken up by the department in an effective way. Addressing a meeting , the Minister said the Chief Minister would hold a five-day long review on the development programmes in the last one year rule of the YSRCP. In a run up to the review meeting proposed from May 25, the Minister assessed the programmes taken up by the Education Department, the progress achieved and the way forward. He said the Chief Minister was keen on ensuring that the fruits of the welfare schemes launched by his government were reaching the beneficiaries at the grass root level. The meeting discussed key issues like implementation of Amma Vodi, development of basic infrastructure in schools and colleges, improvement of educational standards, English as a medium of instruction in schools from the next academic year, development of Telugu language, Midday Meal scheme, distribution of uniforms, textbooks and footwear, skill development, implementation of the recommendations of the regulatory commission in private educational institutions and appointment of teachers.
21 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online marketing network for ryots launched||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Wednesday launched Andhragreens.com, an online marketing network, to enable the farmers and FPOs to sell their produce directly to the consumers and bulk buyers across India and abroad. Mr. Kannababu said the facility is being extended in association with Kalgudi, an agriculture convergence platform. Kalgudi has already successfully launched its services in Karnataka and Telangana. Fresh fruits and vegetables are sold to consumers through the dotcom. The Marketing and Horticulture departments would coordinate the process, he said. The Minister said the Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) would be launched on May 30. Farmers can market their produce directly through the RBKs. Apart from supply of quality seeds, pesticides would be supplied to farmers within 48 hours. Farmers can dial 1902, 1907 to clarify their doubts, if any, he added.
21 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only online booking of tickets allowed||The Visakhapatnam Region of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will start operating buses to different destinations across the State starting from May 21. The buses are being operated for the first time after nearly two months, ever since a nationwide lockdown was clamped to check the spread of coronavirus. In the first phase, 114 buses will be operated from Visakhapatnam, Anakapalle, Narsipatnam and Paderu. Passengers have been asked to book tickets online. However, five ticket counters will be kept open at the Dwaraka Bus Station (DBS) Complex in the city as at other bus stations and booking can also be done through authorised travel agents. APSRTC officials have already geared up to meet the challenges in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Social distance markings have been done right from the entry into the bus station complex, and thermal guns and soap dispensers have been kept ready. Regional Manager M.Y. Danam, Deputy Chief Traffic Managers M. Sudhabindu (Urban) and Kanithi Venkata Rao (Rural) and other officials inspected last-minute preparations at the DBS Complex on Wednesday evening. The Regional Manager said that the operations were being started with 25% services to Vijayawada, Sileru, Amalapuram, Kakinada, Rajahmundry, Srikakulam, Ichapuram, Sompeta, Mandasa, Rajapuram, Palakonda, Kothuru, Paderu and Gummalakshmipuram. High-tech, Ultra-Deluxe and Express services would be operated. Passengers have to report at the bus station at least 30 minutes before the departure of the bus as thermal screening, checking of documents and noting the details of all passengers has to be done. All passengers have to invariably wear masks and observe social distancing norms in the queues. The Deputy CTM (Rural) said that online tickets to Srikakulam were selling fast with a majority of them being booked within an hour after opening of bookings. 50% seating The buses will maintain 50% seating arrangement to begin with and people will have to bring their own rugs and additional head rests, as they will not be provided any to avoid infections. APSRTC officials also said that those over 65 years of age and children below 10 years of age should avoid travelling. APSRTC will also operate night buses, as people might prefer night journeys due to the summer season. Passengers will have to reach the bus station before 7 p.m. City buses will not be operated at present.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Restaurants may take longer to fully reopen||In the fourth phase of lockdown to be in force till May 31, the Central government has allowed the restaurants to resume activity. But the relaxation has come with a rider – only takeaways and home delivery of food are allowed. In spite of the reprieve, a number of restaurants in the city are yet to open shop for a variety of reasons, primary among them is non-availability of chefs and staff. As there has been no relaxation for the restaurants in the earlier two phases of the lockdown, which is clamped to contain the spread of COVID-19, a number of chefs and staff who are native of other districts and States have left. Managements of a few restaurants, therefore, have asked their chefs and staff members to return in the light of the latest development. Prices hiked “We have four chefs hailing from Vijayawada, Rajamahendravaram and Visakhapatnam. Three of them have left. We cannot offer food delivery services properly with one chef,” says the owner of a restaurant located in Seethammadhara. In an attempt to cash in on the situation and make up for the loss incurred, a few restaurants have jacked up the prices of food items. A few others have just biryani and curries on their menus. However, restaurants that have managed to retain their chefs and staff are back to business. “We have five chefs. We have provided them accommodation. They are handling the kitchen efficiently. One person is taking care of home delivery orders,” says Kalyan Kumar of Upland Bistro at Waltair Uplands. Cautious approach “We have started accepting home delivery orders, besides catering to the takeaways due to availability of chefs. Customers are ordering all the delicacies they have missed so far,” says N. Prasanth of Brew and Bistro at MVP Colony. The Daspalla group of hotels is catering only to the takeaways and not encouraging home delivery by online food delivery giants. “We feel safe when a customer comes to the hotel and takes away the parcel. In the present circumstances, a customer may not prefer to get the food delivered at his doorstep as the delivery personnel may go to several places to fulfil the orders,” says the hotel’s Manager, Food & Beverages, Koti. Coffee shops and restaurants that offer dining on their premises have not opened. Several curry points, vegetarian hotels, and bakeries are, however, teeming with foodies. A number of street vendors too have started functioning in several areas of the city.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pudimadaka inundated as Amphan makes landfall||The sea surge under the influence of Cyclone Amphan in the Bay of Bengal led to inundation of habitations at Pudimadaka, 50 km from the city, on Wednesday. Even as the cyclone spared the Andhra Pradesh coast, the sea remained very rough under the influence of extreme weather system, with strong waves lashing the Visakhapatnam coast. It created panic among the villagers at Pudimadaka as tidal waves damaged several boats, said fishermen youth activist Arjili Dasu. Fishermen cautioned Pudimadaka is one of the largest fishing villages in the State with 18,500 residents. With the sea surface remaining very rough along the coast, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea. They have also been told to anchor the vessels at a safe distance from the sea. A Fisheries Department official said a few boats suffered minor damage due to sea surge at Pudimadaka which is located on the beachfront. Gales also lashed the village. As the annual fishing ban is under way, all the motorised boats have stopped venturing into the sea. Only the catamarans and other traditional boats are permitted to go for fishing in the sea.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown 4.0: city abuzz as as govt. eases restrictions||The city made a big leap towards normalcy on Wednesday with the beginning of Lockdown 4.0, under which several relaxations were given for commercial activities by the Central and State Governments. Traffic was back on the roads, and many shops that had downed their shutters since the beginning of the lockdown reopened after a gap of over two months. Except in the containment zones, many small shops in major commercial areas of the city such as Dabagardens, Dwaraka Nagar, Jagadamba Junction, Prakashraopeta, MVP Colony, Gajuwaka, Seethammadhara, NAD Junction, Pendurthi, Madhurawada and other areas have opened for business. A number of restaurants too have reopened, but are allowing only takeaway and home delivery. Many mobile phone outlets in Dabagardens opened on Wednesday. Customers flocked these stores in large numbers to get their mobile phones repaired, as these stores were not allowed to open during the last three phases of the lockdown. Many people placed orders for spare parts. Standalone garment stores too opened and witnessed a steady trickle of customers. Saloons were teeming with people for the past two days, with customers booking time slots in advance. “Most of the customers are coming just for a haircut, and are not opting for a shave as a precautionary measure as we will have to touch their face,” said A. Raju, who runs a saloon in the city. Many people also thronged electrical repair stores to get home appliances such as grinders, cookers and other things repaired. Street vendors have also begun selling tiffins, sodas, summer cool drinks, fruit salads and juices. Most of the private offices began functioning, and have asked their employees to maintain social distancing. Adieu social distancing Despite strict instructions from the government, a number of shops are yet to have markings to ensure social distancing outside their premises. Most of the stores have put up posters reading ‘Do not enter without masks’. “A large number of customers visiting the shops were not wearing masks. We cannot order them to leave because we have been out of business since the last two months. However, we are providing hand sanitiser to them before entering the shop,” said P. Satish, a sweet shop owner in MVP Colony. Despite an appeal by officials to not come out unless there is a valid reason, people are going out to meet friends and spend some time along the Beach Road. Several auto-rickshaws were also seen carrying more than five passengers.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC drops to one-star rating||The GVMC saw its rating coming down to a single star from two stars in the ‘Star Ratings of Garbage Free Cities’ (GFC) 2020. The results were announced by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) on May 19. The drop in rating is likely to impact the Swacch Survekshan Rankings 2020 later this year. The Star Rating of GFC initiative was launched to enable cities to gradually evolve into model cities, with progressive improvements in their overall cleanliness. The rating conditions are based on a number of key parameters like doorstep garbage collection, segregation at source and sweeping of public, commercial and residential areas among others. According to GVMC Commissioner G Srijana, the unfinished waste-to-energy plant, processing of construction and demolition waste and a few other factors might have impacted the rating. The civic body is now all set to write to the officials to learn what were the factors that led to such a poor rating. “We have already recognised several indicators. However, we would still ask for course correction for the next year,” Ms. Srijana said. Among 1,435 cities which have applied for rating, a total of 141 cities were rated — six of them 5-star, 65 of three-star, and 70 one-star. In Andhra Pradesh, Tirupati and Vijayawada have been rated three-star cities.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HRF condemns case against Ranganayaki||Terming the registration of criminal case against Poonthota Ranganayaki (60) from Guntur by the CID as a ‘brazen attack on free speech’, the Human Rights Forum (HRF) on Wednesday demanded immediate withdrawal of the case. Ms. Ranganayaki was booked under Sections 153A, 188, 120B and 505(2) of IPC and Section 67 of Information Technology Act, 2008 for sharing a post on Facebook expressing doubts on the probe being conducted into the gas leak incident at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam. “The case against Ms. Ranganayaki tells it all about the intolerance by those in power, undermining rights to differ, debate and dissent guaranteed by the Constitution. These are quintessential rights necessary for the sustenance of a democratic society,” said HRF State General Secretary K. Sudha here on Wednesday. Ms. Ranganayaki shared a post raising twenty questions about the method of probe in the gas leak incident . It also caused physical and mental trauma and dislocation of thousands of people in and around R.R. Venkatapuram, said HRF State vice-president Sivanageswara Rao. “The questions raised by Ms. Ranganayaki are pertinent,” he said. According to HRF members, it is an admitted fact that the A.P. Pollution Control Board (APPCB) had granted Consent to Operate (CTO) to LG Polymers though the plant did not obtain the mandatory environmental clearance.  ‘Criminal liability’ “Running a plant without clearance is an act of criminal negligence . Ever since the disaster, the government functionaries have been speaking about compensation, but there is not a word about criminal liability of the firm,” said Ms. Sudha.
21 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||150 passengers from Doha arrive at Vizag airport||A total of 150 stranded Indian nationals from Doha arrived at Visakhapatnam International Airport on Wednesday evening. On Tuesday night, 314 Indian nationals, 148 from Abu Dhabi and 166 from Manila, arrived by Air India flights at the airport. Indian nationals stranded in various countries are being flown back into the country as part of the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ of the Government of India. As many as 148 stranded Indian nationals from Abu Dhabi arrived by the AI flight at the airport here around 9 p.m. on Tuesday. The arrival of another flight from Manila was delayed and it finally landed at around 10 p.m., according to Airport Director M. Raja Kishore. Meanwhile, Minister Muttamsetty Srinivasa Rao informed the media that 84 passengers, who arrived on Tuesday night, were from Visakhapatnam district. Meanwhile, the Visakhapatnam Customs and Central Tax Zone has said that hassle-free clearance was provided to 459 passengers, who arrived under the Vande Bharat Mission in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada International airports on Tuesday. Chief Commissioner of Customs Naresh Penumaka said that 314 passengers, who arrived by two flights at the city airport and 145 passengers from London who arrived at the Vijayawada Airport, were cleared by Customs officials at the respective airports. All Customs facilities in Andhra Pradesh were working on a 24/7 basis to ensure quick and hassle-free clearance of cargo and to facilitate trade, he said. Special APSRTC buses were arranged at the airport for transport of the foreign returnees to their native places. “A total of 18 AC buses were operated on Tuesday night to transport 299 Indian nationals, who arrived by the two flights at the Vizag airport,” said Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (urban) M. Sudhabindu. “The buses were operated to Chittoor, Anantapur, Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam, Guntur, Krishna, East and West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts on Tuesday night. On Wednesday, eight buses will be operated from the airport to transport the passengers arriving by the Vande Bharat flight from Doha,” she said. One more flight from Kuala Lumpur is expected to arrive with 150 passengers on May 22. All the passengers coming by the Vande Bharat flights will be tested for COVID-19 on arrival at the airport.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||31 COVID-19 patients discharged in five days||Thirty-one COVID-19 patients have been discharged in the last five days after they tested negative in Visakhapatnam district. According to the State Health Bulletin on May 15, the total number of patients discharged in the district stood at 25. But over the last five days, officials said that there were 31 discharges, taking the total number to 56.  Two more cases Two new cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district, as per a bulletin released on May 20. One case was reported from Dibbapalem while the other was from Gnanapuram, taking the total to 82.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work on Bhogapuram airport to begin this year||Senior YSR Congress Party leader Koyya Prasad Reddy on Wednesday said that the State Government would launch work on the Metro Rail project from Bhogapuram to Anakapalle, and added that work on the international airport at Bhogapuram too would be launched this year. He said that despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had released the calendar for welfare programmes reiterating his commitment for accelerating development in the State. Mr. Reddy said that despite a critical financial position, the government was going ahead with its fee reimbursement scheme for students and was also implementing the YSR Rythu Bharosa scheme. “Construction of the Bhogapuram Airport will start in August. Various corridors are being prioritised to be taken up for the Metro Rail connecting Bhogapuram with Anakapalle via Kurmanapalem,” he said.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Allow part-payment of dues’||The Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation has asked APEPDCL to allow part-payment of dues. Office-bearers of the federation met APEPDCL CMD Nagalakshmi Selvarajan and submitted a representation. They stated that the government had extended certain incentives to MSME units to help them restart their operations smoothly. In view of the lockdown, they requested allowance of part-payments in view of a cash crunch, and not to disconnect the connection for delay in payments.
21 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auctioning of land parcels condemned||Condemning the government’s move to auction land parcels in the State, TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu said that the government should think of the future generations and needs. “What if there will be a need for a hospital or any essential building in the future?” the MLA said. He said land near the District Training Centre has been put up for auction in his constituency.
21 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strictly adhere to guidelines, public told||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Wednesday appealed to the public to invariably wear masks and observe other precautionary measures like frequent hand-washing to check the spread of COVID-19. The Minister said that the government has distributed 59 lakh masks in rural areas of the district and 25 lakh masks in GVMC limits. A total of 64,000 PPE kits were available. Patient beds and ventilators were also available and the government was fully geared to meet any exigency, he said. Of the 3,231 persons quarantined so far, 490 were still in quarantine in the 70 quarantine centres in the district, he said.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Several COVID-19 containment clusters denotified in city||The district administration and Vijayawada Municipal Corporation officials have announced that there are 25 COVID-19 containment clusters in the district and nine of them are in the city. Earlier, the district had 42 containment clusters, including 20 in Vijayawada, and 17 of them have been denotified. The city has nearly 60 active cases and district has 101 active cases at present. Each containment cluster consists of one or more containment zones that are drawn up to a radius of 1,200 metres, including core area and buffer area. In the city, Chittinagar, Gandhi Nagar, Kothapet, Krishnalanka, Machavaram, Moghalrajpuram, Satyanarayana Puram, Ajith Singh Nagar and Vidyadharapuram and surrounding areas of the respective locations are under containment clusters. Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh has issued guidelines for the opening of shops and establishments in the areas not falling under any of the containment zones. As per the guidelines, no activity would be permitted in the containment zones or red zone drawn around the residences of active cases.  Activity between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. In the orange zone or buffer zone, all the permitted shops and establishment can be open from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. from Thursday as per the guidelines issued by the State government. In the green zones, all essential and non-essential activities would be allowed between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. In green and orange zones, where shops are allowed to open, a physical distance of 6 feet between persons should be maintained, shops should have different entry and exit points and only 50% of the staff should work. Cash payments must be avoided and digital transactions should be encouraged. Every person should wear a mask and sanitisers should be provided at all the establishments and owners will be made responsible in case of violation of the rules even if customers do not wear masks. For further information on zones, vmc.ap.gov.in can be visited after 11 a.m. on Thursday or one can dial 0866-2424172. 0866-2427485 or 0866-2422515. Meanwhile, in the Vijayawada Rural mandal adjoining the city, Gollapudi, Nunna, Ramavarappadu, Jakkampudi YSR Colony, Yanamalakuduru, Kanuru, Poranki are under containment clusters. Elsewhere, villages of Chodavaram, Machilipatnam, Jaggaiapeta, Gannavaram, Nuzvid, Pothireddy Palli, Chatrai, Unguturu and Ibrahimpatnam are under containment clusters.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor man’s fan||
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Marching on||
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Weary wayfarers||
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||When push comes to shove||
21 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Migrant workers sent to Hyderabad||Nirmal district police under the supervision of Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju, on Wednesday, facilitated some migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh to go to Hyderabad in a special bus so that they board the special train to reach their home. The migrant workers were stranded in the district at various places and hail from Faizabad, Deendayal Upadhyay Nagar (formerly Mughal Sarai) and Gonda districts. At Gamjal toll plaza, the workers were handed over food and fruits by Mr. Raju, Soan CI L. Jeevan Redy, Special Branch Inspector Venkatesh and in-charge of IT core Sk. Murad Ali.
21 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Action plan to augment income of fishermen||An action plan has been readied to scale up inland fisheries production in the district encompassing an estimated 684 tanks, including three irrigation reservoirs, to augment income of fishermen and meet huge demand for fish known for its high nutritional value. The move gains prominence in the backdrop of substantial fish yield from inland water sources in the district in the present fishing season so far. Against the odds posed by the lockdown, as many as 56 fishermen cooperative societies had managed to net a fish catch of around 6,000 tonnes from a total of 684 tanks till now in the present fishing season, sources said. A huge volume of 1.78 crore fish seeds was stocked in these tanks under the aegis of the Fisheries department across the district during monsoon last year. Fishing was under way in adherence to the physical distancing norms in all the 684 tanks and three main reservoirs – Taliperu, Tummala Cheruvu and Pedda Vagu in the district, said District Fisheries Officer K Varada Reddy. The fish yield from inland water sources had stood around 6,000 tonnes and the total catch from the inland fisheries was expected to reach 8,000 tonnes by the end of the fishing season, he said. Collector M V Reddy had visited the Singabhoopalam cheruvu in Sujathnagar mandal a few days ago to monitor implementation of preventive measures against coronavirus during fishing at the major tank, he said. A plan was formulated to stock around 1.80 crore fish seed in inland water resources in the district during the rainy season to ramp up inland fisheries production in the district. Fishing gear, mopeds and luggage autorickshaws besides mobile fish outlets were provided on 75% subsidy to several members of the fifty-six fishermen societies, including thirty-five tribal societies, mainly operating in the Godavari river-belt region under the Integrated Fisheries Development Scheme (IFDS), he added.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. cannot dictate where COVID patients get treated: HC||Observing that the State government’s decision compelling citizens to be tested and treated for COVID-19 only at designated hospitals has no logical or legal basis, Telangana High Court on Wednesday said, adding that private hospitals and laboratories can treat patients and conduct tests, respectively. Delivering verdict in a PIL petition, a bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and K. Lakshman set aside a government order mandating that people should be tested and treated for novel coronavirus only at hospitals specified by it. Private hospitals and laboratories can secure approval from ICMR to treat and conduct tests, the order said. Those already having approval from ICMR can treat the patients. The HC made it clear that citizens have the right to get tested and treated for COVID-19 at private hospitals of their choice if they can afford to bear the expenses. The only condition is that those hospitals and laboratories should have ICMR approval. All other private hospitals and laboratories should apply to ICMR, which would constitute a panel of experts to examine if they have qualified doctors and staff along with infrastructure, for approval to treat coronavirus patients. Governments of Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have already started relying on private sector to rein in the pandemic, the bench noted. The bench said there was a government scheme called Aarogyasri run by Aarogyasri Health Care Trust facilitating medical treatment for the poor in private hospitals and the expenses are then reimbursed. The State government cannot forget that because of the inability of its hospitals to provide quality medical care to the poor that schemes like Aarogyasri had to be created, it said. It was ironical that the government did not want people to be treated by private hospitals for coronavirus but permit poor people to avail private hospital services under Aarogyasri, the bench remarked. For a population of nearly 3.5 crore, it would be difficult for the State government to deal with the possible surge in coronavirus cases with fewer government hospitals and testing centres, the bench said. Referring to cautions from some experts that statistics of coronavirus-positive cases would be misleading if inadequate tests were conducted, the bench said government cannot say private hospitals would indulge in indiscriminate testing if permitted to conduct diagnostic tests for the virus. Just as a coronavirus-positive person cannot hide his infection and endanger others’ lives, the government cannot conceal figures of infected persons and deaths due to the virus, it said.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First level flyover at Biodiversity junction to be opened today||The first level flyover at the Biodiversity junction at Gachibowli, constructed as part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) of GHMC, is ready for inauguration on Thursday by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao. The flyover is 690 metres long, 11.5 metres wide, and uni-directional. Sharing the information with the media on Wednesday, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan said that with this flyover, all the works, part of the Package-IV under SRDP, have been completed. A total of six works are part of the 12 kilometre corridor between JNTU and Biodiversity junction in the package, with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 379 crore. Its construction began over three years ago, with an estimated cost of Rs. 30.26 crore. It is expected to ease the traffic congestion on Old Bombay Highway from Gachibowli towards Raidurg and up to Mehdipatnam. Peak hour flow of vehicles on this route was estimated at 14,000 passenger car units back in 2015 when SRDP was on the drawing table. It was re-calculated to 22,400 PCUs in 2019, and projected to grow up to 30,678 PCUs by 2035.
21 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR can’t dictate on crop cultivation: Congress||Arguing that the government’s proposed agriculture policy was more of a threat than assurance and guidance to the farmers, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that the policy be postponed for the next Yasangi season. Addressing a press conference along with All India Kisan Cell vice-chairman M. Kodanda Reddy; COVID-19 Task Force chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy, former minister G. Chinna Reddy and AICC secretary Vamshichand Reddy, he said Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao cannot force the farmers to cultivate the crops of his choice. The State government can draft a comprehensive policy after holding discussion with farmers, scientists and Opposition parties and implement the same from next Yasangi as less than a week was left for beginning of sowing for Vanakaalam season, he said. ‘Give guarantee’ On the government’s suggestions to grow cotton in large acerage, he asked how can to be possible when factors like supply of seeds and purchase of cotton were not in the control of State government. “If KCR is advising farmers to cultivate cotton then he should give a guarantee to pay Rs. 7,000 per quintal beforehand and procure the entire cotton produced,” he said. Mr. Reddy objected to farmers being threatened of serious consequences if they refuse to grow the crops to be decided by State government and said it was unethical to threaten to stop financial assistance under Rythu Bandhu if farmers refused to follow regulated cropping pattern. He claimed that nearly 40% farmers were already being denied assistance under Rythu Bandhu scheme and now threatening the beneficiaries was nothing but an insult to all farmers. He said the Congress party would not tolerate if the farmers were forced to cultivate the ones promoted by the government.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State braces for battle with monsoon diseases||With the monsoon a few weeks away, preparations are under way to minimise mosquito-borne diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Given the similarities in symptoms of those diseases and COVID-19, Health department staff are being trained to differentiate one from another. Usually, vector-borne diseases numbers increase during the monsoon due to water stagnation, serving as a breeding space for mosquitoes. As per latest statistics provided by officials, around 589 dengue cases and 227 malaria cases were detected in the State from January 1 to May 20. Though COVID-19 cases continue to surge, the Health department will also focus on the vector-borne diseases as a high number of dengue cases were reported last monsoon. Besides, increase in other diseases apart from COVID-19 will further burden the department’s staff. Currently, Accredited Social Health Activists and Auxiliary Nurse Midwives have been going door to door in a few districts as part of a fever survey to find out if anyone has symptoms of COVID-19. “During monsoon, they will also ask if anybody has symptoms of dengue, malaria and chikungunya. They are being trained to distinguish between the diseases,” said a senior official from the department. Home visits The Health staff will go also conduct home visits to inform people not to store water in vessels without covering it. If water gets accumulated in objects such as tyres or broken pots, people will be urged to clear it out regularly. District Health authorities said that they have procured the material required to conduct anti-larval operations in villages. Pyrethrum spray, fogging and other mechanisms will be used. Officials from Bhadradri Kothagudem said that Pyrethrum will be sprayed in 444 villages across the district. “People will be informed in advance about when will it be sprayed. It helps in avoiding as well as killing mosquitoes. Besides, mosquito nets will be distributed to 5,610 persons living in vulnerable areas,” another official said. Among all districts, Wanaparthy experiences a peculiar situation. Though no COVID-19 cases was recorded there, at least 38 dengue cases were reported in Amarchinta town in the first two weeks of April. Health staff took up measures to prevent mosquito breeding. Wanaparthy District Medical and Health Officer A. Srinivas said that they will continue to implement Friday-dry day concept to check water stagnation.
21 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pollution levels go up again as city returns to normalcy||The free vehicular movement during daytime has had an immediate impact on pollution levels in the city, statistics from the Telangana Pollution Control Board shows. The main index of automobile pollution PM 2.5 (particulate matter smaller than 2.5g /m3) surged throughout the city as did the sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide. At 5.30 p.m. on Wednesday, minutes before the beginning of curfew, PM2.5 was recorded at 128 in the Zoo Park monitoring station. This was nearly three times that recorded on May 16 at the same time: 44. Pollution monitoring stations at other places, including IDA Pashyamylaram, Sanathnagar, Bollarum Industrial Area and Patancheru recorded, similar surge in pollution levels on the day. At Pashyamylaram where PM2.5 remained under 40 during the lockdown period, it touched 166. Air which has PM2.5 above 150 is considered unhealthy and individuals with breathing disorders are advised against outdoor exertion in the areas with such pollution levels. At Sanathnagar, PM2.5 was logged at a minimum of 76 and a maximum of 166 on Wednesday. The contrast can be seen from the data on May 15, the concentration of PM2.5 was 23.51 over a 24-hour period and 29 at 5 p.m. Vehicular movement in the city reached normal levels as the police barricades and check posts to enforce lockdown have been removed at most places. It is only in the evening at a few locations in the city that police officials are stopping vehicle owners and querying about their movement. The result is a mad rush by vehicle owners before the 7 p.m. curfew. This became apparent as PM2.5 levels reached 166 at 6 p.m. on Tuesday at Bollarum Industrial Area an hour before the evening curfew. The average level of PM.25 over 48 hours was 67 at the same monitoring station before the spike.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Honchos issue SoP for COVID times||A Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) reviewed by industry leaders for IT, ITeS companies and IT parks for dealing with COVID-19 cases has made several recommendations, including that heads of companies ensure employees download the Aarogya Setu app. “Heads of companies must ensure that all employees have downloaded Aarogya Setu app and completed the assessment,” an excerpt from the SoP reads. Apart from this, the SoP document also recommends that employees staying in containment zones should not be asked to report for work. Further, those returning from containment or red or orange zones in other States should not be allowed to enter offices. The set of recommendations also includes a self-declaration of good health by employees who are returning to work, and early reporting of COVID-19 symptoms such as cough, cold and shortness of breath. Touching upon pregnant employees, the SoP recommends, “Pregnant women and parents with children under age of 5 years are advised to work from home.” It also suggests that creches in IT companies should not be operational. The SoP encourages offices to set up isolation rooms. “Such isolation rooms to be sanitised daily, should have an independent HVAC system and equipped with sanitiser, adequate PPE kits including suit, gloves, and mask etc.” it states. Detailed process flowcharts of scenarios pertaining to those who have shown COVID-19 symptoms have been prepared. Speaking to The Hindu , Bharani Kumar Aroll from the Hyderabad Software Enterprise Association said the SoP was made by industry bodies and clarified that the recommendations are not mandatory. “It is more of a reference document and is not binding,” he said. As regards Aarogya Setu app, Mr. Aroll said that the centre has not made it mandatory and left it to the discretion of employers.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown-hit hospital sector hopes for govt. support||The COVID-19 lockdown imposed to curb the virus transmission has impacted every sector, and corporate hospitals are no exception. Private hospitals are reeling under financial crunch due to a steep fall in revenue and at the same time, have incurred more expenses on measures to ensure physical distancing, purchase of personal protection kits and arrangement for isolation wards, separate accommodation for doctors and nurses attending patients and suspects. “The government asked private hospitals to be ready and allot isolation beds should there be a spike in cases beyond the capacity of government hospitals. The sector geared up to meet the challenge since saving lives is priority,” a private hospital head said. Association of Health Care Providers of India has represented to the Finance Minister to help the sector by releasing about Rs. 2,000 crore dues for medical services rendered under the Central Government Health Scheme and Employees Health Scheme. Concessions on GST, in statutory payouts, subsidy on PPEs as hospitals were buying from the market, provision of rapid test kits to screen every healthcare provider and relaxation on import duties on medical equipment will give some leeway to improve cash flow to sustain for six months, say hospital managements. From the beginning of the lockdown on March 25 till May 4, the government did not permit out-patient departments to function in hospitals due to strict lockdown guidelines. Instead, it allowed hospitals to offer telemedicine facilities for out-patients. Thus, the hospitals catered mainly to cases that came to the emergency room and few out-patients with chronic and serious health issues. All the elective surgeries had also been put on hold. Chief of Medical Services of a corporate hospital said that with no out-patient, diagnostic services, international patients or elective surgeries, the in-patient occupancy has fallen across the country to about 25 to 30% during the lockdown. No cuts in salary, jobs Another corporate hospital said there was 60-65% impact on their topline revenues, but corporate hospitals paid full salaries to their employees, did not retrench staff, gave risk allowance to doctors, nurses and housekeeping staff attending COVID patients and suspects apart from extending insurance coverage of Rs. 50 lakh to medical staff. Though corporate hospitals had prepared themselves for the anticipated spike in number of COVID cases going by the trend in other countries, many feel the country has been lucky so far. “But we are ready to work with the government should the need arise,” a hospital chief said. This pandemic is sparing the young, and the death rate is not alarming in Telangana or in the country. “Something is giving protection and fortunately, we may not see explosive numbers though the elderly, chronic patients with co-morbidities and those with compromised immunity are vulnerable to the virus with no vaccine and drugs found yet,” said a senior doctor.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR-IICT gets two more APIs for anti-viral drugs||Council for Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR) - Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) has completed the process of making two more Active Pharma Ingredients (APIs) for anti-viral drugs - Umifenovir and Remdesivir. It had already handed over anti-viral Favipiravir API to a large pharmaceutical firm for approvals of Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to conduct animal/human trials before releasing it into the market. “We are in the process of transferring two APIs to select pharmaceutical organisations for them to approach the drug control authorities for conducting necessary trials and approvals before manufacturing them,” said Director S. Chandrasekhar on Tuesday. CSIR had identified about 25 drugs for ‘repurposing’ for quick deployment in treatment for COVID-19 since new drugs take at least 10-15 years to reach the market. IICT had taken up development of synthetic ‘process expertise’ for molecules, which are showing promising data in various trials across the globe of five drugs including - Favipiravir, Umifenovir, Remdesivir, Baloxavir and Chloroquine/Hydroxycloroquine. “We have zeroed in on a few molecules for repurposing based on World Health Organisation (WHO) recommendations. Using molecular modelling, which includes theoretical and computational techniques to study the structures and reactions of molecules, we made rapid progress,” said IICT senior principle scientists Dr Raji Reddy and Dr. Prathama S. Mainkar. IICT develops processes for APIs required to make the drug providing alternate cost-effective solutions and transfers it to interested pharmaceutical firms for commercialisation. Favipiravir, is a promising generic drug for treatment of COVID 19 developed in Japan and used for treatment of flu. Clinical trials of Favipiravir have begun in China, Japan and Italy and trials have so far had generated positive results, they said. Yet, Favipiravir entry into market depends on the result of clinical trials and recommendations of DCGI. “If the results are positive, we believe it will be launched within a month or two. Umifenovir may take more time to generate additional data,” explained Dr. Reddy and Dr. Prathama.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First AC special train to Delhi starts||The first AC special train by South Central Railway (SCR) started operating from Secunderabad to New Delhi, carrying 1,003 passengers, at 1.15 p.m. on Wednesday. The train is scheduled to reach New Delhi at 10.40 a.m. on Thursday, completing the journey in 21 hours and 25 minutes. This is going to be a weekly service from Secunderabad on Wednesdays. In the return direction, the train will start from New Delhi on Sundays. In line with the advisory intimated to all confirmed passengers, thermal screening and ticket checking were completed on platform well before time, after which they were allowed to board the train, duly adhering to social distancing norms and mask wearing practices. Passengers were provided sanitisers while the elderly and those who required assistance, were shifted to coaches with the help of wheelchairs, informed chief PRO Ch. Rakesh. Proper markings on station premises and steps to enable travellers maintain the required physical distance before boarding the train were taken.
21 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pothireddypadu will also hit power projects in TS: Revanth||Congress MP and TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy said that Telangana hydel power projects at Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala would be severely affected if the A.P. government goes ahead with withdrawal of additional water from Pothireddypadu and wanted Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to realise the severity of the issue. At a press conference here, he said 1,404 MW of power is being produced through these three projects at a nominal average rate of 25 paise per unit. If the Andhra Pradesh government utilises its 512 tmc of water from Krishna river through Pothireddypadu and other upstream projects Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar and Pulichintala will go dry and the hydel power will be stopped. Presently, the government purchases power from private players at a cost of Rs. 4 to Rs. 18 per unit and imagine if 1,404 MW power is lost and the same had to bought from private players, he argued. “Everyone is worried about the water loss, but Telangana will also lose its power projects,” he claimed. Unlike during bifurcation of Chattisgarh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand where power projects went to the States where they were located, Mr. Reddy said Sonia Gandhi did a great favour awarding power production to Telangana based on its usage. Telangana got a power share of 53.09% and Andhra Pradesh 46.11% from the existing projects as Sonia Gandhi was convinced by late Jaipal Reddy in awarding power production based on usage of each State. Or else Telangana would have faced problems from day one as claimed by the then Chief Minister N. Kiran Kumar Reddy. But now that is being compromised by the present government to favour private power projects, he alleged. “Instead of abusing the Opposition parties, KCR should explain whether this is true or not,” he said. He also argued that Andhra Pradesh cannot use its 512 TMC share of water from upstream only but from Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar right canal and after water passing from Pulichintala. Mr. Revanth Reddy alleged that Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was silent on Pothireddypadu with an eye on GHMC elections to garner the votes of people of Andhra and Rayalaseema origin.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI rolls out alternate-day working system at LHO campus||The State Bank of India (SBI), Hyderabad Circle, began implementing from Wednesday a system of alternate day working for hundreds of employees at its Local Head Office (LHO) campus in Koti here. A clutch of facilities, including specialised branches, besides the LHO, are located in the compound. The switch to alternate day working schedule comes in the backdrop of the death of an employee of its Commercial Branch, on campus, due to COVID-19 at Gandhi Hospital earlier this week. He had last visited the branch on May 12. On receipt of information about the death on Monday morning, the nearly 1,000 employees were asked to leave and the entire campus sanitised. With the workforce, barring some handling essential tasks, advised not to report for duty, the sanitisation, including deep cleaning, continued on Tuesday, said sources. Late on Tuesday evening, the bank management in a message to the employees announced its decision to implement an alternate day working schedule. Noting that the management appreciated the concern of employees, it said in view of their anxiety it has been decided to reintroduce the alternate day working of staff members in the LHO and other establishments in the compound. This will be implemented from Wednesday till further instructions. The arrangement will be applicable up to Scale 5 grade employees. However, the Scale 5 officers should take prior approval from their respective controllers/departmental heads for working on alternate days. General Secretary of SBI Staff Union, Hyderabad Circle, R.Sriram estimated around 750 employees and officers, up to the rank of AGM, at the LHO campus to be covered under the alternate day working system. The arrangement covering the workforce at all branches and facilities in red zones such as Hyderabad is one of the demands of employees as a safeguard measures in wake of COVID-19, he said.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR ferried over 1.66 lakh migrants in 126 trains||South Central Railway (SCR) has helped in exodus of more than 1.66 lakh migrant workers, one lakh from Telangana alone, in the last 20 days in about 126 trains towards various destinations up north. If 74 trains carried 1,00,324 passengers from Telangana alone, 40 trains carried 50,227 passengers from Andhra Pradesh and 12 trains from Maharashtra ferried 15,915 passengers. Senior railway officers informed on Wednesday that 27 trains started from Lingampally, 17 from Ghatkesar, nine from Nagulapally, eight from Bollarum, four from Cherlapally and one from Medchal. From the AP side, 11 trains started from Rayanapadu, eight from Namboor, five from Kurnool, four from Chittoor, three from Nellore, two each from Anantapur, Ongole and Kovvur; one each from Nidadavolu, Mangalagiri and Kadapa. From the Maharashtra side, nine started from Aurangabad, two from Jalna and one from Nanded. Forty trains towards Bihar carried 55,583 passengers, 30 trains towards Uttar Pradesh ferried 42,269; 13 trains towards Jharkhand ferried 17,673; 12 trains towards Madhya Pradesh carried 12,069; nine trains to Odisha had 13,375; nine trains to Rajasthan had 9,197; four trains to Chhattisgarh had 4,949; three trains to Maharashtra had 2,904; three more trains to Manipur had 4,800, one train to West Bengal had 1,492, one train to Jammu & Kashmir had 983 and another train to Uttarakhand had 1,180 passengers. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar congratulated officers of various departments for achieving the major milestone in reaching transportation of one lakh passengers without any single incident.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Functioning of depts. getting back to normal||The functioning of different government departments, especially of the Secretariat, is returning to normal. Different departments are issuing directions to their staff, including Class IV employees and outsourcing staff, to ensure 100% attendance in the departments so that there is no disruption in the work. The development follows the announcements made by the Central government and, subsequently, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao a couple of days ago, relaxing the lockdown restrictions. The development follows the staggered working schedule fixed for certain sections of employees, especially Class III and Class IV staff, who were asked to attend duties on alternate weeks on rotation basis. The government issued detailed orders on Monday prescribing the precautions. The departments were however requested to follow the standard operation protocol issued for running the offices. The order exempted persons with co-morbidity and pregnant women. Immediately after the Chief Minister’s announcement, Revenue Department additional secretary Narendor Rao issued a circular on Tuesday asking the employees of the department to attend office with immediate effect as was done prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. The State Legislature directed the employees to attend duties from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.. Special permission Legislature Secretary V. Narasimha Charyulu said that those residing in the containment zones are required to take special permission seeking exemption for attending office during the extended period of lockdown up to May 31. The General Administration Department too followed suit on Wednesday. In the note circulated on Wednesday, GAD Secretary Vikas Raj said all officers and staff of the department should come to office on regular basis.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister flays Opposition’s stand against farm reforms||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has faulted the Opposition parties’ criticism of the State government’s comprehensive agricultural policy plans, and the regulated farming proposed as part of it from the coming Vaanakalam crop season, stating that they were opposing it blindly. Speaking to mediapersons here on Wednesday, the Minister said the Congress party was criticising the government for its suggestion to farmers not to cultivate maize in Vaanakalam season. The Minister explained that the government has suggested against maize cultivation as its yield during the first crop season would be low compared to Yasangi season. Besides, maize stocks were abundant all over the world and farmers from nearby by and far-off States in the country were approaching the traders here, willing to supply it at Rs. 1,100 per quintal itself against the support price of Rs. 1,760. The government was suggesting redgram as an alternative crop with the assurance of buyback of the entire quantity of produce, the Minister said, adding that farmers were welcoming the reforms as constructive. Further, he asked the Opposition whether the government had given 24x7 free power supply to agriculture or constructed irrigation projects by consulting them. Earlier, at a meeting with agricultural scientists, officials and Rythu Bandhu Samithi functionaries the Minister discussed about the new agricultural policy including regulated farming and crop colonies.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bharat Biotech, US varsity tie up for vaccine candidate||Vaccine maker Bharat Biotech and Thomas Jefferson University of Philadelphia have signed an exclusive deal to develop a new vaccine candidate for COVID-19 invented at Jefferson. The novel vaccine was developed using an existing deactivated rabies vaccine as a vehicle for coronavirus proteins. This is in part because this vehicle or carrier vaccine is known to produce a strong immune response and approved for the whole population, including children and pregnant women, a release from the Hyderabad-based firm said on Wednesday. Infectious diseases expert Matthias Schnell’s lab had developed the vaccine in January and recently completed preliminary tests in animal models. The vaccine showed a strong antibody response in mice receiving the vaccine. The researchers are currently testing whether vaccinated animals are protected from SARS-CoV-2 infection with the results expected next month. Under the licensing agreement, Bharat Biotech will get exclusive rights to develop, market and deliver Jefferson’s vaccine across the world, excluding in the U.S, Japan and Europe where Jefferson continues to seek partners. Bharat Biotech aims to launch human trials in India in December. On the vaccine candidate, CEO Krishna Mohan said, “We are particularly excited about this technology since the basic proof of concept has been established while using it for other pandemic infectious diseases.” The company will be involved in an end to end development of the vaccine, including comprehensive clinical trials to achieve commercial licensure, he said. A coronavirus expert who directs The Jefferson Vaccine Institute and chairs Jefferson’s Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Prof. Schnell said, “We will be able to complete animal testing and move to phase 1 clinical trial rapidly.”
21 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Civil Services exam date by June first week||The schedule of the Civil Services examination and other recruitment tests will be notified by the UPSC in the first week of June. A scroll on the website of the UPSC has notified that the revised schedule will be announced after assessing the situation on June 5. Earlier, UPSC said that the date would be declared on May 20. The preliminary examination was originally scheduled on May 31.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Complete highway works soon’||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed the officials concerned to ensure completion of works launched on the construction and development of National Highways in a time-bound and coordinated manner. To begin with, the officials should focus on taking up pre-construction activities pertaining to the National Highways in the State. The Chief Secretary chaired a high-level meeting to review the status of works on highways, shifting of utilities, land acquisition, forest clearances and related issues on Wednesday. He instructed the officials concerned to prepare a list of pending issues district-wise so that they could be followed up with the respective district Collectors for speedy resolution.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC issues interim orders in medical PG course fee hike||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed that students seeking admissions into medical PG courses for 2020-23 to pay 50% and 60% of the enhanced fee amounts in Category-A and Category-B seats. This fee is in addition to the fee prescribed in GO MS no 29 issued on May 2, 2016. A bench of Chief Justice Raghavenda Singh Chauhan and Justice Shameem Akther passed the interim orders after hearing a writ petition challenging the hike. Earlier, the bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and Justice K. Lakshman recused itself from hearing the plea after Telangana Admissions and Fee Regulation Committee chairman Justice P. Swaroop filed a memo seeking to post the matter before any other bench. In the interim direction, the bench headed by the CJ said students in both categories should give bonds for the remaining sums. The fee amounts paid by the students and the bonds furnished were subject to the final verdict to be delivered by the bench. Over 100 students pursuing medical PG courses approached the HC seeking to set aside the hike. The matter was posted after four weeks for hearing.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||45 more Basthi Dawakhanas from tomorrow||A total of 45 additional Basthi Dawakhanas or neighbourhood clinics are going to be launched at various locations in the city on May 22, following directions by CM K. Chandrashekhar Rao. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan shared the information with the media on Wednesday, and said these would be in addition to the existing 123 clinics. GHMC commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar has issued orders appointing nodal officers to ensure the clinics are fully functional by the time of launch.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR: 50k 2-BHK houses to be ready by Aug.||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K.T. Rama Rao announced on Wednesday that a total of 50,000 double bedroom housing units, constructed within the purview of the GHMC, would be handed over to the beneficiaries by August. For the remaining units too, works are fast progressing and the houses will be ready to occupy by Dasara, he announced during a review meeting on the status of the Dignity Housing programme on Wednesday. About 80% construction work has been completed for one lakh houses, and a few have already been handed over to the beneficiaries, he noted.
21 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||USFDA nod for Natco Pharma facility||Natco Pharma on Wednesday said that the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) has issued an establishment inspection report (EIR) for the company’s drug formulations manufacturing facility in Visakhapatnam. Announcing the successful closure of an inspection and receipt of the EIR, a release from the Hyderabad-headquartered drugmaker said that the USFDA had inspected the facility from March 24-30.
21 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two more flights land at RGIA||Two more flights landed at the Hyderabad International Airport on Wednesday. The first Air India Express IX 244 from Doha landed at 07.26 p.m. with 184 Indian citizens stranded there.  Later, an Air India AI 1910 from Dammam (Saudi Arabia) landed with about 75 Indian citizens at around 10.42 pm.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||For Briefs/||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar released two books published by the Inter-State Water Resources wing of the Irrigation department here on Wednesday. According to Chief Engineer S. Narasimha Rao, the books titled “An Overview on Indian Rivers – Water Sharing Agreements” and “Significance of Agricultural Aspects in Water Disputes” were released. Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Rajat Kumar, and OSD to CM Sridhar Rao Deshpande were present.
21 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers reluctant to raise cotton||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s recent announcement of non-payment of farm investment under Rythu Bandhu to those farmers who raise maize came as a shock to a majority of farmers in the district. They have expressed dissatisfaction over the decision as they are used to raising maize as intercrop to turmeric in kharif. The crop is raised on over 1.25 lakh acres in the monsoon in the integrated district and fetches good profits. Maize needs low investment and comes to harvest in about three and a half months with intermittent rain. Last year, farmers got good returns as the crop was sold for more than the Minimum Support Price of Rs. 1,760 per quintal and traders went right up to the farmers to collect the crop paying amount on the spot. Cotton is raised only in Nizam Sagar, Pitlam, Bichkunda and Madnoor in Jukkal constituency as the soil is not suitable to the crop. Moreover, it is highly prone to pests and price fluctuations, according to Vidyasagar Reddy, a farmer in Sirikonda mandal. As intercrop to turmeric, maize gives protection to the former as it grows high and shields it from heavy sunlight. The Chief Minister should have suggested an alternative intercrop, he said. State Keth Kisan Congress president S. Anwesh Reddy said farmers were ready to forgo Rythu Bandhu aid of Rs. 5,000 per acre rather than giving up sowing maize in the monsoon. Farmers would sow the crop in accordance with the suitability of soil, weather and market conditions, he said. “Sowing maize as intercrop has been a common practice here. Earlier authorities used to persuade farmers to raise irrigated dry crops to save water. Now, they are doing the reverse,” said V. Prabhakar, State secretary of All India Kisan Mazdoor Sangh. Meanwhile, agriculture officers who went to a village in Dichpally mandal to drum up support for the idea of the Chief Minister were said to have faced strong opposition from farmers.
21 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Siblings killed in road accident||Siblings Ambati Aravind Goud, 20, and Arun Goud, 19, sons of Perma Goud of Renjarla village in Balkonda constituency, died in a road accident on National Highway-44 at Kothapally village on Wednesday. The accident took place when the motorbike in which they were travelling went out of control and hit a road divider. Arun Goud died on the spot while Aravind Goud died in a hospital in Balkonda. The brothers, doing graduation, went on a ride for the first time on their new motorbike.
21 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Kondapochamma all set to receive Godavari water||The Kondapochamma reservoir constructed in the Gajwel constituency represented by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is all set to receive Godavari water shortly. The date of release of water would be finalised by the authorities in consultation with the Chief Minister's Office (CMO). Godavari water from Kaleshwaram was released to the Annapurna reservoir on March 12, the first reservoir in Siddipet district to get water, from Mid-Manair. By March 25, the water reached Annapurna and from there it reached Ranganaiksagar reservoir after about a month. On April 24, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao and Information Technology Minister K. T. Rama Rao released water to Ranganaiksagar from the surge pool. Later, the water was pumped to Tukkapur pump house from Ranganaiksagar and through a specially designed channel to Aakaram pump house from where it was pumped to Makook pump house. From there, the water would be released to Kondapochamma reservoir before the month-end. Siddipet will have five reservoirs – Annapurna, Ranganaiksagar, Mallannasagar, Kondapochamma and Gouravelli. Three reservoirs — Annapurna, Ranganaik and Kondapochamma — were completed while the works on Mallannasagar and Gouravelli are pending. Officials are making all-out efforts to complete them at the earliest. The Kondapochamma reservoir, with 15 tmcft capacity, would submerge three villages and one tanda and accommodation was offered to the displaced at the Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) colony at Tunkibollaram. Those who approached the High Court for compensation under Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act – 2013 (LA Act- 2013) are yet to get justice. The reservoir, for which 4,600 acres of land was acquired, would provide irrigation to about 2.85 lakh acres.
21 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Irrigation will be available for two crops: Harish Rao||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that all tanks in Dubbak constituency would be filled during rainy season. Addressing farmers after inaugurating canal works at Hasanmeerapur village in Dubbak mandal along with MLA S. Ramalinga Reddy on Wednesday, Mr. Harish Rao said that Kaleshwaram water would reach tanks before the rainy season and farmers can have irrigation for two crops. “After travelling for about 170 km, the Godavari water will reach here shortly. Farmers and elected representatives should cooperate with the government in getting the water to the tailend fields. Every rupee that needs to be paid to the farmer would be released by the government without fail. Works of Peddagundavelli main canal and Hasanmeerapur, Chintamadaka, Ankampet and Narayanaraopet canals are commencing today and these will fill Nallacheruvu, Ramasamudram, Dharmajipet Peddacheruvu and Chittapur peddacheruvu,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that these tanks will be useful in providing irrigation for about 13,000 acres. Later in the day, participating in various programmes, the Minister laid foundation stone for the construction of Sardena check dam at an estimated cost of Rs. 12.5 crore. He said that three village in Papannpet mandal and two villages in Haveli Ghanapur mandal would get irrigation for about 2,000 acres. He said that as many as 15 check dams are being constructed by the State government.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Four injured during presidential suite construction at Yadadri||Four masonry workers were injured after an under-construction slab of a presidential suite atop Yadagirigutta, under the Yadadri Temple Development Authority (YTDA), collapsed on Wednesday. The workers suffered limb injuries and bruises over the body. They were identified as Appanna from Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, Venkataswamy and Chennaiah from Mahabubnagar and Ramulu from Rangareddy. The accident took place around 1 p.m. when they were at the under-construction E6 presidential suite villa or as the workers described ‘KCR building’, which is located higher than the other villas. R&B Executive Engineer (YTDA) Vasantha Naik said the workers were new to the job as the existing migrant workers left for their homes. The four workers were administered first-aid at the Yadagirigutta Primary Health Centre and later taken to Bhongir Area Hospital.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||ORR open from tonight||Outer Ring Road will be opened for traffic after close to two months from midnight of Thursday, a press note from HMDA said. However, cars will not be allowed on curfew hours. Toll staff have been instructed to follow safety norms and commuters urged to opt for contactless payment
21 May 2020||Bhopal,||Man in PPE swindles cash from students in Bhopal||The Bhopal police on Wednesday arrested a man, who donned personal protective equipment (PPE) and pretended to be a Railways official, to allegedly swindle money from people after promising them seats on a Shramik special train. Three students, who were tricked by the imposter into paying Rs. 1,000 each, approached the police after they couldn’t board the Bihar-bound train at the Habibganj station here. The police traced the accused, Rajesh Rai, 32, by tracking his phone. “At least 13-14 students were tricked,” said Sai Krishna Thota, Superintendent of Police, Bhopal south. In a complaint, one of the students said the man told them he was a senior Railways official and had tokens for Rs. 1,000 each, which could be used in place of tickets. “As he was wearing the PPE, we handed him the money,” they said. The police have registered a case under sections 170 (Personating a public servant), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (Forgery of valuable security, will) and 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating) of the Indian Penal Code.
21 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records one death, three new cases; toll increases to 38||Punjab recorded 3 fresh COVID-19 cases on Wednesday and reported one more death, taking the toll to 38 in the State, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 2,005. The patient who died was from Jalandhar. The Health Department said the active cases are 173 and 1,794 patients have so far recovered. Facilitation centre The Punjab government has set up a facilitation centre at the Indira Gandhi International Airport in New Delhi to help the people coming back on special flights from abroad to return to their respective districts in the State. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said transport facility has been made at the IGI Centre to ensure the comfortable return of stranded people to their home districts, where they will be required to stay in quarantine for 14 days and will also be tested for COVID-19. Those found negative would be sent home for another two weeks of self-quarantine while those who test positive will be shifted to isolation centres for care-treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, the Punjab government on Wednesday notified an ordinance to bring private clinical establishments into the ambit of its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. An official statement said the notification, under sub Section (3) of Section 1 of the Punjab Clinical Establishments (Registration & Regulation) Ordinance, 2020, brings all clinical establishments having capacity of more than 50 beds under the provisions of the ordinance. This is in line with the decision taken by the Council of Ministers at its meeting on April 10. “The ordinance would provide a mechanism for registration and regulation of clinical establishments in a professional manner, to ensure compliance of minimum standards of facilities and services, as well as transparency in the functioning of these establishments for fair and proper delivery of health services to the common man,” said the statement. Council for execution To implement the provisions, a State Council for Clinical Establishments will be set up under the chairmanship of the Administrative Secretary, Health with Director, Health as Member Secretary.
21 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Three arrested for ‘helping’ migrant workers cross Yamuna||After the Uttar Pradesh police increased patrolling on the Haryana border to stop migrant workers from entering the State, the workers have started crossing the Yamuna in Saharanpur. On Tuesday, three local residents were arrested for helping such migrant workers cross the river, under the charges of breaking lockdown norms and endangering the lives of the workers, the police said. An official release stated that the three persons were arrested under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Act, 1897. The release said that the arrested persons also named six of their accomplices who, they said, had fled the spot. They helped migrant workers cross the river with the help of inflated rubber tubes and allegedly also charged from them. Images and videos have surfaced in which locals can be seen pushing an inflated tube in the river with at least half-a-dozen people on it. Local sources said the migration was more rampant in Chilkana area where the water is shallow. Dinesh Kumar P, Senior Superintendent of Police (Saharanpur) told The Hindu , “Patrolling has been increased along the 70-km long border that the district shares with Yamuna Nagar district of Haryana... We have arrested persons who are endangering the lives of workers in the name of helping them. They are using their situation to make money. The migrant workers have been sent to shelter homes. Following the policy of the State government, we are not sending back any migrant worker in distress.” Asked if the district administration could use boats to bring these workers from the Haryana border, Mr. Kumar said only those migrant workers were being received who were sent by the Haryana government through the inter-State border. “There is a process. We are dealing with at least 10,000 migrant workers. We have so far sent at least 70,000 workers to Bihar and U.P. But the spillover is so much that the Haryana government has not been able to put all the migrants in shelter homes or quarantine centres.”
21 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||G.B. Nagar administration issues Lockdown 4.0 rules||Gautam Buddh Nagar administration On Wednesday released guidelines for the fourth phase of COVID-19-induced lockdown. The district recorded four fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally of active cases to 81 Metro services, inter-State buses services and vehicular traffic between Noida and Delhi will remain suspended. The district administration had asked for clarification on the movement of vehicles between Noida and Delhi on Tuesday, but the State government had not responded till Wednesday evening. Street vendors have been allowed to operate provided they use face masks and gloves and ensure social distancing. Dry cleaners and printing press have been allowed to resume services. Parks will be open from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. The administration advised the RWAs to balance community hygiene and convenience of residents.
21 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Exploration beneath no threat to Assam national park: OIL||Exploration major Oil India Limited (OIL) has negated fears that its drilling project under Assam’s Dibru-Saikhowa National Park would spell doom for its flora and fauna, including the only population of feral horses in India. OIL had on May 19 announced that it has received environmental clearance from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF) for extension drilling and testing of hydrocarbons at seven locations under the 765 sq km park straddling eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh and Tinsukia districts. This raised eyebrows with green activists and local organisations questioning the sanction to operate in an ecologically sensitive park declared a biosphere reserve in 1997. Dibru-Saikhowa is an island bounded by the Brahmaputra, Lohit and the Dibru rivers.  ‘No impact’ “The advertisement appears to have led to concern assuming that OIL will be operating inside the national park. We reassure everyone that our operations will have no impact on the park’s area as they will be conducted 3.5 km beneath the surface,” spokesperson Tridip Hazarika said from OIL’s headquarters in eastern Assam’s Duliajan. “OIL had obtained permission in 2016 on the basis of the sophisticated ERD (extended reach drilling) technology that will enable us to explore hydrocarbon deposits horizontally,” he said. Drilling will take place at an average of more than 1.5 km outside the demarcated area of the national park where OIL already is carrying out hydrocarbon exploration since the last 15 years, Mr. Hazarika said.
21 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland reports inchworm attack on crops amid lockdown||Crops in Nagaland are under attack from the semilooper, a moth larva commonly known as inchworm, amid the COVID-19 lockdown. Officials of the State’s Agriculture Department said inchworm attack has been reported from Kohima and Zunheboto districts. The new pest follows the more familiar fall armyworm that infested 2,961.95 hectares of cropland across seven villages in Mokokchung district. An official statement received Tuesday night said the inchworm infestation “with high population above the economic threshold level” has been noticed for the first time in the State. The pest was found feeding on potato, chilli, beans and other crops in about 800 hectares.  Control measures It said general control operations were being taken to prevent the spread of the semilooper, adding that alternative crop sowing might be needed in the event of a severe outbreak. Officials said mechanical control measures and bio-pesticides produced by the Agriculture Department’s bio-control laboratory at Medziphema in Dimapur district were being used to control the inchworms. Adjoining Manipur had a few days ago reported fall armyworm infestation in maize crop across Bishnupur, Chandel, Churachandpur, Imphal East, Imphal West and Ukhrul districts. The pest had attacked maize and paddy in 2019 too. Assam was the first to report fall armyworm attacks in Dhemaji and Lakhimpur districts in April. But rains saved paddy farmers in the nick of time.
21 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Locusts cross Thar desert to invade 16 districts in Rajasthan||The invasion of locusts had started from the India-Pakistan border on April 11 and they have now crossed the Thar desert and affected 16 of the 33 districts in Rajasthan, taking advantage of favourable wind conditions with the onset of summer. Locust swarms have travelled far in search of food because of lack of vegetation in the agricultural fields after the rabi crop harvest. State Agriculture Minister Lal Chand Kataria described the locust attack as the biggest threat in the midst of the COVID-19 lockdown, at an official meeting here on Wednesday, while giving instructions for controlling the spread of insects with the cooperation of farmers and through effective surveys. The locust swarms have reached Sikar, Bundi, Bhilwara, Pratapgarh and Chittorgarh districts, situated far away from the desert. These are the areas where the tropical grasshoppers had not reached last year during its invasion which took place after a gap of 26 years and damaged crops across 6.70 lakh hectares in 12 districts. The loss caused by the invasion was pegged at Rs. 1,000 crore. Mr. Kataria said the State government had provided 45 vehicles to Jodhpur-based Locust Warning Organisation of the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare for their sprayers and deployed 70 vehicles for surveys in the fields. While 600 tractor-mounted sprayers were also involved in the control operations, bids had been invited for drones to spray pesticides in the areas inaccessible to vehicles, he said. The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organisation had recently warned that locusts were breeding in large numbers in Sudan and Eritrea on Africa’s Red Sea Coast as well as in Iran. With very little crops available in the fields, the locusts are settling on babool and khejri trees in the State, while the Agriculture Department has controlled the outbreak on about 40,000 hectares. The grasshoppers emerged in January 2019 from eastern Africa and travelled through Saudi Arabia and Iran to enter Pakistan, where they invaded the cotton-producing belt of Sindh. The adult locusts then flew in to the Indian side of Thar desert, damaging the crops in western Rajasthan and northern Gujarat. State Agriculture Commissioner Om Prakash said a provision of Rs. 5 crore had been made for hiring the vehicles for spraying high-intensity malathion insecticide and Rs. 10 crore for providing plant protection chemicals to the farmers at 100% subsidy.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Several opportunities identified during videoconference at Chandigarh||A large number of opportunities, including promotion of home healthcare, transition of automobile component manufacturing to aerospace machinery manufacturing and use of transformational technology like 5-G, Edge, Artificial Intelligence were identified during a videoconference at Chandigarh on Tuesday. It was jointly chaired by Haryana CM Manohar Lal and United States India Business Council president Nisha Biswal. Mr. Lal assured that the government would facilitate all investment that may come to Haryana as a result of the discussion.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Homeward-bound||
21 May 2020||Washington,||‘Vaccine will be for global public good’||If the United States is the first to develop an effective vaccine against the COVID-19, it has to quickly share it with the world, the head of the National Institutes of Health, Francis Collins, told AFP in an interview. President Donald Trump’s administration has suggested that while it would share its scientific knowhow, it would prioritise the production of doses for the U.S. population from the get-go. But Mr. Collins said he “absolutely” agrees with the French and Chinese leaders that a vaccine should be what they have called a “global public good,” and expressed particular concern for countries in Africa. “Certainly if we had a vaccine that works, I would want to be sure as quickly as possible, it is available there (Africa) and in South America — look at Brazil right now,” Mr. Collins said. “We have a great deal of responsibility. We, as the richest nation in the world, need not to just take care of ourselves. That would be a terrible outcome.” NIH — one of the world’s top research centres with a $42 billion budget — is partnering with private companies in the frantic race to find a vaccine against the deadly virus, which has killed more than 3,20,000 people around the world. The U.S. administration has set a goal of producing 300 million doses by January — enough to vaccinate the entire population. But if the U.S. succeeds, should it be required to export some of those doses to vulnerable populations in other countries, instead of offering it to otherwise healthy Americans? Mr. Collins says yes, while cautioning that any forecast is based on “a lot of hope.” “Personally, I would certainly think that should be a matter of greatest attention and not sometime in 2022,” he said. Tentative hope “Maybe even as soon as the end of this year when we actually have the ability to do so.” One of the more advanced experimental vaccine projects in the world so far is the one undertaken by U.S. biotech firm Moderna, which is working with the NIH. The company, which got a government grant of nearly $500 million, reported promising early results from its first clinical tests on a small number of volunteers on Monday. The U.S. government has also signed a contract with Paris-based pharmaceuticals group Sanofi, in order to ensure it gets priority on future vaccine production. That deal sparked outrage in France, forcing the company to clarify that such priority would only be granted for vaccine doses produced in the group’s U.S. factories. Mr. Collins — a doctor and geneticist who has been the NIH director since 2009, serving under Barack Obama and Mr. Trump — admits that U.S. approach could be seen as “America First.” Global cooperation But the 70-year-old insists that international cooperation in the scientific community is happening. “Everybody ought to have a chance to get access to something that may save their lives at a time of a pandemic like this,” he said. “And we will do everything we can to work with other agencies and other countries to try to make that happen.” When asked if labs should be able to profit from a product seen as a “global public good” for the world’s more than seven billion inhabitants, Collins is equivocal. “I don’t think they should make a windfall, that’s for sure,” he said. “I do think you have to be clear that companies are going to be spending billions of dollars to produce these vaccines, and you can’t expect that they should simply absorb that,” he explained. “There has to be some reasonable compensation but they should not be in a circumstance where this turns into a big boost to their bottom line.”
21 May 2020||Kabul,||Committed to deal with U.S.: Taliban||The leader of the Taliban said on Wednesday that militants were committed to a landmark deal with the U.S., despite being accused of carrying out thousands of attacks in Afghanistan since it was signed. In a rare message released ahead of the end of the Islamic holy month of Ramzan next week, Haibatullah Akhundzada urged Washington “not to waste” the opportunity offered by the deal to end America’s longest war. “The Islamic Emirate is committed to the agreement... and urges the other side to honour its own commitments and not allow this critical opportunity to go waste,” Akhundzada said in a statement, using the name the Taliban called Afghanistan when they were in power. After months of negotiations, the Taliban and U.S. signed a deal in February which stipulates Washington will withdraw all troops from Afghanistan by next year in return for security guarantees. “I urge American officials to not afford anyone the opportunity to obstruct, delay and ultimately derail this internationally recognised bilateral agreement”, the reclusive leader said. Akhundzada hails from the Taliban’s traditional bastion of Kandahar, and was appointed head of the group after a U.S. drone strike killed his predecessor, Mullah Akhtar Mansour, in 2016. Mansour had succeeded Mullah Omar, the one-eyed warrior-cleric who founded the group. Akhundzada is a hardline religious scholar and a former head of the Taliban courts U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration has made it a priority to end the war in Afghanistan, and in a bid to pull out foreign forces U.S. officials have been pushing the Taliban and government leaders to hold peace talks. Under the U.S. accord the Taliban pledged to stop attacking cities and foreign troops, but militants have continued to target Afghan forces in the provinces. Emboldened Taliban Analysts say the Taliban have been emboldened by the deal, and Afghan government officials have reported more than 3,800 attacks since it was signed, killing 420 civilians and wounding 906. The U.S. official who brokered the deal with the Taliban said last week the militants had kept up their end of the bargain — even if recent violence violated the spirit of it. “The Taliban have implemented their agreement not to attack the coalition forces,” said Zalmay Khalilzad, the U.S. Special Representative to Afghanistan. His remarks came after a horrific attack against a maternity hospital in Kabul that left dozens dead— including mothers and infants.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Border disputes a reminder of the threat posed by China’||The U.S.’s top diplomat for South and Central Asia, Alice Wells, called the recent tensions between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) a reminder of the “threat” posed by China. Her comments come at a time when the U.S.-China relationship, already strained due to trade disputes, has further deteriorated over U.S. accusations of China’s mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic. “The flare-ups on the border I think are a reminder that Chinese aggression is not always just rhetorical. And so whether it’s on the South China Sea or whether it’s along the border with India, we continue to see provocations and disturbing behaviour by China that raises questions about how China seeks to use its growing power,” she said during a briefing call with reporters in response to a question on the India-China border tension. Ms. Wells also said China’s behaviour was causing other nations to group together to reinforce the post Second World War economic order. She cited ASEAN, the trilateral partnership between India, the U.S. and Japan as well as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue with these countries and Australia. “What we want to see is an international system that provides benefit to everyone. And not a system in which there is a suzerainty to China. And so I think in this instance the border disputes are a reminder of the threat posed by China,” she said. The U.S. has been pushing back against China on other fronts as well. China’s global infrastructure projects under the Belt Road Initiative (BRI) are a case in point. In response to the controversy between the ruling Nepal Congress Party and the opposition Nepal Communist Party over the U.S.’s grant assistance of $500 million (Nepal is putting forward another $130 million) via its Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC), Ms. Wells said the controversy was “disturbing” and expressed confidence that Nepal wasn’t being dictated to by China. Nepal’s Parliament will need to ratify the MCC grant before it can take effect. The assistance has been seen as an alternative to China’s BRI, which Nepal has signed on to. “The fact that this grant assistance — not a loan — and the potential of this grant assistance has become a political football is disturbing,” Ms. Wells said.  Trade deal with India On the prospects of India and the U.S. reaching a limited trade deal — the two countries had hoped to conclude it in time for Mr Trump’s visit to India in February — Ms. Wells said the momentum was “very much present” and the countries were working towards a deal but she could not predict whether a deal would be concluded by the end of this year. She said there were concerns that India still remained a “quite protected market that can be difficult and sometimes not provide a level-playing field for foreign companies.” “I think what we should focus on, again, is this post-pandemic environment, when countries are looking at a little bit of de-globalisation and on-shoring of more of the critical production… at the same time that that’s taking place, I think there's a very vigorous effort to diversify supply chains.” Adopting more open and welcoming policies and reducing tariffs would help India make use of an opportunity, Ms. Wells said, highlighting the critically important role that India would play in the treatment and health of the world, with its vaccine, pharmaceutical and generic drug production. Ms Wells is due to retire from a decades-long diplomatic career at the end of this month.
21 May 2020||Tel Aviv,||Israel and Iran take their battle online||Israel was behind a cyberattack on May 9 that disrupted operations at a major port in Iran, according to high-ranking intelligence officials and experts in West Asia who are kept informed of covert Israeli actions in the region. The attack on the computer systems at the Shahid Rajaee port in the strategically important Strait of Hormuz was limited in scope, creating traffic jams of delivery trucks and some delays in shipments but causing no substantial or lasting damage. Israel and Iran have recently been engaged in an exchange of attempted and successful cyberattacks, and the purpose of Israel’s relatively small-scale effort at the port, according to intelligence officials, was to send a message to Tehran: Don’t target Israeli infrastructure. The hacking of the port’s computers came in direct response, those experts familiar with the decision-making process said, to a failed Iranian cyberattack on an Israeli water facility last month. Officials in Israel initially decided the country should not retaliate for the attack on the water system, according to the intelligence sources, because its effect would have been minor even if it had succeeded. But when the story of the attempted attack was published in Israeli media, government officials, led by Naftali Bennett in his last days as Defence Minister, thought Israel should react in the same token by targeting Iranian civilian infrastructure and then leaking that story to international news media. Israel’s responsibility for the cyberattack on the port was first reported by The Washington Post.  The incident that prompted the Israeli attack on the port happened April 24, when a pump at a municipal water system in the Sharon region of central Israel stopped working. The facility’s computer system resumed pump operation in a short time but also recorded the occurrence as an exceptional event. The attack and its quality were described by an intelligence official as “miserable.”NY Times
21 May 2020||Jerusalem,||Abbas says Israel’s annexation plan has derailed Oslo accord||Raising the stakes over Israel’s drive to annex land the Palestinians have long claimed, President Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority on Tuesday angrily declared it free of its commitments under the Oslo peace process, including security understandings that have protected Israelis and preserved the authority’s political hold over the occupied West Bank. For a change, several senior Palestinian officials insisted, Mr. Abbas was not making a mere threat. “The Palestine Liberation Organization and the State of Palestine are absolved, as of today, of all agreements and understandings with the American and Israeli governments,” Mr. Abbas declared in a speech in Ramallah after a much-anticipated meeting of officials of the authority, the PLO and Fatah, the political faction that dominates them both. Those understandings, he said, include all security agreements. Mr. Abbas said his move was a response to the new Israeli government’s push to annex large portions of the West Bank. In the recent Israeli election, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu campaigned for right-wing support on a promise to extend Israeli sovereignty over the Jordan Valley and Jewish settlements totalling about 30% of the territory. Mr. Abbas argued that Israel had “annulled the Oslo agreement” and the ensuing pacts that built upon it. Mr. Abbas, however, did not set out a timetable or mechanisms for withdrawing from the agreements.NY Times
21 May 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil posts its worst toll with third highest cases||Brazil has seen a record number of coronavirus deaths as the pandemic that has swept across the world begins to hit Latin America with its full force. After Asia, Europe and North America, Latin America has seen coronavirus infections surge in recent days and now accounts for about 5,80,000 of the world's nearly five million confirmed cases. Brazil has been hardest-hit in the region, rising to the third-highest number of cases in the world, as Peru, Mexico and Chile also see steady increases in infections. Health officials reported 1,179 deaths on Tuesday, the first time the daily toll exceeded 1,000, but far-right President Jair Bolsonaro remains bitterly opposed to lockdowns. Health Ministry has recommended using chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine to treat even mild cases of COVID-19.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Important for India to be ‘close’ to Taliban, says U.S.||Hinting that that U.S. expects to see the Taliban inside the Afghanistan “government structure”, a senior U.S. official suggested that India should consider talks with the group as a part of India’s traditional ties with Kabul. “We defer to India as to whether it wants to engage directly with the Taliban, but in a situation where we are seeking to have a political settlement to have the Taliban as part of that political government structure, that government’s relationship with India should be close,” said the outgoing U.S. Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asia, Alice Wells. “A healthy Afghanistan is going to need to have a healthy relationship with India,” Ms. Wells added, replying to a question from The Hindu during a briefing. Defending the U.S.-Taliban deal signed in February, Ms. Wells, who has worked closely with U.S. special envoy on Afghanistan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad, said that the agreement was in line with U.S. President Donald Trump’s “South Asia Strategy” announced in 2017, which included four core principles: the push for a solution in Afghanistan “via a political dialogue and not on the battlefield”, troops pullout decided by the situation on the ground, the condition that Pakistan would take action against militant groups on its soil, and India would remain an “important” player on development assistance. She also said the U.S. had built “solid cooperation” with Pakistan on bringing the Taliban to the table for talks, and on action against terror groups.
21 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||Joe Biden wins primary in Oregon||Former Vice President Joe Biden won Oregon’s Democratic presidential primary, outpacing Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders and Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren, who both suspended their campaigns earlier in the year. President Donald Trump, who was unopposed, won the Oregon GOP presidential contest. In the Republican Senate primary, Jo Rae Perkins won. Mr. Perkins will face Democratic incumbent Senator Jeff Merkley. The mail-in primary was complicated by the coronavirus pandemic, as election workers kept social distancing in county offices while staffing levels were down. Election workers handled ballots with protective equipment.
21 May 2020||London,||Cambridge varsity goes online till 2021||Cambridge University will have no face-to-face lectures until summer 2021 at the earliest in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, a spokesman said on Wednesday. It is the first U.K. university to set out its plans for the academic year starting in September. “The university is constantly adapting to changing advice as it emerges during the pandemic,” the university said. “Given that it is likely that social distancing will continue to be required, the university has decided there will be no face-to-face lectures during the next academic year.” Lectures would continue to be available online.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Russia reports record high death toll||Russia on Wednesday reported its highest ever COVID-19 death toll of 135, bringing the country’s total fatalities to nearly 3,000. Overall infections crossed 3,00,000, but the number of active cases dropped for the first time. Russia has recorded far fewer deaths, but critics have cast doubt on the low official mortality rate and accused authorities of under-reporting.
21 May 2020||COPENHAGEN,||Norway mosque attack trial wraps up, verdict next week||Philip Manshaus, 22, a Norwegian man charged with murder and terrorism in the killing of his 17-year-old stepsister and the storming of an Oslo mosque, should get the maximum 21 years in prison, a prosecutor said on Wednesday on the final day of the trial. A verdict is expected next week.AP
21 May 2020||Seoul,||Prosecutors seek 35 years in jail for Park||South Korean prosecutors demanded on Wednesday a 35-year jail term for ex-leader Park Geun-hye, who was ousted and later convicted over a sprawling corruption scandal. Park, the country’s fist woman President, was brought down in 2017 after huge protests.AFP
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||China, better prepared for the post-COVID world||Several weeks before the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic, India’s Minister for External Affairs, S. Jaishankar, had observed (at a lecture) that “what defines power and determines national standing is also no longer the same... Technology, connectivity and trade are at the heart of the new contestations....” The Minister could never have imagined that within a few weeks, his prediction would be overtaken by a tectonic shift in the global situation thanks to a virus and a pandemic.  The Minister did mention a point about “known unknowns”, but what he could hardly have anticipated is how radical the changes would be, thanks to the phenomenon of “unknown unknowns”. Within the span of a few weeks, following the Minister’s dissertation, pronounced unpredictability created an unprecedented situation. Seldom have so many lives been lost across continents in a single tragic event.  Deep economic impact By now, India has surpassed China with regard to the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases, and has moved past the figure of 100,000 cases. What distinguishes the present pandemic from earlier ones is its economic impact, which is perhaps even more threatening than the human costs involved. In the case of India, all forecasts have had to be shredded. Job losses have been massive, specially in urban areas. India’s exports in the month of April, for instance, were the worst in the past 30 years. The harrowing plight of India’s migrant workers and the images of hungry, aimless, dispossessed migrant worker families trudging along the highways of the nation have seared the conscience of the nation. It could well have been equated to China’s May Fourth Movement (1919), except that, unlike in the case of China, the event has yet to catalyse the nation.  Well before this, India had been witnessing a persistent economic downward slide. The pandemic could, thus, not have come at a more inopportune moment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of a Rs. 20-lakh crore stimulus package was, hence, timely even though economists now believe that in real terms it amounts to around 2% of GDP rather than 10% as the government makes out. Finding resources for even this stimulus package will, however, not be easy. The Centre’s finances are not in the best of health. It has already had to resort to a second tranche of $1 billion loan from the World Bank to support COVID-19 relief measures. The finances of States are, to say the least, in a perilous state. Questions are, thus, bound to be raised as to whether adequate funds would be forthcoming for relief purposes.  Package is more a mosaic Following the Prime Minister’s announcement, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has provided several details of the stimulus package. Most critics affirm that it has been a financial stimulus at best, and much less likely to provide the much needed stimulus to the economy. Among the more important items are: providing a stimulus to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) through a Rs. 3-lakh crore loan scheme; helping other stressed business sectors such as non-banking financial companies, or NBFCs, power distribution companies and the real estate industry; provisioning of free food grains to migrant workers for the next two months; provisioning of a Rs. 1-lakh crore subsidy to agricultural cooperative societies; hiking the allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, or MGNREGS, by Rs. 40,000 crore; extension of credit facilities to street vendors; interest subvention for small businesses, etc.  A valid criticism is that the patchwork of stimulus packages reveals a disjointed mosaic of ideas and thoughts. Also, that these would be more relevant to a Budget discussion than a stimulus package. In the list of items mentioned as part of the stimulus package are aspects such as throwing open of defence production and coal sectors to the private sector, references to opening up of defence and aerospace for private companies, support to budgetary provisions for domestic defence procurement, bringing out a negative import list of weapons and military platforms, etc. Many are, hence, viewing the stimulus package as a panic reaction to an increasingly difficult situation rather than a deliberate plan of action. It is indeed difficult to see how in the absence of a proper and well designed plan, a patchwork of stimulus packages would enable India to return to growth rates of 7% to 8%.  China’s calibrated moves In the extant circumstances, comparisons with China have, hence, become inevitable. China may not have anticipated the latest COVID-19 pandemic, but since its early recovery, China has followed a calibrated approach — one that stems from a policy of deliberate strategic progression conceived over the years. It may be worthwhile to understand the facts so as to underscore the gap that currently exists between China and India.  Almost five years ago, China’s President, Xi Jinping, had floated the idea of “a Community of Common Destiny of Mankind”, in the course of an address to the UN General Assembly (2015). In this, he outlined China’s viewpoint on aspects such as economic globalisation and the information technology revolution. The Belt and Road Initiative — which encompasses policy, infrastructure, trade, financial, and people-to-people connectivity, and, implicitly also, security ties — was an adjunct to it. The 19th National Congress of the Communist Party of China (2017), thereafter, gave its imprimatur, considering it essential to enable China to achieve pre-eminence status within the global order. Ever since, China has embarked on not only attaining economic and technological progress but also in defining how power would be determined in the new globalised era through devising new international norms in many emerging domains such as cyber, space, artificial intelligence, etc. Setting the standards China also set about rewriting international rules, premised not so much on governing where global goods are made, but on setting standards that define production, exchange and consumption. China Standards 2035 plans to set new standards with regard to the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and define next generation information technology and biotechnology infrastructure. China is hoping, thereby, to reap the “early bird” advantage, even as other industrial nations struggle to recover from the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Internationalisation of Chinese standards would provide China a clear advantage by providing it an opportunity to set the standards in emerging industries such as high-end equipment manufacturing, unmanned vehicles, new materials, cybersecurity and the like. This would enable it gain a dominant position in the global economy.  It is important to understand the implications of all this, when shrill voices are being heard that the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to end China’s ambitious power outreach, and that countries such as India would be the beneficiaries. The converse may actually turn out to be true, given that China has, for years, adopted a policy of gaining a strategic advantage not only in military matters but also in economic and technical areas. This must not be lost sight of.  India must plan well Mounting an effective challenge to China at this time would require a well-conceived and carefully calibrated plan of action by India. As of now, this is not evident. India and China will certainly emerge from the pandemic more diminished than previously, but to varying extents. Each country will, no doubt, suffer an economic setback, but while both nations would be among the very few that would still have a positive growth rate in the near future (1% in the case of China and 1.8% in the case of India, according to the International Monetary Fund) — given the size of China’s economy, it does not translate into a massive shift in India’s favour.  Admittedly, there is a great deal of talk of companies demitting China at this time, partly due to the pandemic and partly due to other reasons. India would more than welcome some of the entities exiting China, but there are no “green shoots” to suggest that such a shift has, or is, about to take place. Many alternatives are available to these companies and it would be excessively optimistic on our part to hold on to the belief that India is the only alternative choice for most of them. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||How public health boosts an economy||When public health sneezes, the economy catches cold. Dire predictions for the post-COVID-19 global economy have come from the International Monetary Fund, which called the present crisis the worst downturn since the Great Depression. Grim forebodings for the Indian economy have been sounded by many distinguished economists and the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India. Will this lead to higher investment in health to protect the economy from the effects of endangered health? The Rs. 20 lakh crore package recently announced includes proposals to prevent and respond to future pandemics. These include strengthening of health and wellness centres, establishment of infectious diseases hospital blocks in all districts, expansion of the laboratory network and ‘One Health’ research on zoonotic diseases under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). This is a limited response to the threat of infectious outbreaks. Need for equitable systems The creation of a well-balanced health system is not the objective of this crisis response, despite the fact that the southern States have shown how efficient and equitable health systems are our best defence against public health emergencies. It is also clear that weak health systems, which do not function well in a steady state, cannot suddenly generate surge capacity when challenged by a public health emergency. Further, a selective investment in some components of infectious disease control will not meet the many other essential demands on the health system. Even during the COVID-19 response, attention has been diverted from maternal and child health, and care for other infectious diseases and non-communicable diseases. Also, where will the additional health workforce needed even for this limited expansion come from, without a planned investment in education, skilling and employment? What is needed is adequate investment in creating a health system that can withstand any kind of public health emergencies, deliver universal health coverage and other targets of the Sustainable Development Goals, while creating mutually beneficial synergies between health and the economy. The Fifteenth Finance Commission is reportedly examining ways to increase public financing of the health sector, while framing its final recommendations. Given the major role that States have to play in creating strong health systems across the country, the directions and allocations provided by the Finance Commission can become the critical catalyst for transforming the nation’s health. Will the Commission invigorate public health and primary care or will it be influenced by the intensive care narrative of COVID-19, which only a fraction of the infected persons need or benefit from? Will it highlight the economic benefits that will accrue from investing in health as a sustained commitment?  Not a ‘cost disease’ Ambivalence of economists towards health dominated much of the 20th century. Health systems were mostly seen as unavoidable expenditures, which had to be accommodated as the essential service entourage of a booming economy but not to be placed at the high table of policy priorities. Indeed, one of the most influential economists of the modern era, William Baumol, described healthcare as a ‘cost disease’ where costs inexorably rise, outpacing the value of services rendered and therefore it is less rewarding than the industrial engines of economic growth. The rising costs of healthcare in industrialised countries, especially those without organised universal health coverage, may well invite such a description though the proposition could be debated even there. Public health, which is hidden away in the scullery when economic revelry is in full flow, cannot however be dismissed so easily. The services rendered by public health are far too valuable to be dismissed as a cost disease. Indeed, both population-based public health and individual-centred healthcare are joint accounts in human development that yield rich returns for economic development, if invested wisely. The evidence-backed proposition that population health and national economic growth have a bi-directional relationship, as do poverty and individual ill health, has made its way into the paradigm of the Sustainable Development Goals. However, investments in health have lagged behind that awareness or have been heavily skewed in favour of advanced clinical care. Public health and primary care were left pleading for more, like a plaintive Oliver Twist, but were disdainfully dismissed. Robust evidence on correlation There is robust evidence that investments in public health and primary care pay rich economic dividends. Apart from the WHO Commission on Macroeconomics and Health (2001), two other economists-led reports on Investing in Health (1993, 2013) concluded that investments in population health will yield rich returns of economic growth. The 2013 report estimated that low- and middle-income countries will realise 9 to 20 fold returns respectively on investments in health. A UN High Level Commission, headed by the Presidents of France and South Africa, reported in 2016 that investments for augmenting the size and skills of the health workforce yields economic growth through improved population health and productivity, reduced healthcare costs and job creation even in a gloomy global scenario of job loss. The Baumol hypothesis on investments in health was strongly disputed by this report. India, in particular, stands to gain greatly by investing in health, especially health beyond illness care. Productivity boost promised by a demographically young population can be protected. Education and skilling of a diversified health workforce can uplift health services for health protection at both population and individual levels. When domestic needs are met, this expanded health workforce can also meet global health needs, both as a rapid action force for health emergency response and as a unit taking care of the chronic care needs of aged societies. Innovative health technologies and inexpensive pharmaceutical products can be created at scale, for domestic use and global export. This calls for stepped up public financing for the health sector. Questions may be posed as to how this can be done at a time of economic downturn. History teaches us that such an investment is especially useful in times of economic adversity. South-East Asian countries invested in health and universal health coverage during and soon after the Asian Financial Crisis of the 1990s. The United Kingdom adopted universal health coverage soon after the Second World War. Japan adopted it in the early 1960s to hasten recovery from the economic injuries inflicted by defeat in that war. All of them recognised that greater investment in health is a winning bet for economic development. India too must choose that path to boost the trajectory of its economic growth. At the bottom of the Pandora ’s box lies hope. As COVID-19, which emerged through our indiscretions, exits, its attendant ills which afflict our economic and social life, too can fade away. If we let hope rise, through health. K. Srinath Reddy is president, Public Health Foundation of India. Views are personal
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Grasping the defence self-reliance nettle||The measures, recently announced by the Finance Minister, to promote self-reliance in defence production, address long-standing strategic and national security concerns about the extent of India’s external dependence for its defence-preparedness. For most of the past decade, India had the dubious distinction of being the world’s largest arms importer, accounting for about 12% of global arms imports. Saudi Arabia jumped to first place in 2018 and 2019, but India still takes over 9% of global imports. This external dependence for weapons, spares and, in some cases, even ammunition creates vulnerabilities during military crises. COVID-19 has, once again, focused minds on the impact of supply chain disruptions on both civil and defence sectors. It is a no-brainer that with its security environment, its great power ambitions and its technological capacities, India should have a robust defence manufacturing capacity. The facts that new Defence Procurement Procedures (DPP) 2020 are under formulation and that we now have a Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) tasked with promoting indigenous equipment in the armed forces, provide a conducive backdrop to this initiative. An opportune moment The decision to notify a list of weapons systems for sourcing entirely from Indian manufacturers, the promise to progressively expand this list and a separate Budget provision for domestic capital procurement will encourage our private defence manufacturers, whose research capacities, technological skills and quality commitment are often better appreciated by foreign clients for whom they are subcontractors. There is a range of platforms and subsystems, developed in India and qualified in trials, some of which face hurdles to their induction by our armed forces because of foreign competition. These include missile systems such as Akash and Nag, the Light Combat Aircraft and the Light Combat Helicopter, artillery guns, radars, electronic warfare systems and armoured vehicles. The government has promised a time-bound defence procurement process, overhauling trial and testing procedures and establishing a professional project management unit. The significance of these measures is underscored by the fact that over the past five years, the Indian government has approved over 200 defence acquisition proposals, valued at over Rs. 4 trillion, but most are still in relatively early stages of processing. Of course, this delay now provides the opportunity to re-examine them and to prioritise those with indigenous research and development. The CDS could also examine them from a tri-service angle, to avoid redundancy of capacities across the services. The decision to corporatise the Ordnance Factory Board is another long overdue reform. Over the decades, our ordnance factories have been the backbone of indigenous supplies to our armed forces, from weapons systems to spares, ammunition and auxiliaries (including uniforms and boots). Their structure, work culture and product range now need to be responsive to technology and quality demands of modern armed forces. Corporatisation, including public listing of some units, ensures a more efficient interface of the manufacturer with the designer and end user. The factories would be better integrated into the larger defence manufacturing ecosystem. The government has rightly clarified that self-reliance would not be taken to overzealous extremes. The thrust for indigenous research and development will coexist with the import of cutting-edge military technologies to obviate near-term defence vulnerabilities. At the same time, our defence planners will frame “realistic” specifications for their desired weapons platforms, based on the requirements of India’s defence strategy, rather than on aspirational considerations which, the Finance Minister said, may lead to a single foreign vendor. It is also imperative that when we import weapon systems, we should plan for the ammunitions and spares for them to be eventually manufactured in India so that we are not driven to seek urgent replenishments from abroad during crises. The same goes for repair, maintenance and overhaul facilities and, at the next level, the upgrade of weapons platforms. FDI impact The liberalisation of foreign direct investment in defence manufacturing, raising the limit under the automatic route to 74%, should open the door to more joint ventures of foreign and Indian companies for defence manufacturing in India. It would also sustain a beehive of domestic industrial activity in the research, design and manufacture of systems and sub-systems. Our companies, which have long been sub-contractors to prominent defence manufacturers abroad, would now get the opportunity to directly contribute to Indian defence manufacturing. The development of a thriving indigenous defence industry needs an overhaul of existing regulations and practices. A long-term integrated perspective plan of the requirements of the armed forces should give industry a clear picture of future requirements. DPP 2020 should incorporate guidelines to promote forward-looking strategic partnerships between Indian and foreign companies, with a view to achieving indigenisation over a period of time for even sophisticated platforms. Cost evaluation has to evolve from mechanical application of the L1 (lowest financial bid) principle to prioritising indigenous content. The definition of indigenisation itself needs to privilege technology over value or volume. Investment, Indian or foreign, will be viable only if the door to defence exports is opened, with a transparent policy. To give private industry a level playing field for developing defence technologies, conflicts of interest, created by the role of our Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) as the government’s sole adviser, developer and evaluator of technologies have to be addressed. Above all, a radical reset has to overcome resistance to change. Of the key components of any major reform — money, method and mindset — mindset is the most critical and the most intractable. It takes a crisis to change it. P.S. Raghavan is Chairman, National Security Advisory Board. The views expressed are personal
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep it retrospective||Plenty of organised data on daily counts of COVID-19 cases are available. Consequently, many statisticians, epidemiologists, data scientists are extrapolating existing data to predict the progression of the disease outbreak, and forecasting the trajectory of the disease over time. No wonder that the numbers are often contradictory in nature. And, no surprise that many of the forecasts have already been proved wrong. Reliable ‘expertise’ may be an alien concept for a new and unknown disease. Consequently, although retrospective analysis is alright, the dynamics of any perspective analysis for uncertain and complex events like COVID-19 might be erroneous. Let me explain why. Various standard epidemiological models, and regression and time series models are generally attempted for modeling cumulative number of cases and deaths data for COVID-19. Can the models depict the complex and unknown trajectory of the disease in the long run? If so, which one? Certainly, I know the common aphorism “all models are wrong but some models are useful”. But, any such model relies on strong assumptions about aspects of the disease we haven’t thoroughly studied yet. Thus, some assumptions are bound to be violated, and some remain unverified. This is a new disease, at least three varieties have been detected so far, and we are learning new features of the virus everyday. With several blind spots, it is utterly difficult to choose a model. The key parameters Once a model is chosen, a few ‘parameters’ dictate its performance. These key numbers are ‘infections rate’, ‘incubation rate’, ‘recovery rate’, ‘birth’ and ‘death’ rates, and also the rate at which recovered individuals return to the susceptible state due to loss of immunity, if at all. Values of most of these parameters are unknown — they are to be estimated from the data of cumulative cases and deaths over time. However, often data quality is questionable — speculations of under-reporting of cases from different parts of the world persist. Sensitivity and specificity of the testing procedures are also known to be high. Again, some models need to assume how people will adhere to government instructions like lockdown. Also, COVID-19 has 2-14 days of incubation period. And patients may infect others during the incubation period as well. What is more, there are a lot of asymptomatic patients who go on infecting others who, in turn, might not be asymptomatic. This, along with the fact that there is scarcity of test kits in most parts of the world, surely misses many asymptomatic patients in the count of cases. Iceland, for example, managed to test almost 50,000 people of its 3,60,000 population, and found that 0.6% of the population were “silent carriers” of the disease with no symptoms or only a mild cough and runny nose! According to a survey conducted by the Public Health Authority of Sweden, about 2.5% of Stockholmers had an ongoing COVID-19 infection at the end of March, which was 30 times the number tested positive by then. It became 80 times the number of tested positive cases within three weeks — about 20% Stockholmers were already immune to COVID-19 by that time. Thus, it is clear that the proportion of asymptomatic cases increased at an accelerated rate via a convex path, at least in the case of Sweden. However, Sweden didn’t impose any lockdown measure. So, the volume and pattern of asymptomatic patients are likely to differ in countries where lockdown was imposed. But, without a good estimate of the asymptomatic patients — possibly through survey of antibody tests — it’s impossible to have a reliable estimate of different unknown parameters of a model. Testing asymptomatic patients Again, when somebody is reporting a 3.3% fatality rate for a region, it is based on numbers of deaths and cases. However, there is a huge ‘selection bias’ in the data due to limited testing capacity — only those more likely to be positive are likely to be tested. If the actual number of undetected asymptomatic patients is 10x the observed cases, the actual fatality rate becomes just 0.3%. Similarly, the predicted trajectory might change significantly with the inclusion of the huge number of “asymptomatic cases” into calculations. I understand that various policymakers would still need the help of such mathematical models fitted with available case data — to navigate the pandemic as much as possible for taking critical decisions dynamically. However, such contradicting and erroneous predictions from different experts would give rise to either horror or a false sense of relief in common people, both situations being very much undesirable. Atanu Biswas is a Professor of Statistics at the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Backing the ‘angels in white coats’||On March 24, the Prime Minister announced a nationwide lockdown. Never since the Second World War have we seen the size, scale and human impact of this lockdown. Yet, we have managed and continue to manage the worst health and economic crisis we have seen in our lifetimes. Over 1,01,000 Indians have so far become infected by the novel coronavirus. We are not yet fully able to test and isolate efficiently, we are yet to find a protocol for cure and the vaccine is still in the distant future. Who will protect India? While we are fighting for survival, the economic impact of this virus is $8 trillion and growing as fast as the virus — which is why we need to desperately focus on a cure for the economy and a vaccine that protects the Indian healthcare system. Indian hospitals and 60,000 nursing homes in the private sector have looked after 68% of Indian healthcare needs. In the process, they have evolved into delivering world-class care and continue to attract patients from 145 countries. Even more remarkably — we do it at 1/10th of international costs. Around 1.4 million Indian doctors across the world and even more nurses are leading the fight against COVID-19. While here in India, we clap for our heroes, should we not support the system that created and supports our ‘angels in white coats’? The cost of good care, of commitment in the fight against a disease that has no tested clinical protocols calls for flexibility, resources and knowledge. The coronavirus is an imported virus and so are our PPEs, medicines and technology. Strengthening the supply chain Till we have a strong Indian supply chain, we continue to import and use the best because every patient is worth it. The government, recognising the role of Indian doctors and frontline workers, has provided a Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover, which is welcome; yet private hospitals who charge 6% of that continue to be misunderstood. As a sector that is definitely in need of support, we continue to look towards the government for help — Rs. 15,000 crore will never be enough to bring this sector, small, medium and large nursing homes and corporate hospitals, out of this epidemic. We might survive COVID-19 but we will lose our front line of defence unless we act now. While we strongly welcome the set of measures announced by the government for healthcare — increasing the viability gap funding from 20% to 30%, setting up infectious disease rooms in every district hospital, setting up laboratory facilities at block level — much more needs to be done. Make inputs GST-exempt First, uncomplicate our cost structure by zero-rating GST or exempt all services and goods that are supplied to the hospital. Today we have no input credit because we fall in the negative list. As positive contributors to the economy, we need to change this vital equation. Second, as the essential support system for COVID-19, hospitals need liquidity. Beyond bank borrowings, the government should set up a three-year fund that will enable sustainability of the sector and fortify the system from any such future outbreak and offer subvention of interest. Third, incentivise rather than penalise the healthcare institutions that have invested in the future, in Tier II hospitals and technology by allowing companies to retain MAT credit as we continue to pay 25% corporate tax. The government has done a commendable job in handling COVID-19. The statistics show that we are doing far better than even developed countries. This is the time for us to show that we are not here for just this fight alone — we are here for the future, a future where every Indian is unafraid because they are strong and protected by a vibrant healthcare system. The crisis has underlined the need to nurture healthy individuals and maintain healthy balance sheets. It is with this hope that we will live another day. It is with this hope that we can exhale with confidence and courage, for there is no light brighter than this human spirit. Suneeta Reddy is Managing Director, Apollo Hospitals
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Working safely||Opening up economic production from a lockdown, even partially, when the COVID-19 pandemic has not peaked in the country poses an extraordinary challenge. Countries around the world are focusing on making the workplace safe, and issuing guidelines to help workers return to their jobs. Reducing the number of people present at any given time is a universal principle, either through resort to shifts, or arrangements to enable employees to work from home. The Union Health Ministry has addressed the issue through a manual of preventive measures that covers all types of workplaces and depends heavily on behavioural change, with some additional requirements for confined spaces such as offices. Fortunately, the first line of defence against the novel coronavirus is a set of simple measures that involves little expenditure: physical distancing of at least one metre, mandatory use of face masks or cover, frequent hand washing with soap, respiratory etiquette, sanitising contact surfaces and self-monitoring of health. These requirements have by now become familiar to everyone, and employees need only be nudged into adopting them through persistent communication, free provisioning of masks and sanitising materials, and organising office space suitably. Physical distancing of even one metre, if not the ‘do gaz’ or six feet that Prime Minister Narendra Modi advocated, does pose difficulties because of the lack of space and density of workers in many places. But employers should see the value of keeping staff attendance at safe levels even within the legally permitted ceiling, which now extends to 50% in specified sectors and even in some government offices. Failure to maintain distancing, more so in a poorly-ventilated, closed environment, gives the virus a free run, as Chennai’s wholesale vegetable market showed starkly. The Centre’s protocol for symptomatic cases at the workplace, requiring testing, and, where warranted, quarantining of both the worker and close contacts, and a two-day closure of offices experiencing an outbreak, should underscore to employers the importance of prevention. Responsibility, however, does not devolve entirely on offices and establishments, and it is imperative for other activities, such as public transport used by many workers, to meet COVID-19 requirements. Some institutions are mandating installation of the Aarogya Setu app by employees returning to work, when the legal basis of this monitoring mechanism remains shaky and there are no assured benefits in terms of health care. At this stage of the pandemic, when a gradual resumption of economic activity in multiple sectors ranging from construction to food takeaways is a necessity, the most feasible interventions at the workplace are voluntary and those that cost the least. There may still be occasion to resort to intermittent lockdowns if opening up leads to mounting cases. A prudent course would be to navigate the present with a minimalist approach, as the quest for a medical breakthrough makes progress.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A hole in the whole||Mathematically, the whole is equal to the sum of its parts, neither more nor less. But the COVID-19 pandemic has taken the parts and overwhelmed the whole. The lockdown, as it was conceived originally, was meant to be, at best, a stopgap arrangement that would help nations tide over the crisis caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. But as the days rolled on, and the lockdown moved on from phase to phase, it has caused a paralysis in general health care. As sparse health-care resources in most parts of the country have been channelled towards the COVID-19 effort, the numbers have risen, but normal health-care services have been in suspended animation for just under two months now. Staff running several national health programmes, and State health missions, besides health-care workers from tertiary hospitals down to the primary health centres, have been diverted to buttress public health efforts in the COVID-19 battle. And the epidemic still rages on, with thousands of people testing positive every day and the number of cases coursing past the one lakh mark. Lockdowns have been partially lifted in some areas and in others, a mere semblance of normalcy has returned. As conditional movement has been allowed, people travelling across States bring positive cases to States or districts that have remained case-free for a while now. But the time has now come for the country to attempt an equipoise of sorts, balance the different requirements of health care, along with efforts to continue to fight COVID-19. While health-care services themselves have been on the backfoot for non-COVID-19 conditions, except in emergencies, access too, for the bulk of the population, has been hampered by the non-availability of public transportation. Recent data culled from the National Health Mission pointed to less than normal coverage in key areas such as immunisation, institutional deliveries; further, delay, or failure, in delivering life-saving drugs to persons with HIV, tuberculosis, or inability to offer support for other chronic conditions have been documented. The usually robust private health system, which caters to various segments of the population, also took a back seat, or played a supportive role. While the Finance Minister’s announcement on increase in health allocations as part of the Rs. 20-lakh crore relief package is welcome, more than money is required to set this right. If life after COVID-19 is not to be worse than life before the pandemic, the governments need to ensure that the country’s multi-layered health system is not sacrificed at the altar of one virus; they need to give it their whole attention, now.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Police on the campus||(From an editorial) With a minority of students throwing bombs into laboratories and libraries, tearing up examination papers and beating up the invigilators, there seems to be no alternative to the introduction of the police to protect the colleges. The naxalite campaign reached its climax on May 13 in Calcutta where groups of students in a large number of colleges broke up the annual examinations and forced the university to close its doors. Interference with examinations in West Bengal is not, of course, a monopoly of the naxalites. There were cases of students assaulting invigilators because they prevented the copying of answers. In these cases too, the police have had to be called in to restore order and protect the examination system. Evidently, laxity in invigilation in the past has created the impression among some students that copying is permissible. But the naxalites regard the whole university system as effete and a stumbling-block in the way of the Maoist revolution When the Union Minister of Education, Dr. V. K. R. V. Rao, recently met the vice-chancellors of several universities in West Bengal, they told him that their talks with militant students had proved futile and that they were evidently following political leaders who had advocated the use of violence to disrupt the campus.
21 May 2020||Chennai,||Balaji fears for bowlers with ban on use of saliva||Cricket has favoured batsmen since inception. And in the COVID-19 era, where natural body fluids, including saliva, will not be allowed to shine the ball with, the bowlers are likely to be marginalised even more. Now there are calls for ‘ball-tampering’ to be legalised to restore a semblance of balance between the bat and the ball. A feeling of deja vu is unavoidable considering the uproar Sandpapergate involving two of Australia’s biggest names, Steve Smith and David Warner, caused not too long ago. Former India paceman and Chennai Super Kings bowling coach L. Balaji fears for the bowlers in these times. Polished and shiny Balaji said to The Hindu , “From a young age, bowlers are trained to use sweat and saliva on the ball to keep one side polished, shiny and lighter while the other side gradually becomes heavier.” Balaji, among the heroes of India’s historic Test series triumph in Pakistan in 2004, elaborated, “In fact, the entire team ‘works’ on the ball to ‘maintain’ it. And the use of sweat and saliva is mandatory and legal.” The lanky former paceman observed, “For the pacemen to achieve conventional and reverse swing, or seam movement, and even for the spinners to get the ball to drift, the weight of the ball and how one side is maintained is vital.” He added, “Once the ball is looked after, factors such as crosswind, headwind, bowling with the breeze and the cloud cover play a part.” Fascinating conversation Balaji recalled a fascinating conversation with Pakistani legend Wasim Akram on the subject. “Akram told me once the ball started doing something, the Pakistani pacemen would not even allow the fielders to touch a part of the ball with their palm.” He elaborated, “Akram revealed the palm would be very sweaty and would make one side very heavy, disturbing the delicate balance needed for reverse swing.” As it is Balaji said, “You see, the ball only swings conventionally and reverses for a few overs and at that point, when the sphere reaches that state, you have to leave the ball as it is to inflict maximum damage during those phases.” He added, “The heavy and sweaty palm would alter that delicate balance. It’s a science where the weight of the ball is crucial.” What are the options before the cricketing world now? Balaji is against legalising ball tampering. “When you start tampering, where would you draw the line? How can you say so much tampering is legal and after that it is illegal.” The ICC has also not allowed external substances such as Vaseline to shine the ball. There have been cases when the ball has swung excessively with Vaseline. Balaji said, “We have to go by trial and error method. Perhaps a substance such as a sanitiser with which you clean tables and other surfaces can be tried on the ball. But I am not sure.” These are unprecedented times and the answers are complicated.
21 May 2020||BENGALURU,||KSCA to ‘wait and observe’||The Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) announced that it will “wait and observe” before restarting cricket activities. “We will wait and observe for a few more days before we kickstart full-fledged cricketing activities. For now, the health of all the stakeholders, cricketers, coaches and support staff is the priority,” a KSCA statement read. The statement mentioned that any face-to-face interaction amongst cricketers, coaches and support staff would be discouraged until May 31. Managers, coaches and cricketers have been requested to work on their skills through online interactions. The KSCA will look at the guidelines issued by the government, BCCI, ICC and local authorities before formulating a standard operating procedure to be followed when cricket resumes.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t blindly follow heroes, says nutritionist Shiny||As the most famous vegans in world sport, Virat Kohli and Novak Djokovic have the power to drive millions around the world onto their path. But nutritionist Shiny Surendran warned athletes that blindly following their heroes, completely avoiding animal products including milk, may not be a good idea — especially if they don’t include adequate alternate nutrients in their diet. In a series of webinars and discussions during the lockdown, the Chennai-based Shiny, who has completed a two-year course in sports nutrition from the International Olympic Committee (IOC), stressed the importance of a healthy gut. She highlighted the problem of food intolerance, where someone does everything right and still does not have optimum levels of energy, as was the case with Djokovic before he was diagnosed with gluten intolerance. Advising every sports association to have a qualified nutritionist on board, Shiny said that tweaking food habits and customising it to each athlete was vital to high performance. “Foods that grow in your city or nearby districts are loaded with nutrients. Eat what your ancestors ate and choose freshly prepared foods,” she said, quoting medical expert Dr. Mark Hyman.  Varying needs  “The requirement for nutrients varies throughout the year,” Shiny said, emphasising the need for different intake during off-season, pre-competition and injury-rehabilitation periods. Talking about food allergies and intolerance, Shiny said that “once the diet is customised, there will be marked improvement in sharpness of mind, quickness in decision making, better recovery, improvement in muscle mass, etc.” Leander Paes was impressed by Shiny’s suggestion of first having a cup of water to check the reality of a sudden feeling of hunger. Pointing out how even simple food like fermented rice contained rich nutrients, Shiny said that it was important to know all the options and choose sensibly.
21 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Athlete Srinu Bugatha chasing his Olympic dreams||From the paddy fields of Gajapathinagaram in Vizianagaram (Andhra Pradesh), marathon runner Srinu Bugatha has embarked on a journey to chase his dream of making it to the Tokyo Olympics. The 27-year-old Srinu, born in a farmer’s family and at home taking a break from the Army Institute of Sports (Pune) because of the lockdown, is conscious of the huge challenge ahead. But Srinu is also confident given his consistent performances, including a personal best gold medal winning effort of 2:18.36 in the Mumbai Marathon in the Indian Elite category this January (Olympic qualifying norm is 2:11.30). Disappointed He is disappointed at missing an Olympic qualifying event in Spain this March and also the opportunity to train in the Rift Valley in Kenya which produces 90% of the top Kenyan athletes. “With the Olympics postponed to next year, I hope I will get a few more chances to qualify,” he said in a chat with The Hindu . “I am grateful to my senior officials in AIS and to Rajesh Vetcha, founder of Hyderabad Runners, for all the support. Hopefully, I will make the cut,” said the runner who covers a distance of 180kms on an average very week in normal times and now in lockdown about 130kms since Vizianagaram was for a very long time in the green zone.  Coach Subedar K.C. Ramu at AIS (himself a former Indian marathon champion) said that they are waiting for the new Olympic norms after the postponement and will revisit the training programme soon to ensure that Srinu is back at his best. “I am sure he will make a big impact,” he added. On the road to qualification, Srinu needs to break the 42-year-old record of 2:12.00 set by the great Shivnath Singh in 1978 at Jalandhar. Some of Srinu’s major wins include a full marathon bronze in the Indian category in the 2018 Mumbai Marathon, followed by a gold each next year in the half-marathon in the same event, the Airtel Delhi Marathon and the TCS 25K Run in Kolkata. Srinu, who watches videos of African greats like Kenenisa Bekele, Eliud Kipchogu, is making all-out efforts to leave his stamp in the world of marathon.
21 May 2020||KOCHI,||Athletes and hockey players in quarantine||Just when they were about to resume training, after receiving the green signal from the Ministry of Home Affairs and Sports Ministry, athletes and hockey players preparing for next year's Tokyo Olympics suffered a fresh blow after a cook employed with the Sports Authority of India's South Centre in Bengaluru passed away. The senior cook, who had not been coming to the SAI campus after the lockdown began but had attended a meeting there on May 15, had died of cardiac arrest in a hospital on Monday. His sample had tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The SAI confirmed, through a note, that the meeting was attended by 16 members at the auditorium near the administrative block and that social distancing norms were followed. It said that the cook did not interact with any of the players, or the other staff members in the centre. The SAI release also mentioned that Narinder Batra, Indian Olympic Association president, was fully satisfied with the way the Bengaluru centre has been kept safe and sanitised. “The SAI administration is doing its best to handle the issue at hand and there is no reason to panic,” the note quoted Batra as saying. “The athletes did not attend that meeting but two or three from the administrative staff had gone for that. They have been quarantined and we too from Tuesday,” said Jinson Johnson, Asian Games 1500m champion, from the Bengaluru centre on Wednesday. “About six race walkers and distance runners Gopi and I are here. We also have the Indian men's and women's hockey teams here”.
21 May 2020||Coimbatore,||The satisfaction of a hole-in-one, off the course||It’s tough for golfers to stay off the course — even during a pandemic-forced lockdown. “But the world outside is going through an even tougher phase,” said G. Premanand, a Coimbatore Golf Club (CGC) member. Putting things in perspective, he said: “There are people dying and many more walking several miles to reach their destinations without food and water. So, it doesn’t matter if we miss a few rounds of golf,” to The Hindu here on Tuesday. Premanand’s friends D. Senthil Kumar and M. Duraisamy from the club felt likewise. The most important shot in golf is the next one — and the trio’s ‘next’ big plan was to reach out to those in need. With prior permission from the district administration, they began their journey serving meals to about 500 people, and eventually served 46,000 meals. They were glad to do their bit. They decided to travel even further and, with the golfing community to back them, reached out to the elderly, the sick, daily wage earners, narikuravars , railway coolies, transgenders, differently-abled and Gaushala workers in and out of Coimbatore, and provided them with the essentials to run their day-to-day lives. They have, so far, provided 2538 families with rice and groceries to last 3 to 4 weeks, covered 1298 tribal families spread across 23 villages and, of course, caddies and support staff at golf clubs in Coimbatore and Ooty. They worked hand-in-hand with front-line workers and gave away masks (N95 & reusable cloth), hand rubs and PPE kits to Corporation and PHCs as well. “It was overwhelming and the whole experience made me more grounded, looking at people’s happiness of getting one’s essential needs fulfilled,” said Senthil Kumar. “We had to cross many a physical hurdle to reach remote mountainous areas. But the satisfaction on the faces of these people on receiving the care package, personally speaking, was rewarding,” said Duraisamy. “It was sportsmanship in the hour of need, in service to humanity, and to me the satisfaction was akin to every golfer’s dream — a Hole in One.” The trio is not finished yet — their remarkable journey continues.
21 May 2020||Kolkata,||Bidhuri dons role of motivational speaker||The motivational speaker in him is guiding top boxer Gaurav Bidhuri as he prepares to compete against five world class boxers in the qualifiers to make the grade for the Olympics in the 57kg category. Bidhuri, who won a bronze in the 2017 World championship and has donned the role of a motivational speaker during the lockdown for students of IIT-Hyderabad and Vellore Institute of Technology, believes he can prove his worth. On same platform “I never got to compete in the selection trials even though the people concerned said five of us are almost equal. Since the pandemic has put everyone on the same platform, I see a chance for myself,” the 27-year-old told The Hindu . Bidhuri, who has an attacking style, is working on his foot movement and balance to gain more stability in the ring. He has a pragmatic approach, though. “Even if I don’t realise my Olympic dream, I will remain happy. It’s not the end of the world. “What’s the point if you win an Olympic medal and still cannot be happy in life! “Boxing is one aspect of my life. I also want to pursue motivational speaking skills and inspire people,” said Bidhuri.
21 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Narayanan strikes it rich in lockdown time||Grandmaster S.L. Narayanan has been virtually burning the midnight oil for the last two months. The lockdown had opened up new avenues for him in the form of online chess competitions when the original tournaments he was supposed to take part in got cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The 22-year-old struck a purple patch, winning three tournaments besides entering the semifinals of the Banter Blitz Cup. He won the Chess Kerala’s Chessmate COVID-19 fund-raiser tournament and donated his entire prize money. Eventful months “The past two months were quite eventful for me. I won a couple of tournaments. The quick pace of online chess tournament suited my style and I am happy with my form. It was tough for me to stay awake past midnight for some of the tournaments and I had problems initially but gradually got used to the schedule. But after playing continuously, I decided to take a short break. I didn’t take part in any tournaments this week but I will be back playing next week,” he said. Narayanan picked out his performances in the Chess Kerala’s tournament and Banter Blitz Cup as satisfying. “Both tournaments were strong in terms of participation and I was happy to win the Chess Kerala’s fund-riser tournament as I could contribute to a cause.  “My performance in Banter Blitz tournament was pretty satisfying as well even though I lost in the semifinals to Alireza Firouzja. But so many people noticed my performance and it gave me a lot of confidence,” he said.
21 May 2020||MUMBAI,||High GST has adversely impacted horse racing: TAI||Horse racing is considered one among the best-regulated sports in the country. The horse industry with its agricultural-connect, supports over 5000 steeds stabled at various centres and over 20,000 livestock accommodated in 50 breeding farms. The industry consumes feed and fodder produce of over Rs. 200 crore and in addition, left-over straw is used for bedding of horses. More than 3,50,000 families earn their livelihood through this industry. The sport is governed under the auspices of six turf clubs in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, West Bengal, and Delhi. Together they form an umbrella body called the Turf Authorities of India (TAI), which promotes the sport. It may be recalled that the Supreme Court, in a landmark ruling in 1996, had declared horse racing as a “Game of Skill and not a Game of Chance.” Since July 2017, this industry has suffered a financial blow because of the levy of 28% Goods and Services Tax (GST). Prior to this, the average rate was 7.6%. The revenue for each race club comes from a commission on the totalizator (parimutuel) and license fees from bookmakers. The Wagering and Betting Act empowers the various clubs to facilitate legal betting on racing. The high GST has driven betting into illegal channels, leading to a steep fall in the collections (see graphic) . To arrest this fall, the TAI has constantly urged the Centre to levy the applicable GST on only the commissions/earnings of the respective clubs. “The harsh rate of 28% GST has driven the wagering into illegal channels, thereby denying clubs and governments their share of revenue,” TAI said in a statement and added: “While the interest in the sport still remains, with the footfalls remaining constant, the revenue generation on the totalizator has fallen by 30%. The need of the hour is to find a progressive solution so that the betting revenues are not driven into illegal private channels.” Zavaray Poonawalla, chairman of TAI, said: “I remain positive that we will succeed although a lot of hard work and time will be needed to take our efforts to its logical end.”
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Iniyan’s initiative an example for everyone: Kramnik||Former World champion Vladimir Kramnik hailed Grandmaster P. Iniyan for his stupendous fund-raising effort to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Kramnik, in a video message, praised the 17-year-old. “I thank Iniyan for his efforts. It doesn’t actually matter how much money you manage to raise. I think it’s a very good initiative and a very important example for everyone,” said Kramnik. Between May 15 and 18, Iniyan’s online ‘chess marathon’ generated more than Rs. 1.20 lakh. Incredibly, the youngster played 271 opponents spread over 74 hours. Similar event “We organised a similar charity event in Russia and managed to collect quite a serious amount of money for various hospitals,” said Kramnik. “With the pandemic all over the world, it is also a harsh but very useful reminder to all of us of some core values which we, in my opinion, forgot a bit, lately: that we are all human beings, we are all one unit in this world and we should be trying to be less individualistic. “Maybe, we should pay less attention to consumption and try to help each other, especially in these difficult times.”
21 May 2020||Manchester,||Old Trafford’s plans for social-distancing||The Old Trafford cricket ground is spearheading plans in England to try to bring fans back into a sports venue during the coronavirus pandemic. Lancashire Cricket Club chief executive Daniel Gidney believes social distancing can be applied in its 26,000-seat ground to allow in at least 2,000 fans. Not only are mass gatherings still banned by the government, but sports teams aren’t allowed to play or train together. A cricket season that was due to start in April won’t begin until July at the earliest. Hopeful “I’m hopeful that we can get some domestic cricket away in the back end of August and September, at least behind closed doors, but possibly even with some small crowds,” Gidney told The Associated Press. “Sometimes you can get into this negative box. And when I’m being positive, I’m not being reckless or saying things that can’t happen from a safety perspective.” Gidney’s plan for the northwest England cricket ground could form a template that facilitates the return of much-needed revenue from fans attending sports venues. Taiwan is hoping up to 1,000 spectators will be allowed to attend baseball games from July.
21 May 2020||London,||England bowlers’ training delayed||England bowlers’ much-anticipated resumption of training amid the COVID-19 pandemic has been delayed after the first session was postponed due to “complications” in ensuring safety protocols. According to ESPNCricinfo, “issues in establishing uniform practices that minimise the chances of infection have proved slightly harder to implement than envisaged.” James Anderson, Stuart Broad and Ben Stokes were due to resume training at their respective local county grounds on Wednesday.
21 May 2020||KOCHI,||Jhingan snaps ties with Blasters||Sandesh Jhingan, Kerala Blasters’ most prominent face in the defence, has left the Kochi-based ISL club after a six-year association. “Jhingan is leaving, he is looking for an opportunity with a foreign club,” said a Blasters source on Wednesday. Rich deal The 26-year-old international, who had been with the club right from the start of the ISL and had won the ‘Emerging Player of the Year' award in the inaugural year, had struck a rich deal with Blasters three years ago, making him the highest-paid Indian defender in the league. However, Jhingan was out with a ligament injury the whole of last season.
21 May 2020||Kolkata,||Bardhan and Bhaduri for Arjuna||The Asian Games gold-winning pair of Shibnath Sarkar and Pranab Bardhan was nominated for the Arjuna Award by the Bridge Federation of India. “By mistake, our names could not be nominated last year. Hope we get the award this time,” said the 62-year-old Bardhan.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen in joint lead with three others||World champion Magnus Carlsen, Hikaru Nakamura, Wesley So and Sergey Karjakin shared with lead with three points after four rounds of the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge on Tuesday.  The results:   Fourth round: Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 3) drew with Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 3); Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 3) bt Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 1); Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 2) drew with Wesley So (USA, 3); Levon Aronian (Arm, 2) drew with Ding Liren (Chn, 2.5); Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 1) drew with Yu Yangyi (Chn, 1.5); Daniil Dubov (Rus, 1) drew with Wei Yi (Chn, 1).   Third round: Liren drew with Carlsen; Nakamura bt Firouzja; Yangyi bt Dubov; Wie lost to So; Duda drew with So; Aronian drew with Grischuk.   Second round: Carlsen bt Aronian; Karjakin bt Yangyi; So bt Wei; Grischuk bt Duda; Dubov drew with Nakamura; Firouzja drew with Liren.
21 May 2020||Guwahati,||IIT-Guwahati takes ‘Trojan horse’ route to fight Alzheimer’s disease||A war trick borrowed from Greek mythology, specifically poet Homer’s epic Iliad , could help reduce short-term memory losses associated with Alzheimer’s disease. Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G) have, after a five-year study, arrived at methods for preventing the accumulation of neurotoxic molecules in the brain, which leads to memory loss. One is the use of “trojan peptides” that does what the Trojan horse did for the ancient Greeks in their victory over Troy. The other is the application of a low-voltage electric field toward preventing amyloid plaques from aggregating to cause memory loss. The cause of Alzheimer’s is the accumulation of amyloid-beta peptides in the brain. “This peptide is akin to the plaque that blocks arteries over a period of time, affecting blood supply and leading to cardiovascular diseases. Its aggregation, meaning the formation of one over the other, deforms the cortex of the brain leading to Alzheimer’s,” Vibin Ramakrishnan of IIT-G’s Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering, told The Hindu . He teamed up with Professor Harshal Nemade of IIT-G’s Department of Electronics and Electrical Engineering, and research scholars Gaurav Pandey and Jahnu Saikia, for the study on the neurochemical principles of Alzheimer’s disease and ways of arresting it. The peptide molecules need to have a certain structure to aggregate. The use of an external electric or magnetic field modulates these molecules to “pull back the possibility of Alzheimer’s to a certain extent”. The second approach has been to design a “deceitful” peptide with “negative syncretical points” for checking the plaque formation. “The trojan peptide is roughly like the peptide in the body. But while it goes along with the other peptides, its function is contrary to aggregation. Through intravenous injection of the trojan peptide, we can retard the degeneration of nerve cells by 17-35%, translating into a 10-year delay in the onset of the disease,” Dr. Ramakrishnan said. Next step The next step for the researchers is to work with these techniques on mice induced with Alzheimer’s at the National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research in Guwahati. The IIT-G researchers said some 100 potential drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer’s disease failed between 1998 and 2011. The development of a cure for the disease is important for India, which is third behind China and the U.S. in the number of Alzheimer’s patients, they said.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 07:50 IST,||Sudoku - May 21, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Just beat it||The gaana is a popular musical genre in Tamil film music. Usually consisting of lyrics in the Madras baashai , this genre, comprising songs set to foot-tapping local beats, was most popular in the 90s. Deva is well-known as the master of gaana . It is a title that the veteran music director acknowledges with pride, but also something he seems is a little concerned about. “Take my superhits: Baasha , Panchathanthiram , Avvai Shanmughi ... where is the gaana song in them?” he asks. Which brings us to another superhit Kushi , starring Vijay and Jyotika, that completes 20 years this week. “I consider it a milestone in my career,” he recalls, “It’s an album that helped me break from the image of being a gaana composer and come up with a set of melodies that were the result of some excellent teamwork,” he says. By that, he is referring to SJ Suryah, the maker of the Kushi universe, one that characters like Shiva (Vijay) and Jenny (Jyotika) would inhabit. Revolving around the ego clash between the two, the film would go on to become a superhit and be a major career-booster for both leads. Narration tales The songs became chartbusters. ‘Macarena Macarena’, with Vijay’s zingy and Shilpa Shetty’s cutesy dance moves, captured the imagination of youngsters, as did the beat-driven ‘Megham Karukuthu’ featuring Jyotika dancing with a waterfall in the backdrop. “SJ Suryah’s narration skills were exemplary. He would narrate a situation so vividly that I would feel like being present in a cinema hall and watching it play out,” says Deva. However they would actually be in Vadapalani’s Hotel Maurya International, which is where all the tunes of Kushi were composed. “With Suryah, the composition sessions would be full of fun and laughter. Never did I feel a pinch of strain.” The only time, probably, was when the two worked on ‘Megham Karukuthu’, which the filmmaker pitched as: A girl is returning to her village after studies and she becomes ecstatic at the sight of greenery and rain. The result was a “tepid, ordinary tune”, as Deva chooses to describe it. “I came up with the tune,” he admits, “But somehow, it felt very normal. I thought I could do much better.” However SJ Suryah would have none of that. The filmmaker loved it, and thanks to his gut instinct with a few numbers in their previous collaboration Vaali, Deva let it be. As it turned out, audiences loved it as well. “He knows the audiences’ pulse. Even today, if I sign a film, I have this strong urge to call SJ Suryah in for the composing session. Somehow, what he thinks works, works best with listeners too.” Suryah not only spearheaded the script of Kushi, but also contributed in other departments. “He sang the ‘sexy effects’ that we included in the ‘Kattipudi Kattipudida’ number,” says Deva, who also credits lyricist Vairamuthu and the singers (Hariharan, Shankar Mahadevan, Harini and Anuradha Sriram, among others) for the album’s success. Filled with memories Deva might not be the busiest composer in town today, but he is still held in high regard among popular younger music directors. GV Prakash roped him in to sing the ‘Jithu Jilladi’ number in Vijay’s 2016 hit Theri. More recently, Anirudh got him to oversee his work in Rajinikanth’s Darbar, in which he re-used the famous theme track from Annamalai.  Deva’s 90s gaana songs, especially the ones that feature in Sivasakthi Pandian’s films, still get a good number of views on YouTube. “The journey has been quite eventful and filled with great memories,” signs off the composer, known as ‘Thenisai Thendral’ among fans for his many melodies.  SJ Suryah knows the audiences’ pulse well. Even today, if I sign a film, I have this strong urge to call him in for the composing session
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||When onions defy lockdown||Lockdown has made foragers of us all. For the first one month, long lines outside supermarkets and empty shelves made grocery runs as exhausting as they were unnerving. Fortunately, over the past few weeks farmers have started finding ways to deliver their produce directly to customers. Nalla Keerai, co-founded by R Jagannathan, had stopped their deliveries and subscriptions model for a while. However, in response to requests from former customers they decided to relaunch. Explaining how they have revived subscription, Jagannathan says they supply pulses and dairy products in addition to fruits and vegetables to about 200 customers in Chennai. They also source country vegetables from small and medium farmers in Thiruvallur district, Hosur and in Udhagamandalam region. B Shivakumar, an entrepreneur who runs a pharma company began farming in 2015. His organic plots — 106-acre Madras Iyer Thottam, 70 acres in Sathyamangalam and 36 acres in Germalam — produce 35 different vegetables, seven types of bananas and 10 varieties of fruit. He supplies Chennai, Bengaluru, Coimbatore and surrounding regions. “No vegetables stay in our farm overnight after we harvest them as we transport it to customers immediately,” he says. Farmvalli Organics, a three-month-old start up, which delivers to Bengaluru and Chennai offers a unique subscription model: Rent-a-farm. “The idea is to involve families, so they understand where their food is coming from,” explains Marudhu Pandi, co-founder of Farmvalli Organics. He adds, “Customers rent land on our farm. They can choose to grow their favourite vegetables (upto 15 varieties) and enjoy the harvest with a monthly subscription.” Customers can track the progress on the Farmvalli app, and get any four types of vegetables, sufficient for a family of four, home delivered every week. The subscription costs Rs. 2,300 per month and the start-up currently works with six farmers in Chennai and Hosur. Apart from vegetables, they also have a poultry farm in Guduvancherry, near Chennai, from where they deliver country chicken, Kadaknath chicken and eggs to customers in Chennai. The lockdown has also inspired entrepreneurs like Raj Ramachandran, promoter of Kriyates, a restaurant, sports and recreation centre, to get involved with farming. He will be setting up an organic vegetable bazaar for a few hours within the campus of large apartment complexes or schools in and around OMR and ECR. Discussing the fact that organic produce is not always more expensive, Alladi Mahadevan, who runs a 96-acre organic farm in Kalpakkam says, “When onions were sold for Rs. 160 a kg, organic onions were more affordable. Now with Koyambedu market closed, there is a shortage of supply and all prices have sky rocketed, but our vegetables have not,” he says. Alladi has started home delivery of vegetables in Chennai, and also acts as an aggregator helping 20 other organic farmers in Dindigul, Namakkal, Villupuram, Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Puducherry, Erode and Pollachi, to market their produce during the lockdown. “When it comes to organic, we have to focus on nutritional value and not look for variety. Country vegetables such as brinjal, cluster beans, coccinia, okra and broad beans are the staple. We also get hill vegetables such as cauliflower, potato, carrots and beetroot,” chuckles Mahadevan, adding, “Now, we farmers decide your menu.”
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Grand Canyon in my bedroom||It looks like a scene from a disaster movie: a woman dangling precariously over a canyon, with a deep drop below. Upon closer look, it becomes clear that the imposing canyon is a slice of burnt bread, and the highline from which the subject is hanging is a string of gooey cheese in this photograph by Kristen Nelson. “I created a scene of me falling while highlining in a grilled cheese canyon,” she says over an email interview from Los Angeles. Her other creations include ziplining through the Costa Rican rainforest (recreated using broccoli), walking in a winter waffle land, riding through a celery forest on a cycle made of tangerine, cheese, pasta and onions, backpacking through a “can-yon”. These outdoorsy pictures are part of the #ourgreatindoors page started by Los Angeles-based photographer, Erin Sullivan, which challenges photography enthusiasts to shoot images recreating the outdoors with whatever they have at home. Erin started recreating outdoor scenes in late March and has completed more than 18 so far. The idea came about as a response to the stay-at-home order in California, USA. “I have used pillows, paper bags, broccoli, sugar, paper, pancakes, cotton balls, tin foil, jello and asparagus,” says Erin, confessing that each scene she creates feels equally bizarre to her. Her most quirky creations so far have been a jello lake with an asparagus forest set in a pie dish, and onion hot tubs. “I began asking myself how I could remain creative and connected to the outdoors and travel,” adds Erin, who is constantly on the move and has travelled to around 30 countries. Soon after creating the first few scenes, she felt that this could be a great project to share with her community. And that is how #ourgreatindoors started. “I almost always share my behind-the-scenes images, so that people know how they are made. Under the hashtag, we have hundreds of images of what people have created, and some are super original,” she says. The recreated scenes include well-known places like Death Valley and Yosemite National Park in the US, Banff National Park and Moraine Lake (Canada), the Dolomites (Italy), glaciers and ice caves of Iceland, the Amazon rainforest, and lots of other scenes depicting rivers, camping sites, ships in the ocean, Northern Lights and starry nights. Each setup and shoot can take between 10 minutes to a few hours, depending on how complex it is. Albert Baker, a landscape and travel photographer based out of Las Vegas, USA, says it took him a few days to get one of his images right. “The most challenging was creating star trails and trying to figure out how to do so without actually using the real stars,” he says, adding, “I’m actually still not happy with it.” Up for the challenge For Albert, perspective is the biggest challenge and he is picky about the image. “I use a wide aperture lens and use an object closer to the camera and further away... so that when I focus on the figure, the blurred effect of the surroundings creates a realistic look, making it seem like I was actually on location shooting the photo,” he explains. Albert enjoys challenges, which explains why he spends time trying to create elements like fog for instance or a waterfall, to add drama to his pictures. “I used a humidifier and an empty picture glass frame to create fog, and cling wrap and acrylic sheet for a waterfall with minor setting changes on the camera,” he adds. But for Kristen, who has created 19 scenes so far, her most complex work was a canoe in an Alpine lake with mountains made of Hershey’s Kisses chocolate surrounding the lake. She even used dill leaves, something she had never heard of till the shoot. “While editing, I tried a lot of things and ended up redoing most of it. It took me over five hours. But the challenge just made the process more engaging and the end result more rewarding,” she says, adding that she can no longer look at the objects in her fridge the same way. “The ideas kept flowing, so I kept creating. It’s been a lot of fun,” she says. While the creative process might be satisfying, what is not as fun is the part that involves cleaning up. “Most of the scenes haven’t required me to make a huge mess, but others have for sure,” says Erin. Albert, who has done 17 scenes so far, has decided to take a little break, considering how messy his house gets. But he is already planning his next shoot: something from the Arches National Park. He says: “What else would I be doing without it? I thank Erin for creating it. This exercise has brought back memories of being a kid again when I used to build scenes for my action figures.”
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Windows to another era||Against an ashen background, a minimalist illustration of a window stands out: a simple one, with a curved head sporting stained glass panels, under a gable-like shade. The window throws its curtains open to the history of its locality — a cultural marker, it tells a story. For instance, Chintradipet, planned and developed for weavers by the East India Company in 1734, had rows of houses once, with connected walls. Some of the houses built later in French Art Deco style had horizontal windows and vertical doors. To date, certain elements of this architectural style remain, though mostly in ruins. These are the nuggets of history that 24-year-old architect Sunil Raghavender K is in search of, with his series of illustrations titled ‘Windows of Madras’. The series, which has an enthusiastic social media following, explores Chennai localities that developed at different points in the city’s history. It took shape over the 28 days Sunil had spent in home quarantine after returning from Delhi (where he used to work) on March 24. Private heritage “In Chennai, a lot of the heritage buildings are privately-owned and more often than not, the owners themselves are not aware of how valuable these are,” says Sunil, who grew up in the city and is a graduate of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Trichy. Windows and doors say a lot about the buildings they are found in. “They tell us what a building was designed to be like. Though a very small component of a building, a window says a lot about the style of architecture and which period they belong to, among many other things,” he says. His research began with the websites of the Heritage Conservation Committee. The list comprising the city’s heritage buildings was his main reference point for Sunil. “It was when I was researching these buildings, that I came across how each area in the city was developed in a different time. For instance, Triplicane was developed during the time of the Pallavas while George Town took form during the Colonial era...,” he continues. Many communities have lived in Chennai at different time periods. While these people are no longer here to tell the stories, buildings remain our only gateway to the past. “Every locality has a different character,” says Sunil. For instance, how many of us know that Kilpauk was once known as ‘Little Korea’ due to the Korean population that once resided here. The minimalist look was a conscious decision, he says. Simple shades, less detailing —“When people look into it, I want them to realise its beauty without being distracted.” Of all the 27 localities that Sunil has studied so far, Shenoy Nagar stands out, thanks to the story behind it. This was the first planned locality in Chennai post-Independence. His illustration of Shenoy Nagar depicts a window painted in sandalwood and ‘Ramar’ blue shades with ventilators. The insets are curved and slightly extended. “For Shenoy Nagar, I had done the illustration of the Housing Board building’s window (it is not considered as a heritage building). A Government officer named Mr Shenoy was the one who developed this area. When the Housing Board Complex was being designed, he had sent designers for a case study to Paris and the USSR, in the 1950s!” Sunil says, adding that such a complex design process and referencing is not likely to have happened in the history of Chennai; that too for a housing board complex.  Windows of Madras can be viewed @sunil_raghav on Instagram
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Once global, now local||Stay home, but keep your passion for travel going. This is the message from Tripathome, a video released by Kerala Tourism on April 30 amid the COVID-19 lockdown. “We are asking travellers to share an experience from the ‘trip of their life’ on our social media,” says Rani George, Secretary, Kerala Tourism. 2020 was supposed to be a dream year for tourism in Kerala. In 2019, the State saw its sharpest spike in tourist arrivals, a 17.2% rise since 1996, with 1.96 crore travellers visiting. But now the industry, which marketed Kerala’s tourism potential and earned global recognition as God’s Own Country, is staring at the reality of having to live with COVID-19. With Kerala being the bellwether for Indian tourism, all eyes are focussed on how the State opens up for travel. “Right now, we are in a wait-and-watch mode, but are chalking out an action plan. If things improve, then we may begin marketing by July,” says Rani. The Association of Tourism Trade Organisations India (ATTOI) has pitched its first proposal Keralam Kaanaam, which suggests revival through regional and local tourism. Former president of ATTOI, Anish Kumar PK, who is also CEO, The Travel Planners, is optimistic. “Kerala has managed the situation well and we are hoping that we will soon be Coronavirus-free. In that case, people will get the confidence to travel. We don’t see international travel starting till the end of the year. Interstate travel too will take time, but travel within Kerala will be possible.” Under this scheme, around 80 hotels have come together to propose the opening of high-end boutique hotels and resorts to local tourists, affording them experiences that were tailor-made for the international guest. “The tariff for a room per night was Rs. 10,000 and above. These will be available at discounted rates between 30% and 50%. This kind of high-priced leisure travel was outside the realm of the local traveller. This will allow inflow of cash required to maintain the hotel’s staff and property and a fabulous experience for the guest,” says Anish, adding that the proposal is for locals and details are on their website malayaliyatra.com. He clarifies that travel will begin only after all clearances are in place and that the hotels will follow prescribed health guidelines. “It can be the first step in travel and hospitality post COVID-19,” says Anish, who believes that this scheme can be opened up to other states once inter-State travel is allowed. He also feels that other states will use this template when they reopen. Rani agrees that “holidays in Kerala” will kick off first, followed by domestic travelling. Next will be the business traveller is her guess. Adventures to the fore Pradeep Murthy, director, Muddy Boots, an adventure travel company, and part of the Keralam Kaanaam consortium, makes a pitch for adventure travel as a possible option for a safe and fun experience post COVID-19. “Malayalis haven’t seen their own State. And this is true of people from all states. The key here has to be affordability. It has to be quick, short and cost-effective,” he says, pointing out that the crisis affords Kerala Tourism a chance to reposition itself as an adventure tourism destination. As one of the approved Government of India Adventure Tour Operators, Pradeep says that adventure tourism is inherently self-isolating and therefore in tune with self-distancing norms. “Kerala Tourism should pitch this, as it is the only State in India to mandate adventure tourism, having compulsory regulations regarding the activities.” Some of the adventure activities he offers are ziplining, Nature trek, bamboo rafting, kayaking, cycling and hiking, which he says would be new for the locals. Gopinath Parayil, founder, The Blue Yonder, and a champion of responsible tourism, says, “It makes a lot of sense to focus on domestic tourism. How many people in Kasargod have seen the backwaters? This is a great know-your-neighbourhood initiative.” He has formed resilientdestinations.com to tell stories of sustainable destinations as a response to the crisis. “Post COVID-19, travel and hospitality enterprises should promote transformational, conscious and responsible tourism. We can re-purpose our tools like how our hotel rooms supported the State during the crisis by opening for quarantine,” says Gopi. Sejoe Jose, CEO of Marvel Tours and president IATO (Indian Association of Tour Operators) Kerala Chapter, shares a survey finding conducted by Virtuoso, a global luxury travel network, which suggests that internationally, high-end and senior citizens, a popular profile of visitors to the State, will begin travel only after a COVID-19 vaccine is found. He says, “With the inflow of our regular segment of guests stopped, it makes good sense that we promote our destinations to our people.”
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||I was in awe of Kamal Haasan, tweets Mckenzie Westmore on her association with the actor||Few are aware of the fact that Kamal Haasan does make-up for himself, and sometimes other actors, for his movies. He was trained by Academy Award-winning make-up artist, Michael Westmore. This side of the Tamil star was brought back to light on Twitter recently. In a Twitter thread, a fan recalled the time when Kamal Haasan spent over 30 days, working as an assistant to Michael Westmore, on the set of Star Trek . A comment followed from Michael Westmore’s daughter, actor McKenzie Westmore, known for playing Sheridan Crane in the television show Passions . “As a child, I remember Kamal coming to the house with beautiful gifts from India. I was always in awe of him. Visiting him at his LA home was a dream too. I’ll find photos,” she tweeted, much to the delight of fans. Keeping her promise, McKenzie shared a picture with the actor, possibly taken during the filming of Vishwaroopam (2013). She also posted a childhood photo sporting Indian wear, gifted by Kamal. Kamal Haasan’s association with Michael Westmore dates back to the time when the latter helped him with makeup for director Shankar’s Indian (1996), a sequel of which is currently in the works. The same year saw the release of Avvai Shanmugi , in which Kamal donned the role of a nanny. It was Westmore who came to his rescue and provided guidance, when Kamal developed an infection caused by make-up. Michael Westmore won the Academy Award for Best Makeup in 1985 for Mask . Kamal Haasan will be next seen in Indian 2 , the post-production of which was started recently. Directed by Shankar, the film stars an ensemble cast and is expected to release next year. With inputs fromSrivatsan S
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost Stories find stardom||YouTube has announced DJ/producer duo Prayag Mehta and Rishab Joshi-led Lost Stories as one of its top global picks for Foundry 2020, making them the first Indians to be chosen for this programme. Foundry is YouTube Music’s artist development programme. Prayag and Rishab blend Indian folk sounds with electronic music. Some of their popular tracks include ‘Bombay Dreams’ with KSHMR, ‘Mahi,’ their official remix of Alan Walker’s ‘Faded,’ and ‘Vaseegara’ edit with Jonita Gandhi’s vocals. The duo says, “We are thrilled about the exposure and the chance to put India on the international music map. YouTube Foundry will help us take our creativity and vision to the next level. We truly believe music has the power to unite the world as one global village, a quality that lies at the heart of all our creations.” Foundry began in 2016 as a series of workshops and content creation sessions at YouTube Spaces in Los Angeles, New York, and London, with the goal of providing artists tools to grow their presence on YouTube. Popular alumnus include Dua Lipa, ROSALÍA, Dave, CUCO, Chloe x Halle, Jacob Collier, and Cavetown, all of whom partnered with the programme to catapult themselves into global stardom. The class of 2020 will also feature Los Angeles singer-songwriter Adam Melchor, Puerto Rican trap artist Eladio Carrion, Brooklyn experimentalist Gabriel Garzon-Montano, Birmingham grime artist and actor Jaykae, Glasgow R&B singer Joesef, Los Angeles-based corridos trailblazer Natanael Cano, and Japanese indie rock band Novelbright among others. .
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Dancers Laveena and Ashish complete 366 daily tutorials in a row||Choreographers Laveena Kalra and Ashish Agrawal of the Laveena Ashish Dance Company have completed 366 daily dance tutorial videos on YouTube. The duo has applied for the Guinness World Record for ‘The most number of dance tutorial videos in a year’. The tutorial videos, which are five minutes long on average, feature a step-by-step instruction of moves from popular songs from many languages. Ashish, who is from Bengaluru, says, “Last New Year, we thought of doing something unique. We thought about people who are busy with their lives and don’t have time for dance classes. So, we came up with this idea to teach them the steps of popular songs they would see.” The playlist of 371 videos, however, has only 752 views on YouTube. “We spent a lot of time and energy working on these videos. We expected more traction. Now that we have completed this series, hopefully, more people would see it.” Laveena and Ashish have two decades of experience in professional dancing. They were former instructors at Shiamak Davar International (India) dance academy.
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Birds of different feathers||This year, with the silence on the roads and an extended spring, the distinctive song of the Asian Koel – ko-EL - ko-EL - ko-EL – has been better heard. Celebrated through history by poets and also captured for caging, this state bird of Puducherry, is now breeding across Delhi-NCR and is resident to South and South-East Asia. Its scientific name Eudynamys scolopaceus signifies fine power, where the genus is derived from the Greek words eu meaning fine, dunamis meaning power and species scolopacea meaning long-billed. Sexual dimorphism is evident, where males are a glossy black with a greenish sheen to their bodies and females are brown with white dots on their wings and heavy streaking on their head and throat. Both sexes have strong long greenish bills (beak) and captivating ruby-red eyes. In the bird world, the males are generally more pleasant looking than the females, considering they woo females. Personally, I prefer the way the female of this species looks. Asian Koels, like crows, are omnivores, feeding on fruits, insects, lizards and eggs of birds and other animals but as adults, they largely depend on fruits (frugivores) of fig trees and certain other trees that they may defend voraciously. Considering its opportunistic omnivore diet, it thrives in varied habitats, including the degraded urban setup where fruiting trees are in abundance. The legend of this bird dates back to the Vedas in 2000 BC, where it is referred to as the Anya-Vapa , literally translating to ‘that which was raised by others’, the earliest mention of its behaviour of brood parasitism. Females lay eggs in nests of similar-sized birds (host) like crows, mynas, jungle babblers and in times of desperation, in nests of considerably smaller birds like the Common Tailorbird, Ashy Prinia. The males distract the host parents for the females to accomplish this task. Sometimes, a small Tailorbird will feed and care for a large baby Asian Koel, though we’re not sure why other bird parents are not able to identify the different-looking bird or why they carry on even though they know they are not one of their own. When I started birdwatching, back in 2012, I believed that the species somehow disappears in winters and magically appears as soon as spring arrives. In fact, the bird’s nature of hiding in dense foliage and not calling when not breeding, makes it difficult to spot even for the keenest of birdwatching eyes. The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.  Bee Day May 20 was Bee Day, a good time to celebrate the most important pollinators in the world.What can we do for the bees around us? 1. Avoid using chemical insecticides and pesticides. These are poison for beneficial insects like bees and butterflies.  2. Leave wild patches in our gardens to attract them.  3. Plant bee-friendly flowers like Coatbuttons and flowering herbs like oregano.  4. Put out water for them to drink, in shallow containers with pebbles or lillies (these help minimise the depth of the container; the leaves and stones act as a perch).
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Once global, now local||Stay home, but keep your passion for travel going. This is the message from Tripathome, a video released by Kerala Tourism on April 30 amid the COVID-19 lockdown. “We are asking travellers to share an experience from the ‘trip of their life’ on our social media,” says Rani George, Secretary, Kerala Tourism. 2020 was supposed to be a dream year for tourism in Kerala. In 2019, the State saw its sharpest spike in tourist arrivals, a 17.2% rise since 1996, with 1.96 crore travellers visiting. But now the industry, which marketed Kerala’s tourism potential and earned global recognition as God’s Own Country, is staring at the reality of having to live with COVID-19. With Kerala being the bellwether for Indian tourism, all eyes are focussed on how the State opens up for travel. “Right now, we are in a wait-and-watch mode, but are chalking out an action plan. If things improve, then we may begin marketing by July,” says Rani. The Association of Tourism Trade Organisations India (ATTOI) has pitched its first proposal Keralam Kaanaam, which suggests revival through regional and local tourism. Former president of ATTOI, Anish Kumar PK, who is also CEO, The Travel Planners, is optimistic. “Kerala has managed the situation well and we are hoping that we will soon be Coronavirus-free. In that case, people will get the confidence to travel. We don’t see international travel starting till the end of the year. Interstate travel too will take time, but travel within Kerala will be possible.” Under this scheme, around 80 hotels have come together to propose the opening of high-end boutique hotels and resorts to local tourists, affording them experiences that were tailor-made for the international guest. “The tariff for a room per night was Rs. 10,000 and above. These will be available at discounted rates between 30% and 50%. This kind of high-priced leisure travel was outside the realm of the local traveller. This will allow inflow of cash required to maintain the hotel’s staff and property and a fabulous experience for the guest,” says Anish, adding that the proposal is for locals and details are on their website malayaliyatra.com. He clarifies that travel will begin only after all clearances are in place and that the hotels will follow prescribed health guidelines. “It can be the first step in travel and hospitality post COVID-19,” says Anish, who believes that this scheme can be opened up to other states once inter-State travel is allowed. He also feels that other states will use this template when they reopen. Rani agrees that “holidays in Kerala” will kick off first, followed by domestic travelling. Next will be the business traveller, is her guess right now. Adventures to the fore Pradeep Murthy, director, Muddy Boots, an adventure travel company, and part of the Keralam Kaanaam consortium, makes a pitch for adventure travel as a possible option for a safe and fun experience post COVID-19. “Malayalis haven’t seen their own State. And this is true of people from all states. The key here has to be affordability. It has to be quick, short and cost-effective,” he says, pointing out that the crisis affords Kerala Tourism a chance to reposition itself as an adventure tourism destination. As one of the approved Government of India Adventure Tour Operators, Pradeep says that adventure tourism is inherently self-isolating and therefore in tune with self-distancing norms. “Kerala Tourism should pitch this, as it is the only State in India to mandate adventure tourism, having compulsory regulations regarding the activities.” Some of the adventure activities he offers are ziplining, Nature trek, bamboo rafting, kayaking, cycling and hiking, which he says would be new for the locals. Gopinath Parayil, founder, The Blue Yonder, and a champion of responsible tourism, says, “It makes a lot of sense to focus on domestic tourism. How many people in Kasargod have seen the backwaters? This is a great know-your-neighbourhood initiative.” He has formed resilientdestinations.com to tell stories of sustainable destinations as a response to the crisis. “Post COVID-19, travel and hospitality enterprises should promote transformational, conscious and responsible tourism. We can re-purpose our tools like how our hotel rooms supported the State during the crisis by opening for quarantine,” says Gopi. Sejoe Jose, CEO of Marvel Tours and president IATO (Indian Association of Tour Operators) Kerala Chapter, shares a survey finding conducted by Virtuoso, a global luxury travel network, which suggests that internationally, high-end and senior citizens, a popular profile of visitors to the State, will begin travel only after a COVID-19 vaccine is found. He says, “With the inflow of our regular segment of guests stopped, it makes good sense that we promote our destinations to our people.”
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost Stories find stardom||YouTube has announced DJ/producer duo Prayag Mehta and Rishab Joshi led Lost Stories as one of its top global picks for Foundry 2020, making them the first Indians to be chosen for this programme. Foundry is YouTube Music’s artist development programme. Prayag and Rishab blend Indian folk sounds with electronic music. Some of their popular tracks include ‘Bombay Dreams’ with KSHMR, ‘Mahi,’ their official remix of Alan Walker’s ‘Faded,’ and ‘Vaseegara’ edit with Jonita Gandhi’s vocals. The duo says, “We are thrilled about the exposure and the chance to put India on the international music map. YouTube Foundry will help us take our creativity and vision to the next level. We truly believe music has the power to unite the world as one global village, a quality that lies at the heart of all our creations.” Foundry began in 2016 as a series of workshops and content creation sessions at YouTube Spaces in Los Angeles, New York, and London, with the goal of providing artists tools to grow their presence on YouTube. Popular alumnus include Dua Lipa, ROSALÍA, Dave, CUCO, Chloe x Halle, Jacob Collier, and Cavetown, all of whom partnered with the programme to catapult themselves into global stardom. The class of 2020 will also feature Los Angeles singer-songwriter Adam Melchor, Puerto Rican trap artist Eladio Carrion, Brooklyn experimentalist Gabriel Garzon-Montano, Birmingham grime artist and actor Jaykae, Glasgow R&B singer Joesef, Los Angeles-based corridos trailblazer Natanael Cano, and Japanese indie rock band Novelbright among others. .
21 May 2020||May 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Boon for bees||The COVID-19 lockdown has been a blessing in disguise for bees. The parks maintained by NDMC — Lodhi Garden, Nehru Park, Talkotara Garden, Children’s Park, amongst others — are witnessing an increase in the population of all variants of bees (mason, carpenter bees, bumble and leafcutter bees that are solitary in nature), but particularly of honey bees that live together and make honey. Confirming this piece of news on World Bee Day, May 20, S. Chellaiah, Director of Horticulture NDMC, says the lockdown has helped the bee population of this variant to multiply. “In NDMC parks, the population of honey bees has increased by more than 30%. Honey bees play a vital role in our food security,” he says. Ironically, this is not because of any special effort of NDMC staff, 50% of whom hail from U.P. and Haryana, and have not been able to report for duty. “We are blessed with more than 250 shrubs. The rich biodiversity is good for them.” Agri-entrepreneur and bee-keeper Rakesh Gupta, says six bee hives have sprung up at Sunder Nursery during the lockdown. Gupta, who works with Golden Hive Foundation, says the reason is simple: when human interference is minimised, nature regenerates. Also, lower pollution levels have helped. “Bees can are now living and breeding in isolation,” he says, not without irony.“We are not taking honey from the hives as the focus is on regenerating the bees. We do not want cause discomfort the bees.” Unlike Asiatic, mason, carpenter, leafcutter that are all solitary bees, Honey bee is the social bee. It lives together and provides honey. To work towards keeping bee populations up, Gupta’s organisation, along with the Aga Khan Trust for Culture is planning to ensure the continuity of flowers after spring peters out and the harsh summer hits. “In summer we are focusing on sunflowers of the open pollinated variety. Sunflower has both nectar and pollen for the bees,” he says, adding that they will be planted in a staggered way to ensure continuous supply. “We are not taking honey from the hives,” he says. “The focus is not on extracting honey, but on regenerating the bees.” At the nursery, bajra, makka (corn), karipatta (curry leaf), drumstick, basil and baboon , are also being planted. An eight-member team are presently working as bee conservators. They hail from the adjoining Nizamuddin Basti. “We are communicating with them through video calling, to explain how to handle bees during the summer months,” he says.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Spike in COVID-19 cases for second day in a row||The city saw 534 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 11,088, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. This is the highest single-day jump in cases so far. With 500 new cases, Tuesday had also recorded the biggest single-day spike till then. Ten more deaths have also been reported, taking the toll to 176. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the 11,088 cases, 5,192 people have recovered and there are 5,720 active cases. Containment zones Meanwhile, the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government has raised the issue of decreasing number of containment zones but increasing cases in the city. Department Secretary Padmini Singla, in an order on Monday, had said that 300-400 new cases are reported every day but equivalent number of containment zones were not being declared by the District Magistrates. She added that around 30 containment zones had been delisted in just a month. The issue was discussed in a video conference with the District Magistrates on Tuesday, said officials. “Whenever there is a requirement, we declare an area as a containment zone. There was no need, so we did not declare it,” the Delhi government spokesperson said when contacted. On April 30, there were 98 containment zones; on Wednesday, there were 69, as per the Delhi government’s health bulletin. Though the number of zones decreased by 29.5%, in the same period, COVID-19 cases jumped 215.4% from 3,515 to 11,088. More areas Following Ms. Singla’s order, multiple areas in the city have been declared containment zones. Parts of Zamrudpur in Greater Kailash and Dakshinpuri, both in south Delhi, have been declared containment zones, officials said on Wednesday. “We are planning to declare three more areas in the Central District as containment zones by Thursday,” a Delhi government official said.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Work begins to colour-code city||The Delhi government has started the process to divide the city into red, orange, and green zones based on the number of cases. Currently, all 11 districts of the Capital are red zones and are under strict lockdown measures. Parts of the city with few or no COVID-19 cases will be designated orange or green zones and will witness relaxations in the ongoing lockdown. “The Health Department officials have started working on this, but there is nothing conclusive at this point,” a Delhi government official said on Wednesday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had earlier requested the Centre to declare containment zones in Delhi as red zones and all other parts as green zones.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Duo set aside religion to bury their friend||Ravindra Pramanik and Sajid Khan ran around for hours to ensure their friend Nasir Khan, a suspected COVID-19 patient, was laid to rest in peace at the cemetery on Bahadurshah Zafar Marg. The two men said they did not spare a thought to their different religions as they rallied to help Nasir’s family. Nasir, who was from West Bengal but stayed at Ghantaghar near Tis Hazari, observed Roza on Monday but complained of uneasiness late in the night. His wife took him to a nearby hospital from where he was shifted to Lok Nayak Hospital. Around 2 p.m. on Tuesday, she was informed that Nasir had passed away. With no relatives in town to help her and clueless about what to do, she remembered Nasir’s old friends from years ago — Sajid and Ravindra — and contacted one of them using her husband’s phone. “She called Sajid and he immediately called me. We live on the same street and rushed to the hospital,” said Ravindra, standing next to Sajid at Jadid Qabristan Ahle Islam. The friends said Nasir’s wife had come to Delhi from Kolkata just a few days before the first lockdown was announced. “She stays in Kolkata with her three children. She had no idea about how things are done here,” said Sajid. The duo went to the police post to file papers and completed proceedings at the hospital as well. “We asked the hospital staff if he was COVID-19 positive or negative. They just wrote he was a COVID-19 suspect and then shifted him to the mortuary,” said Ravindra. The biggest task on Wednesday was the burial. They sought permission from the cemetery around 1 p.m. and were informed that they can come around 4 p.m. for the burial. “The JCB machine that digs the grave for infected bodies is arranged by the graveyard and sometimes, the person comes according to availability,” said grave digger Mohammed Shamim, citing the reason for the delay in burial. He also told the friends that sometimes the Health Department officials, who bring the body from the hospital, do not place it inside the grave so, “you may have to lend a hand... of course, you will be given PPE kits”. As the duo agreed, a question popped into Ravindra’s head: “I am a Hindu, am I allowed inside?” “If you are willing to do it then no one can stop you!” said Mr. Shamim. “Then I will. There is no one to help other than us and if we won’t do it, then who will?” said Ravindra, looking at Sajid. Late in the evening, Ravindra helped Shamim and two others bury Nasir. Sajid was unable to make it as he had to observe Roza and could not bear to wear the PPE kit. The duo said they and Nasir had become friends at work and bonded as the were all Bengalis. “Over 10 years ago, we all used to work near Azadpur Sabzi Mandi and sewed designs. We lived in the same room, cooked food together. Over the years, we drifted apart due to work or marriage... but we always kept in touch over the phone,” Ravindra recalled.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Give ration to e-coupon holders by today: HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday directed the Delhi government to ensure that all the persons who did not get ration despite having e-coupons be provided ration by Thursday evening. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad gave the direction while hearing a petition alleging that thousands of needy people in the Capital are not getting ration under the public distribution system (PDS) despite having e-coupons issued by the Delhi government. In the hearing held through videoconferencing, the court also gave the petitioner liberty to move a fresh plea if the direction is not complied with by the government. With the direction, the court disposed of the petition by third year law student, who had said that the Delhi government announced that e-coupons can be obtained by filling up a simple form online. However, the form is not simple and and the website for applying for e-coupon has crashed, the petition had said.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five held for ferrying migrants with fake e-passes||Five persons have been arrested in Bawana area for allegedly ferrying migrant workers to Bihar with forged e-passes issued to a different person in Panipat, police said on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said that the accused have been identified as Namnu Prasad (28), Rakesh Mohan (42) , both residents of Uttam Nagar, Krishan Mohan (45), Mohit Nagpal (33), both from Bawana and Shankar Choudhary (45), who is from Ghoga Dairy. Police said that on Monday night, two tempo travellers were stopped in Bawana area for checking and found 24 migrant labourers travelling inside the vehicles for Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. “The drivers showed e-passes issued by the District Magistrate of Panipat in Haryana. On inquiry, the migrants said they were residents of Bawana, which created suspicion. Police scanned the QR codes of the passes, but it could not be read,” Mr. Sharma said, adding that it was further revealed the pass was issued in the name of Mohit Kumar, a resident of Panipat, for marriage function, police said. Quick verification Police then contacted the DM Panipat office and it was revealed that the passes were fake. “All the migrants were misled. A case was registered at the Bawana police station and five people, including drivers, agent and facilitator were arrested,” Mr. Sharma informed. Interrogation revealed that Nagpal runs a grocery shop in Bawana and the labourers who purchased grocery from him approached him for help. He assured them that he will arrange transportation to their hometowns. Mohit then introduced them to Chaudhary and Krishan, who agreed to provide genuine e-passes and vehicle for the journey at Rs. 5,200 each, police said, adding that they further approached Mukul who arranged the vehicle. Mukul and Shankar contacted Mukul’s cousin Anshul, who managed forged passes with the help of his friend Ravinder, a cyber-cafe operator in Panipat, police said.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||AAP govt. told to renew registration of workers||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the AAP government to renew the registrations of over five lakh construction workers who fulfil the eligibility criteria, so that they can be provided relief under its scheme for labourers during the COVID-19 lockdown. The direction came on a petition by social activist, Sunil Kumar Aledia, seeking registration of all construction workers here under the BOCWW Act so that they can get the benefit of the relief package of Rs. 5,000 per month being provided to each labourer during the lockdown. The plea has contended that only a small section out of the over 10 lakh workers in the city are registered under the laws regulating their welfare and service conditions and thus, a huge chunk of the labourers are not getting benefits actually meant for them. Earlier, the government had told the court that it had disbursed Rs. 19.8 crore to 39,600 workers registered under the Act.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man arrested for poisoning wife’s lover||A 40-year-old man and his family were given a pesticide-like liquid on the pretext of being administered COVID-19 medicine in Outer North Delhi’s Alipur, the police said on Wednesday. The victims have been hospitalised and three people have been arrested. The main accused is the husband of the woman with whom the 40-year-old man was allegedly having an affair. DCP (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said Pradeep (42), a resident of Ramzanpur, had hired two women for his plan. On May 17, the victim, Vikram alias Vicky, a home guard, was at home when two women knocked on his door and introduced themselves as government health professionals. “They told him and his family that they have a liquid medicine for COVID-19 and offered it to the family. After consuming it, they felt uneasy after which they were shifted to a hospital,” Mr. Sharma said. With the help of CCTV footage, the accused were held, said the police.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||More buses to hit the streets soon, says govt.||The first day of lockdown 4.0 on Tuesday saw 3,400 buses hit the streets, a statement issued by the Transport Minister’s office read. Of these, as many as 2,000 were Delhi government buses while the others had been specially hired, it added. “On Tuesday, nearly 1,000 DTC buses were deployed to ensure safe passage of migrant labourers to railway station from various shelters. Around 1,200 DTC buses were operated on Wednesday. The whole situation will be under control within 3-4 days,” the statement read. More cluster buses were on the roads on Wednesday, the statement said, as drivers who were stuck in U.P. or Haryana had reached Delhi and were available. The statement said, the Delhi government was working on an SOP for public transportation and added that while thermal screening at some key terminals and bus stops had begun, this would be extended to other facilities soon.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Taxis not allowed to access NCR towns’||Taxis have been allowed to operate in the Capital but aren’t being allowed to access satellite NCR towns such as Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad, the Delhi Taxi Tourist Transporters Association has complained to the Chief Ministers of the three States. The issue is affecting residents of these towns employed in other States and vice versa. It is also affecting the business of taxi operators and drivers who want to get back on their feet after over 50 days without work, the association’s president Sanjay Samrat wrote. “Our vehicles are stopped at State borders. We have sought intervention of the three CMs,” Mr. Samrat said.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police Commissioner directs to clear pending cases with EOW promptly||Concerned over huge pendency of cases in the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police, the Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava held a videoconference meeting with senior officers and discussed the functioning. As 990 registered cases and 433 complaints were pending with EOW, Mr. Shrivastava directed that pending cases, particularly those in the backlog for a long time, must be disposed of at the earliest. He said that the investigation of all complaints/cases should be conducted in a time-bound manner with utmost transparency. He also directed all officers to ensure strict compliance in their respective jurisdictions. A proposal regarding designated court for EOW is pending with Registrar General of Delhi High Court and it was discussed at the meeting. The CP directed the officers to take up this matter with authorities concerned in the Delhi High Court. Mr. Shrivastava also instructed officers to examine the protocol followed in EOW for taking up cases of economic offences less than Rs. 2 crore through district investigation units. ‘Shady’ deals He was informed that some office-bearers of Revanta Multi State CGHS were buyers under the garb of Land Pooling Policy of DDA. CP enquired how buyers may verify the authenticity of such schemes from the government agencies concerned so that innocent people may not be duped by any fraudulent company.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks govt. reply on plea for removal of DMC chief||The Delhi High Court has asked the AAP government to respond to a plea claiming that the Delhi Minorities Commission Act was invalid and sought the removal of DMC chairperson Zafarul Islam Khan. sA Bench of Justice Manmohan and Justice Sanjeev Narula asked the Delhi government and the Lieutenant Governor’s office to file a status report regarding the allegations in the petition and listed the matter for hearing on Thursday, May 21. The petition by social worker, Vikram Gahlot, has contended that the Delhi Legislative Assembly did not have the powers to enact the DMC Act and therefore, the statute be declared as ultra vires the Constitution and be struck down. Mr. Gahlot has also contended that since the Act was not valid, the appointments made under it, including that of the Chairman, would also be invalid.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Another Rohini jail staff infected||The assistant superintendent at Rohini jail has tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. “Around 3-4 days ago, he reported high sugar level and sore throat, following which he was asked to stay at home and rest. Meanwhile, he went to DDU Hospital for a virus test... his report came back positive on Tuesday,” a senior jail official said. He lives in the Tihar residential complex and his family has been quarantined. Earlier, 15 inmates and a head warden at the jail had tested positive.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia asks for 262 trains for migrants||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has written a letter to the Ministry of Railways requesting 262 trains to send migrant workers to their States from Delhi in the next four days, according to an official statement. About four lakh migrant workers have registered on the government’s e-portal to go back to their home States and 25 trains had left from Delhi for different States on Wednesday carrying 37,500 migrants, according to officials. Migrants can register on  https://epass.jantasamavad.org .
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects firm’s appeal against order on cotton technology||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday rejected American company Monsanto’s appeal against Competition Commission of India’s (CCI) February 2016 decision ordering investigation into allegation of abuse of its dominant position by charging “excessive and unfair prices” for its Bt. Cotton Technology.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA – sports complex||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday said that sports complexes under it will be reopened from Thursday with restrictions and social distancing norms in place. While the timings will be from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., children below the age of 10 and people above the age of 65 will not be allowed to enter the sports complexes.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||NGT makes attendance mandatory||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed compulsory attendance of all of its staff, including registrars, law researchers and stenographers among others, even as hearing continues to be held via videoconferencing. In a circular issued, the NGT said: “Staff dealing with technical issues for holding videoconferencing hearings shall remain present with 100% attendance on all working days.”
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hemani- fire||A 70-year-old man died after a fire broke out at his house in south west Delhi’s Safdarjung Enclave on Wednesday morning, a Delhi Fire Service official said. The deceased has been identified as Ganga Vishal of Sarojini Nagar.
21 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DUTA, DUSU join hands to oppose online open book exams||The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) and the Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSSU), along with several other student organisations, organised protests on social media against Delhi University’s move to conduct an online open book examination for the terminal year students in the wake of pandemic.
21 May 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- NDMC||Lodi Garden, Nehru Park and Talkatora Garden will be open for walking, jogging, and running from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. from Thursday, according to the NDMC. Open gym, yoga, and other activities will not be allowed.
