21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Amid fierce protests, Rajya Sabha passes two farm Bills||Two of the three agriculture-related legislation piloted by the Narendra Modi government, aimed at liberalising the farm sector, were passed by the Rajya Sabha by voice vote on Sunday amid a din as the Opposition parties, enraged by the refusal of Deputy Chairman Harivansh to allow voting on resolutions they moved, broke microphones, stood up on tables and flung papers in the air. The legislation — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, were cleared by the Lok Sabha last week. Death warrant: Congress The Rajya Sabha saw a peaceful debate till 1 p.m., when the proceedings were scheduled to end. The Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the Samajwadi Party, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Rashtriya Janata Dal, the Aam Aadmi Party and the two Left parties vehemently opposed the Bills, asking the government to send them to a Parliament panel for further scrutiny. Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa said his party would not sign the “death warrant” of farmers. Among the BJP allies and friendly parties, the JD(U) and the YSR Congress supported the Bills. The AIADMK spoke against the Bills, with MP S.R. Balasubramoniyan calling them a way to “disinvest” in agriculture. Biju Janata Dal MP Amar Patnaik said the Bills had good intent but ignored the implementation problems. He asked the government to send them to a Select Committee.
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. tables Bill to amend FCRA||The Centre is set to amend the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act and proposes to make Aadhaar a mandatory identification document for all the office-bearers, directors and other key functionaries of an NGO or an association eligible to receive foreign donations. The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Sunday by Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai. The Bill says the amendment is required to enhance transparency and accountability in the receipt and utilisation of foreign contributions worth thousands of crores of rupees every year and facilitating the “genuine” non-governmental organisations or associations who are working for the welfare of society. The Bill proposes to include “public servant” and “corporation owned or controlled by the government” among the list of entities who are not eligible to receive foreign donations, the draft says. Bars public servants “Amendment of clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 3 to include public servant also within its ambit, to provide that no foreign contribution shall be accepted by any public servant,” the Bill says. In 2016, the Home Ministry had cancelled the licence of Lawyers Collective, run by noted lawyers Indira Jaising and Anand Grover for various violations. The Ministry, in its suspension notice, had said that Ms. Jaising — as a government servant — had received foreign funds over Rs. 96 crore when she held the post of Additional Solicitor General (ASG) between the years2009 and 2014, in violation of FCRA norms. Ms Jaising refuted the Ministry’s allegations and had said she was a “public servant” not “government servant.” FCRA regulates foreign donations and ensures that such contributions do not adversely affect the internal security of the country. The Act, first enacted in 1976 was amended in the year 2010 when a slew of new measures were taken by the Union Home Ministry to regulate foreign donations.
21 September 2020||KOCHI,||Arrested planned terrorist acts, says NIA||The three persons who were arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Kochi for allegedly “planning anti-national/terrorist activities at several locations in India” were suspected to be possessing weapons and actively raising funds for procurement of arms and ammunition, according to the agency. The arrested were identified as Murshid Hasan of Murshidabad, West Bengal; Mosaraf Hasan, who was living near Perumbavoor Fish Market Road, Aluva; and Yakub Biswas who was residing at Odakkali, Aluva. All the team “members appeared to be highly radicalised and motivated to commit terrorists [sic] to further their jihad ideology and activities,” according to the transit remand report of the case. Planning The NIA's case was that “a group of Jihadi terrorists inspired by Al-Qaeda consisting of more than 10 members mostly of Bengali origin and operating from different parts of the country” were planning terrorist activities in the country. The group was headed by the first accused, a Bengali-speaking individual, who had travelled to several places in the south and east of India, it said. The agency said it received a reliable input that some suspects were involved in the larger criminal conspiracy for raising funds for committing terrorist acts and furthering their jihadi ideology in order to recruit and radicalise youths, it submitted. Allowing the transit remand, S. Shamnad, the Judicial First Class Magistrate 2, Ernakulam, noted that the allegations against the accused were serious in nature and they were booked for cognizable and non-bailable offences and the investigation was conducted by the NIA. Apprehending that the accused may tamper with the incriminating documents, the agency said it had sent an advance search initiation to Special Judge of the NIA Court at Patiala House, New Delhi, at 1.28 a.m. on Saturday and conducted simultaneous searches. The agency said it had confiscated several incriminating chats, photos and videos, which showed that they had hatched a conspiracy for anti-national activities. Produced in court The court of competent jurisdiction is the Special Judge for NIA cases at Patiala House Court, New Delhi. The accused, who were arrested from Ernakulam, were produced before the judicial officer in Ernakulam as it was not possible for NIA to produce them before the Patiala House Court within 24 hours of the arrest. The Ernakulam Magistrate entrusted the accused to the custody of Shankar Brata Raimedhi, the Chief Investigation Officer of the case, till 11 a.m. on September 22.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,||State govt. may seek curtailment of session due to COVID-19 spread||The State legislature, which is meeting for the monsoon session from Monday, could be curtailed in the light of COVID-19 spread and nearly half a dozen Ministers not attending the session after they tested positive. While sources in Chief Minister’s Office indicated that the government could be seeking a curtailment of the session, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday said they would not allow the session to be curtailed. Sources in the CMO, however, said that it would be Speaker’s decision eventually, and also did not elaborate on the number of days proposed to be curtailed. As of now, the session is scheduled to be held for eight days. “The Chief Minister called me to convince me on curtailing the session. However, we want extension of the session and we are not in favour of the session to be curtailed,” Mr. Shivakumar told reporters here. Congress sources also said that while the government was seeking cover under COVID-19, it was also under pressure from the ministerial aspirants in the party who may try to embarrass the government during the session. Primarily, the government is under pressure. The CMO sources said that the Chief Minister had reached out to the Congress, seeking their cooperation for the number of days in the session to be reduced. “There is nothing wrong with that. While Parliament is in session, the number of COVID-19 positive cases are only increasing. There is a cue from that experience,” the sources said. To give a miss CMO sources said that Ministers, including Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and Food and Civil Supplies Minister Gopalaiah, and Chief Minister’s political secretary S.R. Vishwanath are likely to give a miss to the session owing to COVID-19. “We are also not sure of how many more will test positive since the legislators and Ministers have undergone tests for the past two days and results are awaited,” the sources added.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Rs. 4,167.91-cr. GST evasion in Tamil Nadu since July 2017||A total of 1,273 cases of evasion of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), amounting to Rs. 4167.91 crore, from July 2017 to August 2020 were detected in Tamil Nadu, according to information provided in Parliament. Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur provided the data in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha by Congress MP Dean Kuriakose on GST evasion. Thirty-one arrests had been made in the State for GST evasion. Tamil Nadu accounted for about 4.46% of the overall GST evasion in the country out of the total of Rs. 93,462.08 crore, according to the data. “There is no evidence to suggest that tax evasion has increased after the implementation of the GST. No Central tax officer has been found to be involved in the evasion,” Mr. Thakur said. GST evasion was being prevented/reduced with the use of data analytics, checking E-Way bills and developing specific intelligence, he said. Recently, the GST and Central Excise Department, Chennai Outer, has arrested a 56-year-old person from Kodungaiyur in the city for committing a GST credit fraud of Rs. 107 crore. In a recent statement, Ravindranath, Principal Commissioner, GST and Central Excise, Chennai Outer, said the GST Department had observed that many taxpayers under investigation were dodging summonses issued in the course of investigation. He warned that not responding to summonses itself constituted an offence that carried a jail term of six months.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Marginal dip in new COVID-19 cases||The State reported 7,738 new COVID-19 infections and 57 deaths during the 24 hours ending Sunday morning, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said. The number of new infections being reported is coming down gradually, and the overall tally has climbed to 6,25,514. The death toll has gone up to 5,359. The mortality rate stands at 0.86%. Recovery rate The number of daily recoveries continue to be over 10,000. With 10,608 new recoveries, the overall recovery rate has increased to 86.54%, leaving only 13.46% cases active. At present, there are 78,836 active cases in the State. A total of 5,41,319 patients have recovered so far. In the last 24 hours, 70,455 samples have been tested, and the daily positivity rate is 10.98%. So far, 51.04 lakh samples have been tested and the overall positivity rate is 12.26%. The tests per million ratio stands at 95,582 and the confirmed cases per million ratio is at 11,714. Cause for concern East and West Godavari districts reported more than 1,000 cases again at 1,260 and 1,005 cases respectively. They are followed by Prakasam (869), Chittoor (794), Guntur (582), Anantapur (539), Srikakulam (476), Vizianagaram (446), Nellore (444), Krishna (439), Visakhapatnam (342), Kurnool (275) and Kadapa (267). Krishna continues to report more fatalities. It reported eight new deaths, the highest, in the past one day. The district has a death rate of 1.62% with 389 deaths. Chittoor reported seven new deaths and has the highest toll of 587. The new deaths and the toll in districts are as follows: Anantapur (7 & 446), Prakasam (6 & 418), Visakhapatnam (6 & 390), East Godavari (4 & 485), Kurnool (4 & 444), West Godavari (3 & 417), Srikakulam (3 & 311), Kadapa (3 & 343), Guntur (2 & 494), Vizianagaram (2 & 213), Nellore (2 & 422).
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||3.40 lakh write exam for secretariat posts on Day One||The written examinations for the posts in ward and village secretariats began across the State on Sunday. Of the total 4,08,687 candidates who downloaded their hall tickets, 3,40,386 appeared for the examinations on first day of the week-long examinations, said a release issued by the Commissioner of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development. The examinations were held at 2,221 centres in 13 districts. Krishna district saw the highest attendance of 40,954 candidates, while 14,080 candidates wrote the tests in Kadapa district, the lowest in the State. The examinations are being conducted to fill up the posts of panchayat secretary, administrative secretary, Mahila Police and welfare assistant. COVID-19 protocol Nearly 10.57 lakh candidates have applied for all categories of posts. The number of posts available in village secretariats is 14,062 and while the same for the ward secretaries is 2,166. Given the pandemic, all the COVID-19 protocols were followed at the examination centres. The candidates stood in the circles drawn at the gates of the centres to ensure social distancing.
21 September 2020||Vijayawada,||‘Attempt made to draw Rs. 112 cr. from CMRF using fake cheques’||The Thullur police of Guntur Rural district on Sunday registered a case of “forgery, cheating and fraud attempt” against unidentified persons who allegedly tried in vain to draw Rs. 112 crore using fake cheques under the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF), A.P. Secretariat. The accused had allegedly tried to draw the cheques in Karnataka, New Delhi, and West Bengal. However, the racket was busted when the alert bank authorities cross-checked the transactions with their counterparts in Guntur and Vijayawada. Following a complaint lodged by P. Murali Krishna Rao, Assistant Secretary, Revenue Department, Secretariat, Velagapudi, the Thullur police registered a case under Sections 170 (pretending to be a public servant), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467, 468 and 471 (dishonestly using as any genuine document knowingly to be a forged document). The complainant said officials of the Revenue Department had issued a cheque (No.694499) on November 8, 2019, for Rs. 16,000 to Kolli Rataiah. However, it was alleged that a fake cheque dated September 18, 2020, with the same number for Rs. 52.65 crore was presented at the Moodbiri SBI branch, near Mangalore, Karnataka. Another cheque bearing No.792896 and dated June 29 2020, for Rs. 45,000 was issued to Konatham Hymavathi. But miscreants had produced a cheque for Rs. 39,85,95,540 bearing the same number and dated September 19, 2020, at a bank in New Delhi. In another case, the officials issued a cheque (No.792893) for Rs. 45,000 on June 29, 2020, to Pathuri Ramya Sri. However, a cheque bearing the same number for Rs. 24.65 crore was issued to Mallabpur People Rural Development Society, West Bengal. “We have taken up investigation,” a police officer said.
21 September 2020||Srinagar,||Pandemic puts on hold Kashmiri tradition||The unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, which is wreaking havoc the world over, has hit the Kashmir Valley’s centuries-old culinary tradition of ‘trami’ — eating together from one plate during weddings. But Kashmiris have learnt to adapt to the situation, understanding what social distancing means. In ‘trami’, four guests join in simultaneously to have their portion of food from around a circular 2X2 ft decorated copper plate. Zahoor Zargar, a resident of Srinagar’s Lal Bazaar area, was in a fix about his daughter’s wedding in August as COVID-19 cases peaked in the Valley. “I had already postponed the marriage twice since August last year due to the tumultuous situation. This time, the challenge was COVID-19. We decided to go ahead and ensure that the guests maintain social distancing,” he said. ‘No trami’ And replacing ‘trami’ with individual copper utensils was the only option, he noted. “It was praised by the guests as it reduced their close contact with each other,” he added. The trend seems to be picking up fast.  Nazeer Shah, a resident of Peerbagh, ensured that the invitation card of his son’s wedding had a line on serving the lunch: “No ‘trami’, the lunch will be served separately on copper plates,” it said. “There were instances where guests would enquire about how the food will be served. If it was a ‘trami’, people would avoid the function for obvious reasons,” Mr. Shah said. Azi Aziza, a college student, finds the new trend more comfortable. “A guest is bound by the ‘trami’ culture to start at a particular time. Anyone who misses a ‘trami’ is supposed to wait. However, the copper utensil gives flexibility. In COVID-19 crisis, it is a healthy alternative too,” Ms. Aziza said. In rare scenes in Kashmiri weddings this year, the ‘dastarkhan’ (long cloth spread on the floor), saw guests with face-shields and masks holding their own copper utensils around three metres away, as seven dishes were served by ‘Wazas’ (chef) from one utensil to another.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Faculty to wear black badges against Anna University name change||Members of the Anna University Teachers’ Association would sport black badges to protest against the State government’s decision to change the institution’s name. The association said it would look for legal remedies if the issue is not resolved. The decision was taken at an emergency general body meeting held virtually on Saturday. The association is planning to consult all stakeholders of the university and other associations. Its members are upset that stakeholders were not included in the discussions on changing the university’s name. They pointed out that all international and national rankings achieved over the years would be lost as a result of changing the institution’s name to Anna Technological and Research University. Research credit The university would lose research credit to over 25,000 research articles its faculty had published in reputed international journals, besides patents and other intellectual property right materials. Agreements made with reputed institutions, research organisations and companies in India and abroad would automatically become void, the teachers claimed. “The research indices, like Scopus and Web of Science, of all the faculty are mapped to Anna University and would be lost forever. The students of the four campuses would suffer academically and career-wise due to the change in identity. The academic and research reputation of Anna University would be struck at the roots irrecoverably,” the association said. “Of the 26,000 papers published under Anna University so far, only 6,000 are from affiliated colleges,” a professor said. Alumnus and former dean of Anna University M. Sekar pointed out that recognition and funding and various approvals would be denied. “We got approval from the University Grants Commission for research funding status due to years of work. In 2007, we faced a similar situation when the university was divided into five zones. It took the university two years to get the approval for the name Anna University of Technology,” he recalled. “We have been able to build our reputation. All our centres are globally reputed. This is because of the work [we put in],” said Mr. Sekar. “When we apply for rankings, we do so with data of the four affiliated institutions — CEG, AC Tech, MIT and SAP. The ranking institutions pick up the data from the website,” he said. AUTA president G. Sakthinathan said, “Senior faculty have worked a lot to get recognition for the university. Only recently, we began competing with other institutions. Our request is that we be allowed to retain the name of Anna University.”
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,||E-pass counters back at Chennai airport||Two days after they were closed, e-pass counters were back at Chennai airport’s domestic terminal on Sunday, following the intervention of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO). Sources said the decision to close the counters for domestic passengers was taken three days ago by lower-level staff without orders from higher authorities. On Sunday, the CMO asked the officials to resume the operation of the counters. Since the last week of May, officials of Chengalpattu district had been manning the counters, and Health Department staff had been carrying out COVID-19 testing at the airport. Officials of the Airports Authority of India said a meeting was held on Saturday, and airlines raised concerns about the closure of the counters. Airport sources said thousands of passengers were getting e-passes from the counters every day, and crowd management was a challenge. In many instances, physical distancing norms were never followed. “It would be ideal if passengers get the passes on the T.N. portal. It is very easy to get them online now,” an official said.
21 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Will resign if MSP is discontinued’||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said there was no mention of doing away with the minimum support price on crops in the Centre’s agriculture sector Bills, and that if there’s any attempt to discontinue the MSP he will quit from his post. “The crops of the farmers would be procured on the MSP and they would have the right to sell the crop in the open market if they get high rates... I will step down from my portfolio if any attempt to discontinue the MSP system surfaces,” he said. He made it clear that farmers would get the MSP for crops and asked them to not be ‘misled’.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Make ethics code must for all news channels’||The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) has told the Supreme Court to make its code of ethics against airing malicious, biased and regressive content applicable to all TV news channels. For this, the NBA suggested that the court direct the government to include its ethical code in the Programme Code of the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994. All news channels, whether they are NBA members or not, will then have to follow the Programme Code containing the proposed amendments. The NBA affidavit is in response to an order by the Supreme Court on September 18 to suggest steps to strengthen the self-regulatory mechanism to prevent or penalise airing of communal or derogatory content on electronic media. The order by a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud was in the background of a plea to stop the telecast of a programme ‘Bindas Bol’ on Sudarshan TV containing objectionable content against the Muslim entries into civil services. The court said the content was prima facie “plainly hurtful to the community. It is an affront to the dignity of the community.” The court said the NBA was “toothless” and its penalties hardly a deterrence for channels. The NBA said the News Broadcasters Services Authority (NBSA) should be granted recognition as an “independent self-regulatory mechanism” to receive and deal with complaints. Orders passed by the NBSA should be made binding and enforceable on channels. Recognition to NBSA would strengthen News Broadcasting Standards Regulations, the affidavit said.
21 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State witnesses steady rise in fresh cases||The exponential increase in State’s COVID-19 case graph continued on Sunday with 4,696 new cases, even when the samples tested in the last 24 hours dropped to 41,630, a dip by more than 5,000 when compared to the past two days. The test positivity rate (percentage of people who test positive amongst all tested) thus went up to 11.2 in comparison to the previous day’s figure of 9.7, indicating an increase in disease transmission. The number of recoveries reported on the day is 2,751. The cumulative case burden now stands at 1,35,721. A total of 95,698 persons have recovered. The number of patients currently being treated is 39,415. The State’s death toll is also on a steady rise with another 16 deaths added to the official list (provisional) by the Health Department. The official toll is 535 now. Of the new cases, 96% — 4,515 out of the new 4,696 cases — are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 459 cases.
21 September 2020||Kolkata,||WB reports 3,177 COVID-19 cases, 61 deaths||West Bengal reported 3,177 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday taking its total number of infections to 2,25,137. As many as 61 patients succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours pushing the death count in the State to 4,359. The active cases in the State rose to 24,806 while the discharge rate touched 87%. Of the 61 deaths, 15 were from Kolkata taking the fatality toll to 1,581. North 24 Parganas district recorded 16 deaths to take the number of deaths to 981. Howrah district reported six deaths taking the number of mortalities to 497. The three districts account for 70% of all mortalities due to COVID-19 in the State.Kolkata recorded 514 new cases taking its total infections to 50,127.
21 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra sees highest single-day recoveries||Maharashtra on Sunday reported its highest single-day recoveries after 26,408 patients were discharged to take the total number till date to 8,84,341. As many as 20,598 new COVID-19 cases saw the State’s total case tally breach the 12 lakh mark to reach 12,08,642. Sunday was the third consecutive day when the recoveries outweighed the case surge. With 455 more fatalities, the State’s death toll climbed to 32,671. Of these, 238 fatalities are from the last 48 hours, while 109 deaths occurred last week. The remaining 108 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, State Health Department officials said.
21 September 2020||Belagavi,||Corpn. staff return with body from burial ground||Belagavi City Corporation officers had to take the body of a COVID-19 patient back from a burial ground after some residents opposed the burial in the Lingayat burial ground in Sadashiv Nagar in Belagavi on Sunday, insisting that the body can only be cremated as per protocol. The city corporation personnel had taken the body of the 60-year-old patient who died of COVID-19 complications in the designated district hospital to the burial ground in Sadashiv Nagar for the last rites. The former corporator and president of the burial ground managing committee Sarala Herekar, who heard of this, rushed to the spot and stopped the process. She took away the key of the earthmover that was brought to dig a pit to bury the body. She asked the personnel not to bury the body in the Sadashiv Nagar burial ground. “I will not allow any COVID-19 burials here. I ask the officers to take all COVID-19 bodies for cremations in the Maratha crematorium or the government crematorium in Wadagaon and other places,” she said. She argued that government rules do not allow the burial of COVID-19 bodies and that they mandated only cremation of such bodies. She also complained that the personnel who came to bury the body were not wearing personal protection equipment (PPE). She also objected to the presence of the dead person’s relatives in the burial ground, saying that that was prohibited. She also said that she was returning the earthmover’s keys as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee working president Satish Jarkiholi had called her asking her to release the vehicle. The officers were forced to take the body back. The dead patient was a relative of a Belagavi-based lawyer. The lawyer and his friends later took the body and carried out the burial in the Kalmath burial ground in the city. Meanwhile, corporation officials said that the government’s COVID-19 protocol does not prohibit burials. “The Standard Operating Procedure only lays out a method for burials, that have to be carried out by authorised persons wearing PPE. It does not mandate cremations,” said a corporation officer.
21 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Mangalore University postpones exams||Mangalore University has postponed all its final semester undergraduate and post-graduate examinations for 2019-20 scheduled on September 21, according to Registrar (Evaluation) of the university P.L. Dharma. The decision comes in view of heavy rain in the jurisdiction of the university covering Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu districts. The rescheduled dates of the examinations will be announced later, he said. The university will take a decision on postponing the examinations scheduled on September 22 after observing the rain and flood situation in the three districts, he said.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19: 11 Chennai zones show positive growth rate||The number of city zones reporting a positive growth rate of new COVID-19 cases has increased from five to 11 in the past seven days. Compared to the negative growth rate last week, the Greater Chennai Corporation has registered a positive growth rate of 0.5% this week. Few pockets Officials said the number of cases was stable in the city, with a few pockets in some zones. “We are closely monitoring the situation and will know the impact of the relaxations soon. We are testing 10 persons for every positive case in a neighbourhood,” an official said. Alandur has registered the highest increase in new cases with 5.3% in the past seven days while Valasaravakkam registered a decline during the same period. Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Tondiarpet, Madhavaram, Anna Nagar, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Adyar, Kodambakkam, Royapuram and Perungudi have registered a positive growth in new cases in the past week. Kodambakkam continued to register the largest number of cases, with over 1,000 residents testing positive. The growth rate of cases in the zone this week is 0.9%, increasing from 0.5% in the previous week. Slight decline Sholinganallur, which had reported the highest growth rate of cases in the previous week, has registered a decline in the last seven days. The city’s case fatality rate has reduced to 1.97%. Officials said the number of cases had not increased in most of the neighbourhoods even after two weeks of lockdown relaxations and the resumption of public transport.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Unscheduled stop||
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Parties move no-confidence motion||Twelve Opposition parties, including the Congress, AAP, Trinamool Congress, DMK and the Left parties, gave notice for a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh, accusing him of violating Parliamentary procedures by trying to pass the farm sector Bills in haste, circumventing all demands for proper voting.page 9
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Minimum support price will stay: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the system of minimum support price (MSP) and government procurement of crops would continue. “I said it earlier and I say it once again: System of MSP will remain. Government procurement will continue. We are here to serve our farmers,” he tweeted.page 9
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Surveillance up to tackle drugs sent via post||Ever since the spotlight has fallen on the drug menace in the city, investigating agencies are looking more closely at the channels being used to peddle drugs — prominently post and courier services.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Pvt. schools accuse govt. of double standards||The decision to not allow students to visit schools till the end of the month, even to get their doubts cleared, has not gone well with a section of private unaided schools, who have accused the State government of double standards.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Panel mulls allowing relatives to visit patients||In the interest of the psychological health of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 and admitted to hospitals, the COVID-19 technical advisory committee (TAC) in Karnataka is deliberating allowing relatives to visit patients for a short duration.
21 September 2020||Kolkata,||1 held in West Bengal for smuggling gold from Bangladesh: BSF||The Border Security Force (BSF) has apprehended a man from West Bengal’s North 24 Parganas district for allegedly smuggling gold worth Rs. 36 lakh from Bangladesh, a spokesperson of the border-guarding force said on Sunday. A team of the Hakimpur outpost of the BSF intercepted Rabiul Dafadar, a resident of Tarali village, at a checkpost near the India-Bangladesh border on Saturday evening. “When the team caught him, he was on his way to the Swarupda market on a bicycle. Three gold bars, weighing 683 gram in total, were recovered from his possession,” the official said. The gold bars were found concealed in his slippers.PTI
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fresh COVID cases come down slightly in Delhi||The national capital recorded 3,812 fresh COVID-19 cases and 37 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. In all, 52,405 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 7.27%. The total number of cases stands at 2,46,711 with 4,982 deaths and 2,09,632 recoveries. There are currently 32,097 active cases in the city.
21 September 2020||Pune,||Mumbai nearby||Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday dismissed reports of him having made any claims that a group of IPS officers in the State had attempted to overthrow the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Mr. Deshmukhwas alluding to an interview given to the online edition of a vernacular daily one day ago. “This news is completely false... erroneous statements have been put into my mouth. Please see the video clip of the interview and you will realise that I had not said any such thing when I was asked to comment on whether there had been such a move planned by some IPS officers... I had only said that I cannot comment on such things openly,” he said.
21 September 2020||Chennai,||5,516 persons test positive for infection||With 5,516 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the State’s tally rose to 5,41,993. At the same time, 5,206 persons were discharged from hospitals after treatment, taking the total number of recovered persons to 4,86,479. Chennai recorded 996 fresh cases. Sixty persons died of the infection. Of them, 51 suffered from co-morbidities. The State's death toll has now touched 8,811.
21 September 2020||Hyderabad,||New cases in Kerala stay steady, testing drops||COVID-19 tests dropped to around 55,000 a day in Telangana. Between August 25 and September 11, around 60,000 tests were undertaken daily, barring Sundays. The fall was observed since September 12. On Saturday, 53,811 people were tested and 2,137 cases were detected. Eight patients died on Saturday, the lowest toll this month. The new cases included 322 from Greater Hyderabad, 182 from Rangareddy, 146 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 132 from Karimnagar, 124 from Nalgonda, 109 from Siddipet, and 90 from Warangal Urban. Of the total cases, 30,573 were active. Fresh mortality in Karnataka stood at 101 deaths on Sunday. Of the total 8,023 deaths so far, the majority – 2,657 – were reported in Bengaluru Urban. Meanwhile, 8,191 new cases were reported on Sunday. An official health bulletin said total active cases stood at 98,043, and 811 patients were in intensive care. A total of 60,477 tests were conducted on Sunday, of which 26,731 were rapid antigen tests. Kerala on Sunday added 4,696 new cases, even with a drop in samples tested to 41,630, a dip of over 5,000 compared to the past two days. The test positivity rate rose to 11.2% in comparison to the previous day’s 9.7%. Of the active cases, 329 persons were critically ill and in ICUs with 84 on ventilator support. The State’s death toll was rising, with another 16 deaths added to the official list (provisional) by the Health Department. The official toll was 535. The 16 deaths had occurred between August 28 and September 17. Five were reported from Kottayam, three from Malappuram, two each from Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram and one each from Kasaragod, Kollam, Ernakulam and Palakkad. Also, 96% of the incidence was due to local infections. Thiruvananthapuram had 892 new cases, Ernakulam 537 cases, Kozhikode 536, Malappuram 483, Kollam 330, Thrissur 322, Palakkad 289, Kottayam 274, Kannur 242, Alappuzha 219, Kasaragod 208, Pathanamthitta 190, Wayanad 97, and Idukki 77 cases.  With 5,516 more persons being diagnosed as positive for COVID-19 infection on Sunday, Tamil Nadu’s tally rose to 5,41,993. At the same time, 5,206 persons were discharged from health facilities after treatment taking the total number of those treated and sent home to 4,86,479. As of Sunday, there were 46,703 active cases (including those in home isolation), while 60 persons died. So far 8,811 persons have died after contracting the infection. In Chennai, 996 new patients were identified, and 12 patients died.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||12 parties give no-trust notice||Twelve Opposition parties on Sunday gave notice for a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh, accusing him of violating parliamentary procedures in trying to pass the farm sector Bills in haste, circumventing all demands for proper voting. Mr. Harivansh was re-elected for the second time to the post only six days back. The no-confidence resolution has been signed by MPs from the Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK, RJD, TRS, NCP, AAP, CPI, CPI(M), JD(S), IUML and Kerala Congress(M). “When the agitated members, on being denied the right for a division on this crucial Bill protested strongly pointing out how gravely the bill is against the farmer’s interest, the Deputy Chairperson packed the house with security personnel deliberately designed to overawe and outnumber the members of the opposition,” the resolution reads. The Opposition parties condemned the Deputy Chairman for cutting short the speech by former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “Deputy Chairman of RS has been a very close personal friend of mine for long. Till July 2017 he was a bitter critic of the PM, until his party abandoned the grand alliance in Bihar. Since then he has become an unthinking rubber stamp in the important position he occupies. Very sad.” Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said the Rajya Sabha witnessed the murder of democracy. Tiruchi Siva of the DMK said his repeated calls for division were completely ignored. “He had his head down looking at his papers. And no matter how many times I called out, he never looked. This is unacceptable,” Mr. Siva said. Sources said Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu would take action against the Opposition MPs for unruly behaviour. However, Opposition members are unruffled. “Yes. An Opposition MP broke a microphone in the Rajya Sabha. Today, BJP tried to break the back of yet another great institution of our democracy#Parliament... ” Mr. Derek O’Brien of the Trinamool Congress tweeted. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said, “Yes, I stood up on the table, I am owning it up, because what happened today in Rajya Sabha was far worse. All rules were ignored and the farmers have been thrown at the mercy of the big corporations by bending all possible rules.”
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR’s second sero-survey ends||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has completed its second national sero-survey to gauge the prevalence of COVID-19. The first survey was conducted in May across 400 districts and about 28,000 were sampled — most of them in rural India — to gauge the spread of the infection. After a long delay, the ICMR finally published its results this month that suggested that nearly 6.4 million were likely infected with the virus by May. There were 82-130 infections that went undetected for every confirmed case in May. However, newspaper reports on Sunday, citing unnamed authors of that study, alleged that a portion of their results were expunged, which showed high prevalence of the infection in hotspots in 10 cities that were originally part of the paper. This suggested that in May the possible prevalence of the infection was 36% in Dharavi, Mumbai; 48% in Ahmedabad and 30% in Kolkata. Lockdown effect These findings undermined the effectiveness of the lockdown in containing the spread of the virus and the government’s insistence that abrupt shutdown of the country had restricted the virus transmission to only a few dense urban agglomerations. The government also emphasises that there is, as of today, no evidence of community transmission in India. “Containment zones, that refer to a specific geographical area where positive cases are found, are dynamic in nature. They do not fit into nationally representative sampling,” the ICMR tweeted on Sunday evening but did not refer to the newspaper reports. “The second round of countrywide sero-survey led by ICMR has been successfully completed. The final phase analysis of the survey is now under way and will offer a comparison with the results of the first survey.” The objective Before it embarked on its national survey, the ICMR had explicitly specified that the survey’s objective was to estimate national prevalence and spread of the infection in hotspots. “The study has two parts out of which the primary task of estimating the fraction of population who has been infected with SARS-CoV-2 in general population has been completed. The second objective of estimating fraction of population who has been infected in containment zones of hotspot cities is in the process of completion,” the Health Ministry said in a statement released on June 11, which has been available on the website of the Press Information Bureau. On that day, Balram Bhargava, Director-General, ICMR, had said the prevalence of the disease was 0.73% nationally and that compared to rural areas, risk of spread was 1.09 times higher in urban areas and 1.89 times higher in urban slums.
21 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Heavy rain lashes Udupi, Dakshina Kannada districts||Life was severely affected in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts as heavy rains continued to lash the coastal belt for the second straight day on Sunday. Eight persons were injured and over 1,100 houses and public properties were damaged in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts. There was no loss of life. Some parts of Udupi city and houses in low-lying areas in 77 villages in the district were the worst hit as the region witnessed unprecedented rains and floods in decades. Floodwaters from the overflowing Indrani rivulet at Kalsanka in Udupi city entered the Rajangana on the Sri Krishna Mutt premises. The entire parking area of the mutt was submerged. The four-lane Udupi-Manipal Road was flooded and water entered some shops and houses in Kalsanka area. According to B. Sadashiva Prabhu, Additional Deputy Commissioner, 2,874 people from 827 affected families were evacuated in Udupi district till the evening. As many as 1,107 houses were damaged and 1,201 people, including 563 women, were housed in 31 relief camps. Others took shelter in the houses of relatives. The worst-affected villages/areas were in Udupi, Kapu, and Brahmavar taluks. Minister for Fisheries, Ports, Inland Transport, and Muzrai Kota Srinivasa Poojary said that three fishing boats in the sea near Malpe in Udupi district capsized due to rough weather. However, 12 fishermen who were in them swam to safety, he said. The coastal security police and some fishermen rescued six fishermen from a boat which was stranded after hitting a rock near St. Mary’s island due to rough weather. Drinking water supply to Udupi city and en route villages from Baje vented dam built across the Swarna was hit after pumping was stopped due to heavy floods in the river. The water level in the river crossed 10.5m, an official statement said. Traffic on Udupi-Manipal-Hebri-Shivamogga Road was affected after the flood waters cut off connectivity at Puthige. Hence, traffic was diverted to other routes, Mr. Prabhu said. In Dakshina Kannada Around 25 houses were damaged in rains in Dakshina Kannada. Six persons were injured in a landslip near Vitla in Bantwal taluk and two others in another landslip at Saripalla in Mangaluru. Water from the Shambhavi entered the premises of Bappanadu Durgaparameshwari temple in Mulki. There was a landslip on the bypass railway line between Konkan Railway network and South Western Railway network near Padil in Mangaluru. It completely covered the track, affecting movement between Konkan Railway and Hassan/Mysuru/Bengaluru. There was a landslip on Adyapadi Road near Mangaluru International Airport in Kenjar village on the outskirts of Mangaluru. A portion of the road from Neerumarga to Katinja on the outskirts of Mangaluru caved in.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||MSP, govt. procurement will continue, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the system of minimum support price (MSP) and government procurement of crops would continue, after the passage of two agriculture Bills by Parliament amid protests inside in the Rajya Sabha and by farmers in Punjab and Haryana. In a series of tweets in English, Hindi and Punjabi, Mr. Modi said that the Bills were a ‘watershed moment’ in history. “I said it earlier and I say it once again: System of MSP will remain. Government procurement will continue. We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations,” he said in a tweet. Mr. Modi said Indian farmers had been bound by several constraints and bullied by middlemen for years. The two Bills would give them freedom from the same and help in doubling their income, he said. “Our agriculture sector is in desperate need of latest technology that assists the industrious farmers. Now, with the passage of the Bills, our farmers will have easier access to futuristic technology that will boost production and yield better results. This is a welcome step,” he said. ‘Height of intolerance’ Welcoming the passage of the Bills, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders condemned the behaviour of the Opposition in the Upper House. Party president J.P. Nadda told the media that the Opposition parties had been “anti-farmer” by trying to stop their passage. He said the Opposition parties had violated the health and safety protocols in place due to COVID-19 by crowding into the well and going up to the Chairman’s podium as well as the norms of the House. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Opposition had “shown height of intolerance in Parliament” and “insulted the mandate of the people”.The “parties of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Mamata Banerjee”, referring to the Congress and the All-India Trinamool Congress, “they think they are badshahs”, he said. BJP MP and party general secretary Bhupender Yadav questioned the Opposition’s idea of democracy. “Breaking the Chair’s mike, heckling him, tearing copies of parliamentary legislations, throwing social distancing norms to the air. Unprecedented opposition meltdown in Rajya Sabha today. Parties must explain is this their idea of democracy? (sic),” he said in a tweet.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Death warrant for farmers: Oppn. parties||The Opposition in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday said the two agriculture Bills brought by the government would lead to the corporate takeover of farming and Parliament passing them would be the death warrant of the farmers.  Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa said the Bills were “ill-conceived and ill-timed” and that farmers in Punjab, his home State, and Haryana viewed them as attacks on their spirit. He said farmers had understood the Bills to be a way of doing away with MSPs and take-over of farmlands by corporations. “We will not sign on this death warrant of farmers,” he said, saying the Congress opposed them. Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien said the Bills raised an issue of federalism. “You promised to double farmers’ income by 2022, but at the current rate it will not double till 2028 ... Your credibility is low to make promises,” he said. AIADMK MP S.R. Balasubramoniyan said the Bills would lead to farmers being “reduced to farm workers” and big corporations taking over “large swathes of land”. T.K.S. Elangovan of the DMK said the Bills were “an insult to farmers” and would lead to farmers “becoming slaves” and “commodities”. He said the Bills not only sought to replace ordinances, but to “repeal the promise of the government to implement the MS Swaminathan report”. Samajwadi Party MP Ram Gopal Yadav questioned the timing of the Bills, which were introduced to replace ordinances promulgated during the COVID-19 lockdown. “It seems there is some compulsion that the ruling party doesn’t want to discuss or debate, they are rushing with the Bills,” he said, adding that farmers would not be able to compete with big companies. Telangana Rashtra Samithi MP K. Keshava Rao said the Bills were an attack on the rights of States and the Constitution. “If this is the new-age agriculture, then we are against it,” he said. CPI(M) MP K.K. Ragesh said the Bills would lead to “unfettered liberalisation of Indian agriculture” and was an abdication of responsibility on the part of the government. ‘Will affect Bihar poll’ Referring to the upcoming Assembly elections in Bihar, RJD MP Manoj Kumar Jha said the impact of the Bills seen in Punjab and Haryana would be seen in Bihar too. He said the farmers had “issued a whip” and that by passing the Bill, “you are writing the obituary of farmers”. Naresh Gujral of the Shiromani Akali Dal said: “There is a trust deficit or communication gap, which is why we are telling this party to send it [the Bills] to select committee.”
21 September 2020||Hyderabad,||A neglected temple’s transition over the centuries||A temple constructed by emperor Ganapati Deva, a ruler of the Kakatiya dynasty, in Dharanikota near present Andhra Pradesh capital Amaravati, has been converted into an abode of local goddess Balusulamma (Goddess Durga). The presiding deity at this 13th century temple was Kakati Devi, the tutelary deity of the Kakatiya rulers. Due to the ravages of time and improper upkeep, the presiding deity’s idol got damaged. The villagers of Dharanikota, who had no knowledge about the temple’s past, installed the Balusulamma idol and started worshipping it. While conducting an architectural survey of the magnificent temples that flourished during the Kakatiya dynasty, D. Kanna Babu, former Superintending Archaeologist of the Temple Survey Project, Archaeological Survey of India, Chennai, stumbled upon the distinctive temple on the banks of the Krishna. After successfully annexing the Andhra region into the kingdom, Ganapati Deva also made matrimonial alliances with the Kota chiefs of the Dharanikota region by giving his daughter, Ganapamba, in marriage to Kota Beta Raja. “It is quite reasonable to infer that on that jubilant occasion, Ganapati Deva constructed the temple and sanctified the limestone idol of Kakati Devi as the presiding deity for his daughter to worship,” Mr. Babu told The Hindu . Ganapati Deva is the first king who introduced the worship of Kakati Devi in the coastal region of Andhra, he said. Later, the abode was developed under the patronage of Ganapamba. With the passage of time, the shrine was neglected. The idol was removed from its original place in the sanctum and was mutilated, he said. Currently, the idol is placed in a small shelter on the southern side of the temple, locally known as ‘Gollabhama Gudi’. “Fortunately, a cowherd woman (gollabhama) found the damaged idol in the temple complex and placed it in the small shelter,” he said.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vaccine strategy ready, says Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said in the absence of a vaccine, only strict adherence to the norms of wearing masks, social distancing and maintaining personal hygiene could help in putting up an effective fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. He appealed to all the Lok Sabha MPs to ensure that people in their constituencies followed the norms. Worldwide, 145 vaccine candidates are at the pre-clinical evaluation stage and 35 are undergoing clinical trials. In all, 30 candidates are being supported in India, of which three are at the advanced stages of phase-I, phase-II and phase-III trials, and four are at the pre-clinical trial advanced stages, said Dr. Vardhan, adding that a detailed strategy on vaccine production, storage, distribution and usage had already been prepared. Stating that the lockdown period was utilised to create the necessary infrastructure, the Minister said against just one laboratory, there were now 1,773 units across the country and as a result, 6.37 crore tests had been conducted so far. He added that during the pandemic, the government had brought in over 12 lakh people stranded abroad. It provided Rs. 50 lakh insurance to more than 22 lakh healthcare and frontline workers. About 64 lakh workers and their family members were ferried. The PM CARES Fund was used to buy 50,000 ventilators. Local industries were encouraged to ramp up production of testing kits, PPEs and masks. To enhance preparedness for future challenges, Dr. Vardhan said genome sequencing of 2,000 viruses had been done and 15 repositories of 40,000 virus had been created to encourage research works. Earlier, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said the government was still not accepting that there was a community transmission. The epidemic could not be prevented but its intensity could have been mitigated by timely and well laid-out strategy, he said. He raised suspicion about under reporting of deaths. He also suggested a separate ministry for migrant labourers. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said the Centre did not listen to his party leader Rahul Gandhi’s warning and that it did not make much effort to consult with the State governments and the Opposition, and rather, appeared more interested in toppling the then Madhya Pradesh government.  Party leader Nishikant Dubey said said that the definition of migrant workers should be revisited, given that they could not be termed as migrants just because they worked in other States.  However, DMK’s Dayanidhi Maran said the government woke up late and failed to effectively utilise the lockdown period. “We realised on the 3rd of February that the first case of coronavirus was reported in Kerala. We should have woken up. We should have closed our borders. But what did we do? We had ‘Namaste Trump’ event because Trump was coming.”
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Torture, not firing, behind China border deaths in 1975, recalls veteran||The four Indian soldiers who were killed in Tulung La in 1975 — the last reported firing and combat deaths along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) until the incidents of this summer in Ladakh — were not likely killed in firing but captured alive and tortured to death, recalls a veteran who was tasked with recovering their bodies 45 years ago. The Tulung La incident has been frequently invoked in the wake of the recent firing incidents south of Pangong Lake in late August and early September. In the 45 years that have followed, the memory of what really transpired on the Tulung La ridgeline, in the eastern sector of the India-China border in Arunachal, has been not only forgotten but rewritten in subsequent retellings of the event, according to Col. B.R. Shah (retd.), who is now 84 and remembers the sequence of events as if it all happened yesterday. At the time, he was a Lieutenant Colonel who was the commanding officer of the 3/1 Gurkha Rifles, stationed at Sela top. Speaking to The Hindu , Col. Shah remembers the minute details of his three-day journey to Tulung La, and of the shock and horror that followed when he went to retrieve the bodies of the four Assam Rifles jawans who had gone missing on October 20, eerily on the exact anniversary of the 1962 attack. “At 10 in the morning on October 20, I was in my bunker at Sela top, when we received a message from Tezpur,” he said. “Two of the patrol had returned saying they had been ambushed. The situation was grave. I volunteered to go with my men and find out what happened, but we were not given the go-ahead to approach the Chinese.” Tulung La was a barren ridge line that was three days away from Sela. When Col. Shah arrived there on October 23, there was a sense of fear and low morale among the Assam Rifles jawans there. For seven days, they waited for clearance. “Finally,” he said, “it came 45 minutes after midnight on October 28. The message came that the Prime Minister [Indira Gandhi] had said I could proceed, with 19 of my men, and we had to meet the Chinese at 11.30 a.m. on October 28.” Then came the first problem. He was told he cannot take the Indian flag but to go with a blue flag. Moreover, they had to be completely unarmed — a decision that did not go down well with the men, following the October 20 ambush. “Where was I to find a blue flag in a few hours? All I had was a white bedsheet, so I went around asking every man to empty the ink from their pens, and we dyed it blue,” he said.  Four-hour climb Tulung La sits at 17,200 feet, and is a four-hour climb from its base at Lungar. They made the climb early on October 28, and the Chinese were waiting for them. “The first thing I saw is they had used explosives and demolition, flattened the entire ridgeline and made bunkers for their guns,” he said, saying this showed the ambush had been entirely planned, and taken the patrol, which was on its usual route up to the ridgeline where the border ran, by complete surprise. What troubled Col. Shah was why it took seven days for the Chinese to acknowledge what had happened. “When I saw the bodies, I knew immediately,” he said. “There were marks from cigarette burns all over, and at odd places, they had been punctured by bayonets. This was the only indication that at least some of them had been alive when they were captured, and not killed in firing. They must have tried their best to extract what they could, but what information could they give? They were soldiers.” Before they had the chance to question the Chinese — which was, in any case, an impossible task without interpreters — they had to end the exchange abruptly when the accompanying Assam Rifles jawan in the group, who was there to help identify the bodies, turned emotional at the sight of the bodies. “The sad truth is from 1962 to 1975, we had just become too casual, and this was the entire political leadership and the military leadership,” said Col. Shah. “We never learnt any lessons. I felt terrible at what had happened, and how we just accepted it. Is this how we accept loss every time?” The unanswered question, 45 years later, is why the ambush happened in the first place and what motivated the Chinese moves on the ridgeline. Only five years later, another patrol that was lost in the fog and crossed the border in the Sikkim sector was met by the Chinese, returned unharmed, and treated well by their accounts, over a period of a few days. The motivations for the PLA’s actions still remain a mystery — one thing, Col. Shah notes, that hasn’t really changed 45 years later.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR keen on saliva-based test for COVID-19: Vardhan||Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is actively exploring a saliva-based test for COVID-19, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said here on Sunday, adding that there has been no significant mutation in SARS-CoV-2 in India. Speaking during his social media interaction, Sunday Samvaad, the Minister said, “On the recent saliva-based test for COVID-19, the ICMR has validated a few tests but no reliable test has been found and companies with tests approved by U.S.-FDA have still not approached the Government of India. ICMR is actively exploring this test method and will inform as soon as reliable options are available.” On mutation in the virus, Dr. Harsh Vardhan assured that “no significant or drastic mutations have been found in strains of SARS-CoV-2 in India till now”. Large-scale sequencing He said the ICMR has been conducting large-scale sequencing of nationally representative strains of SARS-CoV-2 virus collected over the past several months over different time-points and detailed results on mutations and evolution of the virus will be available in early October. He also noted that it would take substantive time for herd immunity to develop so as to be able to cover about 70% of the population. “Hence the focus of the government is primarily towards putting together a strategy that combines containment and hospital management,” he said. Dr. Vardhan said there is enough oxygen being produced in the country and the Health Ministry is closely monitoring the situation. “The Ministry had dispatched oxygen concentrators to the rural parts of the country specifically to avert the logistic issues coming to light,” he said. Asked about the trials of the Oxford-Astra Zeneca vaccine candidate being paused, the Minister said vaccine development is a complex process and trials have been restarted only after an independent investigative expert committee gave its nod. Relief for kin He said that so far a total of 155 families of COVID warriors have claimed relief under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana. “These include 64 doctors, 32 auxiliary nurse midwives and multipurpose healthcare workers, 14 ASHA workers and 45 other front line workers who lost their lives.” Speaking about the impact of COVID-19 on mental health, Dr. Vardhan said the current COVID-19 outbreak has had a significant impact on everyone’s mental health, especially elderly persons who are aware of being at a higher risk. “Coronavirus becomes fatal for the elderly and the co-morbid but this does not mean that a younger person cannot die due to COVID-19 though the risk of death is far lower in this case for younger people,” he said.  The government’s focus is towards a strategy that combines containment and hospital management Harsh VardhanUnion Health Minister
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,||World Bank seeks ‘universal eligibility’||The $1 billion World Bank loan to prevent, detect and respond to the threat of coronavirus and strengthen national health systems for preparedness as India combats the ongoing pandemic comes with a condition of “universal eligibility” in procurements. This would mean that all preferential market access policies, including Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) Order, Micro Small & Medium Enterprises (MSME) Policy, certain benefits to start-ups, shall not be applicable on purchases made while implementing the national project. Confirming this, the Ministry of Railways, in a note to all Zonal Railways, production units and other major establishments, said the tender documents should be amended to remove such references and ensure that contractors explicitly agreed to comply with the relevant provisions of the World Bank’s anti-corruption guidelines and prohibited policies of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB). Review of documents Besides paving the way for universal eligibility in the supply system, the World Bank would have the right to review the procurement documents, inspect/audit all accounts, records and other files relating to the project. Compliance to these conditions has been made mandatory for the funding. The Railways will spend Rs. 399 crore across its network to strengthen health infrastructure in the combat against COVID-19 in this financial year. The focus will be on creating more isolation facilities with medical equipment such as ventilators, oxygen cylinders etc. This is part of the “India COVID-19 Emergency Response and Health System Strengthening Project,” a joint initiative of the Government of India and the World Bank that has $1 billion loan disbursed by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD). The Railway Ministry is one of the implementing agencies of the project. Highest allocation While the Northern Railway has got the highest allocation of Rs. 45.59 crore this year followed by the Eastern Railway with Rs. 42.56 crore, the Southern Railway has been given Rs. 30.95 crore. The Integral Coach Factory, the largest coach maker in the world, got a sanction of Rs. 3.17 crore. The total allocation to 16 Zonal Railways, Metro, production units and others stands at Rs. 399.36 crore. These funds would be utilised for establishing isolation wards by purchasing ventilators, oxygen cylinders, laboratory machines, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits, face shields, hospital furniture, medical equipment, gloves, goggles and other consumables. The first component of the project deals with emergency response to the pandemic and would be implemented till April 2022. Railways would have to make procurements in accordance with the World Bank guidelines, the Railway Board said and added that the funds allocated should not be exceeded. In case any railway expected that it would not be in a position to spend the funds earmarked by March 31, 2021, the same should be communicated to the board latest by December 31, 2020. The Railways, one of the largest employers in the country, has reported 14,714 COVID-19 cases among its employees and 336 deaths. The Central Railway has topped the list with 67 deaths and 1,323 cases followed by the South Central Railway with 54 deaths and 2,202 cases. While the Southern Railway, headquartered in Chennai, has reported 21 deaths and 1,145 cases, the ICF had 9 deaths and 422 cases among its employees.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Three out of four COVID-19 patients have co-morbidities’||Nearly three in four COVID-19 patients have co-morbidites and the proportion of those with diabetes and hypertension — the most common of secondary ailments — has fallen since July, an analysis of data on trends in COVID-19 prevalence maintained by the Health Ministry’s Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) reveals. The data are sourced from details of hospital records from all over the country that are provided to the IDSP and, as of September 20, consists of a sample of 34,616 positive people and is a sliver of India’s 5.4  million case load as of Sunday. In July, when comparable data was made public by the organisation, only 8% of 16,155, whose data were publicised by the IDSP, were diabetic and 9% hypertensive. That has now fallen to 5.74% and 5.21% respectively and a category called ‘others’ that denotes a patient with at least one comorbid condition, has jumped to 58.85% from 30% in July. An official connected to the IDSP said with a rise in case load a wider profile of people were being infected and the wide variety of comorbidities that normally exist in a large population were coming to the fore. For the IDSP’s purposes, only comorbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, liver disease, heart disease, asthma, chronic renal disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, immunocompromised conditions, malignancy, bronchitis and chronic neuromuscular disease are publicised. Except for diabetes and hypertension, each of these conditions on their own account for less than 2% of overall comorbidities. “There are a great many associated disorders and because the virus has spread so widely and testing so exponentially expanded, the large range of underlying conditions in our population is coming to the fore,” the person, who did not wish to be identified as he was not authorised to speak to the media, added. About 48% of 1,74,000 samples were from 21-40 years and 64% were male. Only 8% were over 51 years old. At a press briefing last month, Rajesh Bhushan, Health Secretary, furnished data that revealed only 11% of COVID-19 patients who died were 26-44 years and the majority — or 51% — were 60 and above.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala to produce Classical Swine Fever vaccine||The Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals (IAH&VB) at Palode will commence bulk production of the cell culture-based Classical Swine Fever (CSF) vaccine introduced by the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly. The step is expected to bring relief to the pig farming industry in the State which has been grappling with CSF. An apex centre in veterinary sciences, the IVRI has agreed to transfer the vaccine technology for Rs. 60 lakh. A memorandum of understanding will be inked between the two institutes, Terrence B. Remady, director, IAH&VB, said. The IAH&VB would start production once its officers were formally trained in the technology, he said. The relevance of the new CSF vaccine is that it does not require the killing of rabbits for its production. The virus for vaccine production is cultured in pig kidney cell line. The IVRI had formally released the technology to the vaccine production industry in January 2020, according to the IAH&VB.   The new cell culture vaccine does away with the need for using rabbits and it can easily be prepared in large numbers. The IAH&VB would be able to meet the vaccine demand in Kerala as well as that of neighbouring States, Dr. Remady said.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Courts in Karnataka to reopen substantially in a phased manner from September 28||The High Court of Karnataka has decided to substantially reopen all courts in the taluks and districts of the State in three phases starting from September 28, and has issued a special Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the functioning of courts. While courts in 55 taluks identified over different districts will be reopened on September 28, all the courts in 15 districts will be open from October 5. The other courts in the remaining districts will be reopened on October 12, according to the special SOP. All these courts will list only 30 cases a day — 15 each in the forenoon and afternoon sessions — and there will be separate enclosures for the witnesses inside the court complexes to wait for their turn to enter and record their statements.  RAT test However, witnesses and the accused (on bail) will be allowed entry into the court complex only upon production of a negative report of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) on the same date along with the summons issued by the court for their physical presence. They can be denied entry if they are found to have symptoms of COVID-19 despite a negative RAT report, the special SOP stated. Also, every court hall is to be modified to physically record the statements of a maximum of five witnesses in the forenoon session each day by setting up the witness boxes and accused dock by covering them with thick plastic sheets. The witness boxes will be sanitised after the statement of each witness is recorded. At the time of recording of evidence in criminal cases, the accused who are in jail shall not be produced physically and their presence shall be procured through videoconferencing, except in exceptional cases. The rule of producing a negative COVID-19 report will also apply to the police escorting the accused and others to court. For the time being, entry will not be permitted for private photocopy machine operators, notaries, and typists. The canteens on the court premises will continue to remain closed.  Advocates The premises of all bar associations will be opened at all court complexes between 10.30 a.m. and 4 p.m. on the condition that the seating arrangements are reduced in half. While the parking of advocates’ vehicles will be allowed at the designated places on the court premises, entry will be allowed only for self-driven vehicles upon production of a pass (with photo) by the advocate. These passes will be issued by the respective court administrations on applications received through the recognised bar associations.
21 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Will resign if MSP is discontinued’||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said there was no mention of doing away with the minimum support price on crops in Centre’s agriculture sector Bills, and that if there’s any attempt to discontinue the MSP, he will quit from deputy CM’s post. “The crops would be procured on the MSP and they would have the right to sell it in the open market if they get high rates ... I will step down from my portfolio if any attempt to discontinue MSP system surfaces,” he said. He made it clear that farmers would get the MSP for crops, and asked them to not be ‘misled’. He accused former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda of trying to misguide the farmers. Not only did Mr. Hooda himself advocate open market for farmers, but also signed on such recommendations of a committee set up by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh during the UPA regime as its head. Mr. Dushyant accused Mr. Hooda of adopting ‘double standards’. “The Congress supported contract farming in its vision document during its first tenure of the UPA and now it is opposing the ordinances for political gains.” He said in the coming paddy procurement season, each grain would be procured on MSP from farmers.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Only 70% of emergency COVID-19 funds disbursed||The Centre has allotted Rs. 6,027 crore as part of its COVID-19 emergency package to States but only Rs. 4,256 crore, or about 70%, has been released, stated a response by Minister of State Ashwini Kumar Choubey in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday. The Centre made its allotment in two tranches. In the first, Rs. 3,000 crore was set aside, and a little more, Rs. 3,027 crore, was released. From the second tranche of Rs. 3,000 crore, only Rs. 1,256 crore had been released as of September 10. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh led the allocations table, with Maharashtra being apportioned Rs. 843 crore but getting only Rs. 393 crore. It got no money in its second allotment.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Vishwanath holds meet with Kuruba leaders||In an apparent move to exert pressure on the BJP high command for a Cabinet berth, a meeting of Kuruba leaders led by Cabinet aspirant and MLC A.H. Vishwanath was held in Bengaluru on Sunday. While Mr. Vishwanath - soon after the meeting - claimed that the leaders had met to discuss community’s welfare, the timing of the meeting held in the name of Shepherd International raised eyebrows in political circles. Several Kuruba leaders, including former Congress Minister H.M. Revanna and others were also present. Mr. Vishwanath was among the 17 Congress-JD(S) legislators, who resigned resulting in the fall of the JD(S)-Congress coalition in July 2019. He later joined the BJP and became a MLC recently. “This is not a show of strength. I want to be in the Cabinet but I am not adamant. There are 50 to 60 aspirants for the berth. All cannot be accommodated. The Cabinet will be expanded and who gets an opportunity has to be seen,” Mr. Vishwanath said, adding that he too had gone to Delhi recently in connection with teh Cabinet expansion. “Nobody will be invited to join the Cabinet.” He also clarified that the meeting was not political in nature.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Maoist squad escaped from cotton fields||A squad of armed Maoists escaped from police special parties in Chilatipally of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district two days before the exchange of fire in Kadamba forest left two of its members dead on Saturday night. On a tip-off that Maoists were spotted on the fringes of Chilatipally village, commandos of Greyhounds and other special police teams combing the area rushed there on Thursday evening. “By the time our teams reached there, the armed Maoists were moving in the cotton crop fields,” a police officer supervising the operation said on Sunday. The police parties wanted to open fire at the Maoists. “There were women and minors working in the cotton fields. Hence, we observed restraint,” the police officer said. As it was dark following sunset, the Maoist squad managed to flee taking advantage of the darkness, he added. It is not yet confirmed but the police believe CPI-Maoist Telangana State Committee member Bhaskar alias Adellu, who managed to give a slip to the police in three instances of exchanges of fire earlier recently, was in the cotton fields. It is surmised that the squad led by Adellu got divided into two teams following the narrow escape at Chilatipally and disappeared into the forests. While Adellu and others went in one direction, two other Maoists came towards Kadamba forest in Kagaznagar sub-division of KB Asifabad district. An exchange of fire took place between these two Maoists and the police parties in Kadamba forest on Saturday evening. “Another Maoist sustained injuries but managed to flee the place,” Ramagundam Police Commissioner and SP in-charge of KB Asifabad district V. Satyanarayana said after visiting the exchange of fire spot on Sunday morning. It happened in Izgam police station area of Kagaznagar rural circle. The two slain Maoists were identified as Chukkalu and Bajir Rao alias Ramu. The latter was in his early 20s and hailed from Laxmipur village of Neredigonda mandal in Adilabad district. He is reportedly newly recruited, reportedly after Adellu entered the district three to four months ago to revive the party base in the region. Baji Rao’s body was handed over to his family after autopsy. The second Maoist Chukkalu, aged about 23 years, was from Gongugudem of Pamedu in Bijapur district of Chattisgarh. He is believed to have joined the CPI-Maoist in 2018 as member of Mangi-Indravelli area committee.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala mulls moving SC against farm Bills||Calling for concerted efforts to oppose the controversial farm Bills, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar said on Sunday that the Kerala government had sought advice from the Law Department on the feasibility of challenging them in the Supreme Court. The government has asked the Planning Board to study their impact on various sectors, such as agriculture, fisheries, labour, animal husbandry and dairy development, Mr. Sunil Kumar said on Sunday. The Planning Board has been directed to submit its report by September 30. He hinted that the Kerala government would seek the cooperation of like-minded States, such as Punjab, in opposing the Centre’s “unilateral decision”. Though ‘Agriculture, including agricultural education and research, protection against pests and prevention of plant diseases’ falls in the State List as per the Seventh Schedule, the Centre neither discussed the Bills with the States nor heeded their concerns, he said. The legislation serve only the interests of corporates, Mr. Sunil Kumar added.  Kerala is moving to introduce an alternative mechanism to strengthen the agriculture sector using the primary agriculture co-operative societies and with the support of the Departments of Cooperation and Industries, he said.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Orange alert issued by Met Dept. in Kerala||Heavy rainfall is likely to continue in the State till Tuesday under the influence of a low-pressure area which has formed in the Bay of Bengal region. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put 10 central and northern districts on orange alert on Monday given the possibility of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. The districts are Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur and Kasaragod. Yellow alert Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha are on yellow alert, for likely isolated heavy rainfall. No heavy rainfall warning has been issued for Thiruvananthapuram district. With heavy rainfall continuing in central and north Kerala districts, three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) arrived in the State on Sunday for tackling rain-related contingencies. They had been deployed in Wayanad, Malappuram and Thrissur, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) said. On Saturday, two NDRF teams were positioned in Idukki and Kozhikode districts. “The southwest monsoon is very strong in Kerala under the influence of the low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal. On Monday too, very heavy rainfall can be expected,” K. Santhosh, Director, IMD Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said. Advisory to fishermen He advised fishermen not to venture out to sea during the next two-three days as strong winds are expected along the Kerala coast and Arabian Sea regions.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Make ethics code must for all news channels’||The court said the NBA was “toothless” and its penalties hardly a deterrence for channels. The NBA said the News Broadcasters Services Authority (NBSA) should be granted recognition as an “independent self-regulatory mechanism” to receive and deal with complaints.  The orders passed by the NBSA should be made binding and enforceable on the channels. Recognition to the NBSA would strengthen News Broadcasting Standards Regulations, the affidavit said, adding that penalties should be made stringent. Primarily, submission to the NBSA regulatory mechanism should be made mandatory for granting/renewal of uplinking/downlinking permissions by the government. The government should take into consideration any previous orders passed by the NBSA while granting or renewing uplinking/downlinking permissions. Meanwhile, Sudarshan TV, in a separate additional affidavit, urged the court to vacate the stay on its programme. The channel said it will “strictly” comply with the Programme Code and directions of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. The channel referred to NDTV’s 2008 broadcast of a programme anchored by Barkha Dutt on “Hindu Terror” showing a “Hindu saint” with atilak,chillumandtrishul. Sudarshan TV said it was “shocked and pained”. The court is scheduled to hear the case on September 21.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic puts on hold Kashmiri tradition||In rare scenes in Kashmiri weddings this year, the ‘dastarkhan’ (long cloth spread on the floor), saw guests with face-shields and masks holding their own copper utensils around three metres away, as seven dishes were served by ‘Wazas’ (chef) from one utensil to another. Many feel the new culture forced by the pandemic poses a threat to the ancient ‘Trami’. “Affluence attained by locals during the Sultan period, especially during eighth Sultan Zain-ul-Abidin, between 1418 and 1470, saw popularisation of ‘Trami’. Since then, it has become central to weddings, with very minor changes in the sequencing of dishes over the centuries,” Zareef Ahmad Zareef, 73, the Valley’s well-known poet and writer, told The Hindu. Serving of ‘Wazwan’ (array of meat dishes) on ‘Trami’ during weddings was adopted increasingly by the local population during the Sultan period in the 14th century and it became a unique feature. Mr. Zareef fears that the pandemic may wipe off this slice of culture from Kashmir. “During the Afghan rule, people of Kashmir saw Muslims switching from daytime weddings to late-night weddings to escape raids by the unbridled sepoys of the rulers. Eventually, weddings became a silent late-night affair. This pandemic is now threatening to take off ‘Trami’ from the ‘dastarkhan’,’’ he said. “This prolonged pandemic in fact has threatened cultural moorings across the globe and Kashmir is not immune,” he pointed out. For Mr. Zareef, ‘Trami’ epitomised a unique space, which brought down the walls of class and caste divide in society. “In a wedding, ‘Trami’ sees people sitting around and eating from one plate irrespective of their class and caste. It symbolised brotherhood and sharing,” Mr. Zareef said.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Amid fierce protests, RS passes two farm Bills||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar was in the process of wrapping up his reply to the debate when the situation started spiralling down after Mr. Harivansh rejected the demand from the Opposition benches to end the session for the day as per the schedule. The Opposition wanted the Minister to conclude the reply on Monday. Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad also suggested that tradition dictates that the decision to extend the time of the House is not taken on the strength of the numbers but on the basis of consensus. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh, TMC members Dola Sen and Arpita Ghosh marched into the well of the House raising slogans against the legislations. The breaking point came when Mr. Harivansh called out for statutory resolution disapproving the legislation moved by CPI(M) MP K.K. Ragesh. Mr. Ragesh was in the well of the House when his name was called out, but on the directions from the Deputy Chairman, he claims, he ran to his seat. “The rules dictate that even if one member of the House asks for a resolution to be put to vote, it should be,” Mr. Ragesh said. The situation had got out of hand with AAP’s Sanjay Singh and Congress members Rajeev Satav and Syed Naseer Hussain climbing on the table in front of the Secretary General. They were carried away by the marshals. The MPs shot the proceedings on their phones because for many minutes the Rajya Sabha TV went mute and also made sure that the Opposition protests were not shown on the screen. The House was adjourned close to 1.26 p.m. for 15-minutes. When it was reconvened, two rings of marshals protected the Chair. The Bills were passed hurriedly amid the din.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. tables Bill to amend FCRA||The Bill proposes that not more than 20% of the total foreign funds received could be defrayed for administrative expenses. At present the limit is 50%. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Bill further states, “The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010 was enacted to regulate the acceptance and utilisation of foreign contribution or foreign hospitality by certain individuals or associations or companies and to prohibit acceptance and utilisation of foreign contribution or foreign hospitality for any activities detrimental to the national interest and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” “The annual inflow of foreign contribution has almost doubled between the years 2010 and 2019, but many recipients of foreign contribution have not utilised the same for the purpose for which they were registered or granted prior permission under the said Act. Many of them were also found wanting in ensuring basic statutory compliances such as submission of annual returns and maintenance of proper accounts. This has led to a situation where the Centre had to cancel certificates of registration of more than 19,000 recipient organisations, including NGOs, between 2011 and 2019. Criminal investigations also had to be initiated against dozens of such NGOs which indulged in outright misappropriation or mis-utilisation of foreign contribution,” the draft said.
21 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Will resign as deputy CM if MSP is discontinued’||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday said there was no mention of doing away with the minimum support price (MSP) on crops in Centre’s agriculture sector Bills, and that if there is any attempt to discontinue the MSP, he will quit from deputy CM’s post. “The crops of the farmers would be procured on the MSP and they would have the right to sell the crop in the open market if they get high rates ... I will step down from my portfolio if any attempt to discontinue MSP system surfaces,” he said. He made it clear that farmers would get the MSP for crops, and asked them to not be ‘misled’.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Now it's heavy floods from Tungabhadra into Srisailam||After Bhima, a major tributary of the Krishna, it appears to be the turn of the Tungabhadra, another major tributary, to keep the main river course in spate in the upstream of Srisailam project, as the Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast discharge of heavy flood from Tungabhadra dam over the next couple of days with extremely heavy rainfall in the catchment areas. An extremely heavy rainfall of 22.4 cm was recorded in the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Sunday in Augumbe area, the catchment area of Tungabhadra river. “Heavy to very heavy rainfall with isolated extremely heavy rainfall occurred in Upper Tungabhadra Basin, leading to heavy inflows in Upper Tunga and Bhadra dams, and the excess flood is being released to Tungabhadra dam downstream,” flood monitoring officials said. Outflows As a result, the authorities at Tungabhadra dam have started increasing the outflows on Sunday evening and they were around 57,600 cusecs against the inflows of 28,300 cusecs. In the morning, release of water to the river course from the dam was barely 3,000 cusecs.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Set up commission for farm sector’||Former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda on Sunday urged the Union government to set up a permanent commission for the farming sector to continuously look at and work on farmers’ grievances. “The commission should produce a biannual socio-economic audit of the farm sector for Parliament to discuss,” he said in his first speech after taking oath as a Rajya Sabha member. “It is unfortunate that the very first issue I have to take up has to do with farmers and the uncertainty they face. The farmers perceive that the Bills are a precursor to phasing out grain procurement at Minimum Support Price, which would throw them under the mercy of private players and big corporations.” He pointed out that the ordinances were presented as progressive reforms in the agriculture sector during the COVID-19 pandemic and had naturally sown the seeds of doubt as they were issued hurriedly. “Now there is a widening gap between the government and the farmers,” he said. The former Prime Minister was speaking on the three ordinances issued in June and the same Bills before Parliament to be passed. Mr. Gowda, who has always expressed a desire to win electoral politics, is entering his second term in the Rajya Sabha. His last stint was in 1996 when he became Prime Minister. Mr. Gowda took oath in Kannada and in the name of god. The JD(S) nominated him to the Upper House after the party’s member Kupendra Reddy’s term came to an end in July.  It is unfortunate that the very first issue I have to take up has to do with farmers and the uncertainty they face. The farmers perceive that the Bills are a precursor to phasing out grain procurement at Minimum Support Price... H.D. Deve Gowda,member of Rajya Sabha
21 September 2020||News Delhi,||MEA official to attend military talks||India and China are scheduled to hold the 6th round of Corps Commander talks at 9 a.m. on Monday on the Chinese side at Moldo opposite Chushul, a defence source said on Sunday. For the first time, a Joint Secretary-level official from the Ministry of External Affairs will be part of the delegation, the source said. Joint Secretary East Asia Navin Srivastava will be part of the Indian delegation, a second source said. He has been part of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) talks between India-China border affairs. The talks assume importance following the meeting between the External Affairs Ministers S. Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi in Moscow on September 10, where they agreed on a five-point plan for disengagement and de-escalation along the disputed boundary in Ladakh. The focus would be on complete disengagement.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘No classified papers found with Sharma’||Journalist Rajeev Sharma, who was arrested by the Delhi police under the Official Secrets Act, did not have any ‘classified documents’ in his possession. Police seized his mobile, laptop and a draft copy of his book on the Home Minister of India during the raid at his house, said senior advocate Adish Aggarwala, who is representing the journalist. Mr. Aggarwala said Mr. Sharma was arrested on September 14 at around 10.30 p.m., when he was driving on the Rohtak Road in Delhi and at 3 a.m. On September 15, a police team raided his house in Pitampura. During the search operation, police seized his mobile, laptop, passport, I-T files, LIC policies, a draft copy of a book on the Home Minister and other materials. ‘Not a crime’ If the police have found the ‘classified document’ from his possession on the day one and then why did they wait four days to make the public, asked Mr. Aggarwala. "We are not denying that he was working for a Chinese news organisation. The only dispute is the police’s claim that they have found incriminating evidence, which is not true. Many people travel on sponsored trips and that is not a crime,” he added.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||States told to ramp up testing||As COVID-19 cases continued to rise, the Health Ministry has advised the States and Union Territories to take immediate steps to facilitate testing at the earliest by enabling all qualified medical practitioners, including private practitioners, to prescribe a test to any individual fulfilling ICMR criteria for testing. For the first time a record number of more than 12 lakh COVID tests have been conducted in a single day, added the Health Ministry “... the cumulative tests have crossed 6.36 crore (6,36,61,060),” said the Ministry. It added that higher testing leads to early identification of positive cases, and timely and effective treatment. This eventually leads to a lower mortality rate. Meanwhile the country reported more than 94,000 recoveries for two successive days, Health Ministry data said. “94,612 recoveries have been registered in 24 hours. With this, the total number of recoveries has crossed 43 lakh (43,03,043),” said the release.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mandatory service for M.D. students||The Central government has made it mandatory for all students pursuing MD or MS to undergo compulsory posting at a district hospital for three months, starting from the 2020-21 academic session. A gazette notification issued last week noted that “all postgraduate students pursuing MD/MS in broad specialities in all medical colleges/institutions under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 shall undergo a compulsory residential rotation of three months in District Hospitals/District Health System as a part of the course curriculum.” It said, “Such rotation shall take place in the 3rd or 4th or 5th semester of the postgraduate programme. This rotation shall be termed as ‘District Residency Programme’ (DRP) and the postgraduate medical student undergoing training shall be termed as a ‘District Resident’.” The main objectives of the DRP are to expose the students to the District Health System and involve them in healthcare services being provided at district hospitals for learning while serving the citizens, acquaint them with the planning, implementation, monitoring and assessment of outcomes of the national programmes.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Participate in guerilla war to check Op SAMADHAN, CPI-Maoist urges cadre||With five members of CPI-Maoists getting killed in three instances of exchange of fire, the latest in deep forest of Kadamba in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, police stepped up combing operations in northern Telangana region. A 9 mm carbine, a 12 bore firearm and some literature relating to left wing extremism were recovered from the spot in Kadamba forest where two Maoists got killed on Saturday evening. A letter from Maoist Central Committee condemning construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya was also found. While police claimed the exchange of fire started on Saturday evening during searches in Kadamba forest, a statement from CPI-Maoist Telangana State Committee member Bhaskar alias Adellu said it was a ‘fake encounter’. Meanwhile, CPI-Maoist Telangana State Committee secretary Jagan urged its cadre and people to bury Operation Samadhan of the Central government by actively participating in guerilla war. The outlawed CPI-Maoist appealed to its activists, sympathisers and general public to celebrate its 16th anniversary across the country for a week from Monday. It was formed on September 21, 2004 with the merger of CPI-ML People’s War Group (PWG) and Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI). He told its cadre to build a strong base by making guerilla war more vigorous and extensive. Over 100 comrades, including 16 women, lost their lives in this war of people against oppression and suppression in past one year, he said. As part of Samadhan, the Centre carried out attacks in the name of operation Pahar to wipe out Maoists. But the party retaliated by continuing the tradition of sacrifices, he stated. “Revolution suffered a temporary setback in Telangana. The party is striving for a revival in the State,” he said.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Tiger pug marks found near NTPC, Ramagundam||Trails left behind by a tiger in the contiguous forest of erstwhile Warangal and Karimnagar districts have kept forest authorities on tenterhooks for close to a month now, the latest being appearance of the pug marks near the NTPC power project of Ramagundam on Saturday. The movement of the tiger is viewed as significant because the species had disappeared from these parts three decades ago. The big cat visited the NTPC reservoir, probably to drink water after a kill. The feline’s pug marks are said to have been first spotted in Eturunagaram wildlife area, from where it had crossed over to Jayashankar Bhupalapalli district. After making its presence felt there by cattle kill close to Tadicherla and Mahamutharam areas, the animal has apparently moved to Peddapalli district after crossing the Manair dam, where it has been roaming for over two weeks. It has made a second cattle kill in Peddapalli 10 days ago, said officials. Sharing the details, Conservator of Forests, Warangal, M.J. Akbar said the feline is yet to be captured by the camera traps set up by the foresters. Pug marks and kills are the only evidence as of now, of its movements. Experts have been summoned from Kawal Tiger Reserve to track the animal, he said. Educating farmers Efforts are also on to educate farmers from the surrounding villages, and dissuade them from setting up traps for wild boars, as they could inadvertently kill the tiger by doing so. He conjectured that there are three locations from where the tiger might have strayed, namely the Kawal Tiger Reserve or Maharashtra’s tiger zones, or the Indravati National Park of Chhattisgarh. Appearance of tiger in what had been erstwhile Warangal and Karimnagar districts, is a watershed moment for the Telangana forests, as the species had disappeared from these parts about 30 years ago. Though it is not a resident tiger of these parts, the latest instance is proof of the successful conservation efforts by the Telangana Forest Department, and the State government’s Telangana ku Haritha Haaram programme, says Mr. Akbar. “We have rejuvenated the degraded forests, and controlled wildlife poaching. Since we have adopted the grid-based approach for evaluating and replenishing water sources, and started protecting and growing grasslands, the prey base has improved,” he said. However, experts say that for an area to claim successful tiger conservation story, there should be a source population of 20 breeding females in the vicinity. The straying tigers could be spillovers from Maharashtra, where there is an excess population of the big cats.
21 September 2020||KOCHI,||League MPs object to de-listing of martyrs||Four MPs of the Indian Union Muslim League have written to the Prime Minister against the deletion of Malabar Rebellion leaders Ali Musliar and Variamkunnath Kunhamad Haji, and other freedom fighters from the Dictionary of Martyrs of India’s Freedom Struggle. The MPs — P.K. Kunhalikutty, E.T. Mohammed Basheer, P.V. Abdul Wahab, and K. Navas Kani — said the deletion amounted to discrediting their contributions.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,516 persons test positive for infection||With 5,516 more persons testing positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, the State’s tally rose to 5,41,993. At the same time, 5,206 persons were discharged from hospitals after treatment, taking the total number of recovered persons to 4,86,479. The State has 46,703 active cases as on date (including those under home quarantine). The deaths of 60 persons were recorded on Sunday. So far, 8,811 persons have died in the State due to the infection. In Chennai, 996 persons contracted the infection, while 1,263 persons were discharged. Twelve persons died in the city. As on Sunday, 9,706 persons, including those under home quarantine, were undergoing treatment in the city. So far, 1,42,875 of the 1,55,639 persons who tested positive in Chennai have recovered. The city has recorded 3,058 deaths so far, according to a health bulletin from the Directorate of Public Health. Coimbatore, with 568 new cases, recorded the second-highest number of cases in the State. It was followed by Cuddalore (297), Salem (291) Chengalpattu (283) and Tiruvallur (207). The western districts of Salem and Coimbatore each recorded six deaths, while Chengalpattu saw seven. Among the deceased, 51 persons had co-morbidities. While 22 deaths were recorded in private facilities, 38 were recorded in government hospitals. The oldest among the deceased were two 86-year-old men, who died of COVID-19 pneumonia. One of them, from Sivaganga, was admitted to a private hospital on September 14. He tested positive for the infection two days later. He suffered from severe hypertension and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. He had cough and difficulty in breathing for five days, and died on September 19.  The Health Department has temporarily removed a private laboratory in Tindivanam from the ICMR’s list of approved labs for COVID-19 testing. At present, testing is undertaken at 174 centres, including 66 government facilities and 108 private ones.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Construction of bridge across Pulicat lake begins||Residents of the Pasiyavaram, Rahmath Nagar, Edamanikuppam, Edamanikuppam Colony, Vairavankuppam and Sathankuppam fishing hamlets finally have a reason to rejoice. The construction of a two-lane bridge, which will let them cross Pulicat lake safely, has begun. Though funds were sanctioned as early as 2007-08, environmental clearance for the 1.33 km-long bridge was obtained only in November 2018. “Since the island is located in the middle of a reserve forest, the various clearances took time. The contractor also has a lot of stipulations to follow during construction. We will ensure that they are implemented,” an official said. It will take two years to complete the project and will cost Rs. 18.20 crore. “This is a moment that many of us will remember. It will help around 5,000 residents, who are cut off from the mainland,” said Malathi Saravanan, president, Pulicat panchayat. Due to the lack of a bridge, children coming to schools on the mainland usually waded through water. During monsoon, this would not be possible. “Not many can afford to take boats. For all needs, including reaching hospitals, we need a bridge,” said Durai Mahendran, a resident of Pulicat.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM should apologise for supporting farm Bills: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should immediately apologise to the people of Tamil Nadu for his party’s support to the three Bills on agriculture reforms. “Only an apology will justify Palaniswami’s position as a Chief Minister,” he said. In a statement, Mr. Stalin recalled AIADMK Rajya Sabha member S.R. Balasubramoniyan’s speech rejecting the Chief Minister’s six-page statement in support of the Bills. “It is funny that the AIADMK supported the Bill in the Lok Sabha and opposed it in the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Palaniswami should apologise by telling people that he sacrificed the interest of the farmers to save himself and his Cabinet colleagues,” Mr. Stalin said. ‘A safety ring’ The BJP may offer a “safety ring” to the Chief Minister for the next six months on corruption charges, the DMK leader said, adding, “But he cannot escape the people’s verdict”. Accusing the Chief Minister of turning an apologist for the Centre and corporate houses by supporting the three Bills, Mr. Stalin said as a Chief Minister, Mr. Palaniswami’s stand had set a wrong precedent. “A total of 13 political parties, including the allies of the BJP, are opposing the Bills. Only the AIADMK, and three more political parties, are supporting them. Mr. Palaniswami should apologise with folded hands to the farmers, saying that he was left with no option but to support the Bills as he had to protect himself and his Cabinet colleagues from corruption cases,” the DMK chief said. Mr. Stalin said that instead of reading all the Bills carefully before issuing a statement, the Chief Minister had chosen to issue one written by a ghost writer. “It is totally meaningless to say that the Bills will benefit the farmers,” he said. Stock-holding limit Reacting to the Chief Minister’s argument that the removal of the stock-holding limit would prevent corporates from hoarding, Mr. Stalin said it was not just a blatant lie, but a design to support the commercial conspiracies of corporate houses. Mr. Stalin also cited an editorial in The Hindu , “Market failure” , that said, “When Bihar removed the APMC system, markets suffered loss of free revenue, with no significant private investments... Rather than opt for heavy centralisation, the emphasis should be on empowering farmers through State Farmers’ Commissions, to bring out speedy government responses to issues.”
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Criticism should not be misconstrued as opposition’||AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP S.R. Balasubramoniyan, who criticised certain provisions of the farmers’ Bills in the Rajya Sabha, on Sunday said his views should not be construed as the party’s opposition to the Bills. The AIADMK high-command had decided to support the Bills, he told The Hindu, adding that the party had the right to criticise. “It was necessary to criticise all those aspects. I expect the government to act on the lines that I had spoken [in the Rajya Sabha]. I expect the government to ensure that minimum support price (MSP) is given. We have the right to criticise them. I asked what the necessity was of bringing this Bill at this juncture. Isn’t that true? Let them spell it out. What’s wrong with that?” he asked. ‘States’ power restricted’ In the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Balasubramoniyan questioned the need for tabling the Bills during the pandemic and contended that the power of the States would be restricted due to the legislation. Later, he told The Hindu that MSP was necessary for farmers without storage facilities, especially in the Cauvery delta region. The BJP had requested the AIADMK to vote in favour of the Bills since it was not sure of the figures in the Rajya Sabha, he said. The AIADMK accepted this. Though some AIADMK MPs were not available in the national capital, one MP, who had even taken a boarding pass at the Delhi airport, was asked to return to vote in favour of the Bills in the Rajya Sabha, he said. Asked about Mr. Balasubramoniyan’s criticism of the Bills a day after Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami issued a statement in their support, AIADMK spokesperson B. Valarmathi told The Hindu that analysing the pros and cons of any issue during debates, either in the Assembly or during Parliament proceedings, was only routine. ‘Only for publicity’ “It is only natural and routine for members to draw attention to the criticism outside and ask the government to look into them. There is no double standard in this,” she said. To a query on DMK president M.K. Stalin’s statement, Ms. Valarmathi said he was “raising one issue or the other every day only to get publicity in politics without realising the ground reality.”  We have the right to criticise them.. I asked what the necessity was of bringing this Bill at this juncture. Isn’t that true? Let them spell it out. What’s wrong with that? S.R. Balasubramoniyan AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High-level panel to submit its report to govt. today||A high-level committee headed by former Reserve Bank of India Governor C. Rangarajan, which assessed the immediate and medium-term impact of the pandemic on various sectors of the State’s economy, is scheduled to submit its report to the Tamil Nadu government on Monday. The panel’s head is scheduled to call on the Chief Minister and submit the committee’s report, containing recommendations, to the State government. Though Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam announced in the Assembly in February that an expert committee would be constituted to recommend measures to improve the tax-GSDP ratio in Tamil Nadu, the COVID-19 scenario eventually changed the plan. “In the present context, when COVID-19 has posed much more serious economic and fiscal challenges, the expert committee may be requested to examine the fiscal challenges facing Tamil Nadu and the way forward to improve its fiscal position, including the tax-GSDP ratio, as part of its larger brief of suggesting policy measures to improve the economic situation,” a G.O. issued on May 9 by the State had stated. The terms of reference (TOR) of the committee were to assess the overall, immediate and medium-term impact of COVID-19 on different sectors of Tamil Nadu’s economy, including the impact of the lockdown, additional costs and implications due to physical distancing norms, and other precautionary measures. The panel was also supposed to assess short and medium-term opportunities and threats, recommend measures to help the important sectors of the economy to overcome the impact of the pandemic and identify specific reforms that need to be taken by the State to support and promote the growth of important sectors of the economy. Assessing the impact of the crisis on the State government’s fiscal situation and the way forward to improve its fiscal position, while also identifying possible sources of financing and funding for different sectors, were also among the panel’s TORs.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 40 members of NGO arrested for fasting against NEET||Members of Makkal Pathai, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) working for social reformation, were arrested on Sunday as they continued their fast against the conduct of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). M.S. Chandramohan, S. Aravindh, A. Tamizhselvi, R. Aruna, V. Kasinathadurai and K. Geetha, all members of the organisation, began a fast on their office premises at Sri Ayyappa Colony, Virugambakkam, on Sunday last. Other members joined them in phases. Vetriselvi, an office-bearer, said, “Our members were conducting a peaceful agitation on our office premises demanding that NEET be scrapped. Rural and poor students are not able to attend any coaching class by paying a huge amount or clear the NEET... More than 10 students ended their lives owing to pressure. So we want the NEET banned to save the lives of medical aspirants.” On the seventh day of the protest, policemen from the Koyambedu station entered the premises and arrested over 40 persons, along with the six who were fasting. Mr. Chandramohan said, “This is the seventh day of our protest. At 6.30 a.m., the police came and scaled our gates. They beat us and the volunteers who had gathered here.” “We were sitting on our premises and conducting our agitation peacefully all these days. We told the police that we were ready to give up our protest if any government representative met us. All of a sudden, the police entered our premises and removed our members. They also damaged our properties and injured some members,” Ms. Vetriselvi said. Six members were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kilpauk.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PM Kisan: Centre says T.N. took punitive action||The Tamil Nadu government has already taken the required corrective and punitive action in the matter relating to allegations of wrongful selection of beneficiaries in the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) scheme in the State, the Centre informed the Lok Sabha on Sunday. In his reply to a query raised by Congress MP S. Jothimani (Karur), Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar said: “Reports of a wrongful selection of beneficiaries in Tamil Nadu and corrective action taken thereon by the State government were received. As selection/identification of beneficiaries is the responsibility of the State government alone, the government of Tamil Nadu has already taken the required corrective and punitive action in the matter.” Under the PM Kisan scheme, all landholding small, marginal and other farmers are eligible for benefits, subject to certain exclusion criteria, relating to the higher-income strata. Every beneficiary gets Rs. 2,000 every four months. The responsibility of identification of the beneficiaries is “entirely with the State/U.T. governments” as per provisions of the scheme. “Financial benefits are transferred to the bank accounts of the identified beneficiaries as and when their correct and verified data is uploaded by the concerned States/U.T.s on the PM Kisan web portal.” “Data of the beneficiaries, so uploaded by them, undergoes multi-level verification and validation by various agencies concerned, including banks, and only then is the amount released into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries,” he said. Data of the beneficiaries is verified at the time of releasing every instalment. “Further, as per the operational guidelines, verification of 5% of the beneficiaries, on a random basis, is carried out every year,” he added.  Data of the beneficiaries undergoes multi-level verification and validation by various agencies concerned Narendra Singh Tomar Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM inaugurates website for TNSDC||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday launched a website for the Tamil Nadu Skill Development Corporation (TNSDC). The TNSDC also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Ramco Cements to set up a centre for construction and infrastructure. The portal https://www.tnskill.tnskill.tn.gov.in was developed as a multilingual integrated skill analytics and e-governance system at a cost of Rs. 2 crore. “This portal would have a database of beneficiaries, training imparted, recognition of imparting agencies, and ratings, among others,” an official release said. Labour Minister Nilofer Kafeel and Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam were present. The CM also unveiled infrastructure for the Fisheries and Animal Husbandry Departments created in various places across the State at a total cost of Rs. 102.63 crore. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan and Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar were present. Mr. Palaniswami inaugurated a government children home at Kellys at a cost of Rs. 4.4 crore.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Leather exports down 16.8% in August 2020||India’s export of leather, leather products and footwear fell about 16.8% to $356.15 million in August 2020, when compared to $428.16 million in August 2019. However, industry sources said the exports were showing signs of revival. Aqeel Ahmed Panaruna, chairman, Council for Leather Exports, said the August 2020 numbers were about 83% of last year’s exports in dollar terms. “We are pleased with this turnaround as export performance was about 60% in June 2020 and 73% in July 2020 as compared to the same period last year,” he added. Mr. Panaruna pointed out that the industry is confident of achieving 90% of last year’s exports in September 2020. However, he noted that exports during the third quarter i.e. October–December 2020 depended on COVID-19 impact in the overseas market. “As of now, there is increasing demand for casual products and lesser demand for formal products as more people are still working from home, but we are optimistic that once the pandemic situation eases, the overall demand will increase and there will be more opportunities for us,” Mr. Panaruna said. He pointed out business turnaround may take at least six months and hopefully from February 2021 onwards, there might be further improvement provided a second COVID wave does not hit the countries. Mr. Panaruna said the industry should be prepared for unexpected challenges.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||18-year-old ends life||An 18-year-old girl from Sholavaram died in a hospital after she allegedly attempted to end her life at home. The police said the girl, Dharshini, had joined an undergraduate course in a city college and was attending online classes. Her father Giri is a driver and the family lives at Arumanthai in Sholavaram, Tiruvallur district. She reportedly complained to her mother that she found it difficult to understand the classes taken online. The police have registered a case pf unnatural death.  (Assistance for those with suicidal tendency is available at the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)
21 September 2020||CHENNAI:,TAMIL NADU||Former MLA dead||Former Congress MLA S.Sivaraj died due to ill-health at a city hospital on Sunday. Mr. Sivaraj was elected from the Rishivandhiyam Assembly seat on four occasions. He was first elected as Congress MLA in 1984 and later in 2006. In the 1996 and 2001 general elections, he was elected as TMC candidate. He joined AIADMK in 2014 and later moved to AMMK.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police inspector gifts mobile phone to juvenile||As part of efforts to reform a 13-year-old boy who was in the company of two thieves, a police inspector bought him a mobile phone to help attend online classes. According to the Thiruvottiyur police, Alagu Murugan, a lorry driver, complained that three suspects in an autorickshaw had stolen his mobile phone on September 9. After investigation, the culprits, including the juvenile, were caught. After enquiry, the police learned that the boy had accompanied the thieves only because they had promised him food. He also said he was struggling to keep up with online classes because his family could not afford a mobile phone or computer. Thiruvottiyur crime inspector Bhuvaneshwari bought him a mobile phone using her own funds, and asked him to focus on studies.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All norms have been followed: Pachaiyappa’s interim administrator||Denying any violation of norms in the handling of affairs of the Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board, interim administrator P. Shanmugam said the appointment of an assistant professor of Tamil at Pachaiyappa’s College was “cancelled” and not “terminated.” Responding to a report in The Hindu on the recent sit-in protest by the institution’s teachers, the former judge of the Madras High Court said an explanation was sought, and it was proven that the faculty had forged the experience certificate. On the cancellation of the appointment of four principals to colleges under the trust, he said the court had declared their appointment as “null and void” and directed the interim administrator to redo the selection. It confirmed that the process was marred by irregularities and breached the University Grants Commission regulations. It also appointed a former Chief Justice as the Chairman of the selection committee. Senior-most professors were appointed in their place, Mr. Shanmugam said. “Now the matter is pending before the Supreme Court and the status quo order has been passed and hence, the selection proceedings have been withheld,” he added.
21 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC refuses to stay exams for special children||The Madras High Court on Sunday refused to stay the conduct of Class X private examinations for special children, after the State informed the court that all 1,410 candidates with special abilities and 609 scribes had tested negative for COVID-19. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha said they were not inclined to interfere, at the eleventh hour, with the examinations scheduled to be held between Monday and Friday. The judges took the decision following an urgent review petition moved by Balakrishnan Subramaniyan, father of a 24-year-old suffering from cerebral palsy in Tiruchi. His PIL petition was disposed of by the same Bench on September 3. The court had then directed the government authorities to ensure that all special children wanting to write the Class X examinations as private candidates, and their scribes, are subjected to COVID-19 tests at least two days before the examinations. They were also ordered to ensure adherence to physical distancing norms during the examinations.
21 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept., TNAU to study elephant habitat management||Coimbatore Forest Division and Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) will collaborate to study elephant habitat management and mitigation of human - elephant conflict. Study of existing crop patterns, use of organophosphorus compounds in agricultural practices, and restoration of native grasses in traditional wildlife foraging areas are planned as part of the collaboration, said forest department officials. Experts with TNAU will study existing crop patterns in places on the sides of Bhavani river that are adjacent to elephant habitats in Mettupalayam and Sirumugai forest ranges. They will suggest changes in agronomy and cropping pattern to reduce incidents of human-elephant conflict, officials said. Usage of organophosphorus compounds in cropping practices along the Bhavani river areas will be studied by experts as such chemicals could cause chronic random poisoning of wildlife, including elephants. According to the forest department officials, two elephants have reportedly died due to chronic poisoning of the liver, possibly due to long-term raiding of crops applied with pesticides. Developing a protocol to identify native fodder grasses, standardise multiplication techniques to restore native grasses in traditional wildlife foraging areas are also part of the study. I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Coimbatore Circle, and D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, proposed the collaboration with N. Kumar, Vice-Chancellor of TNAU. Mr. Kumar nominated K.T. Parthiban, Dean of Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, to be the nodal person to facilitate the Forest Department with Crop Protection, Agronomy and Forage Crops directorates of TNAU. A web meeting was conducted in this regard earlier this month. The Forest Department officials presented details regarding the crop preferences, raiding pattern of elephants and indirect chronic poisoning due to continuous raiding of farms sprayed with pesticides. They also presented the model grassland restoration work done at Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve and also the general migration habitat usage pattern of elephants to the officials of TNAU.
21 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Four killed as SUV hits two-wheelers near Tiruppur||Four persons, including three of a family, were killed after a sports utility vehicle collided with two two-wheelers at Rangapalayam, near Tiruppur, on Sunday. The Avinashipalayam police identified the deceased as R. Mithun, 17, his sister R. Mershika, 13, and their mother R. Jeeva, 42, from Senthil Nagar near Mudalipalayam junction and P. Singasamy, 47, from Rangapalayam. The police said that Mithun, Mershika and Jeeva were on the way to their home on a scooter with Mithun riding the vehicle. Lingasamy was on his way on a two-wheeler to open his grocery store in the locality. According to the police, the two two-wheelers heading towards Tiruppur were hit by an SUV coming from the opposite side at Rangapalayam on Tiruppur – Kangeyam road at about 6.15 a.m. Madan Kumar, 25, from Pothipalayam near Kangeyam, drove the SUV and he fell asleep at the wheel causing the accident, said the police. He was on the way to Kangeyam after a long drive from Chennai, they added. While Lingasamy and Mithun died on the spot, Jeeva and Mershika suffered serious injuries. They died on the way to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. The Avinashipalayam police arrested Kumar.
21 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Government job portal placements high in Coimbatore region||S. Sindhuja, a 27-year-old ITI student at Uthamasolapuram in Salem district, joined an engineering firm for Rs. 8,000 montly salary last month. She is yet to write the final year examination for ITI in Computer Operator and Programming Assistant course because of the COVID-19 spread. But, she was in dire need of a job to support her six-year-old daughter and mother. Her teacher at the ITI asked her to register on the government website for jobs in private firms (www.tnprivatejobs.tn. gov.in) and she did so. She got a call from Aerospace Engineers, which is located just 15 minutes from her house. Ms. Sindhuja attended the interview and received the appointment letter from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami last month. “I got the letter on August 14 and joined work on August 17,” she says. Sindhuja is among the 422 people in Coimbatore region who have found jobs through the government portal since its launch in June this year. A. Latha, regional joint director (Employment), told The Hindu that the region, including Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and the Nilgiris districts, has 455 employers and 12,721 job seekers registered on the website. As many as 11,339 vacancies are open at the registered industries from this region. The profile of the jobs offered is wide, right from software engineers and marketing personnel to jewellery designers and helpers. The candidates include those who have completed class VIII to technically skilled personnel. “A team of officials verify the details of employers before they are registered on the portal. Registration is free of cost to both, the employers and the job seekers. With the data base available online, candidates can look for jobs in any part of the State and private companies have access to details of a large number of applicants,” she says.
21 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Sub-stations to be shutdown for maintenance once in three months: Tangedco||The Tamil Nadu Distribution and Generation Corporation (Tangedco) will implement shutdown of sub-stations for maintenance once in three months. According to an official, shutdown planned for this month will be implemented and a new schedule will be worked out soon. Usually, the shutdown is planned on working days. Further, Tangedco has started informing consumers directly on their mobile phone regarding the shutdown. The information is 98 % accurate. A project is going on in this regard and will be completed shortly. Minor errors in the information shared will also be rectified. Consumers can update the mobile number data with the Tangedco. In a communication dated September 18, the Director (distribution) of Tangedco had said that shutdown of sub-stations for maintenance works can be taken once in three months and before doing so, the official concerned should plan the works that should be carried out and pool the required staff for it.
21 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held with 1.4 kg ganja||The Sulur police, on Saturday, arrested a 28-year-old man on charges of possessing 1.4 kg ganja. P. Rajkumar, a native of Kuttathupatti village in Dindigul, was arrested by the police with the contraband at Thennampalayam. Police seized a scooter from him. He was produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. Boy found dead in well A 15 year-old boy from Mettupalayam died allegedly after he fell into a well in his neighbourhood. Police said that Savesh Kumar, a class X student from Annur Road near Mettupalayam, drowned in a well in the farm belonging to a person named Mohanakrishnan. Kumar’s father Veerasamy told the police that the boy left home on a bicycle belonging to his friend late on Friday and did not return. Veerasamy found the bicycle near a well on Saturday morning and informed the Fire and Rescue Services personnel, said the police. Fire brigades, who reached the spot found the boy dead in the well.
21 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Form special unit to check terrorists’ infiltration’||Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam wanted the State government to form a special unit headed by an officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police to monitor possible infiltration of terrorists in the guise of migrant workers in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts. Mr. Subramaniam told presspersons here on Sunday that India was seeing an increase in terrorism activities and the arrest of nine Al-Qaeda terrorists by the National Investigation Agency from Kerala and West Bengal on Friday attested the same. Aadhaar card According to him, many Bangladesh citizens infiltrated to Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts and obtained Aadhaar and ration cards
21 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||135 bird species, 118 butterflies recorded during survey in Erode||In the first-ever ‘Bird and Butterfly Survey’ held in Erode Forest Division, an impressive 135 bird species and 118 butterfly species were recorded during the survey held recently. A total of 50 participants, including naturalists and forest officials, carried out the survey with the support of The Nature and Butterfly Society (TNBS) that followed a defined and structured survey methodology to record the species present. V. Naganathan, Chief Conservator of Forest and Field Director of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) said that the assessment was planned in similar lines to the regular surveys that are held at Sathyamangalam and Hasanur divisions that fall under the STR. “The division adjoins the tiger reserve and assumes greater significance on the broader wildlife management, especially tiger protection”, he said. “Survey result shows healthy number of birds and butterflies which proves that the closer and stricter forest management are helping to sustain the eco-system”, he added. Among the birds recorded, 13 belong to the water birds, six belong to the raptors, six belong to the owls and nightjars and the rest 110 belong to assorted families of birds. Most dominating species are Spotted Dove and Malabar Parakeet. Other birds sighted are Red and Painted spurfowl, Green Imperial Pigeon, Sirkeer Malkoha, Jungle Nightjar, Crested Treeswift, Barred Buttonquail, Black Eagle, Brown Fish-owl, Indian Grey Hornbill and Grey Wagtail. Among the butterflies recorded, 10 belong to swallowtails, 21 belong to the whites and yellows, 37 belongs to the Nymphalidae family, 33 belongs to blues and judies and 17 to the Skippers. Butterflies such as Dingy Lineblue, White Four-ring and Common Grass Yellow are found in abundance. Other sightings were Southern Birdwing, Common Jezebel, Dark Wanderer, Glassy Tiger, Rustic, Bamboo Treebrown, Monkey Puzzle, Red Pierrot, Golden Angle and Moore’s Ace. Vismiju Viswanathan, District Forest Officer, Erode Division, said that the survey would be conducted regularly during summer and winter to study multi-seasonal variation and to arrive at a baseline checklist data for the division.
21 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Erode district exceeds loan target of Rs. 500 crore to MSMEs||Under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS), the district surpassed the loan target of Rs. 500 to Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and sanctioned Rs. 524.63 crore so far, said Collector C. Kathiravan. To overcome the economic distress caused by COVID-19 pandemic, the Central Government launched the scheme, ECLGS, which enables 100% collateral free loans to MSMEs. Every eligible MSME gets a pre-approved sanction limit upto 20% of loan outstanding as on February, 29, 2020 which is in the form of additional working capital term loan. The MSMEs can commence production, undergo expansion, install new machinery and utilise the fund for working capital. He said that steps were taken through the Lead Bank and District Industries Centre for lending loan under this scheme to all the eligible MSMEs who have already availed loan with the banks. During the Chief Minister’s visit to the district on July 17, 8,329 MSMEs had availed loan under the scheme for Rs. 349.81 crore. During interaction with industrial associations, the Principal Secretary to Government, MSME Department, fixed a target of Rs. 500 crore loan under this scheme for the district. “Effective interactions were held with industrial associations and bankers regularly,” he added.
21 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Class VIII student immolates self in Erode||An eighth student of a government higher secondary school at Bungalowpudur allegedly committed self-immolation after bolting the room from inside in her house on Sunday. According to police, the deceased took the extreme step after her father scolded her for using mobile phone frequently. Bungalowpudur police sent the body to the Government Hospital at Gobichettipalayam for post mortem. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai told The Hindu that a suicide note was recovered and based on a complaint from her father, a case under Section 174 of CrPC was registered. Those with suicidal tendency can contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 for counselling.
21 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode residents want UGSS work expedited||Discharge of untreated sewage into Kalingarayan Canal through Konavaikkal drain continues to be a major concern for the farmers and residents. They have urged the Corporation to expedite the Underground Sewerage Scheme (UGSS) work to stop the discharge. Following the National Green Tribunal directions, the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board carried out a study on the polluted stretches of River Cauvery in various districts in 2018. The study found that four sewage canals in the Corporation limits were discharging 21 million litres per day (MLD) of untreated sewage into the river, while five MLD was disposed into Kalingarayan Canal through Konavaikkal drain at Vendipalayam. Sewage from households and industrial effluents entered the drain at Konavaikkal and mixed with the Kalingarayan Canal. “Water from Kalingarayan Canal irrigates over 10,000 acre from Vendipalayam to Kodumudi. We have been using the polluted water for farming for over 50 years now,” said Kandasamy of Parisal Thurai. According to the residents, foul odour emanated from the drain round the clock and during rainy season, the water from the overflowing drain entered the houses. Corporation officials said UGSS was being executed in the area and after completion, it would prevent drain water from entering the canal.
21 September 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Central govt. award for Andankoil East panchayat||The Andankoil (East) panchayat in Karur district has won the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar (DDUPSP), a national award recognising the best-administered village panchayats. The village, located on the periphery of Karur town, has around 7,000 households. From implementing solid waste management to tax collection, it was certified as a well-administered village. The award carries a citation and a cash prize of Rs. 15 lakh. The local body is among six village panchayats in the State to have received the award. According to officials in the District Rural Development Agency, Andankoil panchayat scored excellent marks under various heads like proper maintenance of accounts, effective grievance redressal mechanism, creation of own sources of income, regular conduct of gram panchayats, introduction of own schemes, drinking water supply, road infrastructure and effective solid waste management, among others. COVID-19 constraints After studying and scrutinising the proposal submitted by the Andankoil panchayat, the Central government adjudged it to be a well-administered local body. Due to the situation arising out of COVID-19, the Centre, instead of conducting an award distribution function, sent the award and certification to the respective village panchayat presidents. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami congratulated K. Shanthi, panchayat president of Andankoil (East), on winning the award. Along with the heads of the other five award-winning panchayats, Ms. Shanthi called on the Chief Minister in Chennai.
21 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two teachers felicitated||Members of Madurai Public Relation Officers’ Federation (MPF) honoured Aruna Kumari, Principal, TVS Matriculation School, and Vijaya Sundar, Principal, Mahatma Montessori Matriculation Higher Secondary School, here on Saturday. They were among 14 teachers from the district, who had recently won the State government’s Dr. Radhakrishnan award. J. Murali, president, MPF, said it was a recognition for the efforts made by the teachers to educate the students even amid a pandemic. He felicitated their husbands for supporting them. Both teachers said the recognition would motivate them to work harder. MPF secretary S.G. Ramanathan welcomed the gathering and treasurer K. Sivagnanam proposed the vote of thanks.
21 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police receive forged letter from ‘Tahsildar’||Keelavalavu police have registered a case of cheating and forgery against a lorry owner on charges of having sent a letter to the police station as if it was sent by the Tahsildar of Melur. Police said that a truck with three units of sand was seized in June under Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulations) Act for illegal mining. The truck, along with sand, was parked on the police station premises. Meanwhile, a letter in the name of Tahsildar-Melur was received by the police station in which the ‘Tahsildar’ had recommended the police to dump the stolen sand on the police station premises as there was no space on the taluk office. When the police checked the veracity of the letter with Tahsildar, it was revealed that it was forged. “It was a ploy by the truck driver to dump the heavy load of sand on the ground so that the truck and tyres would not get damaged under the impact of the sand weight,” a police source said.
21 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Critical surgery performed on pregnant COVID-19 positive patient||A team of doctors from Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Centre treated a 36-year-old COVID-19 positive patient who was seven months pregnant but lost her child in her womb a week ago. Consultant and emergency physician N. Uwaraja, who initially handled the case, said the woman was a doctor herself. “After she lost movement in her womb, she was referred to the hospital and was immediately treated for COVID-19. Since her platelet count was very low, a high risk surgery had to be performed to remove the deceased foetus to save the mother,” he said. A C-Section surgery lasting an hour was performed by a team of doctors led by Kavitha Gandhi and critical care physician Varun Ramamoorthy. “The patient is recovering. We have given her a psychiatric opinion because of the loss. Since she being a doctor, she could understand the problem well. The surgery proved to be a challenge as it was performed despite a drop in the platelet count,” he said.
21 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gangster held in Madurai||In a major catch, Madurai City Police arrested notorious gangster Vellai Kali (31) of Keeraithurai on Sunday. A police source said that it was a joint operation by the City Police and the sleuths of Organised Crime Intelligence Unit. The police said that Vellai Kali was leading a gang against former Corporation Zonal Chairman V.K. Gurusamy, and was involved in few cases of murders that were committed due to gang rivalry. Vellai Kali is a relative of another former Corporation Zonal Chairman Rajapandi.
21 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two found dead||In a suspected case of hit-and-run, two persons were found dead on Alagarkoil Road near Kallandiri on Sunday night. The police identified the deceased as C. Pachchai, 26, of Poigaikaraipatti and M. Thavidan, 60, of nearby Amanthurpatti. Police said Pachchai should be riding the motorbike and Thavidan could have been a pedestrian. Thavidan’s body was found lying in a nearby canal with head injuries. A vehicle could have hit both of them and fled the scene, the police said.
21 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Supplementary exams to start from today||As many as 3,679 students will writesupplementary exams for Classes VIII, XI, XII and Diploma in Elementary Education (DEE) examinations in Madurai district, from Monday till October 7. Class X private candidates will also take the exams. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said the exams will be conducted at 31 centres in the district. Seventy teachers would be deputed as invigilators. All the exam centres had been completely disinfected. Students must wear face masks and undergo thermal scanning before entering the exam halls, Mr. Swaminathan said. Among those writing the exams would be 35 differently abled candidates, of whom 27 students had requested for scribes to write the exam. “COVID-19 tests have been conducted for the differently abled candidates and their scribes with the help of the Health Department,” Mr. Swaminathan said. S. Mariappan, a parent of a special child from Mallapuram of Peraiyur taluk, said that safety of the students at the exam centres should be paramount, in the wake of the spread of COVID-19.
21 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four boys held for sexual harassment of girl||Four boys have been arrested under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, in a village near Palamedu. Police said the boys, in the age group of 12-14, sexually harassed the 8-year-old girl while playing with her in the locality. The girl’s mother found the girl crying at home on her return from work on Wednesday. When she inquired with her, the girl told her mother that the neighbourhood boys had taken her to a house and sexually harassed her. Based on the complaint from the mother, Palamedu police inquired the boys, who admitted to having committed the crime, Samayanallur Deputy Superintendent of Police Anantha Arokiya Raj said.
21 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Last date extended||Madurai Kamaraj University has extended the last date for distance education mode students to apply and remit fees from September 1 to 30. The exams were scheduled for April but deferred due to COVID-19 pandemic. A press statement said that in view of the difficulties faced by students in terms of the pandemic, the last date had been extended. It was likely that this exam too may be conducted online instead of being held at local centres, just like the current semester examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate students. The exam schedule will be announced shortly.
21 September 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Delay in completion of road project irks public||The long delay in completion of Nagapattinam-Thanjavur strengthening project has caused consternation among the travelling public and the trading community in Nagapattinam-Tiruvarur belt. The first tender was issued during 2009 to convert the about 80-km stretch into four-lane carriageway. The tender was finalised in 2015 and the project was to have been completed by December 2017. But, the concessionaire abandoned it midway. During this year, the NHAI had called for tenders four times, but in vain. “The contractors are reluctant as they want a revision of rates. Though a four-lane carriageway was envisaged, the public are now constrained to settle for the two-lane road with paved shoulders. But, the contractors are not prepared as they say rates offered by NHAI are not viable,” M. Selvaraj, Member of Parliament representing Nagapattinam constituency said. There is an apprehension among the contractors that revenue generation through toll will not be sufficient due to the increasing use of East Coast Road by tourists visiting the places of religious importance in Nagapattinam district, sources said. The contractors believe that movement of vehicles will be high only at times of festivals and not all through the year. Vast stretches of the existing road have suffered extensive damage warranting immediate attention. Car drivers often complain of the damage caused to the chassis due to the presence of large potholes. Meanwhile, functionaries of Opposition parties in the district recently threatened to conduct agitations if the road work does not resume at the earliest. “We have already urged the NHAI to revise the rates in the interests of the travelling public,” Mr. Selvaraj said.
21 September 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||New Govt. Arts College at Kuthalam to begin soon||The new Government Arts and Science College proposed for Kuthalam in the recently-created Mayiladuthurai district will start functioning shortly with five Under Graduate programmes. The preparatory work for the start of the college are progressing at a swift pace. The new government college will obviate the need for students in Kuthalam to travel to Mayiladuthurai or Kumbakonam for higher studies, officials said. The college will offer B.A. Tamil Literature, B.A. English Literature, B.Sc. Mathematics, B.Sc. Computer Science, and B.Com, to begin with, State Textiles Minister O. S. Manian said on Sunday. Accompanied by the Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education, Thanjavur, Usha, the Minister inspected the site identified for establishing the new college. The Principal of Kumbakonam Government Arts and Science College, Gunaskaran, will hold the additional charge in the new college, Mr. Manian said.
21 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not indulge in IPL betting’||Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan has warned of stern action against those indulging in betting during IPL cricket matches here. In a release, Mr. Ganesan said that IPL matches have been scheduled between September 19 and November 10. People should not bet on the teams or players through online or middlemen and get cheated. He urged the public to inform the police if they have any information on such betting.
21 September 2020||P.A. NarayaniMadurai,TAMIL NADU||With rains on the horizon, civic body begins desilting exercise||Madurai Corporation has started desilting and clearing garbage from channels and stormwater drains across the city, ahead of the north-east monsoon. City Engineer S. Arasu said work on clearing garbage is under way at a few channels. “From Wednesday, the work of desilting stormwater drains, channels and rainwater harvesting structures built in low-lying areas will be taken up in full swing,” he said. During the recent rains in the city, there were instances of waterlogging in several areas, including Thavuttu Santhai, near Periyar bus stand, Vilakkuthoon and Race Course Road. Ramesh, an employee of a shop selling electronic goods on West Masi Street, said rainwater entered into their shop following a downpour in the first week of September. “Rainwater also entered into a few other shops on the same street that night. The entire area was waterlogged due to the absence of stormwater drains,” he said. Water also gets stagnant near Periyar bus stand whenever it rains, said S. Palanikumar, an autorickshaw driver. “But the new stormwater drains that are constructed on Town Hall Road- West Veli Street junction to direct water flow into Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple tank ensures that water does not stagnate for long near railway junction any more,” he said. The City Engineer said they have proposed to construct stormwater drains on West Masi Street and connect them to the temple tank off Town Hall Road. The rainwater harvesting structures that were constructed in waterlogging-prone spots of Race Course Road, Tamil Sangam Road and near Palanganatham are inefficient in draining the rainwater, say residents. “The problem can be addressed by desilting the rainwater harvesting structures,” said J. Rajith Kumar, a para-athletic coach. But, around 10 rainwater harvesting structures constructed in Jaihindpuram last year by the residents and the Corporation have reaped benefits, said T. Nagarajan, president of Jaihindpuram Residents’ Welfare Association. “The groundwater level has significantly risen in nearby areas,” he said. A Corporation official also stressed that residents must refrain from dumping garbage into the channels.  We have proposed to construct stormwater drains on West Masi Street and connect them to the temple tank off Town Hall Road S. Arasu City Engineer
21 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry to use socio-economic profiling data for COVID-19 prevention||The Puducherry administration will use socio-economic profiling data from the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) to target vulnerable sections for COVID-19 prevention efforts. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, who took a COVID-19 status briefing from Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner A. Anbarasu and Health Secretary T. Arun, said the DRDA had carried out extensive social mapping of vulnerable groups in rural villages. An exhaustive document mapping vulnerable households of each village is available under the DRDA’s Puducherry State Rural Livelihood Mission, and this could be an invaluable resource for driving prevention programmes. Block-level data points The survey provides block-level data points, such as households with elderly members (aged above 65) or the number of households with daily wage earners and migrants, to indicate COVID-19 vulnerable households. “A similar mapping will be replicated in urban areas by the Local Administration Department for a close watch on the mapped vulnerable households to contain the spread of COVID-19,” Ms. Bedi said. “The document was already available, but it was hibernating. Now, it is already in implementation in rural areas,” she said. Based on vulnerability mapping and the training given to SHGs, the surveillance standard operating procedure (SOP) would be fine-tuned, in consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for field-level monitoring. The SOP would be shared with doctors, outlying regions and other stakeholders, the Lt. Governor said. In coordination with the police, the resident welfare associations would be co-opted for surveillance by auxiliary nurse-midwives and Accredited Social Health Activists. They should carry oximeters and thermal scanners for identifying symptomatic patients. On the reduction of fatalities, officials of the Joint Enforcement Team and field officials would be made aware of the penal provisions for home quarantine violations and the provisions of the orders issued under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act for symptomatic persons to go for early treatment and seeking cooperation of the public to respond to field-level functionaries. The Director-General of Police would shortly frame the SOP for the team. The government recently notified a fine of Rs. 1,000 for violating isolation norms and Rs. 500 for violating quarantine norms. Protocol to be in place A protocol for clinical interventions to reduce the death rate, based on the ICMR’s recommendation, would be put in place. It was also decided at the meeting to frame a plan to rationalise ambulance timings to commute patients to screening centres and hospitals in order to minimise the time for a patient to get admitted for treatment. In Mahe, it was decided to ramp up testing capacity to over 300 samples a day. The bed strength would be increased to a minimum of 1,000. The Ayurveda College would be converted into a Covid Care Centre. Since the General Hospital was handling COVID-19 cases, the PHC would be converted into a non-COVID hospital.
21 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Ten deaths push toll to 458 in U.T.||The COVID-19 toll in Puducherry rose to 458 on Sunday with 10 more deaths while 471 new cases took the overall case load to 22,923. The capital accounted for all the deaths. The patients, including six women, were in the 30 to 88 age range. The case fatality rate remained at 2%, higher than 1.61% at the national level. There were 4,909 active cases while 17,556 patients have so far been discharged, including 347 in the last 24 hours. The recovery rate was 76.59%. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said in a release that new cases were detected from 4,675 samples tested. Puducherry accounted for 345 cases, Karaikal 101, Yanam 16 and Mahe nine.
21 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘80% of COVID-19 patients treated at govt. hospitals’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday said 80% of COVID-19 patients were treated at government hospitals across the State, and 75%-80% of COVID-19 tests were carried out at government laboratories. Speaking to reporters in Pudukottai, Mr. Vijayabaskar said government hospitals had been doing commendable work during the pandemic. The medical fraternity at government hospitals would be duly honoured by the Chief Minister at the appropriate time, he said. Necessary infrastructure had been created at government facilities in preparation for any eventuality, he said, adding that due to continued measures of the State government, the number of active cases had been brought down to under 10%. RT-PCR tests were being conducted to ensure that no infected person is left out. Stating that the fleet of 108 ambulances had been augmented, the Minister said 450 vehicles had been exclusively earmarked for the transportation of COVID-19 patients. Over 2.5 lakh COVID-19 patients had been transported by 108 ambulances across the State for treatment, he said. A software is being developed to identify the exact location of 108 ambulances by using Android phones. He said a new call centre, too, would soon be established in Pudukottai. The Minister gave away appointment orders to persons who would man the call centre.
21 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister to visit Ramanathapuram||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will visit the district on Tuesday. In a press release, Collector K Veera Raghava Rao said the CM would launch a number of completed projects. He will also review the COVID-19 virus situation with senior officers, doctors and other stakeholders. He will give away welfare assistance to beneficiaries under various welfare programme.
21 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||3 held for smuggling turmeric||P Malayandi (46), Jayakumar (48) and Balathin (63) of Thoothukudi were arrested on Sunday on the charge of smuggling turmeric and sea cucumber to Sri Lanka. The marine police, who spotted an unregistered fibre boat stranded at Kundukaal near Pamban on Saturday, interrogated them. It came to light that the three were carrying sea cucumber and turmeric in 22 bags stashed in the boat. Further investigation is on.
21 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Bid to burgle ATM in Salem||An unidentified person attempted to burgle the ATM of a nationalised bank near the Steel Plant here on Sunday. However, no money was stolen from the machine, police said. The monitor panel and wires of the ATM were found damaged. Steel Plant police have collected CCTV visuals from the premises. Further investigation is on.
21 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers demand withdrawal of farm Bills||Members of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Pathukappu Sangam staged a protest near Jalagandapuram here on Sunday demanding withdrawal of the recently proposed Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmer (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill. They said the Bills were anti-farmer and demanded the Centre to withdraw them. They also expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting against the farm Bills in Punjab and Haryana.  Coimbatore Special Correspondent adds:  Palat Vijayaraghavan, founder and CEO of the Nilgiris-based Lawrencedale Agro Processing (LEAF), said in a press release that the Indian agriculture system is traditionally caught in the problems of low productivity. The three Bills related to agriculture sector deal with the aspect of mandis, the multiple intermediaries and increased leverage of corporates. The Bills aim to empower the farmers to directly sell to the buyers without going through the mandi or the intermediary. It will bring in transparency and responsibility to the mandi operators. The intermediaries are an all-encompassing strong stake holder in the agriculture sector. They bring in demand to the farmers and to a major extent supports farmers in liquidating the harvest. LEAF has been working with multiple existing stakeholders. The new Bills will give new impetus to the many corporates who are looking to directly engage with farmers. The responsibilities lie with companies such as LEAF to ensure that they take all stakeholders forward, he said.
21 September 2020||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Principal gets award||M. Nandakumar, Principal, Arasan Ganesan Polytechnic College, Sivakasi, has been awarded the inaugural AICTE-Visvesvaraya Best Teacher Award for 2020. He is one among 12 teachers who won the award, of which three are from Tamil Nadu. Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank honoured the award winners in a virtual ceremony held on September 15. The award comprises citation, medal and cash prize of Rs. 25,000. Mr. Nandakumar did research in ‘Green printing-environmental management in offset printing’ for his doctorate from Anna University in Chennai. He proposed eco-friendly Palm Oil Methyl Ester (POME)-based vegetable oil ink as a substitute for petroleum-based oils for producing offset printing ink.
21 September 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture Bills are anti-farmer, will benefit MNCs, says Maniarasan||Describing the agriculture-related Bills brought in by the Central government as anti-farmer, P. Maniarasan, coordinator, Cauvery Urimai Meetpukuzhu, on Sunday alleged that they would only benefit multinational companies and corporates. Addressing the media, he said it was disheartening that the Centre was showing undue urgency in passing the Bills. Opposition parties were denied the opportunity to register their protest during the passage of the Bills in the Rajya Sabha, he added. Mr. Maniarasan felt the legislation would ultimately drive farmers out of their landholdings and force them to quit agriculture gradually. In spite of unfavourable conditions, nature’s fury and an unpredictable monsoon, agriculture and farmers, in general, had thus far been given protection to some extent by way of the minimum support price. With the new laws, the Centre was planning to do away with MSP for paddy, wheat and other produce, he said. “There is also a threat of the disbanding of the Food Corporation of India. There may be no procurement of paddy and wheat,” Mr. Maniarasan claimed. He said the AIADMK’s expression of apprehension about the Bills in the Rajya Sabha ran counter to the stand taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. It had exposed the double standards of the AIADMK on an important issue, he said. “By supporting the Bills, Mr. Palaniswami betrayed the farmers of the State,” he added.
21 September 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK will split into many factions before Assembly elections’||Predicting splits in the AIADMK in the next few months, DMK propaganda secretary Thanga Tamil Selvan on Sunday claimed that the DMK alone could restore the lost glory of Tamil Nadu in 2021, after the elections. Speaking to reporters after addressing party workers in Andipatti, he charged that the present regime under the AIADMK, led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami was “spineless.” Every sector in the State had been let down by this government. For instance, the conducting of NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) has led to fear among students to such an extent that some among them had committed suicide. “When M. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa were ruling the State, the Centre could not force us to conduct the NEET. Today, in the absence of those leaders, the Union government took us (Tamil Nadu) for granted and hence NEET is being held,” he claimed. Asked to comment on the reported simmering differences in the ruling AIADMK between the Edappadi K. Palaniswami and O. Panneerselvam camps, he said that this is just the beginning. “As the election approaches, we will see more splits,” he added. “They are a confused lot. In the coming days, wordy altercations, happening within their four walls now, may come out to the streets,” he said. Recalling the remarks made against Mr. Panneerselvam by some Ministers, including C. Ve. Shanmugam and R. B. Udhayakumar four years ago, Mr. Tamil Selvan said that in a similar fashion, this would repeat itself. Two days ago, former DMK minister K.N. Nehru also held a meeting with party workers and urged them to be guarded as the ruling party may try to woo voters with money. The DMK cadre had to be vigilant and keep them away, he said. However, Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar told reporters in Madurai that the AIADMK had fulfilled all the promises made by Jayalalithaa in 2016. The party would again retain its seat at Fort St George. “The 2021 election would be the beginning of the end for the DMK...” he said.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Indiscriminate chopping of trees has environmentalists up in arms||Chopping of trees along Amma Mandapam Road by unidentified people has angered environmental activists in the city. The trees, planted as part of a beautification drive undertaken by the State highways was purportedly removed as it caused inconvenience to residents. At least four trees in front of an apartment on Amma Mandapam Road were cut off at the behest of residents. It was a violation of norms, said K. Neelamegam, Secretary, Thanneer, a voluntary organisation. “The State highways, around five years ago, undertook ‘Project Treechy’ to add greenery to the highways roads. These residents have felled the trees without understanding its value,” he said. Mr. Neelamegam said that the authorities, including the State highways, must take action on the violators. “The residents of the apartment said that they hired men to chop the trees as it was interrupting their power supply and the area in front of the apartment was being misused,” he said. He recommended that those who ordered the felling of the trees must be penalised heavily and must be asked to plant at least 10 trees in its place. He also urged the district administration to set up a complaints redressal committee or a helpline to address similar complaints. Meanwhile, a senior official of the state highways department, which maintains the trees, said that he will enquire the matter and would take necessary action accordingly.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees 661 new cases and four deaths||The central region on Sunday recorded a rise in COVID-19 cases with 661 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The region recorded four deaths- two each from Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts. In Pudukottai, a 56-year-old man suffering from bronchial asthma, and a 68-year-old man who had been diagnosed with HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) and chronic kidney disease succumbed to the infection. A 55-year-old man with pre-existing conditions of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome and a 66-year-old man who had been suffering from hypothyroidism died of COVID-19 in Thanjavur. Meanwhile, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of the 162 persons who tested positive, there were three employees of a textiles showroom, a food delivery executive, and four employees of a private hospital. Most cases were detected at the various fever camps held across the district, official sources said. Nagapattinam saw 103 new cases. Among them were primary contacts, ante-natal women and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Pudukottai, meanwhile, recorded 101 new cases, among which were primary contacts and local index cases with no travel or contact history. In Tiruvarur, 96 patients tested positive for COVID-19 while in Tiruchi, 92 fresh cases were recorded. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and people with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Meanwhile, 31 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and seven patients from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Karur recorded 60 fresh cases for COVID-19 including residents from Thanthonimalai, Gandhigramam, and Kulithalai among other localities. In Ariyalur, 36 patients tested positive on Sunday. The patients were inter-district travellers or primary contacts of patients who had tested positive earlier and patients with a medical history of respiratory illnesses. Perambalur recorded 11 cases and crossed the 1500-mark in the total number of cases. Till date, 1,514 persons have been infected in the district. Four of the eleven newly infected persons were from Perambalur, three from Veppanthattai and two each from Veppur and Alathur blocks.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It’s time to improve amenities at Papanasam station||Rail users have reiterated their demand for improving basic amenities at Papanasam railway station falling under the limits of Tiruchi Division at a time when train services have resumed on the mainline broad gauge section. Improvements to platform, installation of coach indication boards and provision of big shelters on the platform are the immediate works that need to be carried out at the earliest by the divisional railway authorities at Papanasam- one of the major religious centres in Thanjavur district, say rail users. One of the oldest railway stations falling along the Villupuram - Thanjavur mainline section, Papanasam is surrounded by many ancient temples. “The immediate need is to improve the platform flooring. The surface of the platform is damaged at several spots making it difficult for passengers, especially senior citizens, while boarding and alighting,” said T. Saravanan, secretary, Train Passengers Association, Papanasam. Several tiles laid on the platform either have got damaged or were in a poor shape warranting immediate attention, Mr. Saravanan, who is also a member of the Divisional Rail Users Consultative Committee, said. The demand has been consistently put forth for over two years now, he added. With the railway administration resuming train services from September 7, the Tiruchi - Chennai - Tiruchi special train is currently being operated on the mainline section with stoppage at Papanasam. The Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi Express is also being operated with stoppage at Papanasam at present. Prior to suspension of train services due to COVID-19 pandemic,other important express trains including the Rameswaram - Tirupati- Rameswaram, Thanjavur - Chennai - Thanjavur Uzhavan and Tiruchendur - Chennai - Tiruchendur expresses used to stop at Papanasam.  Although there was a move to install coach indication boards at Papanasam during the 2016 Mahamaham festival at Kumbakonam, that did not materialise. Absence of coach indication boards makes it difficult for passengers to know the position of their coach forcing them to run towards their respective compartment upon arrival of the train. Mr. Saravanan said the eastern end of the platform towards the Kumbakonam side could be extended adding that the approach road to the railway station was also in a very poor condition. A senior railway official said sanction had been accorded for provision of platform shelter and extension of platform at Papanasam. However, works could not be taken up due to fund constraints, the official added.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Adopt technologies for social impact’||The need to broadbase technology for societal development was emphasised at the 53rd Engineer’s Day celebrations conducted in virtual mode by Tiruchi Local Centre of The Institution of Engineers (India) recently. Addressing engineering faculty and students former director of the Indian Space Research Organisation Satellite Centre Mylswamy Annadurai said innovation was not confined to invention, and that it was about putting the available technology into better use to create value, business and social impact. “Innovate and arrive at self-reliant technology within existing domains,” Dr. Annadurai, who is currently vice-president, Tamil Nadu State Council for Science and Technology (TNSCST), said. Speaking on the role of engineers in creating self-reliant India, he cited India's indigenous expertise in space technology with its own sustainable innovation-driven development strategy. The Government was extending the approach for usage of drones in agriculture farming, utilising modern equipment in dyeing industries to treat wastages, and extracting fibre from banana stem, the space scientist said. As part of the event, A. Balasubramanian Chief General Manager (Commercial and Electrical & Instrumentation) of M/s. Tamilnadu Newsprint and Papers Ltd, Karur, was chosen as Best Engineer for 2020.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Four govt. school students clear JEE Main, courtesy NIT-T||Four government school students have successfully cleared the Joint Entrance Examinations (JEE Main) after being trained by IGNITTE, the teaching club of the National Institute of Technology- Tiruchi. The students - P. Sethupathi and S. Hari Krishnan from Government Higher Secondary School, Lalgudi, Aiysha Siddeequa studying at the Government Syed Murtaza Higher Secondary School in Tiruchi, and S. Pugazharasi of Government Higher Secondary School, Manachanallur, cleared the examinations with 91, 88, 74, 31 percentiles respectively. The club, inaugurated in 2017 seeks to provide accessible resources and free coaching for students in competitive examinations such as JEE and The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test. A 40-member team of first-year students coach the selected students. “Each year, the District Chief Education Officer chooses around 30 students to take part in the training programme after selection tests are conducted,” said M. Venkata Kirthiga, Coordinator-IGNITTE. The process is held as early as July when school reopens for students of Plus Two. The students then undergo training by the students of NIT-T for three or four months. By November, 12 to 15 students are short-listed to take the examinations, Ms. Kirthiga said. “This year, we arranged for accommodation for two weeks on the NIT-T campus in December so that the students and trainers can interact whenever possible,” she said. NGOs help However, the COVID-19 lockdown caused some inconveniences. The IGNITTE club members got in touch with non-governmental organisations and got mobile phones for some of the students so that they could receive coaching. “The students kept in touch through video calls and text messages,” Ms. Kirthiga said. The students will soon go on to learn at many esteemed engineering institutions in the country, Ms. Kirthiga said. “As the trend goes, at least one of them would join NIT-T and we look forward to teaching them,” she said.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Grasping key essentials from an alumna||The ninth batch of PGPBM (Post Graduate Programme in Business Management) 2020-22, IIM-Trichy, had the opportunity to grasp the key essentials for leveraging the programme successfully from none other than an alumna of 2014-17 batch, on Saturday. Addressing the students on virtual platform, Lakshmi Priya, Manager, Rane Madras Ltd. emphasized open-mindedness, sincerity and dedication, trust-worthiness with employer and family members, and ideal work-study-life balance, while citing her learnings at the workplace. The pedagogy, rigour and dedication of faculty will stand the students in good stead, Ms. Lakshmi Priya said. Chief guest Ganesh Mani S, Director – Production, Hyundai Motor India Ltd, specified the need for students to create inflection points in their career. The MBA programme gives a wider view of the business and economic environment. Students learn not just what is to be done, but also the path to be avoided. Reflecting on his experience in the automotive industry, Mr. Ganesh Mani urged the participants to transform into growth drivers. Director of IIM-Trichy Bhimaraya Metri observed that the batch of 50 students with average work experience of 8.5 years, was comparable to other international executive programme batches.
21 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘101 weapons identified for indigenisation’||In the backdrop of stiff opposition by employees of defence production units to the Centre’s move for corporatisation of ordnance factories, the Defence Ministry has unveiled a list of 101 weapons/platforms for indigenisation with specific timelines. To a question raised by Rajya Sabha MP N. Siva in Parliament seeking information on the Defence Ministry’s decision to restrict import under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik, said 101 defence weapons/platforms had been listed to provide impetus to self-reliance in defence manufacturing. The Centre had also specified year-wise timelines with objectives of self-reliance and exports and to transform India as one of the top countries in the world in defence and aerospace sectors. There were 67 defence weapons/platforms in the list, which would be manufactured only within the country with effect from December 2020; 12 items with effect from December 2021; four with effect from December 2022; eight with effect from December 2023; eight with effect from December 2024; and two with effect from December 2025. The Union Minister also said the import embargo entailed increased participation of Indian defence industries, both public and private sectors, in response to Mr. Siva’s query on whether the 101 items would be manufactured by defence ordnance factories or by other private manufacturers. Ordnance factories have been promised that they will have a substantial stake in the defence industrial corridor projects in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. The information provided in Parliament also provides clarity to prospective private investors in the proposed Tamil Nadu Defence Industrial Corridor Project under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan’ (self-reliant India). On their part, private industries already involved in production of components for defence weapons are looking for early fructification of the defence corridor project. The general opinion here is that Uttar Pradesh has taken a lead in giving an impetus to the defence industrial corridor project. Meanwhile, representatives of All India Defence Employees Federation and Indian National Defence Workers Federation Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh had discussions with the officiating Chief Labour Commissioner, Ordnance Factory Board, and representatives of Ministry of Defence recently to discuss the indefinite strike opposing corporatisation planned from October 12.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man causes flutter at police station||A 34-year-old man splashed petrol over himself in a bid to end his life in front of the Pattukottai police station on Saturday. The man, P. Praveen is the son of a retired Inspector of Police and a member of the BJP. Police said Praveen of Valavanpuram had purchased a couple of cars and a motorcycle after obtaining Rs. 15 lakh as loan from a private finance firm. As he failed to pay the EMI, the firm obtained an order from the court to take possession of the vehicles and sought assistance of the police. The Pattukottai police called Praveen for inquiry. Even as he was being enquired, Praveen reportedly said that he wanted to go to the toilet and went outside. He asked his friend who accompanied him to get some petrol and allegedly splashed it on himself. A constable who noticed it raised an alarm and he was prevented from setting himself afire. As he complained of a burning sensation in his eyes, he was taken to hospital. Sources said Praveeen was the BJP Thanjavur south district youth wing secretary. A case has been booked against him under IPC section 309 (attempt to commit suicide). Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two die as car rams tree||Two persons died and a woman sustained injuries after the car they were travelling rammed a tree along the Tiruchi - Chennai national highway at Mangalamedu in Perambalur district on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as Lakshmikanthan (41) and Vishnukumar (34) both of Chennai. The injured woman P. Diana (45) was also from Chennai. The three were proceeding towards Madurai from Chennai in the car which was being driven by Lakshmikanthan. Police said Lakshmikanthan apparently lost control and the vehicle veered towards the end of the road and rammed a tamarind tree. While Lakshmikanthan and Vishnukumar died on the way to the hospital, Diana was referred to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital at Tiruchi.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man falls from electric post dies||An employee of Golden Rock Railway Workshop here died after falling from an electric post inside the workshop premises while on duty on Sunday. Railway sources identified the deceased as P. Vairam (57), a junior engineer attached with the power house at the workshop. Sources said Vairam climbed the electric post near the east gate for maintenance work when he slipped. He was rushed to the Railway Hospital where the doctor declared him brought dead. The Golden Rock Police have registered a case under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 90.09 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 12,161 cusecs and the discharge was 18,000 cusecs.
21 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown tomorrow||There will be a power shutdown in the under-mentioned areas served by Tiruvanaikaval sub-station from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on September 22 (Tuesday). This is in view of maintenance works being undertaken. Tiruvanaikaval Sannidhi Street, Vadakku Ulveethi, Therku Ulveethi, Othatheru, Seenivasa Nagar, Nariyan Sgtreet, Nelson Road, Ambedkar Nagar, Panchakarai Road, Arul Murugan Garden, A.U.T. Nagar, Raghavendra Garden, Gandhi Road, Trunk Road, Kumbakonam Salai, Siaram Nagar, M.K.Pettai, Chennai Bypass Road, Kallanai Road, Keelakondayampettai, Nadukondayampettai, Jambukeswarar Nagar, Akilandeshwari Nagar, Periyar Nagar, Akila Nagar, Ganapathi Nagar, Veereswaram, Venkateswara Nagar, Thagore Street, Tiruvennainallur, Ponnurangapuram, Tiruvalarcholai, Pannayapuram, Uttamarseeli, Kilikoodu, and Bikshandarkovil, a press release from TANGEDCO said.
21 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||134 new cases in Kanniyakumari||Kanniyakumari district reported 134 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday to have a case tally of 11,786. A total of 155 people were discharged from hospitals in the district, which has 637 active cases. Tenkasi district’s tally went up to 6,794 with the addition of 91 cases. There were 31 discharges from hospitals. Three were 637 active cases. Tirunelveli and Madurai districts registered 86 fresh cases each. Tirunelveli has a total of 11, 815 cases, with 1,025 active cases. There were 103 discharges. Madurai district’s tally went up to 15,878. It recorded 135 discharges from various treatment facilities. One person succumbed to the viral infection, taking the death toll to 378. The number of active cases dropped to 710. Thoothukudi district recorded 83 fresh cases, with which its tally rose to 12,858. There were 73 discharges, and the district has 779 active cases. Dindigul district reported 82 fresh cases, which took its case count 8,386. Hospitals discharged 113 patients, and there are 587 active cases. Sixty-one people tested positive in Sivaganga district, which marked a tally of 4,799, with 277 active cases. There were 34 discharges. Theni district had 53 new cases, with which its tally rose to 14,220. A total of 105 people were discharged. Virudhunagar district registered 47 fresh cases to have a tally of 14,031, with 302 active cases. Forty-nine people were discharged from hospitals. The district has an overall death toll of 207. Four devotees, who had gone to offer prayers at Sundaramahalingam Temple on Sathuragiri hills, tested positive. “We tested 1,222 devotees between September 15 and 18. One each from Sankarankoil, Theni, Tiruvannamalai and Sivakasi tested positive,” said Ramganesh, Deputy Director (Health Sevices), Sivakasi. Ramanathapuram district reported 15 fresh cases, with which its tally went up to 5,378, with 225 active cases. The district registered 53 discharges.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||568 more test positive in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district’s COVID-19 tally reached 25,914 on Sunday with 568 more persons testing positive for the disease. The Health Department on Sunday said that six more persons died of COVID-19 in the district in the last three days. Four patients aged 60, 76,60 and 55 died of the disease at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Friday and Saturday. Two patients who were undergoing treatment in a private hospital and the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital succumbed to the disease on Sunday and Saturday. The death toll of the district stood at 382. As many as 488 persons got discharged from treatment centres in Coimbatore district on Sunday. Tiruppur district recorded 169 new cases. As many as 1,803 patients from the district were undergoing treatment as of Sunday. The Health Department said that two more persons from the district died of COVID-19 on Friday and Saturday. While a 63-year-old man from Tiruppur died of the disease at CMCH on Friday, a 48-year-old woman from the district succumbed to the disease in a private hospital in Coimbatore on Saturday. The district's death toll increased to 95. On Sunday, 124 persons who recovered from the disease got discharged from different treatment centres. A total of 291 cases were reported in Salem district. According to officials, 279 cases were indigenous including 144 in Salem Corporation limits. 12 patients have returned from other districts like Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal and Thiruvanamalai. Seven patients affected with COVID-19 disease died at private and government facilities in Salem. Health officials said a 80-year-old woman, and two men aged 84 and 63 died at private hospitals on Saturday. Four patients died at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Erode district reported 148 new cases taking the district’s tally to 5,427. A total of 122 persons were discharged on Sunday while 1,076 persons continue to be under treatment. Three persons died, taking the district’s tally so far to 70.  In Namakkal, 131 cases were reported. 25 patients have returned from other districts like Erode, Coimbatore, Salem, Karur, Tiruchi, and Hosur and three have returned from Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. In Krishnagiri, 112 indigenous cases were reported. 136 indigenous cases were reported in Dharmapuri. In the Nilgiris, 130 persons tested positive. This is the highest recorded spike in the number of cases over a 24-hour-period recorded in the district, so far. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stands at 2,968. The death toll in the district has increased from 17 to 19 on Sunday with 666 people currently under treatment.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||It is not a ‘smart’ situation for government school teachers||Postgraduate teachers in government and government-aided schools, particularly those handling core subjects, say it is tough to determine the academic progress of students under the existing framework of activities. They feel that the concept of online teaching holds no relevance to their students as many do not have smart phones. And a handful who do cannot afford the cost towards data. Connectivity problem is another issue. Two months ago, class X and XII students had digital content uploaded to their laptops at school. They are required to utilise it as reference material and follow the lessons taught by subject experts in the government-owned Kalvi television channel. The role of the teachers is to keep track of their progress through formation of section-wise WhatsApp groups. “The problem is that the students are not responsive. There is little we can do when students say they do not have smart phones,” a teacher said. The School Education Department’s reported move to reduce portions has added to the discomfiture. “There is no certainty that the portions handled so far will not be axed from the syllabus,” says a senior science teacher. Also, bright students will be at a disadvantage when they appear for entrance exams for admission to professional courses, the teacher adds. Yet, teachers under pressure to complete the portions have no clue how to go about it without classroom sessions. “In any case, teachers will have to go through the portions right from the start when classes resume. As things stand, holding quarterly examination does not seem possible,” a headmaster said.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Birders in Salem welcome migratory birds||Birding enthusiasts in Salem have stuck posters in various parts of the district welcoming migratory birds. Members of Salem Ornithological Foundation have affixed posters at various places in the district welcoming migratory birds like Common Sandpiper, Grey Wagtail, Greenish Warbler and other species. The birding enthusiasts have stuck the posters to create awareness among the public about the importance of conserving ecosystem. Two young members of the organisation, M.R. Sri Brindha and M. Sahaya Bershiya stuck the posters on Yercaud Ghat Road and they were greeted by curious travellers to the hill station. S.V. Ganeshwar, a member of the organisation said, “we have stuck posters celebrating the arrival of migratory birds as they help in maintaining the ecosystem here. These birds migrate here from as far as Central Asia and some parts of Europe. Some bird varieties migrate here from the Himalayan region. The birds migrate during October-March and return to their breeding grounds. Some birds migrate in September. The birds migrate due to optimum temperature and for food. However, there are no evidence of species breeding here.” He added that the posters have been provided with QR codes and while scanning, the public could get details of birds recorded in Salem and their details. The birding enthusiasts have stuck the posters within Salem City limits, Tharamangalam, K.R. Thoppur, Vazhapadi and a few other places.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Garment exporters see potential in US market||With China showing a declining trend in apparel exports, India has substantial potential to expand its share in the global market, especially the US, according to garment exporters. Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of Indian Texpreneurs Federation, said international buyers started shifting sourcing of garments from China a year or so back and these orders are moving to Vietnam, Bangladesh, India, etc. However, now, it is evident that several enquiries are moving out of China. “Nearly 80 % of garment exporters in Tiruppur focus on Europe. They need to use the opportunity in the US as there is a level-playing field there,” he said. “Due to Covid implications, the overall US apparel imports dropped 30% in the first seven months of 2020; while their import of Chinese apparel dropped 49 %. Moreover, the news about recent US actions in terms of trade restrictions on Chinese apparel and other products from one of the major textile regions - Xinjiang - leads to a notion that it will accelerate the trend further,” he said. This trend is likely to create a $10 billion opportunity in the US market in the apparel segment for other countries, including India. He urged the exporters to make use of the opportunity. “We should capture orders for $ two billion to $ three billion in a year. Awareness among exporters should improve on the potential available,” he said. Indian home textiles is a success story in the US. Garment manufacturers are facing increasing price pressure in the international market. They should start looking at future risks and opportunities. The US is a potential market as the buyers are looking for alternative sourcing destinations and US imports from China are declining, Mr. Dhamodharan said. Raja Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters’ Association, added that enquiries received by garment exporters in India are encouraging and there is huge potential because of the anti-China sentiments among global buyers. Indian exporters need to create confidence among the international buyers on quality, timely delivery and consistency in the quantity shipped. The government and the industry should work together to upskill the existing workforce and to improve quality. “If we work on these, we have a bright change to improve apparel exports to all destinations,” he said.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stone idols found in field near Budalur||A stone idol of Dwarabalakar  and the upper portion of a lingam ,  believed to be of Chola period, have been found in an agricultural field at Kamadevamangalam in Nandhavanapatti near Budalar in the district. A farmer, Kamarajar, who owns the land, first discovered the lingam while tilling the land, when his plough hit a hard object. The lingam without its lower portion is about two-and-a-half foot in height from the ground, according to Mani. Maran, Tamil Pundit, Saraswathi Mahal Library, Thanjavur, who visited the field on being alerted by local history enthusiasts Buddhar, Jayapal, Ramamurthy, Saravanan and Kannaiyan. On inspection of the site, Mr. Maran and others found a small portion of a stone idol protruding from the ground about 15 feet away from where the lingam was found. Removing the mud around the structure, they found it to be an idol of a Dwarabalakar. “The idol is about five feet in height and its hands and legs are found to be damaged. But the face is beautifully sculpted with the teeth exposed in a smile. As the idol was buried deep, we could not fully excavate for fear of damaging it. The idol with clear artistic features of the Chola period and the lingam belongs to 10th century C.E.,” Mr. Maran told The Hindu . Dwarabalakar sculptures are usually found outside the sanctum sanctorum of temples. Though there is no temple in the immediate vicinity, a temple could have existed there in ancient times. Further excavation can lead to discovery of more idols including another Dwarabalakar and lower half of the lingam , Mr. Maran said.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flood warning issued||The Coimbatore district administration on Sunday issued flood warning to residents of a few villages living along River Bhavani bank in Mettupalayam taluk. Sources said as the water flow in the river stood at around 11,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs), the administration asked residents of Sirumugai, Chikkadasampalayam, Odanthurai, Jadayampalayam and Thekkampatti to stay alert. The administration also sounded the siren at the Vana Bhadrakaliamman temple. Water level rises in Siruvani Water level in the 49.50-foot Siruvani Reservoir crossed the 44.50 feet mark following good rain in the 24 hours that ended 8 a.m. Sunday. The rainfall recorded in the reservoir catchment was 175 mm, sources said. In Coimbatore, Cincona recorded the maximum rainfall – 104 mm.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||Traffic snarls have become commonplace in Madurai. The city has no scope of widening the roads and traffic rules are flouted with impunity, especially by two-wheeler riders. There is a lack of self- discipline among the public and jumping of traffic signals has also become common. Unregulated share autos, buses and lorries have added to the chaos. The authorities must take action to weed out these issues. S. Bala, Madurai     There are many college and school students in A. Vallalapatti. These students are attending online classes in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. They face problem due to weak network connection, particularly of the BSNL. The problem should be sorted out soon. M. Mohamed Sheriff,   The Mavur dam in Dindigul district, maintained by the Public Works Department, supplies water to the nearby waterbodies which in turn meet irrigation needs of farmers. However, growth of plants at the spillways affects the water flow. Also, plastic water bottles and bags are thrown into the dam. The PWD must take steps to desilt the dam to ensure maximum storage and maintain the dam. M. Sainithii, Madurai     Power supply is erratic in Kottaram in Kanniyakumari district, the result of which people are unable to do their everyday chores without interruption. I request the Tangedco to set right this problem. K. Chelliah,    Nowadays it is a common sight to see wall posters of advertisements on the compound walls of government office buildings, as seen at Panagudi Primary Health Centre and Sub-Registrar Office. The authorities punitive action against the parties involved in such defacement of public properties. G. Muthuramalingam,    There has been an increase in the number of roadside shops that sell fruits, vegetables, snacks and refreshments along the banks of Putheri in Nagercoil in Kanniyakumari district. This has gone unchecked and shopkeepers and the public nonchalantly throw waste into the lake, posing a threat to the environment. Also, people park their vehicles in a haphazard manner causing traffic snarl. The authorities must take steps to address these issues. B. Nagalingam Pillai, Nagercoil
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Parents have the main responsibility to cultivate the mindset of their wards to accept failures also. In the context of suicides by some students due to fear of failure in NEET, students must be taught to build confidence and believe in their talent and to keep trying hard to score well. Students performing well in their school examinations can as well secure good scores in NEET. Dimple R. Mohan Sangiliyandapuram    The priority for vocational education in the National Education Policy is laudable. The concept of learning by doing will be of help to youngsters in rural parts in particular. As Swami Vivekananda had said, vocational education is what would enable people to stand on their own legs. In Japan and Australia, for instance, children acclimatise themselves to industrial culture and managerial skills early on in their lives, bolstered by the upkeep of dignity of labour. R. Pichumani Thippirajapuram    Constraints faced by differently abled students have to be factored in by State universities before going about conducting final semester exam. The new rules permit students who are unable to upload their answer scripts through mail or through the university portal to submit the same at the nearest arts and science college within two hours after finishing the exam. It is very difficult for such students to reach the nearest government colleges within the stipulated time. M. Raja Tiruchi    With COVID-19 hindering the academic process, efforts have to be directed at enhancing the quality of education by fine-tuning the syllabus such that the students do not lag in common entrance tests like NEET. Unlike in other States, Tamil Nadu do not have CBSE schools in large numbers. Sadly, students in Tamil Nadu hae been pushed behind in terms of communication /critical thinking skills. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram    Though surprising, some of the higher educational institutions solely depend on student scholarships to fund their education. While it is laudable that the government spends a lot on educational scholarships, it should restrict tuition fee waiver to less than 50% of total strength of admitted students per academic year. A mix of students studying with and without scholarships is what provides a diverse atmosphere for progress. R. Ganesan Tiruvanaikoil    As the Tiruchi- karur road is being widened, the Police department has to enforce speed limit strictly to prevent accidents. Violators should be fined heavily. S. Prakash Tiruchi    Differently-abled people are permitted to travel with free passes issued by State public sector undertakings by producing requisite documents. Not many know that validity of the passes had ended on June 30. In the interests of these people, the Transport department must announce extension of time till January 1, 2021 for updating their passes for availing utility of free travel. V. Srinivasan Thiruppanandal    No provision for drinking water has been made at No. 1 Tollgate in Trichy District. For the last couple of months, the water has not been replenished in the tanks. Commuters face difficulty in quenching their thirst. M. Periyamalaiyan Karattampatti    The government should open up temples without restrictions. Now that the lockdown has been relaxed and people are seen moving around everywhere. Wearing of masks and adherence to other safety aspects will add to the spiritual ambience. T.M. Ranganathan Srirangam
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private schools accuse State govt. of double standards||The decision to not allow students to visit schools till the end of the month, even to get their doubts cleared, has not gone well with a section of private unaided schools, who have accused the State government of double standards. Managements questioned the government’s decision given that its Vidyagama scheme — a continuous learning initiative in government schools — encourages student-teacher interaction. “If government and aided schools can conduct classes through the Vidyagama scheme, why can’t private schools adopt a similar model after taking all precautions and reducing the number of students,” asked D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka. Many managements accused the government of step-motherly treatment towards unaided schools. B.R Supreeth, secretary, Oxford Institutions, said that though private schools were conducting online classes they were not as effective as physical classes. “Students have doubts on various issues and they should be allowed to visit their teachers to get them clarified. We are not demanding complete physical classes,” he said. He urged the government to at least allow high school and PU children to come to schools. “Most private schools have adopted all precautions against COVID-19 and we will strictly adhere to the SOPs,” Mr. Supreeth added. A faculty from a private school said that the government should not consider only private schools in urban areas while framing rules. “There are hundreds of private schools in rural areas as well where access to the Internet and electricity is a problem. We are well past mid-September and it is in the best interest of students that they slowly start returning to school to get their doubts cleared,” said the teacher. Many schools were expecting students to come in as the Centre had said they could visit teachers to get their doubts clarified from Monday. However, the State government on Friday announced that in view of the surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State, students should not come to school till the end of the month. C.A. Ramesh, principal, Suma Public School, said that they had spent a lot of money fumigating and disinfecting the premises in anticipation. “The State’s last minute order has hit us hard,” he said.  If government and aided schools can conduct classes through Vidyagama scheme, why can’t private schools adopt a similar model after taking precautions and reducing the number of students.D. Shashi KumarGeneral secretary, Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surveillance up to tackle drugs being sent via post, courier||The Customs officials at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) discovered recently a foot massager that did not quite look right. Their suspicion was proven right when they found MDMA pills worth Rs. 1 crore concealed in it.This week, another man was caught while he was trying to peddle drugs. He allegedly admitted that he would courier drugs disguising them as prasada . Ever since the spotlight has fallen on the drug menace in the city, more so with the alleged involvement of the Kannada film industry, investigating agencies are looking more closely at the channels being used to peddle drugs — prominently post and courier services. Sources in the Central Crime Branch (CCB) and the Narcotics Control Bureau said that one of the modus operandi unearthed is of drugs being sent via post or courier with a wrong address. “They will inform the local postman or courier person to call them once the parcel arrives so that they can collect it from there and escape being tracked,” said a CCB official. In July, the policeunearthed an organised narcotics ring where disc jockeys (DJs) at two prominent pubs in the central business district allegedly procured drugs through the dark Web and peddled them in the city and other metros. The modus operandi involved a parcel with a contact number being delivered to a post office. The postman would call the number, and agents of the accused would pick up the parcel. In December last, four employees of the Postal Department were arrested in connection with an international drug racket as they were allegedly handling drugs from foreign countries in nexus with local peddlers. The police had recovered drugs worth Rs. 20 lakh, including 339 ecstasy tablets, 10 grams of MDMA crystal powder, and 30 gram of brown sugar, which they received in parcels from the Netherlands, Canada, and the U.S. ‘Measures in place’ Sharda Sampath, Chief Postmaster General, Karnataka Circle, told The Hindu that they had been given “a series of confidential instructions” to counter the problem. “Our foreign post office staff have been trained as well. All articles meant to go abroad are routed through this channel and the Customs officials are also there to run their checks. In the office of exchange, every article needs a declaration the customer is expected to give, and if there is a suspicion, they detain the articles accordingly. Once the cooling off is over, we give a go ahead,” she said. Private courier companies too said they are exercising due diligence. “We are scanning all the items, like we always do, which ensures that we can see if anything is hidden too. There is another round of scanning at the airport too,” said a staff member of a popular courier company.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CCB arrests ‘dealer’ known to Vaibhav Jain in drug racket case||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), probing the drug scandal involving party organisers and actors, has arrested another alleged drug peddler, Srinivas Subramanian. “He is known in these circles as ‘Sri’. His name cropped up during recent investigations,” said CCB sources. The team recovered 13 ecstasy tablets, 100 grams of ganja, 1.1 grams of MDMA, and 0.5 gram of hashish from him. Srinivas is allegedly a close associate and business partner of Vaibhav Jain, another accused in the case who has been arrested. According to the police, Sri owns properties on the outskirts of the city, where Vaibhav often organised parties during the weekends. He also allegedly organised narcotics for these parties. “One of the actors presently in judicial custody had frequented Sri’s flat from where the CCB sleuths recovered narcotics. The actor was in touch with Sri and his wife and had visited the flat three or four times in the last couple of months,” sources said. Meanwhile, the bail applications of the two actors — Ragini Dwivedi and Sanjjanaa Galrani — will come up for hearing at the Special NDPS Court in the city on Monday. The court had adjourned the hearing till Monday after the public prosecutor sought a week’s time to submit objections. The CCB is likely to oppose bail to the two actors, said an official. Drug seizures While the CCB is probing this case, the city police are following up on the special drive against narcotics. The Bengaluru police arrested three peddlers in two cases at Byadarahalli and Kalasipalyam and seized 6.2 kg of ganja worth Rs. 3.2 lakh. Investigations are on to ascertain the source. Acting on a tip-off that a person was trying to sell ganja near a college at Angadheeranahalli, the Byadarahalli police conducted a raid and arrested Chandan Thakur, 24, and Mukhesh Singh, 25, both hailing from Rajasthan and residents of the city. The police recovered 5 kg of ganja worth Rs. 2.5 lakh from them. In another case, an auto driver who was allegedly selling ganja at Kalasipalyam near Tipu Palace was arrested on Saturday evening. He has been identified as Vijay, 24, said the police, who recovered 1.2 kg of ganja, worth Rs. 70,000, from him.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Panel mulls allowing relatives to visit patients in hospital for short duration||In the interest of the psychological health of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 and admitted to hospitals, the COVID-19 technical advisory committee (TAC) in Karnataka is deliberating allowing relatives to visit patients for a short duration after following elaborate safety measures. The move comes two days after the Rajasthan government issued an order that allows attendants in PPE kit to visit patients in hospitals and even provide them with home-cooked food. A source in Karnataka’s TAC said they had observed that many of the COVID-19 patients in hospitals were mentally disturbed with the isolation and would require emotional support. Based on this, they want to introduce visiting hours at COVID-19 wards. Mental health “Some of them spend close to 15 days in the hospital and we are sure their mental health will improve if they meet and interact with their friends or family. They will, however, be allowed to visit only for a few minutes,” a source in the committee said. However, the experts have said that the modalities of these visits will have to be chalked out to ensure that all precautions are taken so that the attendants do not pick up the infection from the hospital. “Hospitals will have to exercise this option to needy patients. We will lay down the standard operating procedure of how the PPE kits will have to be used, the distance they maintain and also tell them to not touch any surfaces in the wards,” the source said. A doctor who works in a city-based hospital and is on COVID-19 duty said: “Even once this option is given, not everybody will be keen to use it as they will have elderly people or those with comorbidities that they come in contact with. But it is a good move and keeps the best interest of patients in mind and it needs a lot of planning.”
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP Bill unlikely to be tabled in this session||The much-discussed Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Bill is unlikely to be tabled in the State legislature during the session starting from Monday. P.R. Ramesh, MLC and member of the Select Committee constituted to finalise the Bill, told The Hindu that discussions and deliberations were far from over. That apart, some of the provisions proposed in the Bill were contrary to those under the 74th Amendment of the Constitution. “We have pointed out some gross violations and mistakes in the Bill. These have to be examined legally to ensure there are no ramifications later,” said Mr. Ramesh. Some of the provisions that have been questioned are the appointment of zonal commissioners to head the zonal committees as well as appointment of social workers as nominated councillors. The former Mayor claimed that appointment of zonal commissioners defeats the purpose of local self-government. He also stated that the chairman of the zonal committee should ideally be a council member and voter in the council. “A bureaucrat cannot head the zonal committee.” The Speaker had extended the term of the Select Committee, he said, and added that members were of the opinion that public consultations must be held. “The committee has agreed to have public consultations. The Bill may be notified for the same by the committee shortly,” he said. Retired bureaucrats, non-governmental agencies, and residents’ welfare associations must be allowed to give their views on the proposed Bill, he added. The committee is examining all sections and provisions of the proposed Bill, keeping in mind the existing problems in the city, especially lack of coordination among the various civic agencies. “We are also looking at improving multi-level participation, strengthening ward committees… all this to preserve the city’s brand globally and within the country,” he said. Despite repeated attempts, chairperson of the committee S. Raghu was not available for comment. Incidentally, it was Mr. Raghu who had earlier said that the committee would table the Bill in the Assembly in the next session.The term of the BBMP council ended on September 10.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seizure of immovable properties of tax defaulters proposed||Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad has recommended adopting certain provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, to collect pending property tax from defaulters. Under the KMC Act, the civic body may only seize movable properties of tax defaulters, that tooafter issuing three notices. With pending tax running into several lakhs, auctioning of movable assets seized does not cover the entire amount, he said. He has now proposed to adopt certain provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, that allow seizing of immovable properties of tax defaulters. The proposal has been placed before BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta in the absence of an elected council. The administrator is expected to write to the Department of Urban Development in this regard. Property tax is one of the major revenue sources for the BBMP. Though the civic body sets a target of collecting Rs. 3,500 crore from the 19 lakh-odd properties under the tax net, it falls short each year.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) leaders hit back at Siddaramaiah||Janata Dal (Secular) leaders, including former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, on Sunday hit back at former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah for calling the JD(S) an “opportunist party”. “Siddaramaiah, who jumped to the Congress in the greed for power, has displayed his true colours by calling the JD(S) an opportunist party. The JD(S) need not learn self-respect from Siddaramaiah, who deserted it after enjoying power and position in the party,” Mr.Kumaraswamy said taking to Twitter. In another tweet, he said, “The State knows how you, as Congress Chief Minister, openly stated that the Congress should be destroyed. The public expression of an internal feeling shows how selfish and confused apolitician you are.” “Deve Gowda stepped down from the post of Prime Minister out of self-respect. If he chose to, he could have continued [to remain in power]. Did you forget this self-respecting politics so quickly?” he said, adding that the JD(S) has always responded to the grievances of people when in power. Meanwhile, former Ministers and JD(S) legislators Sa.Ra. Mahesh and C.S. Puttaraju tweeted slamming Mr. Siddaramaiah. Another former Minister, Basavaraj Horatti, also criticised the former Chief Minister.
21 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Human chain formation||On the occasion of World Alzheimer’s Day on Monday, Nightingales Medical Trust and ARDSI, Bengaluru Chapter, will be organising a human chain in support of persons with dementia. DemKonnect, a free dementia care app, will also be launched, a release stated.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man stabbed to death||Unidentified assailants stabbed a man to death in Pattalamma Layout, Kadugodi, on Sunday. The police have identified the deceased as Rajesh, 35, a resident ofthe same area and an employee of Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd.. He was attacked by unidentified bike-borne men near his house while he was walking on the road in the afternoon, the police said and added that he died on the spot.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior citizen attacked||A senior citizen was stabbed in the neck by two youths over a property dispute at Yeshwantpur on Saturday night. The victim, Huliyappa, 77, a retired teacher, is being treated at a private hospital. His condition is said to be critical but stable, according to the police. Around 8.30 p.m., a youth came to the retired teacher’s house asking if he could rent the cellar in a building owned by the latter. As Huliyappa let the youth into his house, another man barged in. The two attacked Huliyappa with a dagger and stabbed him in the neck. The duo fled from the scene as Huliyappa screamed for help. Neighbours alerted the police and then Huliyappa was taken to a hospital. The victim identified his attacker as Sohail, son of Wazir to whom he has rented out a plot of land in the APMC yard to run a scrap business, the police said. According to the police, Huliyappa has been asking them to vacate the land for the past four months. The police have detained Sohail’s accomplice Rajesh, who posed as a prospective tenant.
21 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KPCC inducts LGBT activist||The Congress requires workers from the grassroots and not those who roam around leaders, KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said on Sunday. Speaking after inducting LGBT activist and founder of Ondede Akkai Padmashali here, he said those who grew from the grassroots were those who would become leaders. He also said that Akkai Padmashali was not an asset of the State Congress alone. “She is going to be the asset for the party at the national level. She has not come alone but brought the entire community with her.”
21 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Teachers stage protest in support of demands||Teachers from different institutions staged a protest in Dharwad on Saturday in support of their various demands, including providing grant-in-aid to private unaided institutions established after 1995 and filling vacant posts. Staging the demonstration under the aegis of the Dharwad District Unit of Karnataka Rajya Madhyamika Shala Noukara Sangha in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner in Dharwad, the teachers urged the Chief Minister to withdraw the order on withholding recruitment to various posts in schools under the austerity measures due to COVID-19. The teachers said that they were already facing several problems. Led by the former Minister Basavaraj Horatti and heads of various mutts and management boards of educational institutions, a memoranda had been submitted to the Chief Minister and Primary and Secondary Education Minister seeking remedial measures, they added. Their other demands include abolition of New Pension Scheme and resumption of the earlier system, implementation of the recommendations of the Basavaraj Horatti-led committee on notional increment and extending Jyoti Sanjivini scheme to the staff of aided schools. The former MLA N.H. Konaraddi, who participated in the agitation, said that a meeting under the leadership of Mr. Horatti has been called on September 26 at Lamington High School in Hubballi to chalk out the next course of action, including launching a State-wide agitation.
21 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Procurement centres set up for green gram, black gram||The Kalaburagi administration has set up 64 procurement centres across the district for the purchase of green gram and black gram under the Minimum Support Price (MSP) scheme for 2020-21. The Minimum Support Price for green gram is Rs. 7,196 a quintal and for black gram Rs. 6,000 a quintal. The district administration provides for buying four quintals of green gram and six quintals of black gram from each one of the farmers. Of the total 64 procurement centres, 16 are in Chittapur taluk, 14 in Aland taluk, nine each in Sedam and Chincholi taluks, six in Kalaburagi and three centres each in Afzalpur and Jewargi taluks.  The district administration provides for buying four quintals of green gram and six quintals of black gram from each one of the farmers
21 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two footwear shops gutted in Kalaburagi||At least two shops were gutted after a fire broke out at Chappal Bazaar locality in Kalaburagi late on Saturday night. The fire was noticed at 11.30 p.m. when all shops had been closed. The exact reason for the fire is not yet known. Fire tenders that were rushed to the spot, took two hours to put out the flames.
21 September 2020||KALABURAGI/BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Man washed away in Kalaburagi||A man who tried to cross a ferocious stream with his bike at Shrichand village in Aland taluk was washed away on Sunday. He was later identified as Hanamantha Bodhanawadi, 28. According to the villagers, he fell into the water when his bike skidded. He tried to restart the bike but was washed away in the current. The incessant rains that have been lashing Kalaburagi district for a week continued on Sunday, though with reduced intensity. After almost a day’s break, rains resumed by evening in Kalaburagi city and in Kalagi, Sedam, and Chincholi towns, apart from rural areas across the district. The district has received 123 mm of rain in the past one week, as against the normal of 41 mm. It recorded rainfall of 6.06 mm on Sunday. Many smaller bridges built across Kagina river and its tributaries that had remained submerged for four days, cutting off connectivity between villages and towns, especially between Kalaburagi and Hyderabad, were reopened to traffic on Saturday. The rains on Sunday have, however, brought back the danger of the bridges again going underwater. The villages along the banks of Lower Mullamari in Chincholi taluk, including Tajlapur, Chimanchod, Salagar, Basantpur, and Nagaral, were flooded. Uttaradi Mutt, on the banks of river Kagina in Sedam taluk, continued to be flooded. Large tracts of fields with standing crops such as green gram, black gram, and red gram, have been destroyed in waterlogging and extreme moisture. Rainfall at the Bhima catchment areas and the resultant increased inflow at Ujjani dam in Maharashtra forced the authorities to release more water into the river. As a result, the inflow into the Sonna barrage built across the Bhima in Afzalpur taluk rose, compelling the administration to increase the rate of discharge from 40,000 cusecs to 1.02 cusecs on Sunday through 29 gates. Submerged Heavy rains and water release from Maharashtra led to a few bridges submerging in Vijayapura district as well. The Ahilyadevi bridge over the Bhima on the Solapur-Vijayapura highway was underwater. The bridge at Kasalwada between Sangola and Kasalwada was also submerged. However, traffic was not cut off as commuters used alternative routes. Officials have estimated that around 40,000 cusecs of water was added to the Bhima after about 20,000 cusecs was released from Ujjini reservoir. Bidar received moderate rainfall on Sunday. The district recorded 163 mm of rain in the last one week, as compared to the normal of 54 mm. It received 5.25 mm of rain on Sunday. Of the 124 big tanks in the district, 76 were full as on Sunday. Karanja reservoir held around 3.828 tmc ft of water, as against its capacity of 7.69 tmc ft.
21 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Over 100 people rescued in Udupi city; all provided shelter at relief centres||As temple town Udupi witnessed unprecedented rainfall since Saturday morning, the city administration was on its toes through night and day carrying out rescue operations. “We rescued over 100 people in the city through Saturday night,” Udupi Municipal Commissioner Anand C. Kallolikar told The Hindu on Sunday. A team of officials and staff from the City Municipal Council, the district administration, the police and Fire and Emergency Services departments was engaged in the rescue operations with the Commissioner leading from the front. He quoted elders as saying that the last time they witnessed a similar amount of rainfall and floods was in 1982. As per Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre bulletin, Udupi district received an average of 197 mm rainfall in 24 hours between Saturday morning (8.30 a.m.) and Sunday morning (8.30 a.m.), with Irodi receiving the highest of 449 mm in the State, followed by Kodi with 445 mm and Bommarabettu with 439 mm, all in Udupi taluk. Mr. Kallolikar said that some areas, which had hitherto not heard of floods, including Perampalli, too witnessed heavy flooding because of the heavy and incessant rainfall. While Doddanagudde, which usually witnesses floods every monsoon as it has been developed in a low-lying area comprising paddy fields, resembled an ocean, other areas, including Herga, Kinnimulki, Thenkapete, Beedinagudde, Alevoor, too witnessed heavy flooding. As many as 10 migrant workers staying in low-lying areas between Beedinagudde and Kunjigettu were rescued by a team led by him from neck-deep waters, Mr. Kallolikar said. Similarly, another 10 people who had taken shelter on top of a building near Kalsanka were rescued by the CMC using a crane, he said. The Commissioner said that it was heartening that there was no casualty in the city. The team continued to keep vigil on Sunday night also as rain had not subsided, Mr. Kallolikar added. All the rescued people have been provided shelters at different relief centres.
21 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six of a family in Vitla rescued from chest-deep landslip debris||Heavy rain resulted in landslips in some places in Dakshina Kannada, including in Vitla Pandnur village under Bantwal taluk where six injured persons were rescued, late on Saturday and Sunday. There was water-logging near Surathkal and Mulky. According to Vitla police, Abdullah and five members of his family rushed out of their house in Kodanje Babukatte following a landslip at about 10.30 p.m. on Saturday. But they got stuck in chest-deep debris while rushing out. Their neighbours rescued all of them, including his wife and four children. Abdullah, his daughter Mishria, who suffered a head injury, and the others were admitted to the government hospital in Bantwal later. Members of the Mantra Surf Club rescued 40 persons stranded in Kateel, Balkunje, Mulky and Kilpady areas with the help of rescue boats. Two persons were injured when their house was damaged in a landslip in Saripalla in Mangaluru. A house was partially damaged following landslip in Kulai, Surathkal. There was water-logging in Munchhuru and Bailare, affecting several houses. A part of the concrete road between Neerumarga and Katinja caved in. Part of the guard wall of Pariyadka-Saradka bridge in Poonacha village in Puttur taluk was washed away in floodwaters. According to the district administration, 25 houses were partially/completely damaged in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharath Shetty on Sunday visited the house of Umesh (37), a worker who died in a landslip in Kuluru on Saturday, and presented his wife a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh as compensation from the State government. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Dakshina Kannada district recorded an average rainfall of 136 mm in the last 24 hours ended at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. A maximum of 316 mm rainfall was recorded in Naravi of Belthangady during the period.
21 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Konkan Railway Corporation delivers two sets of DEMU trains to Nepal||Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd. delivered two state-of-the-art 1600 HP DEMU train-sets with modern amenities to Department of Railway, Nepal, on Friday under the guidance of Ministry of Railways. This is under the Union government’s policy, Make in India - Make for World, and is a flagship export of India to find great visibility in Nepal, said a release. KRCL had signed an agreement with Department of Railway, Nepal, on May 10, 2019 to supply two 1600 HP DEMU train-sets. The train-sets have been manufactured at the Integral Coach Factory, Chennai. Each train-set has one Diesel Power Car, one Diesel Trailer Car and Three Trailer Cars, including one with air-conditioning. The train-sets have the latest AC-AC controlled propulsion system. Konkan Railway successfully delivered the two DEMU train-sets to Nepal against an order placed by the Department of Railways, Nepal, for a value of Rs. 52.46 crore. The trains were moved self-propelled from Jaynagar in India to Janakpur in Nepal by Konkan Railway team. The train-sets were received by the people of Nepal along the route and at Janakpur. The DEMU train-sets are planned to be used for passenger services between Jaynagar in India and Kurtha in Nepal.
21 September 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Heavy rain triggers landslip on Padil bypass track||Heavy rain triggered a landslip of about 15 m height and 50 m long on the bypass railway line connecting the Mumbai line (Konkan Railway) and Hassan line (South Western Railway) near Padil in Mangaluru on Sunday afternoon. Fortunately, movement of trains is not affected as the line is a bypass track. Last year’s landslip near this location close to Kulashekara tunnel had completely disrupted train services between the North and the South (Mumbai-Mangaluru-Kerala) for over 20 days. Occurring close to the spot that saw landslip last year near Kulashekara Tunnel, the debris of the landslip have completely covered the bypass line thereby preventing movement of trains. Sources in the Railways said that restoration of tracks by removing the debris might take at least a week. Now, only one passenger train service — Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru Express Special — is running via the Padil bypass line. Consequent to the landslip, trains — goods as well as passenger — on this section have to make a small detour reaching Mangaluru Junction and get their locomotive reversed, before moving towards Hassan or Karwar, as the case may be. Locomotive reversal entails at least 30 minutes. The Bengaluru-Karwar-Bengaluru Express Special (06585/06586) too will run on this diverted route till the track is restored, the sources said. There is, however, no obstruction to trains operating between Konkan Railway and Southern Railway networks, they added.
21 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||60 pvt. hospitals empanelled in Dakshina Kannada||The State government has auto-empanelled 60 private hospitals in Dakshina Kannada under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka health insurance scheme to enable COVID-19 patients get free treatment. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that all these 60 private hospitals are those which are treating COVID-19 patients. “We have left out a few other speciality hospitals as they are not treating COVID-19 patients,” he said and added that with this, the health insurance scheme will be available in a majority of the 95 hospitals in the district.
21 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Land conversion amplified effects’||The effects of the unprecedented rainfall in Udupi taluk since Saturday morning got amplified as the city has come up mainly on paddy fields that were converted into residential sites/layouts, felt senior journalist and writer Rajaram Thallur. Paddy fields, acting as water-holding and groundwater recharging places, have gradually declined giving way to residential houses and layouts over the years. Clogged storm-water drains too contributed to flooding which the city had not heard of in the recent past, he said. Admitting that land conversion for residential purposes had contributed to flooding, Udupi City Municipal Commissioner Anand C. Kallolikar said that the civic body had removed silt from the Indrani rivulet as well as storm-water drains in 35 wards ahead of monsoon. “This work to remove silt from the rivulet has saved us major havoc,” he told The Hindu .
21 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Students get tips on how to face UPSC||Blocking two years of one’s life for complete and dedicated preparation, restricting use of smartphone, minimising human interaction, and keeping targets for studying. These were some of the tips senior IAS officer and Secretary to Government of Karnataka Manivannan P. gave on “How to face UPSC”. Though a few brilliant candidates clear the UPSC in a single attempt, others take five to six attempts. But, Mr Manivannan, while participating in The Hindu EducationPlus Career Counselling Digital Conclave on Sunday, said two years of dedicated study is required for an “average, intelligent and committed” person to clear the exams due to the vast syllabus involved. “From the moment you decide to give a sincere attempt to clear UPSC, you will have to reserve two years completely for the purpose. You can’t have two or three goals like winning a tennis tournament or getting selected for the cricket team. Do not do anything else apart from focussing on UPSC,” he advised the aspirants while pointing out that they will be pitted against candidates who are “extremely brilliant, committed, sincere and hard-working”. Cautioning the aspirants about the use of smartphone, Mr. Manivannan said engagement on social media is an extremely time-consuming exercise that distracts the mind. The limited benefits accruing from use of mobile phone is highly disproportionate to the amount of time spent, he said. He instead advocated use of a desktop computer with Internet for attending webinar and other beneficial purposes. But, if one has to use the smartphone, it has to be used sparingly after deleting all the messaging apps. “If you want to focus on UPSC, you have to ensure that you will not allow your mind to be distracted by the smartphone,” he warned. However confident a candidate is about clearing the exams, there will always be a lingering doubt in his mind about failure in the attempt. Hence, he said it is advisable to have a Plan B outside civil services. This, he said was necessary to ensure that the worry and stress building up over the scepticism does not impact the preparation for UPSC exam. Mr. Manivannan also fielded questions ranging from the best subjects to be studied for UPSC to who his inspiration was. The IAS officer said the best subjects should be identified by the candidate based on the subjects they liked. For, a candidate will be interested and master only subjects they liked and have a natural preference for. To a question from a member of the audience on his inspiration, Mr. Manivannan said his inspiration has been the faceless little girl, who is forced to work either at home or elsewhere, but longs to go to school even after 73 years of freedom. He is motivated to do more thinking about that girl. The gold sponsors for the event are Insights IAS, Cambridge Institute of Technology and Hindustan Group of Institutions, Chennai, while the silver sponsors are East West, Acharya Bangalore B School, The Institute of Company Secretaries of India and Shaheen Group of Institutions.
21 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Select course based on interest, not job prospects or salaries: VTU Vice-Chancellor||“There is no superior or inferior course or field of study and what matters is the passion of the student to acquire skill sets required to master that particular field of study,” said Karisiddappa, Vice-Chancellor, VTU. He was speaking at The Hindu Education Plus Career Counselling Digital Conclave on Sunday. The thrust of his address was that irrespective of the course pursued by students, they should be driven by a zeal to master it and go on to supplement their learning by acquiring additional qualifications and skills through various means that are available. Dr. Karisiddappa said as a precursor to identifying a field of study, parents and teachers should spot and identify the interest of the student and encourage them to pursue it and eschew from making comparisons. He said parents should stop worrying about job prospects in a particular course and the choice of the course should be based on the student’s passion for it. “Once a student enters a field of study or engineering branch, they should be on the path of continuous exploring and learning as that is what helps them master the field of study and prepare them for a professional course and life,” he added. Dr. Karisiddappa said learning was multidisciplinary and VTU over the last few years had introduced changes to bring in one of the best model curriculum and the assessment procedures too have changed. He said COVID-19 had brought in disruptions and challenges but it is for students to take it as an opportunity and harness the ICT-based gadgets for the purpose it was meant and enhance their learning process. “Think not of jobs or salaries but constantly learn and be a life-long student and strive to become an entrepreneur,” he added.  Civil services In the second session on ‘How to Become an IPS officer’, Ravi D. Channannavar, SP, Bengaluru Rural, said it was important to prepare the mind and convince oneself of emerging successfully in the UPSC civil services examination. “A strong mindset and a strong conviction in ones ability to clear the exam was a must,” he advised the aspirants and shared his own experience of mental and academic preparation. He said civil services are the steel frame of the Indian administration and civil servants play a major role in initiating policies that shape the future of the country. He said UPSC exams were not a test of knowledge but a test of personality and aspirants should develop a clear idea as to why they want to be in civil services and envisage the changes they wish to bring about in the society. Sponsors The gold sponsors are Hindustan Group of Institutions, Chennai, Insights IAS and Cambridge Institute of Technology, and silver sponsors are Acharya Bangalore-B School, East West, Jnanadarshana IAS, Shaheen Group of Institutions and the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
21 September 2020||MYSURU/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Rain batters Kodagu, some other parts of SK||Heavy rain lashed parts of south Karnataka, including Kodagu, throwing life out of gear in the last couple of days. Kodagu district received 66.75 mm of rain during the 24-hour period that ended on 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, while very heavy rainfall was recorded at Bhagamandala (175 mm), Sampaje (164.2 mm), Madikeri kasaba (93.6 mm), Virajpet (71 mm), Hudikeri (68 mm), and Srimangala (58 mm). Other parts of Kodagu, including Shanthalli, Suntikoppa, and Kushalnagar, also received heavy rain that was uniform and widespread.In the adjoining district of Mysuru, the rain was intermittent but the outflow from Kabini reservoir in H.D. Kote taluk was stepped up on Sunday. This was on account of heavy rain in the catchment area of the river upstream of the dam. As a result, the dam authorities increased the outflow to the rate of nearly 35,000 cusecs, while the inflow was at around 26,000 cusecs. The water level in the reservoir was at its maximum of 2,284 feet on Sunday. The rate of inflow to Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) in Mandya has also increased. The water level was 124.67 ft, as against the full reservoir level of 124.8 feet. But for local flooding and inundation of farm lands, no major damage has been reported upstream of the KRS and in Kodagu. However, a flood warning has been issued in the wake of the increasing water level in the reservoir. Parts of Mudigere, Koppa, N.R. Pura, and Sringeri taluks in Chikkamagaluru also received heavy rain on Sunday, hitting life in the district that is known to have many tourist places. The doors had been reopened to travellers only recently after the lockdown was relaxed. Heavy rain was reported at Kottigehara, Balur, and Kalasa in Mudigere taluk. Hebbale bridge, across Bhadra river on the road connecting Kalasa and Horanadu,was submerged, affecting vehicular movement. The rivers have been in spate in Chikkamagaluru district. A four-wheeler fell off the road near Kelaguru and seven passengers from Bengaluru suffered minor injuries.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Special committee to study long-term effects of COVID-19||The Karnataka government has decided to constitute a special technical committee to study the long-term effects of COVID-19 by monitoring the health of those who have recovered from the infection after contracting the virus. The move comes in the backdrop of an increasing number of reports of people, who were discharged after successfully battling COVID-19, returning to hospitals with various health conditions and complications. K. Sudhakar, Medical Education and COVID-19 in charge Minister, said that the committee will consist of medical experts. In a tweet, he said that the government will evaluate patients based on whether they had mild or severe symptoms with special focus on people with comorbidities. “The medical experts team will also develop new strategies for clinical care to improve the long-term health of all those who recovered from COVID-19,” he said in the tweet, while citing The Hindu’s story on Sunday titled ‘What are the long-term effects of COVID-19?’ In Bengaluru, many hospitals have already launched outpatient clinics for people who have recovered from COVID-19 but find themselves suffering from side effects such as fatigue, breathlessness, headache, and joint pain. Smitha Segu, nodal officer for COVID-19 for Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMRCI), said that they are planning to start a COVID Rehabilitation Clinic for patients who have been discharged. “We want to tell patients to come every month for an examination and make them undergo blood investigation. We will also suggest if they need any additional treatment,” she said. Ms. Segu added that her team is in regular contact with all their patients. The team reaches out to them to find out how they are doing post their COVID-19 treatment. “Among patients who have reported having symptoms or health concerns, most of them have respiratory problems, fibrosis of the lungs or mild chest pain,” Dr. Segu said, adding that they will decide the future course of treatment after a detailed investigation.  The medical experts team will also develop new strategies for clinical care to improve the long-term health of all those who have recovered from COVID-19. K. Sudhakar Medical Education Minister
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Deaths cross 8,000 mark||A total of 101 deaths due to COVID-19 were reported on Sunday taking the total toll to 8,023. In addition to this, 19 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 died of non-COVID causes. Of the total deaths in the State so far, a majority of them – 2,657 – were reported in Bengaluru Urban. Meanwhile, 8,611 patients who had COVID-19 were discharged while 8,191 new cases were reported on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stands at 5.19 lakh and total number of discharges is 4.13 lakh. The recovery rate stands at 79.58%. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of active cases stands at 98,043. Of these, 811 patients were admitted in intensive care units across different hospitals in the State. A total of 60,477 tests were conducted on Sunday. Of these, 26,731 were rapid antigen tests while the remaining were RT PCR and other methods.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||The revival of speculation over the impending Cabinet expansion in Karnataka saw many aspirants throw their hats in the ring last week. Many hopefuls were seen and heard in the media lobbying for a ministerial berth in their own distinct ways. But former Minister S.A. Ramdas(in picture), who was overlooked during the previous ministry-making exercises, took the sentimental route. A quintessential BJP man, Mr. Ramdas was clearly banking on his long-time loyalty to the party. He made efforts to distinguish himself as a dedicated party worker, as opposed to the new entrants. Though he did not identify any of the new entrants in particular, he went on to say that the head of the family (Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in this case) would have to decide whether the children of the house or the “guests” should be fed. “A mother will never do injustice to her children,” Mr. Ramdas remarked. It remains to be seen if this sentimental appeal will impress the BJP bosses.   There were only two leaders at the much-hyped meeting in New Delhi on Friday — Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. In the new normal of COVID-19, there was not even a photographer. In the faction-ridden BJP which is caught in relentless speculation over leadership change, what happened at the meeting depended on whom one spoke to. The sections seeking a leadership change claimed that the Prime Minister had broached the subject and asked Mr. Yediyurappa to be ready to vacate the seat after the Bihar polls. The Chief Minister pleaded with Mr. Modi to put off the change and, when he did not agree to it, requested him to install a man of his choice as Chief Minister, they said. However, the Yediyurappa camp painted a completely contradictory picture and claimed the meeting was cordial. “The Prime Minister enquired about my health and advised me not to travel much and strain myself,” Mr. Yediyurappa said. The meeting being scheduled for 15 minutes but ultimately going on for 45 minutes was also made out to be a significant pointer. “Unless something serious was discussed, the Prime Minister rarely prolongs a meeting,” a member from one faction said. Sources close to the Chief Minister, however, said Mr. Yediyurappa emerged from the meeting “in a happy mood” and it was proof of it having been a cordial affair. In any case, the party high command did not give him the go-ahead for the Cabinet expansion/reshuffle immediately. As to exactly what transpired, only two people will know for certain.   Nalin Kumar Kateel(in picture), MP and State BJP president, has set before his partymen an ambitious target — making Dakshina Kannada “corruption-free” before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s next birthday. At a programme to mark Mr. Modi’s birthday, he asked all his seven party MLAs in Dakshina Kannada district to open a cell in their offices to fight corruption. Mr. Kateel said people can complain to these cells against corruption in government offices. The party members will pursue such complaints at the appropriate forums, he promised. “Not only in government offices, but in case there are any complaints of corruption against any leaders of the BJP or its members, people can complain to the party’s district office in Mangaluru. The party will sack such persons within an hour,” he said. How far this will go is the million-dollar question. Laiqh A. Khan K.V. Aditya Bharadwaj Raviprasad Kamila
21 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||No breakthrough yet in Karuvatta bank heist case||More than two weeks after burglars decamped with gold and cash from the Karuvatta Service Cooperative Bank, the police have failed to make any significant headway in the case. “A detailed investigation is on. But we are yet to make a major breakthrough in the case,” said a police official. The investigation by a 15-member team is led by Additional Superintendent of Police N. Rajan. At least 5.43 kg of gold ornaments and Rs. 4.5 lakh cash were stolen from the bank. The incident came to light on September 3 when the bank reopened after Onam holidays. According to the police, the burglars entered the bank by breaking open a door and took away gold and cash kept in two safes in the strongroom. Both the strong room and lockers were opened using a gas-cutter. While the thieves abandoned the used gas cylinders in the bank, they took away the CCTV hard disk and computers. Pickup vehicle In the initial days, the probe was largely centred around a pickup vehicle, which was found parked in the area on September 1, and gas cylinders left inside the bank by the burglars. Later, the involvement of the vehicle in the heist was ruled out after its driver was tracked down. Gas cylinders left behind in the bank were looted from a gas agency in Pathanamthitta district. Examination of mobile phone tower data and scanning of footage from CCTV cameras from nearby areas and on the National Highway 66 also failed to provide any concrete leads. The police have announced rewards to those who provide important information on the bank theft. The identity of persons who pass on information will be kept secret. Jewellery looted by the thieves belonged to some 300 customers who pledged it with the bank under the gold loan scheme.
21 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Rakthashali proves to be the surprise packet||Nayanan C.C., a Health Department employee-cum-research scholar, has been growing paddy for the past several years. Along with other farmers, he sowed paddy — Uma variety in five acres and Rakthashali variety in half an acre — on leased land at the Kombankuzhy padasekharam, spread over 110 acres, in July as part of the second crop season. Then came the floods and the padasekharam (paddy field) was inundated on August 7. When the waters receded after three weeks, paddy cultivated in 109.5 acres at Kombankuzhy were destroyed. Although the field where he sowed Rakthashali too was inundated, the rice variety withstood the flood much to the surprise of farmers and agriculture experts. Rakthashali, a nearly extinct variety of rice, has proved to be flood-tolerant too, albeit not scientifically. It is supposed to have high medicinal value. Nayanan says he is cultivating the Rakthashali variety for the first time. “I decided to cultivate Rakthashali in an organic way in half an acre after knowing about its medicinal value. When the floodwaters receded from the padasekharam by August 28, we thought the green shoots left in the field were weeds. On inspection it turned out to be rice plants,” says, Nayanan, an employee at the Government Medical College, Alappuzha. After the news spread, several environmentalists and experts visited his paddy field. A resident of Thirumala ward in Alappuzha municipality, he bought Rakthashali seeds from M.K. Sebastian, a farmer based at Kaduthuruthy. Rakthashali, with red husk and grain, is considered uneconomical compared to high-yielding rice varieties. Reena Mathew, Associate Director, Regional Agricultural Research Station, Kumarakom, says that more research is needed to understand the factors and conditions that make it flood-tolerant. “So far, studies, including by the Rice Research Station at Mankombu, have not pointed to the flood-tolerant nature of Rakthashali. Nobody has come across the flood/ submergence tolerance of Rakthashali. It is also doubtful whether the Rakthashali being cultivated now is the original traditional variety. We hope to conduct more studies based on the Kombankuzhy experience,” Ms. Mathew says.  It is doubtful whether the Rakthashali being cultivated now is the very original traditional variety. Reena Mathew Associate Director, Regional Agricultural Research Station
21 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Fish mart opened||The State government is committed to make available quality fish to consumers at reasonable rates, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. He was inaugurating a fish mart of Matsyafed at Kalarcode here on Sunday. Mr. Sudhakaran said that Matsyafed’s fish marts had clocked a turnover of Rs. 55 crore in 2019-20. This is the fourth mart to be opened in the district. Apart from fish sales, the mart also provides fish pickles, fish cutlet, ready-to-eat shrimp roast, shrimp chutney powder and so on. The mart will function from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. Matsyafed chairman P.P. Chitharanjan presided. Alappuzha municipal chairman Illikkal Kunjumon, Matsyafed district manager K. Sajeevan, Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi district treasurer Jacob John and others attended the inaugural function.
21 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||219 cases in Alappuzha||A total of 219 people were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Alappuzha on Sunday. The new cases include 210 patients who contracted SARS-CoV-2 through local transmission. Six persons who reached the district from other States, two from abroad, and a health staffer also tested positive for the virus. Of the 210 local cases, 21 were reported from Kayamkulam, 18 from Cherthala South, and 15 from Pathiyoor. Alappuzha logged 13 cases, while 11 cases each were reported from Ambalappuzha and Kanjikuzhy and 10 from Purakkad. Meanwhile, 202 people recovered.
21 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Banasura Sagar dam shutters opened||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) opened two shutters of the Banasura Sagar dam at Padinjarethara on Sunday afternoon following heavy inflow from the catchment areas. The catchment areas have been witnessing heavy rain for the last three days, P. Manoharan, Assistant Executive Engineer (Research and Dam Safety Sub-division) Banasura Sagar, told The Hindu . The first shutter was raised at 3 p.m. and the second at 5.50 p.m. after water level in the reservoir crossed 774.95 metres of the full reservoir level of 775.6 metres, Mr. Manoharan said. “The rate of flow is being maintained at 25 cubic metres per second [25,000 litres a second]. The excess water is being discharged through the Karamanthodu River to the Panamaram River, a tributary of the Kabani,” he added. Meanwhile, the authorities have issued a flood warning to people residing in low-level areas along the banks of the Panamaram River. Staff Reporter writes from Palakkad: The shutters of two dams in the district were raised on Sunday following heavy rain. While four shutters of the Malampuzha dam were opened, three were raised at the Pothundi dam. The shutters of Aliyar dam in the neighbouring Tamil Nadu too were raised. A red alert was declared in the district on Sunday. Officials said the district was likely to get 204.5 mm rain and warned people to maintain caution. According to Irrigation Department officials, more water will have to be released if the inflow into the dams goes up. They said the Walayar dam would be opened on Monday morning. The Moolathara regulator too will be opened. Meanwhile, Mannarkkad, Attappady, Nenmara, Nelliyampathi, and Alathur experienced heavy rain. The Ghat Road to Attappady saw minor landslips.
21 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Heavy rain lashes Kannur, Kasaragod||Heavy rain lashed Kannur and Kasaragod districts on Sunday, resulting in large-scale agricultural losses and evacuation of families living in areas vulnerable to landslips and flooding. According to P.K. Ramdas, Principal Agriculture Officer, incessant rain destroyed 113.74 hectares of crop areas in eight blocks in Kannur district, badly affecting over 800 farmers. The total loss was estimated at Rs. 200.61 lakh. The worst affected areas are Thalassery, Iritty, Payyanur and Taliparamba. As many as 23 houses were partially destroyed, which included eight in Thalassery, four in Taliparamba, two in Payyannur and nine in Iritty. Five relief camps were opened in the district. As many as 137 people from 23 families were relocated. There are 59 people in five relief camps in the district. In Alappadambu and Kankol villages, 25,000 hectares of paddy were destroyed, affecting as many as 300 farmers. Other affected villages include Kannapuram, Makkeri, Anjarakandy and Karivellur-Peralam panchayat. House damaged In Kasaragod, families in Vellarikundu taluk areas, which are vulnerable to landslips, were evacuated. A house was partially damaged at Chittarikal village in east Eleri panchayat. Three families in Madhur Patalam village were rescued with the help of the Fire and Rescue Services after their houses were inundated.
21 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Abusing minors: POCSO case against eight||The police have registered a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against eight persons on charge of sexually abusing two minors in Kasaragod. The police said two sisters had gone missing a month ago and were later found in a house. They revealed the sexual abuse at a counselling session at Mahila Mandiram here.
21 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||More FLTCs to be set up if COVID caseload rises||While about 15 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are currently functioning in the district, an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases could mean that additional centres would be opened up soon, irrespective of the strain it could place on healthcare staff. As many as 1,152 patients, mostly mildly symptomatic, are being monitored at FLTCs, according to data from the district information office. Besides patient care, FLTCs were collecting samples for testing and could assess patients in home isolation to manage the infection at the local body level, said Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission (NHM). Additional FLTCs could place a strain on health workers, but the pressure would have to be managed either through an increase in working hours or bringing in staff from the private sector, he added. While taluk hospitals had so far been set aside for non-COVID patients, they could also be roped in soon to handle a few COVID patients, he said. According to Dr. Numpeli, about 500 to 600 fresh appointments of health workers had been made through NHM since March. But for doctors, the strain so far had been immense, said a doctor in the government service, who asked not to be named. “The problem of low staff availability is structural. Only 21 posts of physicians exist in government hospitals in the district. Even if volunteers are taken in or AYUSH doctors are posted at FLTCs, the few specialists in the system will continue to remain burdened. There is hardly any time to train fresh recruits,” she said. If taluk hospitals not large enough to be able to segregate COVID and non-COVID patients effectively began taking in COVID patients, infections could spread from there, she added. Junior doctors posted at FLTCs had eased the load a little, the doctor said. But, 22 of the 91 junior doctors in the district, besides others across the State, had not received their salaries for about three months, said Krishnapriya T. S., secretary, Kerala Junior Doctors Association. Across the State, some of them had quit in the past few weeks, she added. With two doctors at an FLTC with about 200 beds, the workload could be tremendous for them too, and most of them were on call round-the-clock when they were on duty, she said.
21 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Heavy rain, wind damage houses||Four houses were damaged and two autorickshaws left overturned in Edathala panchayat on Sunday as rain and wind battered the district throughout the day. Heavy wind around 12 noon dismantled the roofs of two houses and overturned two autorickshaws parked at Maleppally in the panchayat. Panchayat member C.K. Rajan said the roof of a shop selling fruit at Maleppally was dislocated and carried away in the wind. Several areas of Kochi city experienced flooding during the day. Several segments of the arterial M.G. Road was flooded in the early hours of Sunday. The Meteorological Department has warned of more rains on Monday. In Chellanam Meanwhile, the district’s coastal areas have been relatively free of damage. Chellanam panchayat, which usually faces serious flooding during heavy rain and wind, did not witness sea incursion on Sunday. However, the people were on their guard against possible flooding, said T.A. Dalphine, a resident of south Chellanam. He said the lack of coastal protection measures had put the lives of hundreds of families on the 21-km coast in danger for the last several years. The problem was acute in areas such as Bazaar, Velankanni, and Vacchakal, he added. The entire segment between Fort Kochi and South Chellanam faced the threat of sea incursion, he said.
21 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A long wait for staff appointments||Some local bodies in the district, despite recording a number of COVID-19 cases, are finding it difficult to get first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) up and running. For Ayavana panchayat, which had seen 78 COVID-19 cases since July, beds were set up at a school after the district administration issued orders that all local bodies must get an FLTC ready, said panchayat president Reby Jose. But, the centre is still awaiting staff appointments from the Health Department. The idea of running an FLTC on the limited financial resources of a panchayat was daunting, he said. “We received Rs. 1 lakh from the State for the facility, and have spent about Rs. 6 lakh from the panchayat’s fund. It is hardly practical to begin operations of an FLTC in every panchayat,” said Mr. Jose. A 100-bed FLTC had been set up at Thripunithura, but it was awaiting staff appointments, said municipality chairperson Chandrika Devi. The Kadungalloor panchayat had set up two FLTCs, said panchayat president Ratnamma Suresh. Appointment of doctors and nurses are awaited to begin functioning.
21 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Caregivers hold the key||Early diagnosis and intervention, besides caregiving, continue to remain key issues in effectively managing Alzheimer’s disease. The medical fraternity has conveyed this reminder to the public on the occasion of World Alzheimer’s Day, observed on September 21. Baby Chakrapani, director, Centre for Neurosciences, Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), says Alzheimer’s can have both neurodegenerative symptoms as well as symptoms like constipation and changes in character. If diagnosed early, interventions can manage the progression of the disease. Symptoms can also range from sleep disorders to lack of smell. Studies have shown that lifestyle changes, like reducing stress, can delay the progression of the disease, he says. COVID-19 impact With the COVID-19-related restrictions, studies have shown that people with early symptoms of the disease, might have seen a worsening of their condition since socialisation is crucial in managing symptoms of the disease, according to Dr. Chakrapani. Aggression or depression among patients might have intensified. Awareness among caregivers remains crucial since the disease requires personal care. Several caregiving institutions are in the private sector, keeping them out of reach of several patients. Data incomplete Data on the number of patients remains incomplete, Dr. Chakrapani says. The Cusat centre of neuroscience has launched Udbodh project in Ernakulam to intensify awareness and intervention for the disease. Psychiatrist C.J. John says that the burden is on the caregiver who will have to be equipped with skills to manage the patient’s behavioural problems. A significant percentage of people, irrespective of early interventions, will progress to severe symptoms, he said, which makes caregiving all the more important.
21 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Record spike in district||In the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases so far in Ernakulam, 537 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. This is the first instance of the number of cases crossing the 500-mark in the district. A total of 21 persons who arrived from outside the State tested positive, while 516 people contracted the disease through local contact. Seven health workers, all from private hospitals in the district, have been infected. As many as 37 persons from Fort Kochi and 21 from Odisha, who were working at Pampakuda, have been infected. 289 recoveries Meanwhile, 289 people recovered and tested negative, while 3,823 patients are undergoing treatment.
21 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Munambam harbour to reopen today||The Munambam fishing harbour, closed more than a fortnight ago following fears of community spread of COVID-19, will reopen on Monday while the Thoppumpady harbour, which has not been operating at full capacity, is expected to see the operation of long line and gillnet boats being restored fully from Wednesday. The reopening of the Munambam harbour and the operation of fishing boats will be on the basis of COVID-19 protocol. Boats will be allowed to go out on fishing ventures on alternate days based on even and odd registrations. The boats will be issued tokens to land their catch at the harbour. Only thirty boats will be issued tokens on a day.
21 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||With 330 new cases, no let-up in Kollam||The district reported 330 new cases of COVID-19, one death and 151 recoveries on Sunday. Among the patients are 306 contact cases, two NRIs, four health workers and 18 others who had travelled from various Indian States. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 50-year-old Koyivila resident is due to COVID-19. She had died on September 16. The health workers who tested positive include a 32-year-old Orient Nagar resident and an employee of a private clinic in Pallimukku. The others, aged 41, 46 and 47 have been working at government facilities that include Primary Health Centres at Karavaloor and Thazhava and Kollam District Hospital. The district currently has 24,563 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,68,515. While 1,532 people completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 34,922 primary and 6,471 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Currently 17 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in Kollam and the total number of active cases is 2,955. According to Health officials, many persons who tested positive in recent days have wide contacts. Staff members of government offices, KSEB personnel, salespersons, tailors, MGNREGS workers and autorickshaw drivers are among the recent cases reported from the district. On Saturday over 30 among the total 64 migrant labourers who have been staying in the same building had tested positive. “Though antigen is negative for the rest, all the high-risk primary contacts will have to undergo RT-PCR,” said an official.Spread among the fishers is another major concern with many points in the coastal belt still reporting cases. “Weddings and related functions continue to cause highest number of contact cases. Though we have restricted the number of attendees, people keep visiting the house for three to four days. We are planning to impose new restrictions to lower the transmission rate,” the official added. While the district administration is planning to increase the number of beds in Government MCH and Kollam District Hospital, the department has intensified surveillance in both city and rural areas.
21 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||MP tests positive||N.K. Premachandran, MP, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and is undergoing treatment at AIIMS, New Delhi, with mild symptoms, including fever, a statement from his office said. On September 14, Mr. Premachandran and his wife had tested negative in both antigen and RT-PCR at a special centre set up by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at Parliament House annexe. He had attended the monsoon session of the Parliament afterwards. The MP and his wife were under monitoring after his driver tested positive on September 12 . “Those who have come into contact with the MP in the past few days should take necessary steps according to COVID-19 protocol,” said his office.
21 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Now, advance warning on the swollen Meenachil||People living on the banks of the Meenachil will no longer have to wait for official alerts to know when they need to rush out of their houses. Thanks to the Meenachil River Protection Council (MRPC), they can now check what the river is doing in their area at any time of the day, round the year. The river, which courses down the heart of Kottayam, will now be covered by several river levels and rainfall gauges, which collect rainfall data remotely and mitigate the risk from the increasing incidence of flash flooding. According to Eby Immanuel, general secretary of the organisation, as many as 30 rainfall gauges in the first phase have been installed alongside a couple of water-level scales at Bharananganam and Erattupetta. The local body authorities along the course of the river too have been approached, seeking assistance in installing more scales. “The gauges will be installed in a way to work out the river basin including its tributaries as a single unit. On completion of the project, hundreds of such gauges and water scales will come up along the course of the river from the Wagamon Hills to Kumarakom,” he said. Efforts are also on to ascertain the Mean Sea Level (MSL) of the river basin at different locations with the support of the government agencies for establishing the water-level scales. The data to be collected by the gauges through a network of river-reporters will be collated and analysed by a core committee of experts comprising scientists, environmentalists and government officials, before being released to the public through the social media group ‘Save Meenachilar.’ Commenting on the initiative, a senior government official said the community initiative would help mitigate the risk of flooding in the waterbody. “The existing warning system, which depends on the scales located at only a handful of locations, is insufficient to take into account the impact of extreme weather conditions, location-wise problems and the risk elements,” he pointed out. Unprecedented The initiative, according to him, assumes significance as the scale of flooding in the Meenachil has been unprecedented since 2018. The MRPC has been reporting on the activities in the waterbody through a network of citizen watch groups for the past several years.
21 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||274 positive cases in Kottayam||The number of COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to rise sharply with 274 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Of these, 262 people contracted the virus through local transmission while 12 cases had come from outside. Kottayam municipality reported 26 cases, followed by Kooroppada with 18 cases. Thiruvarppu and Vijayapuram panchayats reported 15 cases each. Cases were also reported from Elikkulam (14), Ettumanoor (13), Erumely (10), Changanassery, and Poonjar Thekkekkara, among other places. With 120 recoveries, the district currently has 2,739 active cases.
21 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Will retain church control: Jacobite group||The Jacobite faction of the Malankara Syrian Church on Sunday said it would retain its authority over the St. Mary’s Jacobite Syrian Church at Manarcaud here. The group accused the rival Orthodox faction of attempting to create unrest by obtaining a favourable court order on the authority of the church. In a statement, Kuriakose Cor Episcopa, vicar of the church, said around 3,000 families under the parish stood firm with the Jacobite faction. The recent court order, according to him, was the result of a case filed by just three persons belonging to the rival faction. “We will go to any extent to ensure our rights. The Manarcaud church will always remain the way it is now,” he said. The faction accused the Orthodox group of attempting to ‘spoil the peaceful atmosphere in the region by levelling false accusations.’ Court order The statement comes in the wake of a order by a sub-court here to hand over the church to the Orthodox faction. It assumes significance as Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is slated to convene a meeting to bring out a consensus between the two church factions.
21 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Houses damaged, earth caves in after downpour in Kozhikode||Several houses were damaged, and earth caved in at many places in Kozhikode on Sunday when heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds lashed the district. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), 21 cm of rainfall, the highest in the State, was reported in Vadakara in the district between 8.30 a.m. on September 19 and 8.30 a.m. on September 20 (Sunday). Koyilandy reported 12 cm of rain, Kozhikode city 9 cm. Though the IMD had declared an orange alert for the district for Sunday, predicting isolated heavy or very heavy rainfall, it was updated to red alert, forecasting extremely heavy rainfall of 20 cm later. An orange alert has been sounded for Monday. Heavy rain was reported in the hilly regions of the district, and water level is rising in all rivers. Tehsildars have been asked to be on alert in view of the rising water level in Poonoor and Kuttiadi rivers. Rain seemed to have abated by afternoon in some places. According to government sources, the roof of a house belonging to Radha of Karakkadparamba at Onchiyam was damaged after a tree fell on it on Sunday. The tree branch was removed with the help of Fire and Emergency Services personnel. Similar cases were reported at Iringannur and Chengottukavu as well where houses were damaged after trees fell on them. A huge pit was formed near the BSNL office in Chevayur village, and local residents were shifted to a nearby community hall. Two persons sustained minor injuries when a building housing a tea shop collapsed in Naduvannur village. Residents of a house were relocated when earth caved in Valayanad village. A well on the house premises of Thattarakkandi Velayudhan caved in at Olavanna, and the house suffered cracks. The house of Parakattil Mani at Puthiyangadi was partially damaged. A house in Nanminda village was fully damaged, and residents were shifted. Water entered a few houses at Beypore, and a house was partially damaged on Francis Road in the city when a coconut tree fell on it. The district administration has opened control rooms, and the numbers are 0495-2372966 and 2620235.
21 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kakkayam dam to be opened||People staying on the banks of the Kuttiadi River have been asked to be on alert, as the district administration has ordered to lift the shutters of the Kakkayam dam at 7 a.m. on Monday in view of the rising water level. Water level is likely to rise up to 100 cm.
21 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active cases in Kozhikode cross 4,000-mark||Active COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district crossed the 4,000-mark on Sunday after 536 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 4,108 people are under treatment here now. The District Medical Officer said in a release that 485 people got the infection through local transmission. As many as 240 people recovered from the infection too. In Malappuram COVID-19 cases continued to spike in Malappuram district as 483 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. While 447 of the new cases were infected through local contacts, six came from other States and three from abroad. In Palakkad As many as 289 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad on Sunday, and 178 of them got the infection through local contacts. A first-line treatment centre (FLTC) began functioning at Attappady on Sunday. Agali panchayat president Sreelakshmi Sreekumar inaugurated the FLTC with 200 beds at APJ Abdul Kalam International Tribal School at Pattimalam, Agali. In Thrissur As many as 322 people tested positive for SARS-COV-2 in Thrissur on Sunday. Of these, 320 people contracted the disease through contact. In Kannur Kannur district reported 242 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Of these, 216 are local transmission cases. Fourteen health workers were among those who were infected. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 208 more people turned positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Among them, 203 people contracted the disease through contact. In Wayanad As many as 97 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Sunday. Of the total cases reported on the day, 89 persons were infected through contact.
21 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||190 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 190 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 154 contracted the virus through local transmission while 14 cases had come from abroad. Meanwhile, two persons in the district were tested positive for the virus posthumously though these were yet to be included in the official figures. In the first case, a 70-year-old man from Adoor, who had been undergoing treatment for kidney-related ailments, died at the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam on September 19. The second victim was an 85-year-old Pandalam native, who died at the Pathanamthitta District General Hospital on Sunday.
21 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ruling front, Oppn. wrangle over Koran issue||The wrangling over the conflation of Koran and electoral politics occupied mainstream parties in the State on Sunday. The Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] accused each other of dragging the holy text into the heart of political disputes ahead of the local body elections. The parties appeared to agree that the move could roil society and give an unwanted communal edge to the battle for votes. However, they seemed to be in bitter disagreement over who had crossed the Rubicon. Congress charge Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had sought cover behind the haloed tradition of gifting Koran to fend off accusations of wrongdoing by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel. Two Central agencies had questioned Dr. Jaleel for accepting Koran and dates from the UAE consulate under the guise of Ramzan charity, he said. The question remained whether the gifts were a cover for gold smuggling. Mr. Vijayan had often stoked up Hindu majoritarian sentiments and minority radicalism on the eve of elections, he said. BJP State president K. Surendran said Mr. Vijayan had distorted the criticism against Dr. Jaleel. The Chief Minister had portrayed awkward questions against the government as an assault on religious tradition. Mr. Vijayan’s words had scared the UDF. Its leaders had scurried for cover fearing an erosion of votes. CPI(M) view The CPI(M) targeted IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP. He had returned to State politics recently to head the party’s election campaign. The CPI(M) said Mr. Kunhalikutty had trifled with the welfare of lakhs of Keralites employed in the UAE by unfairly criticising the friendly nation of abetting smuggling. The UAE had Customs approval to gift imported Koran and dates to needy families via the State’s Minority Welfare Department during Ramzan. The IUML has countered the CPI(M)’s charges. It had asked Mr. Vijayan to apologise for bandying about the reverence for Koran to defend Dr. Jaleel. The issue is not about faith or religion. It was plainly about using diplomatic goodwill as a cover for wrongdoing, it had said. The debate is likely to preoccupy political parties in the election year.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tests find 892 positive in capital||The capital’s COVID-19 daily case graph inched towards a four-figure mark with 892 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Active COVID-19 cases also crossed 7,000 for the first time in the district. With two more deaths being attributed to COVID-19, the death toll in the district has risen to 167. Those who succumbed to the disease were natives of Koonthalloor (48-year-old) and Balaramapuram (58-year-old). Among those diagnosed with the disease, 748 contracted the infection through local transmission. The source of infection in 111 cases were unknown. While 27 of the patients were undergoing quarantine in their homes, four others had come from other States. While the patients included 365 females and 527 males, they included 99 people aged below 15 years and 119 aged above 60 years. While 478 people recovered from the illness on the day, as many as 7,133 patients were undergoing treatment for the disease in Thiruvananthapuram. With the district administration placing 2,182 more people under quarantine on Sunday, the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms has gone up to 26,519. While 21,910 were quarantined in their homes, 3,989 people were currently in various hospitals in the district. Containment zones More parts of the district were declared as containment zones. These included Vazhottukonam, Poojappura (Pathirappally residents association) and Vellar (coastal parts of Panathura) wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Paichira ward in Andoorkonam grama panchayat; Ganapathiyam Kovil and Railway Station wards in Azhoor grama panchayat; Mekkolla ward in Kollayil grama panchayat; parts of Alathukavu and Ponganadu wards in Kilimanoor grama panchayat; and parts of Panacodu ward in Tholicode grama panchayat. Valiya Ela ward in Kizhuvilam grama panchayat, Perumpazhuthoor ward in Neyyattinkara municipality, and Thuruthummoola ward (Aduppukkoottan Para) and Thrikkannapuram ward (MLA road) in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation were excluded from the list of containment zones based on surveillance data evaluation. Meanwhile, District Collector Navjot Khosa reiterated her appeal for strict compliance of the COVID-19 protocol. In a statement, Ms. Khosa cautioned that the sharp surge in COVID-19 cases could affect the efficiency of health systems. Besides, the situation is also bound to create an additional workload on those involved in COVID-19 containment efforts. Urging the public to renew its commitment towards the SMS (Sanitiser/soap, mask, physical distancing) campaign and avoid crowded places, the District Collector also advocated home quarantine for children aged below 10 years, adults over 60 years, pregnant women, and others suffering from various ailments. Besides availing themselves of telemedicine facilities to consult doctors for minor ailments, every person must also monitor themselves for COVID-19 symptoms. The public has also been asked to adhere to quarantine protocols if anyone figured in the primary or secondary contact lists of COVID-19 patients.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 claims first health worker||The State recorded the first death of a doctor due to COVID-19 on Sunday. The medical practitioner, aged 73 years, succumbed to the infection less than a week after he tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The doctor from Jubilee Nagar Road in Kallattumukku here used to run a clinic at Attakulangara. He had attended to patients till September 12 and tested positive two days later. As his condition deteriorated after he developed pneumonia, he was kept on ventilator support in a private hospital. The deceased had co-morbidities, including diabetes and heart diseases. He died early Sunday. However, this death has not been included in the official death toll released by the Health Department on Sunday. He is survived by his wife and three children. 174 health workers The State capital, of late, has seen a large number of health workers testing positive. As many as 174 health workers have been diagnosed with COVID-19 since September 14. Twenty-five health-care workers, including nine doctors and several nursing assistants, tested positive in Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology on Saturday.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stir against Centre’s policies||The CPI(M) district committee will be organising a protest in front of the General Post Office on Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. as part of the party’s nationwide protests against the Central government’s anti-people policies. CPI(M) State Secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan will inaugurate the protest. The demands include cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 for a period of six months to families that have members who do not earn enough to file income tax returns, 10 kilograms of rice and groceries for the needy, at least 200 days of jobs under the MGNREGS, unemployment wages, and steps to ensure constitutional rights of all citizens.
21 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No decision yet on schools: Minister||No decision has yet been taken on allowing students of classes 9 to 12 to visit schools on voluntary basis for taking teachers’ guidance with parental consent, Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath has said. He told The Hindu on Sunday that the State was of the opinion that students should be allowed to visit schools only after the COVID-19 case graph stabilised. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare had earlier this month issued standard operation procedures (SOP) for partial resumption of activities in schools from Monday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had a week ago announced that schools would not reopen this month or the next for regular classes but in the wake of the SOPs, a policy decision on whether to allow students in restricted numbers was expected. The Minister said with cases increasing by the day, more thought would have to be given to students returning to school in consultation with the Health authorities. The Minister said fixing a date at this stage was not the way forward. Both students and parents should feel safe. Their health was the priority. No reason to worry There was no reason to worry about academics as online classes were going on well, and over 65% of teachers were closely following the students’ progress, he said. Director of General Education Jeevan Babu K. had submitted directions to the government on possible steps that could be taken on the basis of feedback from field-level officers. Meanwhile, the SSLC and Plus Two SAY/Improvement examinations are set to begin on Tuesday in compliance with COVID-19 protocols.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovated facilities for Kerala Ceramics||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the renovated refining and filter pass plants of Kerala Ceramics Ltd. on September 22. The company has now achieved a production capacity of 1,500 tonnes. In 2016-17, the capacity had gone down by as much as 150 tonnes. The annual sales has jumped from Rs. 2.5 crore in that period to Rs. 7 crore now. Land has been purchased for mining purposes. The construction of a plant for production using LNG fuel has been completed. An automatic power factor control panel was installed to reduce fuel and energy consumption. The production cost per tonne that was around Rs. 8,500 had now been reduced to Rs. 5,000-Rs. 5,500 owing to many such measures. Renovation works were rarely taken up since its opening in 1973, and it was unable to meet the new demands from the market in recent years. The government has accorded sanction for the modernisation of bleaching and classification plants, the Industries Department has said.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Government nominee appointed for Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple panel||P.K. Madhavan Nair will be the State government’s nominee to the five-member administrative committee being formed at the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple as per the Supreme Court directive. A former professor of Government Sanskrit College, Thiruvananthapuram, Mr. Nair, who hails from Attukal in the capital, had also served as Member, Kerala Public Service Commission, and Syndicate Member of Kerala University. SC deadline The four weeks of time granted by the Supreme Court to set up the administrative and advisory committees at the temple will end on September 23. The administrative committee will be headed by the District Judge and will have representatives of the State and Central government, a representative of the Kowdiar palace, and Tantri of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A strong roof and a space to study||All that S.J. Shijina wished for was a better house where she would have a small study space. She has completed her Class X and just entered higher secondary class. But leave aside the space to study, her house itself is in tatters. “Our house leaks so much that I do not have a space to study without getting drenched in the rain or even sleep peacefully. The house has become unliveable,” she wrote in a letter to district panchayat president V.K. Madhu recently. Her four-member family has been living in a hut made of mud bricks and thatched with reeds and tarpaulin sheet, at Maruthamala in Vithura.  Her parents Her father Jose is a daily wage worker and mother Sheela, a temporary cleaning staff in an institution. The family does not have a ration card and hence cannot apply for any of the government’s housing schemes. The family got a ration card recently yet the house through one of the schemes would take some time to come. Thats when Shijina wrote the letter to the district panchayat, which is now planning to build a house for the family as part of a special scheme. “Their house is located near the forest regions of Vithura and does not have proper road access. They missed out on getting a house in the initial phases of LIFE housing project because they did not have a ration card. Now, even if they apply, it will take some more time. This is why the district panchayat decided to intervene,” says Mr. Madhu. The district panchayat authorities got in touch with the local Kudumbashree Community Development Society (CDS) to look at possibilities of building a house using alternate schemes. LIFE project Since the LIFE project is providing Rs. 4 lakh for constructing houses, it was decided that the amount should be equal to that. The Kudumbashree pitched in with Rs. 1.5 lakh and the district panchayat with the rest. On Sunday, Mr. Madhu and other officials visited their house and laid the foundation stone for a new house adjacent to it. The work is expected to be completed in a few months’ time.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fake COVID certificates: Minister warns of action||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said that stringent action will be taken against those involved in the distribution of fake COVID-19 test certificates in Kulathoor grama panchayat. The local body recently unearthed the circulation of forged documents which were made to appear as those issued by the Pozhiyoor primary health centre (PHC). Condemning the act, Ms. Shylaja cautioned that such illegal activities would lead to the uncontrolled spread of the infection. Such deeds were inhumane and should be prevented at all costs. The police had been directed to probe the incident and book those responsible under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020, she said. The seal of the PHC was also forged to issue the fake certificates that were allegedly given to fishermen at rates ranging from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 to enable them to engage in fishing in other places such as Neendakara, Kochi and Beypore. The Pozhiyoor police have commenced a probe on the basis of a complaint by the Pozhiyoor PHC, official sources said.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fishing banned till tomorrow||District Collector Navjot Khosa issued an order on Sunday preventing fishermen from venturing out to sea till Tuesday evening. The order was based on the alert issued by the India Meteorological Department and the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority regarding inclement weather over the Arabian Sea region and along Kerala, Karnataka and Lakshadweep coasts. The shutters of the Aruvikkara dam were raised by 175 cm. The shutters were raised after the water level increased to 46.45 metres by Sunday evening. The Aruvikkara dam has a full reservoir level of 46.6 metres. Four shutters of the Neyyar dam have been raised by 10 cms each and they will be raised by another 5 cm on Monday morning.
21 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF stir from tomorrow||The United Democratic Front (UDF) will launch the third phase of its campaign against the State government on Tuesday. UDF convener Benny Behanan demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Minority Welfare Minister K.T. Jaleel over a litany of charges of corruption. The alleged involvement of Mr. Vijayan’s former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar in the gold- smuggling case, the corruption in the LIFE Mission projects, misappropriation of flood-relief funds allegedly by Communist Party of India (Marxist) workers and backdoor appointments are some of the charges being raised by the UDF. CBI probe sought Mr. Behanan demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into all the allegations. On September 22, UDF workers will hold sit-in demonstrations at district headquarters across the State.  Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala will inaugurate the protest in front of the Secretariat here. Demonstrators will abide by the COVID-19 protocol.
21 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Poorna Kumbha mela held at Santhigiri Ashram||Poorna Kumbha Mela was held at Santhigiri Ashram without much celebrations. Amritha Jnanathapaswini filled the ceremonial pot at the ashram to launch the rituals. Usually, thousands of devotees carry ceremonial pots (poorna kumbhas) on their head around the ashram compound. This time, it was restricted to the spiritual zone in line with the COVID-19 protocols.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Renovated aerobic bins inaugurated||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the renovated aerobic bins at the Peroorkada market on Sunday. All the 40 aerobic bins installed at the market were renovated. Deputy Mayor Rakhi Ravikumar presided over the function.
21 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||e-challan to be rolled out tomorrow||The Kerala Police will roll out e-challan on Tuesday to enable motorists to pay fines for traffic offences on the spot using debit card, credit card, and internet banking. The payment can be made through handheld devices carried by the police personnel. Initially, the facility will be available in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Kozhikode.
21 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,KERALA||National award for SCERT project||The State Council of Educational Research and Training’s (SCERT) Aksharavriksham project has been selected for the national award of the India Book of Records. In a statement here, the SCERT Director said 10 volumes of stories, poems, and articles written by students during the lockdown had been published as part of Aksharavriksham. As many as 56,249 entries had been received.
21 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur put on high alert||As red alert has been declared in the district considering the possibility of heavy rain, night travel from 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. has been temporarily banned on the hillsides. Only, emergency services will be allowed during night. Water level at all reservoirs in the district is nearing the maximum. Water has been released to Chalakudy river from Peringalkuthu, Parambikkulam and Kerala Sholayar dams. People living on the banks of Chalakudy river have been asked to be vigilant. Fishing and bathing in rivers have been banned. Mining of sand and granite have been temporarily banned. People have been shifted to safer places from areas where there is threat of landslides and flooding. The areas include Puthur, Kainur, Pananchery, Madakkathara, and Mulayam. Many houses were damaged in the torrential rain that has been lashing the district for the past few days. Four families from Vadakkekkad panchayat were shifted to a relief camp opened at Parayangad Madrassa following heavy flooding in the area. Managers of plantations have been asked to ensure safety of workers living in their labour camps.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The Guru in capital||
21 September 2020||ANANTAPUR/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots oppose enumeration of power connections||The Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited began enumeration of the data of the existing agriculture power connections and the exercise faced a stiff resistance from farmers in Marthadu village of Anantapur district on Sunday. A couple of persons came to Marthadu asking for the details of the agriculture connections to link their power connection with Aadhaar number and bank account number so that Direct Benefit Transfer could be done as and when the scheme is implemented. The farmers refused to give the data and said that they would oppose tooth and nail fixing of power meters to their agriculture connnections and wanted the present system to continue.
21 September 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keep your mind active to prevent Alzheimer’s disease, say doctors||Alzheimer’s is one of the most common cause of death in advanced countries. In India, it is the eighth common cause of death. It causes memory loss, errors in judgment and facial disorientation. The disease generally starts when a person is in his/her 60s and the risk increases with age. “Keeping the mind active in old age is very important. Playing board games like chess, walking, jogging and physical exercises apart from consuming high-protein diet will go a long way in keeping the disease at bay,” says G. Butchi Raju, Professor and Head of the Department of Neurology, Andhra Medical College/King George Hospital. “One should choose new activities, instead of continuing his old profession or work, like learning a new language and developing multi-lingual skills. Each language stimulates some part of the brain. Indian studies have revealed that post-65, the risk of Alzheimer’s doubles after every five years,” Dr. Butchi Raju told The Hindu on the eve of World Alzheimer's Day. A new study done in the United States has revealed that there is a direct relation between diet and the instance of Alzheimer’s in the population. It is also stated that eating healthy and low calorie food could help fight the fungi in the gut and reduces the risk of dementia among senior citizens, says Mohan V. Sumedha Maturu, consultant neurologist, Medicover Hospitals, Vizag. “Alzheimer’s disease is an irreversible progressive brain disorder that slowly destroys memory. There are various biomarkers for diagnosing Alzheimer’s at an early stage,” says Ch. Vijay, Consultant neurosurgeon, KIMS ICON, Vizag.
21 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 youth killed in car crash at Maredumilli||Three youth died and two were injured after their car crashed into a tree on the outskirts of Maredumilli town in the East Godavari agency on Sunday. Rampachodavaram ASP G. Bindu Madav told The Hindu that  the incident had occurred while the five were returning from Maredumilli to Palvancha in Telangana. The deceased – Puli Praveen Kumar (24), Poorna Sai (23) and L. Bharat (24) – belonged to Vijayawada city. The injured, Nadeer Basha, 24, and Sheik Asif, 24, belong to Palvancha. “We have communicated about the accident to the respective families. The bodies have been sent to the government hospital at Rampachodavaram,” said Mr. Bindu Madhav. The injured are being treated in Rampachodavaram and are said to be out of danger.
21 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two boys found dead in pond||Two boys were found dead in a local pond at Pala Madugu village under Yetapaka police limits in the East Godavari agency on Sunday. Yetapaka circle inspector M.G. Rama Krishna said that the two victims, identified as I. Mahesh (11) and S. Sai Kiran (12) belonging to Pala Madugu, drowned after entering the pond for taking bath. The pond was recently deepened as part of NREGA works. Two other boys who accompanied the victims to the pond informed the villagers about the incident. “We have retrieved the bodies and sent them to the Bhadrachalam area hospital for post-mortem. A case has been registered and investigation is on,” said Mr. Rama Krishna.
21 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 write test in isolation rooms in Kurnool||The recruitment test for the ward and village secretariat staff was conducted amid COVID-19 fears by taking all precautionary measures on Sunday. Twenty candidates in the district wrote the test in special isolation rooms in two sessions. In all, 55,768 candidates applied for the test at 194 centres, but 42,586 took the test recording 76.36% attendance. Kurnool Collector G. Veerapandian interacted with a COVID-19 patient writing the exam in an isolation room at the Montissori E.M. School Centre in the city. In all, 85,910 candidates had applied. In the morning session at Kurnool 14 candidates wrote the test in isolation rooms. While eight were COVID-19 positive, six were found having temperature in thermal screening. In Adoni Arts and Science College one patient took the test with the invigilator too attending by wearing a PPE kit. In Kurnool city in the afternoon, three patients and two having temperature took the test in isolation rooms. The APSRTC deployed 303 special buses to transport the candidates to their examination centres. In E. Godavari Fifty-one COVID-19 patients on Sunday appeared for the village/ward secretariat recruitment examination in East Godavari district. Zilla Parishad Chief Executive Officer (in charge) P. Narayana Murthy said in a release that the 51 patients and eight with COVID-19 symptoms appeared for the test at 28 centres. Thirty-six of them appeared in the morning session and 15 in the afternoon session. Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that special measures were in place to allow the COVID patients to take the examination. On Sunday, 59.48% (43,631) candidates took the test out of 73,349 in the district. In Anantapur Sixteen COVID-19 positive candidates took the test in Anantapur district. Out of 46,152 candidates only 34,742 wrote the examination recording an attendance of 75.29%, said District Collector Gandham Chandrudu. Out of 24,825 applicants only 18,760 took the test in the morning session, while in the afternoon session out of 21,327 only 15,992 attended in the district. Joint Collector (Development) A. Siri went round some examination centre and checked the conduct of the test.  74% attendance in Krishna More than 74% of the candidates who have applied for the posts in village and ward secretariats in Krishna district appeared for the written examination conducted in two sessions on Sunday. Of 54,984 candidates applied, 40,954 (74.5%) wrote the examination in the morning session and of the 20,165 registered candidates, 14,802 (73.40%) appeared for the test in the afternoon session. As many as 51 differently-abled candidates took the help of scribes to write the examinations. In the morning session, six COVID-19 positive candidates and one with suspected symptoms, wearing PPE kits, wrote the examination in separate rooms. Social distancing Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Joint Collectors and RDOs inspected various examination centres in the district. Candidates underwent thermal scanning before entering the exam halls and seat arrangements were made in compliance with the social distancing norms.
21 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore district in for rapid industrialisation: Mekapati||The Nellore district will see rapid industrialisation with a good number of units coming close to the Chennai-Kolkata highway, according to Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy. Laying the stone for an MSME Plastic and Furniture park at Narampeta near Atmakur on Sunday, he said with the Kadapa Steel Plant and the Sri City, the region has the potential of becoming a mega industrial corridor. The industrial park being promoted by the Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) at Narampeta would see investments of Rs. 500 crore by more than 300 industrial units, providing direct employment to 2,000 persons and indirect employment to another 1,500 persons , the Minister said and lauded the APIIC officials for promoting the industrial park to be set up in 173.67 acres . Replying to a question, Mr. Goutham Reddy said the TDP regime had seen rampant corruption. “After collecting the prima facie evidence, the State government chose to refer the cases to the CBI for an impartial probe,” he said.
21 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||People moved to safety as Penna in spate||People in the low-lying areas in several villages of the district were moved to safer places as the river Penna was in spate on Sunday. A huge 1.30 lakh cusecs of water was let out from the Somasila reservoir which was filled to the brim, inundating several villages in the 130-km stretch downstream of the river. District Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu oversaw the relief operations by members of the State Disaster Response Force(SDRF) in worst-affected Veerlagudipadu village, near Sangam, which was surrounded by flood waters. About 50 stranded persons were rescued by SDRF personnel from among other places Pullaneellapalli and Mamuduru in Chejerla mandal. Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav reviewed the flood situation as denizens in Nellore city close to the Penna river including Porlakatta, Venkateswarapuram, Islampet, Janardhan Reddy Colony and Jayalalitha Nagar had a harrowing time. Flood waters entered hundreds of houses in the low-lying areas in the city. Municipal Commissioner K. Dinesh Kumar oversaw the evacuation of people from vulnerable areas. The present inflow of 1.15 lakh cusecs of water to the Somasila reservoir will continue in the next four days as the Penna and its tributary Kundu were in spate, according to Somasila Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao. Kandleru storage Meanwhile, the storage in the Kandleru reservoir in Rapur mandal, which cater to the drinking water needs of, among other places, Chennai and Tirupati, rose to 40.19 tmcft following an inflow of 10,512 cusecs.
21 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore, Prakasam districts record 2,000 recoveries in a single day||The intensity of coronavirus seems to be slowing down in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as close to 2,000 patients got cured of the disease in the districts of SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. The number of deaths, which was in double digit each day during the last week, came down to single digit as only eight patients succumbed to the virus during the period, taking the combined toll in the two districts to 840 so far. With six more fresh deaths, the toll rose 418 in Prakasam district. In SPSR Nellore district, the number of deaths went up marginally to 422 with two patients succumbing to the disease during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The Prakasam district administration heaved a sigh of relief as 1,154 patients were cured of the disease and discharged from hospitals in the district. With this, the number of active cases came down to 10,841 in the district.  Dip in active cases Continuing with the same trend, the active cases fell to 4,413 in SPSR Nellore district as 780 patients got cured. So far 75,315 patients in the two districts, including 44,879 in SPSR Nellore district recovered from the illness. Meanwhile, 1,313 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the total number of positive cases in the two districts to 90,988 so far. The total number of positive cases rose to 49,293 in SPSR Nellore district with 444 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. In Prakasam district, 869 fresh cases surfaced during the period taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 41,695.
21 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make it ‘zero academic year’, demands APTF||Andhra Pradesh Teachers' Federation (APTF) State associate president Sannasetti Rajasekhar on Sunday asked the State government to declare 2020-21 academic year as a ‘zero year’ since a majority of the students are unlikely to attend classes even if educational institutions were opened. In a press release, Mr. Rajasekhar said that Odisha government has already announced 'zero academic year' . The government should rethink on its decision of conducting classes for students above 9th standard from Sept. 21, said Mr. Rajasekhar.
21 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for more awareness about plasma therapy||Many patients who recovered from COVID-19 are not coming forward to donate plasma for other patients battling for life. According to a study conducted by Srikakulam district administration and Indian Red Cross Society, many recovered patients are willing to help only their near and dear ones in future without knowing the fact that antibodies will not survive after 75-100 days. As many as 23,000 persons recovered from COVID-19 in Srikakulam and 12,000 in Vizianagaram districts. But so far only 125 persons donated plasma in Srikakulam district and 50 in Vizianagaram district. Convalescent plasma therapy involves injecting the COVID-19 patient with convalescent sera of people who recovered from the infection recently. The patient cured of the disease have antibodies that fight coronavirus away, says the report of the WHO-China Joint Mission on COVID-19. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas and IRCS chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao urged NGOs to give wide publicity about Rs. 5,000 cash incentive for plasma donors. Along with Rotary Club and Lions Club, Pradhama Hospital-Visakapatnam has launched awareness programme in Srikakulam, Parvatipuram, Bobbili of Vizianagaram district over plasma donation. The hospital representatives interacted with patients and their family members about the saving of precious lives with plasma donation. “Many patients have little knowledge about functioning of blood. For every 120 days the body generates new blood cells, while the ones die. The same is applicable for plasma also. That is why, we are asking patients not to wait for donation of plasma only to their family members and friends. They can help others who in turn help their dear ones if necessary. Fortunately, our awareness programmes in the two districts have yielded the desired result. Many patients enrolled their names for plasma donation,” said Pusarla Visweswara Rao, Managing Director of Pradhama Hospital. ‘Only option at present’ Physician Kutikuppala Suryarao said that convalescent plasma treatment was the only option currently available to save patients. “ Convalescent plasma therapy has been in vogue for the last 100 years to save patients affected by infections. Although ICMR and other institutions expressed doubts about 100% result, we need to depend on it till vaccine is ready for COVID-19,” said Dr. Surya Rao.
21 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord Malayappa mounts Chinna Sesha vahanam inside temple||On the second day of the annual Brahmotsavams currently under way at the temple of Lord Venkateswara, ‘Chinna Sesha vahanam’ was on Sunday observed inside the temple. Special rituals were performed to the processional deity of Lord Malayappa mounted atop the golden Chinna Sesha vahanam at the Kalyanotsavam mandapam inside the temple complex. TTD Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, board members Ananth, Sivakumar, Kumaraguru, Sekhar Reddy and CVSO Gopinath Jatti were among those who took part in the celebrations.  Special adornment In the afternoon, priests performed ‘Snapana Thirumanjanam’ wherein the idols were placed on a high altar and given a celestial bath with milk, curd, sandalwood paste, honey and coconut water amid chanting of Pancha Sukthas by Vedic pundits. A garland made of raisins, areca nuts, turmeric root (pasupu kommulu), tulasi and lotus seeds, beetlenut leaves, rose petals and mimusops elengi (pagadapu poolu) stood as a special attraction during the ceremony that lasted more than two hours. Ranganayakula mandapam, where the thirumanjanam was performed, was tastefully decorated with varied hues of traditional and cut flowers, bunches of Australian bananas and grape pods that further contributed to the aesthetic ambiance. The celebrations for the day climaxed with Hamsa vahanam at night.
21 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Secretariats, RBKs will have own buildings by March next: Minister||Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy has announced that the government hopes to get the buildings completed in villages by March next to take the governance to the doorstep of the people. The Minister was inspecting SVU Campus school building, which was one of the centres where the examination was conducted for selection of village/ward secretariat employees, here on Sunday. Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said it was the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government that filled up number of posts across the State, with an aim to take governance to the grassroots level. “Having permanent buildings for village secretariat, rural medical centres and Rythu Bharosa Kendras will take administration several rungs closer to the society. We hope to complete the ongoing construction work of these buildings by March next,” he said. Similarly, Anganwadi centres languishing in rented premises would also be relocated in own buildings at the earliest. He accused the previous TDP regime of leaving several tasks unfinished and not paying the contractors on time for even finished works. On the examination, the Minister said the test was being conducted by maintaining the COVID-19 protocols and ensuring social distancing. “Special isolation rooms have been designated for COVID positive persons intending to write the test, so as not to deprive them of the opportunity.”
21 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poet honoured||The International Sufi Centre, Bengaluru, honoured Indo-Anglican poet K.V. Raghupathi recently in recognition of his contribution to Indian English poetry. Dr. Raghupathi, whose writing career spans four decades in the realms of poetry, short story, novel and reviews, taught at Sri Venkateswara University (Tirupati), Yogi Vemana University (Kadapa) and the Central University of Tamil Nadu (Tiruvarur). A native of Tirupati, Dr. Raghupathi has 12 compilations of poetry, two collections each of short stories and novels, apart from four works on yoga to his credit.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake cheques case handed over to ACB||The Andhra Pradesh government has handed over the fake cheques case to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Unidentified persons made a vain bid to draw Rs. 112 crore from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund using false cheques presented in various banks in Karnataka, West Bengal and New Delhi, and the fraud had come to light a few days ago when the alert bank officials cross-checked the transactions with their counterparts in Guntur and Vijayawada. “We received instructions from the government on the alleged fraud in the CMRF. The ACB will takeover the case in a day or two,” a senior officer told The Hindu on Sunday. Officials of the Revenue Department in the Secretariat are shocked at the attempt made to draw huge funds using fake cheques that almost resemble the original ones. According to the Revenue Department personnel, the miscreants have created fake cheques bearing the numbers of the cheques issued by the department. However, the dates of issuance of the cheques are different. “The accused prepared the fake cheques with the signatures of the officials and their stamps (seals). The bank authorities are shocked over the racket and alerted their counterparts and later the police,” an investigation officer said. The ACB is likely to take possession of the documents related to the sanction of amounts under the CMRF. The officials will probe how much amount has been sanctioned in the last few months, the names of beneficiaries, their addresses, and in which banks and branches the cheques have been encashed. The police are trying to find out how the miscreants have come to know about the numbers of the original cheques issued in the last few months and the role of insiders, if any, in the racket. They will also probe if there are similar instances earlier, and if so in which banks and branches the amounts have been withdrawn, and the number of persons involved. Forensic investigation “As part of the investigation, we will question the personnel of the Revenue Department and the bank staff at Velagapudi and Vijayawada, and the bank staff in West Bengal, New Delhi and Mangalore where the accused attempted to encash the cheques. The documents and the fake cheques will be sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory,” a police officer said. The police, who began their investigation, are verifying with their counterparts in the cyber crime and other departments if there are instances of crime with similar modus operandi. “We suspect that the accused are experts in creating fake documents and forgery,” a senior police officer said. Meanwhile, the police are verifying the movements of the gangs involved in the selling of fake education and other certificate in different parts of A.P. and neighbouring States.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain spurs sowing operations||Sowing operations have picked up in the State following heavy rains. The total crop acreage stood at 33.14 lakh hectares by September 16 when compared to the target of 39.59 lakh hectares for this kharif. The total cultivated area as on September 9 was 32.39 lakh hectares and the rise in the acreage is attributed to the rain. The rainfall was normal till September 9. The State recorded 511.8 mm rain from June1 to September 9, which touched 602.6 mm by September 16, an excess of 27.2%. Baring Srikakulam, all districts have recorded either normal or excess rain, say officials. All major reservoirs in the State had 834.05 tmcft of water as on September 9, which increased to 865.85 tmcft by September 16, when compared to the 686.68 tmcft during the corresponding period last year. Andhra Pradesh Agriculture Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy says farm operations are gaining momentum. The target for all crops, including food grains, oilseeds, cotton and sugarcane, this kharif has been set at 39.59 lakh hectares as against the normal acreage of 37.42 lakh hectares. “Almost all the districts have received good rain so far , bringing cheers to the farmers. The total foodgrain production of 15 crops during kharif increased from 106.51 lakh tonnes in 2018-19 to 120.43 lakh tonnes in 2019-20, an increase of 13%. It is a good sign,” he says.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State seeks Central support for DBT in free power scheme||The State government has decided to seek financial support from the Centre for the proposed 10 GW solar power project, and for implementation of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) under the free power scheme to the farm sector. Energy Secretary N. Srikant is scheduled to meet Union Minister for Power and New and Renewable Energy R.K. Singh in New Delhi on September 21 (Monday) in this regard. Low-cost electricity Mr. Srikant will apprise the Union Minister of the measures taken by the State government for improving the power sector, especially for strengthening the DISCOMs in the State and procuring low-cost power. According to an official release, the DBT is a part of the reforms initiated by the Centre in the power sector. The State government will spend about Rs. 8,500 crore towards the subsidy for free power scheme in 2020-21 financial year. The DBT will help improve the accountability and transparency when in comes to disbursal of the subsidy amount to the power utilities. Solar project The 10,000 MW solar power project is aimed at supplying free power to the agriculture sector. The State government is exploring every possibility of achieving cost-effective power as a tool to promote industrial, agricultural and economic growth in the State. Mr. Srikant will discuss with the Union Minister the renewable energy export policy launched by the government recently. It is aimed at tapping the huge potential for exporting renewable energy outside the State, which decided to lease up to five lakh acres of land to the developers. This is one of the major steps taken by the State government for promoting industries. The government released nearly Rs. 17,904 crore in 2019-20 fiscal year towards clearing pending tariff subsidy dues and other charges. It is bearing a subsidy burden of Rs. 11,000 crore in the current fiscal.
21 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green hydrogen production facility likely in State soon||The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) is looking for an opportunity to set up a green hydrogen production facility in Andhra Pradesh, for which Industries and Commerce Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy held preliminary discussions with NTPC Chairman and Managing Director Gurdeep Singh during his recent visit to New Delhi. The PSU has already undertaken a pilot project of splitting seawater into green hydrogen using solar energy in Tamil Nadu. The demand for green hydrogen is growing as it helps in decarbonising transport and can be used as a clean fuel in industrial processes. NTPC is also contemplating to set up a 1,000 MW solar power plant. According to official sources, the NTPC CMD suggested that the 1,200 acres at Pudimadaka in Visakhapatnam district, which is under its possession for the establishment of a 2,000-MW super thermal power plant which failed to take off, can be bartered with additional land so that the 1,000 MW solar plant can be set up elsewhere. Besides, the NTPC has agreed in principle to establish a Centre of Excellence in its domain (power sector) at Anakapalle in Visakhapatnam district as an extension to its Noida Power Management Institute. Meanwhle, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) is examining the feasibility of setting up a solar panel manufacturing unit near Nellore where high quality quartz is available. Modalities are being worked out by the Industries Department, which roped in BHEL to adopt two ITIs as a step towards skill enhancement. The Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) agreed in principle to offer apprenticeship programmes to students at its HRD centres and train youth from the State in SAIL Management Training Institute at Ranchi. Apart from these, India Tourism Development Corporation and Container Corporation of India have consented to establish Centres of Excellence.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cricket betting gang busted in Vijayawada||The police busted a cricket betting racket and arrested three persons. The gang hired a play school at Municipal Employees’ Colony in the limits of the Machavaram police station and was indulging in the illegal operation, according to Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order, DCP-1) V. Harshavardhan Raju. Addressing the media here on Sunday, the DCP said on a tip-off, the team led by the central zone in-charge Assistant Commissioner of Police Srinivas Rao and Machavaram CI G.V. Vinaya Mohan along with their staff raided the school and arrested the accused. The gang members were identified as Atluri Sri Ranjit Kumar of Bhimavaram, Devi Srinath and Peddu Naga Venkata Shiva Prasad of Vijayawada. The police seized 25 mobile phones, a recorder, line box, a laptop, a TV and other equipment from their possession. The kingpin of the gang, Naveen, hired the school building which was closed during the pandemic. They installed the equipment and were organising betting for the ongoing cricket matches. Search is on to nab the remaining accused in the case, Mr. Raju said.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. yet to take a call on scale of organising Tungabhadra Pushkaralu||With the Tungabhadra Pushkaralu scheduled from November 20 to December 1, proposals worth Rs. 45 crore for developing the ghats in the State are being considered. At a recent review meeting, the officials were told to prepare plans keeping the “immediate and long-term requirements” in view. MLA Md. Hafeez Khan proposed nine ghats in Kurnool at an estimated Rs. 14.45 crore. Kodumur MLA J. Sudhakar suggested that five ghats be set up at estimated Rs. 8.58 crore. Mantralayam MLA Y. Balanagi Reddy put forth the plan for six ghats at an estimated Rs. 12.16 crore. Yemmiganur MLA Y. Chennakesava Reddy and Nandikotkur MLA T. Arthur proposed development of two and six ghats at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.7 crore and Rs. 6.93 crore respectively. Nine of the 28 ghats proposed — Masamasid, Sankal Bagh, Nagasai temple, Rambotla temple, Raghavendra Mutt, Nawab Bunglow, Saiababa temple, Ganganamma temple and Nagareswara Swamy temple — are in Kurnool. Three ghats will be developed near Raghavendra Swamy Mutt at Mantralayam and another three in the Mantralayam constituency. The remaining, including the one at Sunkesula, will be developed in other constituencies. Earlier, 21 locations were identified for developing ghats. Most of them were either on the banks of the Tungabhadra or the Kurnool-Cuddapah (KC) Canal. The district administration has constituted 18 panels for the smooth conduct of the festival. In 2008, the authorities had started constructing the ghats three months before the festival. The irrigation officials, a few months ago, requested that works be begun at the earliest. But there was not much headway due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The government is yet to take a call on the scale of organising the festival in view of the pandemic,” says an official requesting anonymity.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s move to disinvest stake in LIC draws flak||A round-table organised by the Insurance Corporation Employees' Union (ICEU) here on Sunday took strong objection to the proposed disinvestment of the Central government's stake in Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC). Addressing the participants, CPI (M) leader and Rashtra Poura Samkshema Sangham convener Ch. Babu Rao said the LIC has been a major investor in the country's infrastructure and providing security to over 40 crore policy-holders but the Centre has resolved to pull out it's stake for the reasons which the Centre should explain. The Central government was getting ready for an Initial Public Offering of the LIC notwithstanding the nationwide protests. If the LIC was listed on the stock-exchanges and the Centre managed to offload its stake, the consequences for the economy would be serious, Mr. Babu Rao said. South Central Zone Insurance Employees' Federation joint secretary G. Kishore Kumar, APNGOs' Association leader A. Vidyasagar and representatives of various organisations and trade unions took part in the round-table.  MPs cutting across party lines faulted the proposed disinvestment
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC order denies people a right: HRF||The Human Rights Forum (HRF) State committee took objection to the interim order of the High Court restraining the publication of contents of the First Information Report (FIR) filed against a former advocate general by the Anti-Corruption Bureau for alleged involvement in land transactions in Amaravati. HRF State general secretary K. Sudha and A.P. and Telangana coordination committee member V.S. Krishna said in a release that the direction amounted to a blanket diktat that deprives the citizens of their right to obtain information about matters of public importance. They hoped that the court would reconsider its decision. The right to know and freedom of speech and expression are vital components in a democracy. The High Court order diminished such freedoms and undermines the fundamental freedom of the press, they observed.
21 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Fill up posts in Treasury Dept.’||Andhra Pradesh Treasuries Association State president P. Shoban Babu has asked the government to fill up the vacant posts in the Treasury Department. Mr. Shoban Babu held a general body meeting here on Sunday. He said that the work pressure on the treasury employees increased manifold due to additional duties. He said there was a need for filling up of the vacancies. Association secretary K. Satyanarayana and treasurer S. Bhaskar Rao were present.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM encouraging defections: TDP||The action of Visakhapatnam South MLA Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar in ditching the party and extending support to the YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) came in for severe criticism from the TDP leaders and former Ministers Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy and Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu. The former Ministers along with the TDP leaders held a meeting with the party workers of Visakhapatnam South constituency on Sunday. Speaking to the media, they lashed out at YSRCP president and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for ‘encouraging defections’ forgetting that he had ridiculed the TDP for engineering defections and saying ‘MLAs were being purchased like cattle in the market.’ He had even made tall statements that he would admit MLAs and leaders from other parties, only after they quit posts. They wondered as to what had happened to that principle now. The former Ministers said that though Mr. Ganesh Kumar had left the TDP, the party workers were strongly behind the party. TDP president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu had reposed faith in Mr. Ganesh Kumar and made him the party’s urban district unit president. Instead of showing his gratitude to Mr. Naidu, the latter left without even informing the party elders. The reasons for his action would be known soon, they said. Saying that it was values and not power or positions that were important in politics, Mr. Murthy said, “Ayyanna Patrudu and I will remain with the TDP till our last breath.” He alleged that the YSRCP chief was playing a mind game. Referring to the YSRCP leaders commenting on the judiciary, they wondered what was wrong in Mr. Naidu allocating house sites to Judges in Amaravati. In 2005, the then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had sanctioned 500 sq.yards plots to Judges in Hyderabad. “Was it done with an ulterior motive?” they questioned. They also criticised the State government for hurting the sentiments of Hindus by giving the customs at the TTD a go-by and trying to do away with the rule that those following other faiths should sign the register before entering Tirumala. The TDP leaders said that they would work for the success of the party in the GVMC elections. Visakhapatnam East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu, party leader Anita and others were present.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 more persons succumb to coronavirus; toll rises to 363||As many as 342 fresh COVID-19 infections were reported in the last 24 hours in the district, taking the cumulative tally to 47,366, as per the bulletin released on Sunday. The death toll increased to 363, with six more persons succumbing to the virus. As many as 418 persons, undergoing treatment at COVID-19 hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and under home quarantine, were discharged or recovered in the last 24 hours. This takes the total number of discharges/recoveries to 42,569. The statistics show that recoveries were almost 89.8% in the district. The COVID-19 bulletin also stated that the number of active cases in the district is 4,434. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, there are 55 very active clusters which reported a case in the last four days. Similarly there are 43 active and 620 dormant clusters in the district. It may be remembered that 192 clusters were already denotified.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ward Secretariat exams record 76% attendance on Day 1||The first day of AP Grama/Ward Secretariat Examinations saw 76.10 % attendance in Visakhapatnam district, on Sunday. Out of 94,543 candidates who have applied for the examination, as many as 71,945 have attended, while 22,598 remained absent. Twenty-two candidates who were affected with the COVID-19 have also appeared for the examinations in isolation rooms at the centres. In the morning session, out of 73,246 candidates, 56,232 (76.75%) candidates attended the exam, while 17,014 persons remained absent. In the afternoon session, out of 21,297 candidates, 15,713 (74%) have attended, while 5,584 remained absent. The district administration has allotted 277 centres for the examination including 168 under the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) limits. There was buzz around the city with candidates rushing to their examination centres since the morning. Many parents/family members dropped their children to the centres avoiding public transport due to the COVID-19 situation. Officials have checked temperatures of the candidates before allowing them into the centres. While a few centres provided sanitisers to the candidates, several others ignored. Many candidates brought their sanitisers and water bottles along with them. District Collector V. Vinay Chand inspected examination centres, while GVMC Commissioner G Srijana and Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao also conducted checks in a few centres. “Thermal screening was conducted before allowing us. There were 16 candidates in our room and social distancing was maintained,” said K. Harsha, a candidate who appeared for the examination in a centre for the post of digital assistant.  Police personnel deployed at the centres. RTC officials ran special buses from various routes since the morning.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC offers discount on bulk cargo||The Visakhapatnam Region of APSRTC has come out with special discounts for those planning to move their cargoes to different places in the State. Bulk customers, who book their goods for a fourth time and subsequently in a month will be given 5% discount till the end of the month, according to Deputy Chief Manager (commercial) A. Vijay Kumar. Cargoes over three tonnes will be picked up from the doorstep of the customer. More details can be had from Assistant Traffic Manager (Commercial) on the mobile numbers: 7331147261, 9491897661 or 9959441144.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to Swami Agnivesh||A memorial meeting to pay homage to Swami Agnivesh (80) who passed away recently in New Delhi was held by the Visakhapatnam branch of International Association For Religious Freedom (IARF) at Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Bhavan here on Sunday. Narava Prakasa Rao, International council member of IARF, garlanded a photo of Swami Agnivesh and paid floral tributes to him. Mr. Prasasa Rao said that Swami Agnivesh acted as an Advisor to IARF India chapter. Swami was the founder of Religions for Social Justice and popular leader of Arya Samaj and worked through out his life fighting against bonded child labour and fought for human rights and was a great humanist. He had also worked for fostering religious harmonyamong people, Mr. Prakasa Rao said. IARF local chairman M.S. Kumar Babu, Boddu Kalyana Rao , Rajeswara Rao and Venkateswara Rao participated.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo to hold online competitions||The Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) would conduct various online competitions including elocution, essay writing, poster making, quiz and photography from September 23 to 27 as part of the Wildlife Week from October 2. The results of the competitions will be announced during the Wildlife Week-2020 and the distribution of prizes will be through online platforms or through post. Curator Nandani Salaria said that interested children/school authorities/wildlife lovers can contact A. Jayasri, Zoo Educational Officer (8121318643), M Purushottam, Zoo Biologist (9000 151 920), and B.V. Ramana, Forest Section Officer (9494671037). She said that participation certificates will be given to all the candidates. More details of the competitions and daily programme schedule is also available at the zoo official website www.vizagzoo.com.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rains likely in next 48 hours||A low pressure area formed over north-east Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood on Sunday with associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 7.6 km above mean sea level tilting south-west wards with height. It is likely to move west-northwest wards during the next two to three days and become more marked over Northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours, according to the Cyclone Warning Centre(CWC), Visakhapatnam. Under the influence of this system, rain or thunder showers is very likely to occur at many places over coastal A.P. and Yanam during the next 48 hours. Strong winds, speed reaching 45 to 55 km/hour, are likely over south and adjoining central Bay of Bengal, along and off West Bengal-Odisha coast. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea.
21 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two children drown in Mangamaripeta beach||Two children reportedly drowned in Mangamaripeta beach under Bheemili police station limits in Visakhapatnam on Sunday. The deceased were identified as T Ajith Kumar (15) and V. Yashwanth (14), belonging to different villages in Bheemili mandal. According to the police, the two victims along with four other friends had gone to swim in Mangamaripeta beach. At around 3.30 p.m., when they were playing with a floating structure in the waters, a strong tide pulled them into the deep. While four of them managed to escape, Ajith and Yashwanth had gone missing. There were a few local villagers nearby. They jumped into the water and brought both the children to the shore. But both of them found dead, said the police. Family members wept inconsolably as the bodies were shifted for post-mortem. A case was registered. This is the third drowning incident reported in Bheemili region in the last three days. It may be remembered that on September 18 evening, an 11-year-old boy G. Harish, a resident of Sanghivalasa, reportedly drowned when he along with his couple of friends went for swimming in the Gosthani river.
21 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attacks on Dalits on the rise: Oppn||Leaders of opposition parties on Sunday expressed concern over the attacks on Dalit families across the State. They alleged that the lands of Dalits were being grabbed by influential people in the State. Speaking at a round-tabale organised by the Congress in Vizianagaram on the issues of the downtrodden sections, Vizianagaram District Congress Committee president S..Ramesh Kumar said the lands of many Dalit families were acquired under the guise of house sites distribution to the poor. ‘Death knell to farmers’ APCC general secretary Jammu Adinarayana and Youth Congress leader Satish Kumar said that the government's new policy over pumpsets would sound a death knell for the famrers of Scheduled Castes and Tribes who depend on groundwater for their agriculture activity.  Leaders of CPI, CPI(M), and Aam Admi Party alleged that both Union and State governments were adopting anti-people's policies, causing untold miseries to the downtrodden sections and farmers in the country. They felt that new Agriculture Bills would not do any benefit to the farmers of the country.
21 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop on electric vehicles||Satya Institute of Technology and Management(SITAM) and Agrayana Electric Technologies will jointly train 50 students in manufacturing electric vehicles on the college campus, according to its Director M. Sasibhusana Rao. The prototype production development programme would continue for two weeks. During the training, the students will learn retrofitting diesel and petrol vehicles to electric vehicles. Former MP of Botcha Jhansi inaugurated the programme
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low-lying areas inundated as Krishna receives heavy inflows||With the Krishna river in spate owing to heavy inflows caused by continuous rainfall in the catchment areas, the first flood warning was issued early on Sunday the day, after the discharge at Prakasam Barrage crossed 3.96 lakh cusecs. However, the warning was withdrawn at around 8.45 pm. as the discharge came down to 3.95 lakh cusecs. The Prakasam Barrage witnessed the inflows and outflows of more than 4 lakh cusecs of floodwater throughout the day. The flood has thrown life out of gear for hundreds of families living in the low-lying areas of Krishnalanka and the villages in Yamanalakuduru, Penamaluru and other areas. The inflows reached 4.48 lakh cusecs by 1 p.m. and the 4.44 lakh cusecs of surplus water was released into the sea. By 6 p.m., the inflows came down to 4.21 lakh cusecs and 4.17 lakh cusecs surplus water was discharged at Prakasam Barrage. Heavy rain Officials said that the floodwater level was likely to increase further as discharge from the Pulichintala and Srisailam projects continued, in addition to the continuous rainfall in the catchment areas. Krishna Collector A. Md.Imitiaz visited the flood-affected areas of Bupesh Gupta Nagar, Ramalingeswara Nagar and others. He interacted with the residents and asked them to move to safer places or flood relief camps set up by the government. The second flood warning would be issued when the discharge at Prakasam Barrage crosses 5.56 lakh cusecs, the officials said.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Passenger dies on board AirAsia flight||A passenger died on board an AirAsia flight from Bengaluru to Kolkata on Saturday evening. The body was handed over to his relatives on Sunday. Sajid Ali (68), along with his two sons, was travelling to Kolkata. As he fell ill and the direct flight made an emergency landing at Visakhapatnam airport. Airport Director M. Raja Kishore said a doctor went inside the aircraft and examined the patient. He was certified as ‘dead on board’. The body was shifted to the King George Hospital (KGH) in Visakhapatnam and a post-mortem was performed on Sunday. The passenger was tested negative for coronavirus after death.  After the emergency landing, the passengers were made to disembark and the aircraft was disinfected as per the protocol before resuming the journey. The body of the passenger was handed over to his relatives and they took it to Kolkata in an ambulance.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||WFH proving a pain in the neck||With the COVID-prompted shift from an office setting to working from home six months ago, many individuals have turned their dining tables, sofas, and even beds into temporary workstations. Laptops are placed on laps even as the upper spine and neck muscles are stretched to peer into screens. This has led to an increasing number of people consulting doctors with complaints of stiff back and neck spasm. Additional professor and unit head in Orthopaedics department at Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), Cherukuri Nagesh said sitting in awkward or improper positions for prolonged periods results in back and neck pains. “If this continues for a long time, people might suffer from serious problems such as early onset of cervical disc problem and cervical spondylosis,” Dr Nagesh said. Apart from these aches and pains, many individuals would also vouch for the fact that the amount of time spent on work at home in comparatively more than when they were functioning from office, leaving them little time for any physical activity. Lack of discipline too has a role to play. The NIMS additional professor said that lack of exposure to sunlight and sedentary lifestyle leads to calcium and Vitamin D deficiency that could lead to osteoporosis. Senior consultant Orthopaedic at Aster Prime Hospital G. Satish Reddy opined that using laptops for long periods is not ideal. “People with neck or back spasms used to consult us earlier too. Of late, the number of people with pain in neck and upper spine who consult us has increased. The solution out of this is taking care of ergonomics. Else, it can lead to chronic problems such as weak spinal muscles. When the issue is mild, the pain experienced by people comes down when they take bed rest. In future, if people continue to sit in improper posture, they might experience pain while taking rest, leading to disturbed sleep. Medication might be needed to address it,” Dr Satish said. When people work from dining table or other forms of tables where elbows are not supported, wrists take lot of weight leading to carpal tunnel syndrome, or pain in wrist, less of sensation and others. Chief Rehabilitation Specialist at KIMS Hospitals, Sudhindra Vooturi said that the syndrome could become so severe it could disturb sleep. “This could be avoided if pillows are placed on lap to support elbows. When laptop screen is not at eye level, people keep staring down which strains muscles in back of the neck resulting in pain. Besides, chairs in office support back all the way up to shoulders. So, at home, push chair to wall so that head touches the wall regularly,” Dr Sudhindra said, adding that those who don’t have a table at home choose to sit cross-legged or with leg stretched. Sitting in this position for long might lead to muscle stiffness too.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Work on Secretariat likely by Oct.-end||The State government is hopeful of commencing work on the construction of the new Secretariat complex before October-end. The government has called for bids from interested firms for taking up work on the integrated complex after obtaining clearances from different agencies, including the Pollution Control Board, GHMC, and Airports Authority of India. The State Expert Appraisal Committee, based out of the city, had also given its consent for the new complex paving the way for bids. “We are hopeful that work will start by October-end may be Dasara,” a senior Roads and Buildings department official said. Tenders have been invited and the pre-bid meeting of the project is scheduled to be held on September 26. The Technical Bids of the project would be opened on October 1 and Price Bids on October 5, but officials feel that there would be fewer firms submitting their bids owing to the magnitude of the project. The expected cost of construction of the new complex is now pegged at Rs. 500 crore as against the Cabinet approval of Rs. 400 crore. The increase in the estimates was because of changes in design both within the main building as well as in the vicinity. The main building of the new complex will have seven floors (G+6), but the central towers will have five additional floors each. This has necessitated the government to obtain clearance for G+11 complex from the authorities concerned and this change is also said to be the reason for the revised cost. Senior officials engaged in the process said that there would be two central towers that will have sky lounges to provide a 360 degree view of the city. “There will be one tower on the eastern side above the main entrance and another one of exactly the same size on the western side. These two towers are very much part of the main building,” a senior official told The Hindu . Once completed, the height of the complex is expected to be 278 feet above ground level while it was also proposed to have two levels below the ground that could be utilised for other purposes. The government has set a deadline of 12 months for the completion of work from the date of entering into an agreement. Keeping in view the schedule for handing over the site, the selected bidder should programme the works in such a way so as to achieve milestones as in “rate of progress”, the tender document said.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Meeting today to finalise reopening of sporting facilities||The Centre had made it clear last month that social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations will be permitted with a ceiling of 100 persons, with effect from Sept. 21. Keeping this in mind, top brass of the Sports Authority of Telangana State convened a meeting on Monday at Lal Bahadur Stadium to finalise the future course of action in this regard. Some of the proposals by the SATS to be debated include only one hour training for those above 12 years of age, (reducing the number of trainees, and more importantly - for the first one month focus only on physical conditioning to ensure that the athletes get into the right frame – mentally and physically. Significantly, the Academies or Centres of Excellence run both by the State and the Central (SAI Centres) do not figure in the priority list even now for they are linked to education also. However, Olympics probables like the shuttlers have been given special permission to start training from Aug. 7 itself. HCA secretary R. Vijayanand says that they are ready to start any activity once there is clarity on Standard Operating Procedure. “If the govt. gives the nod, we have a plan of action and all the play facilities are ready for the players to avail them,” he said. For his part, Norman Isac, secretary of Telangana Basketball Association, says that while the GHMC has given permission for all sports complexes to be reopened from Monday, they are yet to get any clear signal from the SATS.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP flays KCR’s take on new farm Bill||TS BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Sunday strongly condemned the language used by CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao against the Centre’s farm Bill and said it was only meant to divert the attention of people from his ‘misrule’. “KCR has cheated farmers by promising to buy crops during the last season but failed. In a majority of the procurement centres, farm produce especially paddy, got damaged due to hailstorms but the TRS government did not come to their rescue. Similarly, vegetable and fruit farmers who incurred heavy loss during the lockdown were not helped,” he claimed. In a media statement, the BJP leader accused the CM of being against setting up of 1,000 market yards in TS under the new law which is “aimed to reap maximum benefit to farmers”. “The farming fraternity feels indebted to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the revolutionary initiative and farmers will see through the game of KCR and teach him a befitting lesson at an early opportunity,” he said. The Central government has lifted all restrictions on agri-product transportation to empower farmers to sell their product at their price and their choice of location. Since each State has its own set of regulations over the farm produce and marketing, farmers are not able to take their produce to the locations in the country where they get profitable prices, said Mr. Sanjay. The new law ensures free inter-State trade and transportation of farm produce which will prove profitable for farmers. The PM had already assured that farmers would continue to get MSP and market yard support.
21 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CS warning to collectors and SPs on heavy rainfall, flooding||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has directed all district collectors and superintendents of police to be on alert in the wake of warning issued by the India Meteorological Department over the possible heavy to very heavy rainfall in some districts. There could be heavy to very heavy rainfall especially in Adilabad, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Warangal and Khammam. This could result in massive flooding and water-logging in low lying areas. The rain could lead to falling of trees and electric poles thereby disrupting normal life. Reservoirs, tanks and streams could overflow causing inundation of low lying areas. Besides, low bridges and causeways could overflow posing threat to traffic and people. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao reviewed the situation following the IMD’s warning and directed officials to put the entire district administration on alert. The flood protocol communicated to districts earlier should be strictly adhered to. The Chief Secretary wanted officers to be available in the headquarters and take all measures to ensure that there was no loss of life or property, according to an official release.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID tests drop by around 5,000 per day||The number of tests conducted in a day to detect COVID-19 have dropped to around 55,000 in Telangana. Between August 25 and September 11, around 60,000 tests were being undertaken daily, barring Sundays. The fall in testing is being observed since September 12. On Saturday, 53,811 people got tested for presence of the novel coronavirus and 2,137 were detected with COVID-19. Results of 1,185 persons were awaited. Of those who underwent tests, 23,676 were primary contacts and 6,457 were secondary contacts. The new 2,137 cases include 322 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 182 from Rangareddy, 146 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 132 from Karimnagar, 124 from Nalgonda, 109 from Siddipet, and 90 from Warangal Urban. Eight patients died on Saturday. This is the lowest number of daily deaths this month so far. Of the total 1,71,306 cases recorded in the State so far, 30,573 are active while 1,39,700 have recovered, and 1033 have died. A total of 24,88,220 people have been tested in TS so far.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hyderabad to join shoe strike for global climate action||Hyderabad will be a proud participant in the Global Climate Action on September 25, by donating shoes tagged with messages. The Global Climate Strike, an annual event spearheaded by Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg to speak against the inaction of governments and leaders in containing climate change, has changed in form this time in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Instead of people storming into the streets, the strike will see shoes sent by protesters to represent them. All the shoes thus gathered will be put at one place with personal messages to the government. The location for the innovative protest will be announced a day ahead of the strike, said Arpit Sharma representing Fridays For Future-Hyderabad, a collective for climate action. Already, more than 1,000 shoes have been collected from citizens supporting the strike and for city specific demands, he said. After the strike, the shoes will be donated to under-served people through NGO Goonj, a note informed. Two city specific demands have been put forth by the movement, for restoration of the hydrological regime of Hyderabad’s lakes by 2022, and conservation of natural forests as No-Go Zones.
21 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. seeks Rs. 1 cr. for kin of girl who was washed away||Congress leaders led by AICC spokesperson Dasoju Shravan blamed the government for the death of 12-year-old Sumedha, who was washed away in an open nala in Deen Dayala Nagar in Malkajgiri and demanded Rs. 1 crore ex-gratia for her family. “It is not an accident but a murder by the TRS government,” Mr Shravan said after visiting the girl’s family. He blamed the incident on the utter negligence of the GHMC, Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao, and Mayor Bonthu Rammohan while criticising Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav for “insensitive comments” about the girl’s death. After offering condolences to the bereaved parents Sukanya and Abhijeet, Congress leaders toured the area, inspected the open nalas and inquired about the events leading to Sumedha's death. “Is it not the minimum duty of GHMC to cover nalas or place fencing around open nalas? What is the GHMC Mayor doing? Where is the Rs. 60,000 crore that the TRS government claims to have spent,” he asked.
21 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CCMB to host Open Day online from today||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) opens up to the public every year on September 26 to mark Centre of Scientific & Industrial Research’s foundation day. But this year, it will be a week-long, online affair starting September 21. It is open to anyone above 12 years of age, and with an access to a smartphone and internet (http://tiny.cc/ccmbopenweek).
21 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Kavita gets into the million followers club on Twitter||Former MP from Nizamabad and TRS leader Kalvakuntla Kavitha has clocked a million followers on Twitter. The daughter of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is apparently the first woman politician in South India to get a million followers. She joined Twitter in 2010 during the statehood campaign. Ms. Kavitha used the platform to reach out to Telangana supporters and those opposing as well to explain the need for a separate state. She gave a cultural thrust to the movement by launching ‘Telangana Jagruthi’ that played a key role in popularising Bathukamma that garnered national attention.
21 September 2020||Khammam,TELANGANA||BRF||The Facebook account of Khammam Two Town Circle Inspector of Police T. Gopi was reportedly hacked by some unidentified persons on Saturday. Police sources said that the hackers allegedly posted ‘unauthorised content’ on the Facebook page. The inspector immediately lodged a complaint with the Cyber Cell at the Khammam Police Commissionerate for stern action against the frauds. Based on the complaint, a case under relevant sections of the IT Act was registered against the unidentified persons, sources added.
21 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Two arrested for bank loan fraud||The Nalgonda Town I police on Saturday arrested two persons and booked them for allegedly taking a vehicle loan from banks by producing the documents of an innocent person. The accused were identified as Mekala Raghuram Reddy and Ramavath Jabbar Lal of Hayathnagar. The SUV worth Rs. 11 lakh, which had a temporary registration number, was seized. According to the police, the issue surfaced only after one Yanala Madhusudan Reddy, a milk distributor of Motakondur village, approached them. A savings bank account was opened and a car loan taken, without his knowledge, at the State Bank of India’s Collectorate branch and Shivajinagar branch respectively. The bank’s welcome letter of opening the account and other services that came to the original address exposed the case. “Even the bank was unaware and said that the approvals were based on colour photocopies. While one opened the account, the other branch sanctioned the loan and the SUV delivery was also done. Negligence on the part of the bank officials was clear,” a senior officer said. Raghuram Reddy had a history of cases against him in Hyderabad, and along with Jabbar Lal, an outsourced loan agent, he had approached the victim, Madhusudan Reddy, and collected his ‘Know Your Customer’ details promising him a loan. However, the latter did not pursue his interest but also did not collect his documents back. In addition to the charges of forgery, cheating and impersonation against the two, Jabbar Lal was booked for criminal breach of trust by the banker. The case is under investigation.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Modernising the system||New challenges The recent enactment of a new registration law by the State government has purchased new challenges to document writers who were dependent on registration offices for their living. There are 141 sub-registrar offices in the State where people turning up for property registrations used to take the help of writers to complete the formalities. Under the new law, registration of agricultural land will be done in tahsildar offices in mandals while sub-registrar offices will retain work in respect of non-agricultural land. To modernise the system of document writing, the government was said to be gathering details about the educational qualifications and experience of document writers. The writers were likely to be asked to take an exam and only the qualifiers will be assigned the task. The ultimate objective was to make them responsible for any mistakes in documents. Cricket crazy This is the season of cricket after a long hiatus. And conveying a message to cricket crazy Indians looks easy and effective. That’s what the new AICC in-charge for Telangana, Manickam Tagore, chose to do. During his first interaction, he said that the party has several stars like Dhoni and Kohli but it is always the team that wins despite individual brilliance. The message was strong and stern for the leaders, who are generally divided more than united. And like in cricket, Mr. Tagore said discipline was the key if the team has to win. Offensive stand The Telangana government that supported the Centre’s measures in tackling COVID has adopted an offensive stand against the latter in respect to three farm Bills that were passed by RS on Sunday and LS earlier. The TRS government made no bones of its disagreement with the laws irrespective of the certainty that the Centre would have its say in passage of Bills. “Now that the three farmers’ bills have been passed by both the Houses, the real test is for states like Telangana, as to how they keep protecting the interests of farmers”, a senior official felt. Ruckus at Zero Hour The Assembly has witnessed an interesting debate over the mentions made by members during the Zero Hour. MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi, who raised the issue of an encounter in Nalgonda a few years ago, expressed concern that the government was yet to table the report of the SIT in the House. He was equally angry over the lukewarm response to the Zero Hour mentions by members. With several other members too raising a similar issue, Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy had to intervene and pacify them assuring written replies.  (N. Rahul, R. Ravikanth Reddy, B. Chandrashekhar and M. Rajeev)
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Where all lines merge||Work on one of the country’s most significant multi-modal passenger transit hub is poised to begin soon in the heart of the Capital, even as construction on the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor of the Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) is going on in full swing in Uttar Pradesh. Sources said that construction of the RRTS station at Sarai Kale Khan — where all the three Phase 1 RRTS corridors (Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut, Delhi-Gurugram-SNB-Alwar and Delhi-Panipat) will converge — should begin soon despite issues related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The RRTS station at Sarai Kale Khan will be seamlessly integrated with the Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station, the Delhi Metro Pink Line’s Hazrat Nizamuddin station and the Sarai Kale Khan Inter State Bus Terminal. Easy movement The station architecture has been designed to facilitate commuter movement between the different modes of transportation. “Several pre-construction activities, including silo survey, have begun at the site,” said Sudhir Kumar Sharma, group general manager (strategic planning) of the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC). Though Mr. Sharma did not comment on when exactly construction would start, sources said it is likely to commence over the coming few months and latest by the end of the year. Top-priority Sources said the Letter of Agreement to a construction agency was in the process of being awarded, following which manpower, equipment and other necessary resources will be mobilised for construction process. Given the ‘top-priority’ status of the project, sources said the NCRTC had undertaken significant pre-construction activities on its own so that the construction agency could get started on the station as soon as possible. The NCRTC said that detailed designing of the station has been completed and its multimodal integration was finalised after deliberations and discussion with all stakeholders. All the requisite approvals have been obtained, soil investigation is complete, and pile load test and diversion of utilities such as 11KV, 33KV (BSES & DTL) lines are in progress. Meanwhile, construction on over 50 km of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS is on in full swing. The NCRTC said it successfully undertook civil construction work on the stretch from Sahibabad to Shatabdi Nagar (Meerut) around 16 months ago. Foundation work for the viaduct is progressing at a fast pace, said the NCRTC. Over 2,500 piles and 209 pile caps have been laid and around 100 pillars have been erected on the 17-km priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai. The launching of viaduct spans is in progress and the superstructure for the viaduct is now visible on the stretch. Construction of stations on the priority section (Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, Guldhar and Duhai) is also in progress. The particular stretch is scheduled to start operation by 2023, while the full 82 km RRTS corridor will be open to public by 2025. Civil construction work The NCRTC has also kicked-off civil construction work on the 32-km section from Duhai to Shatabdi Nagar (Meerut), which will host seven stations: Murad Nagar, Modi Nagar South, Modi Nagar North, Meerut South, Partapur, Rithani and Shatabdi Nagar. The foundation work for the Modi Nagar and Shatabdi Nagar stations is on in full swing; road widening and utility diversion work is under way between Duhai to Modipuram.
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man accused of raping minor girl found dead inside lock-up||A 40-year-old man, who was arrested on charges of raping a minor girl, was allegedly found dead inside the lock-up at Samaypur Badli police station, the police said on Sunday. A constable has been suspended, they said. A complaint was lodged on September 19 against the accused at Swaroop Nagar police station. It was alleged that he had entered a neigbhour’s house and raped a 14-year-old girl, who was alone at the house. A case under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of Sexual Offences Act was registered. The accused, who was hiding at a relative’s house in Samaypur Badli, was subsequently arrested, said Gaurav Sharma, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North). He was lodged in a lock-up at Samaypur Badli police station since Swaroop Nagar police station has none, the DCP said. After the accused was found hanging on Sunday, he was immediately rushed to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, but was declared brought dead by the doctors, the officer said. The Metropolitan Magistrate has been informed regarding the incident and proceedings are being carried out. The CCTV footage has also been preserved to facilitate the enquiry, the DCP said. Constable suspended Constable Yashveer, who was posted in sentry duty at the police station, has been suspended for negligence, the police said. The deceased, who had earlier been jailed in a murder-cum-robbery case, was released on parole in March this year. However, due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, his parole was extended. He is a resident of Bulandshahr in Uttar Pradesh, but was staying at one of his relatives house in Kadipur here, they said. The family members of the deceased, meanwhile, alleged that the police had thrashed him inside the lock-up and also forced him to consume alcohol. The police have refuted the allegations The police said that the accused had previously been convicted in a case of sodomy, registered at Alipur police station. The deceased’s lawyer, Rakesh Kaushik, said that the man was in jail for the last five-six years in connection with a murder case, but was out on parole since last five months. He said that the man was brought to Swaroop Nagar police station for questioning. His relatives got a call and were asked to visit him at the police station, but on Sunday they were informed about his death at Samaypur Badli police station. The deceased’s nephew, Neeraj, said: “My uncle had come out on parole a few months back. Around 6.30 p.m., an ASI from Swaroop Nagar police station arrived at our home and enquired about him. Later, we were informed by the police that our uncle was in Swaroop Nagar police station. When we reached there, we found that he was beaten up and was even forced to consume liquor. But today [Sunday], we were informed that he had ended his life at Samaypur Baldi police station.” Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002 (Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.).  My uncle was beaten up and even forced to consume liquor... Neeraj Deceased’s nephew
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Four held for extortion and impersonation||A gang of four men has been arrested for allegedly posing as police officers and extorting money from people, the police said on Sunday. The accused, identified as Sagar, Praveen, Lokesh and Amar Singh, who earlier worked as security guards, formed a gang during the COVID-19-induced lockdown and planned to extort money from people by either threatening or blackmailing them, they said. The accused roamed in plain clothes and claimed to be CID officials. Four forged ID cards, including a fake appointment letter, was recovered from them, the police said. The police said that on September 17 evening, two constables who were on patrolling duty were alerted by a few people about four men, who allegedly introduced themselves as CID officers and threatened them while they were inside the Japanese Park. On seeing the police, the suspects tried to escape, but they were caught after a brief chase. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said: “During enquiry, all of them maintained that they are CIDs. They also produced ID cards bearing the Delhi police logo and the Ashoka Emblem inscribed on it. It also had ‘CID, Government of India’ mentioned on it. But, the constables grew suspicious and when they cross-questioned the accused, two of them said they were with the Delhi police, while the other two claimed they worked with the CID department of Haryana Police.” Later they confessed that they had been posing as police officers to extort money from the public by threatening them, the DCP said. A case was registered against the men at Prashant Vihar police station and they were arrested. During interrogation, the accused also disclosed that they used to arrange forged and fabricated IDs from their accomplice Sandeep, the police said, adding that efforts are being made to trace him.
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU principals demand funds after auditors’ notice||The Delhi University Principals’ Association reiterated its demand for the release of funds to all 12 colleges falling under the Delhi government, following letter sent by auditors to some colleges alleging that they had not produced all documents to them. The association asserted that the three colleges to whom the notice was sent – Shahhed Sukhdev College of Business Studies, Deen Dayal Uphadyaya College and Keshav Mahavidyalya – had extended full cooperation to the special audit team members and had produced all documents as mandated by the Directorate of Higher Education. “These colleges have been transparent and have nothing to hide,” the association wrote. Salary payment It also opposed the suggestion of paying salaries from students’ society funds, hostel funds and other funds generated by the college, arguing that it was against the established norms. DUPA also appealed to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to intervene in the matter and help resolve it.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rain and thunderstorm likely this week’||The Capital is likely to receive some rainfall in the coming days that may provide some relief from the current temperature that has remained two to three degrees above normal for the past two weeks. Delhi has seen a dry spell as the Safdarjung weather station last recorded rain on September 8. Normally, the city, on an average, receives 96.2 mm of rainfall in September but this year, it has recorded only 20.9 mm. The forecast for the week shows that the sky will turn partly cloudy on Monday with moderate to severe thunderstorm/lightening likely on Tuesday and Wednesday. Partly cloudy sky with light rain/drizzle has been forecast for Thursday and Friday. On Sunday, the city recorded a high of 36.8 degrees Celsius and a minimum of 26.6 degrees. The humidity hovered between 44% and 87%. The forecast for Monday reads “maximum and minimum temperatures hovering between 37 and 26 degrees respectively.”
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Withdraw rule prohibiting junk food sale near schools||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Sunday said that the new rule prohibiting sale of junk food near schools will adversely affect nearly two crore businesses in the country. Small traders are already suffering due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the traders body claimed. It wrote to the Union Health Minister and the Commerce Minister, demanding the withdrawal of the said rule. CAIT has termed the move impractical. CAIT said that the new rule would put a dent on neighbourhood shops, many of which found themselves in a 50-metre radius of one educational institution or another.
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Tourist guide raped inside hotel room||A 27-year-old tourist guide alleged that she was raped inside a hotel room in the city, police said on Sunday. The victim was approached by two men, who called her to a hotel on the pretext of giving her loan at subsidised rates, on Friday night. The woman was allegedly raped there. One of the accused, Manoj Sharma, a resident of Malviya Nagar, has been arrested.
21 September 2020||Ahmedabad,||Monsoon session to begin today in Gujarat||There will be no Question Hour during the monsoon session of the Gujarat Assembly, which will begin from Monday under the shadow of COVID-19. Nearly 20 bills will be taken up for discussion during the five-day session which will be conducted in adherence to all COVID-19 protocols. Seating arrangements will be made following physical distancing norms and no visitors will be allowed in the premises. COVID-19 tests were conducted on Speaker Rajendra Trivedi and 505 staff members of the Assembly over the past few days, and five people tested positive.
21 September 2020||Mumbai,||Plea to reopen gyms, fitness centres in Maharashtra||An association of owners of gyms and fitness centres in the country has appealed to the governments in States like Maharashtra, Bihar and Jharkhand to give the go-ahead to resume operations. According to IndiaActive, gym owners have faced 100% loss in the past six months owing to lockdown restrictions. The owners said they are willing to follow all standard operating procedures if the governments allow gyms to reopen and prevent further loss of revenue. ‘Provide GST exemption’ Nikhil Kakkar, COO of Gold’s Gym and treasurer of IndiaActive, said, “The COVID-19-induced lockdown has affected several industries along with the fitness industry. We request the government to give a Goods and Services Tax exemption on membership as to fight against COVID-19, one needs to have strong immunity and that can happen by staying active and fit. This is possible under the supervision of fitness experts at gyms.” Mr. Kakkar said every gym on an average supports 20 employees and their families. “Lakhs of families are suffering due to the closure of gyms. Hence, the governments should motivate people to go back to gyms and allow us to reopen gyms at the earliest,” he said. Vikas Jain, managing director of Anytime Fitness and general secretary of IndiaActive, said many people are facing unemployment due to lockdown restrictions in major States like Maharashtra, which houses several branches of leading fitness centres. “Even during the lockdown, all gym owners have to pay property rent, taxes, salaries, and electricity bills. Many gyms have shut shop and the remaining have drained their capital. Even paying minimum salary to trainers has become a distant dream,” he said. The association said in places like Delhi, where gyms have reopened, steps recommended by the Ministry of Home Affairs such as repositioning of machines to maintain physical distancing, limiting workout time, sanitisation of facilities after every session and capping the number of participants in each session have been carried out. An average of 35-40% members have started returning in gyms that have resumed operations, the association said. Unorganised industry Since the fitness industry is large and also unorganised and fragmented, IndiaActive aims to build a structured community with a focus on addressing immediate and long-term problems. The association comprises representatives of fitness brands like Gold’s Gym, Multifit, Anytime Fitness, UFC Gym, Snap fitness and Nittro.
21 September 2020||Mumbai,||16-member task force formed to study NEP||The Maharashtra government has formed a task force to study and prepare a report for the effective implementation of the National Education Policy 2020. Dr. Vasudha Kamat, the former vice-chancellor (VC) of SNDT University, will head the 16-member task force, while Dr. Sanjay Jagtap, divisional joint director, higher education, will be the coordinator. Workshops planned The task force has been given three months to submit a report to the State government. Based on the report, the government will discuss the policy and invite suggestions at workshops which will be organised at district and tehsil levels.  The other members of the task force are Dr. Sukhadev Thorat, former UGC president; Dr. Suhas Pendnekar, VC, Mumbai University; Dr. Pramod Yevale, VC, Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University; Dr. Rajan Velukar, former VC, Mumbai University; Dr. Vilas Sapkal, former VC, Rashtrasant Tukdoji Maharaj Nagpur University; Dr. Bhalchandra Mungekar, former VC, Mumbai University; Professor G.D. Yadav, former VC, Institute of Chemical Technology; Niranjan Hiranandani, MD, Hiranandani Group; Dr. Devidas Golhar, principal, Marathwada Commerce College; Professor Bhalchandra Birajdar, College of Engineering Pune; Ajinkya Patil, D.Y. Patil University; Milind Satam, senate member, Mumbai University; and Dr. Ajit Joshi, Parle Tilak Management College; and the Director of Technical Education.
21 September 2020||Mumbai,||State government backs Maratha quota: Bhujbal||Maharashtra Food and Civil Supplies Minister Chhagan Bhujbal told representatives of the Maratha community in Nashik on Sunday that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is in favour of providing them a quota in jobs and education. Mr. Bhujbal, a leader from the ruling Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), also assured the representatives that the legal battle for Maratha reservation will be fought. “The legal battle is not against MLAs or ministers but it has to be fought in the court,” he said. Representatives of the Maratha Kranti Morcha met him days after the Supreme Court’s interim stay on the 2018 Maharashtra law, providing for quota to the Maratha community. Mr. Bhujbal said although he belonged to the Other Backward Class, he favoured reservation for the Maratha community. The minister said with the apex court ordering an interim stay on the quota implementation, getting justice for the Maratha community is entirely a legal battle. “NCP chief Sharad Pawar and the MVA government completely support the quota and the legal battle will be fought effectively,” Mr. Bhujbal said. The minister also told the representatives that their demands of withdrawal of cases against protesters and hostel facilities for Maratha girls would be taken up with the government. He told the representatives that he said he could not meet them last week as he had planned to travel to New Delhi for a meeting called by Mr. Pawar on the onion export ban. “But as my Delhi visit got cancelled, I gave an appointment to the Maratha community members. However, before coming to meet me last week, they shouted slogans against me. They tried to create a divide in society by showing that I am opposed to the quota,” Mr. Bhujbal said. Karan Gaikar, a representative, regretted the protest against Mr. Bhujbal and said it happened due to “miscommunication”. “But we have nothing against him,” Mr. Gaikar said.  The battle is not against MLAs or ministers but it has to be fought in the court Chhagan Bhujbal Food and Civil Supplies Minister
21 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records highest single-day recoveries: 26,408||Maharashtra on Sunday reported its highest single-day recoveries after 26,408 patients were discharged to take the total number till date to 8,84,341. As many as 20,598 new COVID-19 cases saw the State’s total case tally breach the 12 lakh mark to reach 12,08,642. Sunday was the third consecutive day when the recoveries outweighed the case surge. With 455 more fatalities, the State’s death toll climbed to 32,671. Of these, 238 fatalities are from the last 48 hours, while 109 deaths occurred last week. The remaining 108 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, State Health Department officials said. The number of active cases in the State has now come down to 2,91,238. “Of a total 58,72,241 laboratory samples tested thus far, 12,08,642 (20.58%) have returned positive with more than 86,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 73.17%, while the case fatality rate is currently at 2.7%” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said. 2,209 cases in Mumbai Pune reported more than 3,500 cases to take its total case tally to 2,61,135. The district also reported 76 deaths to push its total death toll to 5,264. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has risen to 42,600. Mumbai reported 2,209 cases to take its total case tally to 1,84,439, of which 27,787 are active. As many as 44 fatalities saw the city’s death toll touch 8,469. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 11 deaths as its death toll rose to 1,738. More than 700 new cases saw its total case tally cross the 62,000 mark. The Kalyan-Dombivali civic body recorded 14 deaths and 478 new cases to take its death toll to 808 and its total case tally to 42,326. Nagpur district reported yet another staggering jump of more than 2,100 cases to take the district’s total case tally to 62,241, of which 19,100 are active. An alarming fatality surge of 54 deaths took the death toll to 1,676. In western Maharashtra, Sangli reported 835 cases to take the district’s tally to 31,591, of which 10,767 are active. With 16 deaths, the toll has risen to 946. Satara reported 14 fatalities to take its toll to 737. As many as 770 fresh cases saw the case load rise to 30,037, of which 9,048 are active. Kolhapur reported more than 700 cases and 11 deaths as its total tally surged to 37,508, of which 8,132 are active. Its death toll has now risen to 1,104. In north Maharashtra, Jalgaon reported a big spike of 840 cases and 12 deaths. The district’s total case tally has touched 42,881, of which 8,975 are active ones, while the death toll has now climbed to 1,127. Nashik tally now 63,172 Nashik district reported more than 900 cases as its total tally reached 63,172, of which 13,900 are active. With 13 deaths, the district’s total deaths have reached 1,145. Ahmednagar reported 889 cases as its total case tally rose to 35,676, of which 9,268 are active. As many as 16 deaths took the cumulative death toll to 569. Dr. Awate said that currently, a total of 18,49,217 people across the State are in home quarantine and 35,644 are in institutional quarantine facilities.  The State’s recovery rate has risen to 73.17%, while the case fatality rate is currently at 2.7% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer
21 September 2020||Pune,||‘Never said IPS officers planned to overthrow MVA government’||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday dismissed reports of him having made any claims that a group of IPS officers in the State had attempted to overthrow the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Mr. Deshmukh, who was speaking in Pune, was alluding to an interview given to the online edition of a vernacular daily a day ago. “This news is completely false... erroneous statements have been put into my mouth. Please see the video clip of the interview and you will realise that I had not said any such thing when I was asked to comment on whether there had been such a move planned by some IPS officers... I had only said that I cannot comment on such things openly,” he said. Following the interview, there were reports that Mr. Deshmukh had claimed that a plan to topple the government, hatched by four to five senior IPS officers, had been thwarted. Mr. Deshmukh said when asked about such a plan during the interview, he had merely said the police department worked together as one family. ‘Ties with politicians’ “All police officers work well in coordination. Some officers have relationships with some politicians… But I cannot state anything openly. After all, I am the family head [of the Maharashtra Police Department] and all authorities and staff work together as one big family,” he had, hinting that a section of authorities had close ties with the erstwhile Bharatiya Janata Party government. Mr. Deshmukh also backed the appointment of Amitabh Gupta as the Pune Police Commissioner. He took charge on Sunday from Dr. K. Venkatesham, who has been transferred as Additional Director General of Police (special campaign). The appointment has raised eyebrows as Mr. Gupta in April had facilitated the travel of Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhwan, promoters of the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited, from Mumbai to Mahabaleshwar by issuing e-passes to their families, helpers and cooks, violating lockdown rules. Following a furore, Mr. Gupta was sent on compulsory leave. However, after an inquiry cleared him, he resumed his duties in May. “It is true that when Amitabh Gupta was the erstwhile principal secretary of the Home Department, he had committed a big mistake. No one can justify that. However, he has admitted his mistake and has been punished for it. At the same time, he has a very good track record of service,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Despite backing Mr. Gupta’s new posting, the Home Minister was silent on what ‘punishment’ he had been given for his role in arranging the travel of the businessmen. ‘13% quota for Marathas’ On the fierce opposition of the Maratha community to the mega recruitment process for filling up vacant posts in the police department, Mr. Deshmukh said the MVA government was seeking a legal opinion on keeping 13% posts vacant for the community till the Supreme Court took a decision on the Maratha quota. “The process of recruitment in the police department had been initiated a couple of months ago and was approved only recently after the Supreme Court’s decision to stay the implementation of the Maratha quota law… but as the recruitment for 12,500 posts will take time and government does not want anyone to be left out, we are planning to keep 13% of the posts vacant for the Maratha community,” he said. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in the State Council Praveen Darekar has demanded Mr. Deshmukh’s resignation. “The Home Minister is giving such interviews to divert attention from the MVA government’s failure to control the COVID-19 pandemic… it does not behove of the Home Minister to speak in such a disparaging manner about his own police officers. Maharashtra’s police authorities know their limits and will never contemplate such an act,” he said.  All police officers work well in coordination... all authorities and staff work together as one big family Anil Deshmukh Home Minister
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Reiterating demand||
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Ruth Bader Ginsburg: a warrior for gender parity||The passing of U.S. Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg is tantamount to a major loss for the progressive movement in that country, as it leaves the highest court, already leaning conservative, firmly in the grasp of those who might rewrite the law on the issues such as reproductive rights, immigration, healthcare and more. She leaves behind a legacy of courageous litigation campaigns and far-reaching jurisprudence that altered prejudices embedded deep within U.S. law, which would otherwise have denied women their rightful place as the equals of men in the sphere of civil liberties and economic rights. The landscape of U.S. law on administering estates, for example, today reflects the seminal contribution of Justice Ginsburg in the form of her early challenge to the practice of giving preference to men as administrators, defended by the government based on men’s supposedly greater familiarity with commercial matters. Balanced approach In diverse applications of law, including benefits rules for members of the U.S. military, Social Security regulations, and admissions policies for state-supported colleges, Justice Ginsburg’s relentless fight for gender parity led to the redressal of gender biases that appeared to be built into the system. The depth and balance of her jurisprudential vision was such that through the years of these legal battles against sex-based discrimination she was as doughtily supportive of men’s rights to receive fair and equal treatment under law as she was of women’s rights. This principle of hers, to the spirit of uncompromising equality before law, was manifested in Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 1975 , which overturned a Social Security practice that deprived widowers of survivor benefits based on the assumption that wives were always secondary breadwinners with lower incomes. Succession battle This seminal legacy notwithstanding, it appears likely that the circumstances of her passing have generated considerable cause for concern among U.S. Democrats, specifically on what it means for the selection of her successor in the Supreme Court. The Court already leans conservative by five justices to four. Had Justice Ginsburg heeded the call to retire during the term of former President Barack Obama, whose party, the Democrats, controlled the Senate for a part of his term and could have confirmed a potential Supreme Court nominee, the 5-4 balance might have been preserved. She had argued then that she would serve the Court for as long as she possibly could, yet days before her passing said to her family that her fervent wish was that she would not be replaced until a new President was installed post the election on November 3, 2020. Now, in violation of the Thurmond Rule, a tradition whereby the Senate avoids confirming presidential nominations to the federal judiciary in an election year, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has already invited President Donald Trump to nominate her replacement. His move is replete with irony given that in 2016 it was Mr. McConnell who refused to countenance Mr. Obama’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Merrick Garland, a highly regarded centrist candidate whom even Republicans had praised as an acceptable Democratic nominee. Mr. Trump has already successfully nominated two justices to the Supreme Court, Brett Kavanaugh and Neil Gorsuch, tipping the Court rightward. That brings to four, including Chief Justice John Roberts and Justice Samuel Alito, the number of Supreme Court justices nominated by presidents who did not win the popular vote in the election. If Mr. Trump manages to nominate another candidate who wins Senate confirmation before this election, a genuine question will arise as to whether the Supreme Court and its future decisions are in line with the idea of justice that a majority of Americans believe in.
21 September 2020||Bangkok,||Thailand protesters challenge monarchy, seek PM’s ouster||Tens of thousands of pro-democracy protesters massed close to Thailand’s Grand Palace on Saturday, in a huge rally calling for Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha to step down and demanding reforms to the monarchy. The kingdom has seen near-daily gatherings of youth-led groups since mid-July calling for the resignation of Mr. Prayut, the former Army chief behind the 2014 coup, and a complete overhaul of his administration. Some are also demanding reforms to Thailand’s ultra-wealthy and powerful monarchy — a once-taboo topic in the country due to its tough royal defamation laws. The burgeoning movement, partly inspired by Hong Kong’s pro-democracy protests, remains largely leaderless. But this weekend’s demonstration was organised by students of Bangkok’s Thammasat University — a group that has been among the most vocal about the royal family’s role in Thailand. Human rights lawyer Anon Numpa, who has emerged as one of the key figures in the movement, took a stronger line on monarchical reform in a fiery speech late Saturday night. “My knee will never kneel for dictatorship,” he shouted. His speech was met with cheers from the crowd. Bangkok authorities estimated more than 18,000 at Saturday’s demonstration, though organisers claimed a much higher turnout. AFP reporters on the ground estimated a crowd size closer to 30,000. Activists also installed a commemorative “People's Plaque” in Sanam Luang field. The plaque states the date Sept 20, 2020, followed by the proclamation: “The people have expressed the intention that this country belongs to the people, and not the king.”
21 September 2020||Washington,||U.S. says UN sanctions on Iran back in force, others disagree||The U.S. unilaterally proclaimed on Saturday that UN sanctions against Iran were back in force and promised to punish those who violate them, in a move other major countries — including its allies — said lacked legal basis. The so-called snapback — announced last month — also drew a sharp rebuke from Tehran, which called on the rest of the world to unite against U.S. “reckless actions.” “Today, the United States welcomes the return of virtually all previously terminated UN sanctions on the Islamic Republic of Iran,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said in a statement. He said the measures were back in effect from 0000 GMT on Sunday. The U.S. administration also promised to “impose consequences” on any UN member state which does not comply with the measures. The sanctions in question were lifted in 2015 when Iran signed on to an international agreement not to seek to build nuclear weapons. But President Donald Trump withdrew the U.S. from the landmark accord in 2018, saying the deal — negotiated by his predecessor Barack Obama — was insufficient. At the moment, the U.S .is insisting it is still a participant in the agreement that it stormed out of, but only so it can activate the snapback option, which it announced on August 20. Virtually every other member of the Security Council disputes Washington’s ability to execute this legal pirouette, and the council has not taken the measure any further. On Sunday, two permanent council members -- France and Britain — issued a joint statement along with non-permanent member Germany saying Mr. Pompeo’s “purported notification” was “incapable of having any legal effect.” Russia’s Foreign Ministry also said that Washington’s statements lacked legal authority. Iran's President Hassan Rouhani said Sunday that Washington's “maximum pressure” campaign against Tehran had thrown the U.S. into “maximum isolation”, after major powers dismissed U.S. declarations that UN sanctions on Iran were back in force.
21 September 2020||Brazzaville,||WHO clears protocol for COVID-19 herbal medicine trials||The World Health Organization on Saturday endorsed a protocol for testing African herbal medicines as potential treatments for the coronavirus and other epidemics. COVID-19 has raised the issue of using traditional medicines to battle contemporary diseases, and the endorsement clearly encouraged testing with criteria similar to those used for molecules developed by labs in Asia, Europe or the Americas. It came months after a bid by the President of Madagascar to promote a drink based on artemisia, a plant with proven efficacy in malaria treatment, was met with widespread scorn. On Saturday, WHO experts and colleagues from two other organisations “endorsed a protocol for phase III clinical trials of herbal medicine for COVID-19 as well as a charter and terms of reference for the establishment of a data and safety monitoring board for herbal medicine clinical trials,” a statement said. “Phase III clinical trials are pivotal in fully assessing the safety and efficacy of a new medical product,” it noted.“If a traditional medicine product is found to be safe, efficacious and quality-assured, WHO will recommend (it) for a fast-tracked, large-scale local manufacturing,” Prosper Tumusiime, a regional WHO director, said.
21 September 2020||Minsk,||Thousands stage march in Minsk||Tens of thousands of opposition supporters marched in the Belarusian capital of Minsk on Sunday despite authorities deploying a heavy police presence. The protest came a day after officers detained hundreds of demonstrators at a women's march in the capital. The opposition movement has kept up a wave of large-scale demonstrations every Sunday since President Alexander Lukashenko won a disputed victory in August 9 polls. People gathered at the “March of Justice” that occupied the whole of a central avenue and walked towards the heavily guarded Palace of Independence, where Mr. Lukashenko has his offices. They held placards with slogans such as “Cowards beat up women” and “Get out!”.
21 September 2020||Washington,||Trump touts ‘fantastic’ TikTok deal||President Donald Trump said on Saturday he had approved a deal allowing Silicon Valley giant Oracle to become the data partner for TikTok to avert a shutdown of the massively popular Chinese-owned video app that Washington has called a security risk. The deal, announced by the companies, also includes Walmart as a commercial partner and would create a new U.S. company named TikTok Global. “I think it’s going to be a fantastic deal,” Mr. Trump said. “I have given the deal my blessing. If they get it done that’s great, if they don’t that’s okay too.” Shortly after, TikTok confirmed the agreement, which came with companies racing against a Sunday deadline after which new downloads of the app would be banned.
21 September 2020||ISLAMABAD,||2 Pakistani soldiers killed in shootout with militants||Pakistan’s military on Sunday said two soldiers were killed in a shootout with militants during a search operation in the country’s northwest, a former militant stronghold. The operation was conducted on Saturday in the Spalga area near Miranshah, the main town in North Waziristan in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.AP
21 September 2020||Islamabad,||Sharif makes political comeback; launches scathing attack on Army, Imran govt||Pakistan’s deposed premier Nawaz Sharif on Sunday staged a political comeback by criticising the powerful Army. Addressing the All-Parties Conference, he said the Opposition was not against Prime Minister Imran Khan but against those who brought an “inefficient” man to power.PTI
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Define the contours of hate in speech||On Tuesday, the Supreme Court of India injuncted a Hindi-language television channel, Sudarshan News, from continuing its broadcast of a series titled “Bindas Bol”. This decision marked a departure from an order delivered on August 28, when the Court said that it must be circumspect in imposing any prior restraint on speech, especially since statutory authorities were vested with powers to ensure compliance of the law. But circumstances changed — following the Court’s original order, four episodes in the series were aired, portraying what the channel described as a jihadi conspiracy by Muslims to infiltrate India’s civil services. To this allegation, the show added a number of evidently false statements. For example, it claimed that the upper age limit for Hindus attempting the civil service examination was 32 years, while the age limit for Muslims was 35; that Muslims were entitled to nine attempts at the examination when Hindus were entitled only to six. These assertions, the Court noted, were not only “insidious” but were also made in “wanton disregard of the truth”. Therefore, even on the face of it, the episodes had brought the entire Muslim community into “public hatred and disrepute”, and, in the process, had breached the Programme Code that regulated cable television. Delineating the ambiguous The channel’s contempt for facts, and its attempt to denigrate Muslims, might appear to be an obvious case of hate speech, but our laws present several complications when an attempt is made to distinguish permissible speech from hateful criminal conduct. The Supreme Court’s own past precedent has scarcely helped clarify matters. This case, therefore, represents something of an opportunity: to infuse clarity in our legislation by identifying the distinction between merely offensive speech and hate speech, and by making clearer still those categories of exceptional cases where the Constitution permits prior restraint. To be sure, this exercise has to be delicately handled. But that it is fraught with difficulties must not deter the Court from delineating what has long remained ambiguous. A working definition of hate speech will have to be gleaned by interpreting our laws in conjunction with the constitutional right to free speech. But in attempting to draw a line, it might be valuable to study the basic thesis that undergirds a consensus across most liberal democracies — with the notable exception of the United States — on why states must deny protection to hate speech. This view is predicated on a philosophical defence which is perhaps best exemplified in the works of the scholar, Jeremy Waldron. In Prof. Waldron’s definition, hate speech refers to utterances that incite violence, hatred, or discrimination against people on the basis of their collective identity, be it race, ethnicity, religion, gender or sexuality. He says the limitation in these cases should be restricted to those categories of minorities who are vulnerable. Under this conception, a merely offensive statement would not qualify as hate speech. For example, a mockery of Buddhism’s tenets would not be illegal simply because it offends the sensibilities of its practitioners; on the other hand, speech that describes all Buddhists as amoral would qualify. Similarly, a work of satire on a religious figure that outrages the sentiments of his followers will be safeguarded, but speech that vilifies an entire community by describing them, say, as “anti-nationals” would go unprotected. This is because hate speech, as Prof. Waldron argues, attacks two key tenets of a democratic republic: the guarantee of equal dignity to all, and the public good of inclusiveness. Downside to more speech Prof. Waldron’s thesis has been met with substantial resistance from First Amendment scholars in America. They argue that censorship is a bottomless pit, that it is impossible to conceive bright-line rules that can distinguish between speech that only offends and speech that arouses hatred. They do not deny that a right to absolute freedom of speech can be abused. But they believe the only answer to misused freedom is more speech. While there is some merit in this response. it ignores at least three significant factors. One, that even under the First Amendment, not all speech is equal — commercial speech, libel, and fighting words are afforded a lower standard of protection. Two, that almost all laws are a matter of construction; after all, most European democracies adopt principled standards that distinguish hate speech from merely offensive or rebarbative speech. Three, that countering speech with more speech is plausible only when there is a balance of power across society. Experience shows us that there can be no assurance that hate speech will somehow be sieved out of the veritable marketplace of ideas. India’s laws Prof. Waldron’s theory is also appealing because it fits with India’s democratic vision. Specifically, it animates the values of liberty, equality and fraternity that the Constitution’s framers viewed as foundational. Until now, however, the country’s hate-speech laws have suffered from a Delphic imprecision. Read literally, Section 153A and Section 295A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), which criminalise, respectively, speech that seeks to promote enmity between different groups and speech/acts that outrage/s religious feelings, are no more than a poor imitation of what hate speech laws ought to be. They are vaguely worded, and they are frequently invoked to quell speech that so much as offends a person’s belief. As a result, they militate against the permissible grounds for limiting free speech enumerated in Article 19(2)  of the Constitution, and, in particular, the restrictions allowed on considerations of public order and morality. The first of those grounds demands that speech must reach a level of incitement to be criminalised. That is, the utterance in dispute must go beyond advocacy. The second ground requires a re-imagination of our hate speech laws. It obliges us to read morality not as societal morality but as constitutional morality. Seen this way, speech that merely causes offence and is no more than disparaging or unpleasant, would continue to remain shielded. But speech that treats communities with disparate concern, by creating in them a sense of dread, a sense of exclusion from civic life, will go unprotected. Issue of prior restraint While it is clear that the Constitution offers no protection to hate speech, the state’s failure to apply the Programme Code uniformly is linked to a wider incongruence in the law’s contents. Just like the substantive hate speech provisions in the IPC, the Programme Code is also much too vague. The Supreme Court must chisel its contents into a feasible, constitutionally committed model. Hard as this exercise sounds, this is the easy part — it is in deciding whether a prior restraint on speech can be imposed that the Court must tread a finer line. We have repeatedly seen the deleterious impact that injunctions on speech have on the right to information and democracy. Only last week the High Court of Andhra Pradesh gagged the press from reporting on a charge made against a former Advocate General of the State, despite the manifest public interest in the case. Likewise, the pitfalls of a rule of absolute prior restraint under the Cinematograph Act have been all too evident. We certainly do not need an analogous regime for the broadcast media. But, at the same time, a rule against prior restraint cannot be unconditional. When it becomes evident that the basic objective of a broadcast is to evoke hatred and to vilify a vulnerable minority the law must find a way to foil the harm. A lot will ride on how the Court strikes this balance — for hate speech, once uttered, not only leaves little room for restitution but can also ramify to serve all manners of undemocratic ends. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s a no green signal from the farm world||In a virtual rally, the Prime Minister blamed the Opposition parties for misleading farmers about the three Bills on agriculture, in Parliament. While the Opposition may have taken up the cudgels recently, the fact is that farmers have been protesting against the Bills ever since it was promulgated as ordinances in June. These are The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The resignation of Food Processing Industries Minister (and Shiromani Akali Dal MP), Harsimrat Kaur Badal, from the Union Cabinet, and dissenting voices from various mass organisations affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh suggest that the opposition to the Bills may not be politically motivated; rather, it may be a reflection of the genuine concerns of farmers. In brief, the Bills aim to do away with government interference in agricultural trade by creating trading areas free of middlemen and government taxes outside the structure of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) along with removing restrictions of private stockholding of agricultural produce. Attempts to reform the APMC are not new and have been part of the agenda of successive governments for the last two decades. Most farmer organisations also agree that there is excessive political interference and there is need for reform as far as functioning of mandis are concerned. No consultation Several reforms at the level of the central government as well as at the State level have been introduced and welcomed by farmers. However, in this particular case, the issue is not about the Bills; it is also about the process of their introduction. As was pointed out by Ms. Badal, the government has failed to have or hold any discussion with the various stakeholders including farmers and middlemen. This is also true when it comes to consultation with State governments even though the subject of trade and agriculture are part of subjects on the State list. The attempt to pass the Bills without proper consultation adds to the mistrust among various stakeholders including State governments. While the lack of consultation has certainly added to the element of mistrust between the government and farmers, some of the issues raised by farmer organisations are also genuine; recent trends in agricultural prices and incomes have only confirmed these fears. While farmer organisations see these Bills as part of the larger agenda of corporatisation of agriculture and a withdrawal of government support, the immediate concern has been the attempt to weaken the APMC mandis and eventual withdrawal of the Minimum Support Prices (MSP) guaranteed by the government. Although the government has clarified that these Bills do not imply withdrawal of procurement by the State at MSP, there is a genuine fear among farmers about the true intentions of the government. The mistrust is not unfounded given the track record of this government on many issues including demonetisation of 2016, the introduction of Goods and Services Tax and so on. There may not be direct evidence of crony capitalism, but the entry, in a big way, of two of the biggest corporate groups (Adani and Reliance) in food and agricultural retail and the timing of the Bills have not gone unnoticed. Reflects poor understanding The idea of allowing greater participation of traders and farmers outside the APMC has already been in place in different form. Even otherwise, APMCs account for less than a fourth of total agricultural trade. But APMCs do play an important role of price discovery essential for agricultural trade and production choices. The vilification of APMCs and the middlemen who facilitate trade in these mandis is a poor reflection of the understanding of functioning of agricultural markets. The middlemen are a part of the larger ecosystem of agricultural trade, with deep links between farmers and traders. Most farmers are familiar with the functioning of mandis and see it as an essential part of agricultural trade despite shortcomings. While the proposed Bills do not do away with the APMC mandis , the preference for corporate interests at the cost of farmers’ interests and a lack of regulation in these non-APMC mandis are cause for concern. The absence of any regulation in non-APMC mandis is being seen as a precursor to the withdrawal of the guarantee of MSP-based procurement. The Bihar example The dominant concern in this regard has been expressed by farmers in Punjab and Haryana. Farmers in these States have genuine concern about the continuance of the MSP-based public procurement given the large-scale procurement operations in these States. These fears gain strength with the experience of States such as Bihar which abolished APMCs in 2006. After the abolition of mandis , farmers in Bihar on average received lower prices compared to the MSP for most crops. For example, as against the MSP of Rs. 1,850 a quintal for maize, most farmers in Bihar reported selling their produce at less than Rs. 1,000 a quintal. Despite the shortcomings and regional variations, farmers still see the APMC mandis as essential to ensuring the survival of MSP regime. While retail prices have remained high, data from the Wholesale Price Index (WPI) suggest a deceleration in farm gate prices for most agricultural produce. This has happened despite increased procurement through the MSP-based regime for paddy and wheat. Decline in basmati rice prices by more than 30% and despite higher international prices suggests the limitation of market intervention in raising farm gate prices. For most crops where MSP-led procurement is non-existent, the decline has been sharper. Even cash crops such as cotton have seen a collapse in prices in the absence of government intervention. With rising input costs, farmers do not see the market providing them remunerative prices. At the same time, ad hoc interventions by government such as raising import duties on masur and a ban on onion exports also raise suspicion about the intent of the government to leave the price discovery mechanism on the market. The protests by farmers are essentially a reflection of the mistrust between farmers and the stated objective of these reforms. Himanshu is Associate Professor, Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, School of Social Sciences, JawaharlalNehru University, New Delhi
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||China’s nationalist turn under Xi Jinping||As a reporter for The Hindu and then India Today from 2009 to 2018, Ananth Krishnan travelled the length and breadth of China. His new book, India’s China Challenge: A Journey through China’s Rise and What It Means for India , provides an on-the-ground perspective of China’s political, economic and social transformations over the past decade, and what they mean for India. An excerpt:  Xi Jinping had to apply no less than eight times before getting into the Communist Youth League — an organisation for young Party members. He then had to again apply ten times before the Communist Party accepted him — all because of his family’s history. Xi’s father, Xi Zhongxun, was Red royalty — a hero of the Communist revolution. But he would later fall out with Mao Zedong, and had to endure humiliating public ‘struggle sessions’ at the hands of Mao’s Red Guards. ‘Where is the verdict against my father?’ Xi once asked. ‘When a fault is committed, there is a verdict. But where is the one against my father? What have I done? Have I written or chanted counter-revolutionary slogans? I am a young man who wants to build a career. What is the problem with that?’ Yet the lesson Xi seems to have learnt from his father’s story may seem counterintuitive. Institutionalising the exercise of political power is not seen as the answer to curbing its excesses. Wielding it is. Since taking over as the General Secretary of the Party in November 2012, Xi has proved far more adept and skilful than his predecessors, Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao, in exercising power. Within five years of taking over from Hu, Xi established himself in the Party lexicon as its third great leader, after Mao and Deng Xiaoping. In a short span of time, he has dismantled the collective leadership system that restrained both Jiang and Hu. Indeed, it was this model of collective leadership put in place by Deng that arguably allowed China to escape the fate of other authoritarian countries ruled by the whims and fancies of a single dictator. Restructuring the party Xi has dramatically restructured the Party-state apparatus, giving the Party a greater say in running the country, and breaking down the walls between the Party set-up and the state machinery that had, in the past, given China’s bureaucrats a veneer of insulation in running government and policy. Now, the Party is back. This has reversed a two-decade-long shift that saw a somewhat diminished role for Party bodies. Xi has centralised power by setting up a number of Leading Small Groups (LSGs) that now decide policy on everything from national security to economic reforms. This extends to foreign policy as well. Xi even heads an LSG on matters related to the South China Sea, underlining how he is now dictating policy directly on matters previously handled by the bureaucrats. If in the past questions were being asked on whether Chinese moves on the border — such as an incursion that took the spotlight away from Xi’s 2014 visit to India — were being directed by PLA commanders and not the leadership in Beijing, the evidence now strongly suggests nothing happens today without Xi’s approval. That likely includes this summer’s massive mobilisation by the Chinese military along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. What explains Xi’s rise, and how was he able to grab power and redefine China’s political landscape? For one, Xi knows the ins-and-outs of the Party like few others. He was born Red. Like other princelings, Xi grew up in the heart of Beijing, in the elite compounds reserved for top leaders. It’s been mostly forgotten that the year of Xi’s ascension, 2012, was an extraordinarily tumultuous one in Chinese politics. The Bo Xilai scandal had exposed a split in the leadership, while there were grumblings among the Party elite that Hu Jintao’s staid style had led to a drift, both in policy and leadership. There was a yearning for change. Xi made the most of it. In one sense, as the scholar Cheng Li argues, Xi was ‘lucky enough to arrive at just the moment in history when his consolidation of power — to upset the inertia and possibly even prevent a split of the CPC leadership — was appealing to the Chinese public and most other Chinese leaders’. What helped him in this quest was his ‘assembly of strong loyalist networks’ in the Party, particularly among his fellow ‘second Red generation’, or Hongerdai. This gave Xi the space to carry out ‘bold political moves...endorsed by the political establishment, but only as urgent, ad hoc measures to safeguard Communist Party rule.’ Xi was the right man, at the right place, at the right time, Zhang Lifan, a historian and follower of elite Party politics who lives in Beijing, told me. ‘Before he came to power, there were many negative feelings about the collective leadership system inside the Party. Every member of the Politburo Standing Committee had their own power, their own opinion, and no one was taking responsibility. They wanted a strongman to take charge and change this situation.’ They perhaps got more than they bargained for. ‘The consequence of centralization is that all responsibilities fall on you too,’ Zhang told me. ‘If you do well, everyone will support you.’ However, the reverse, of course, is also true. Fall at any of the hurdles, and there will be no shortage of people ensuring there is no second chance. And in China’s system, failure is unforgiving. Ask Bo Xilai. Xi knows he has to succeed at any cost. The Chinese legal scholar Jiang Shigong, who has emerged as one of the influential intellectuals in the Xi era, argues one key asset in Xi’s favour is the Party’s turn to nationalism, captured in Xi’s signature political campaign, which is ‘The Great Rejuvenation of the Chinese nation’. Selling the Chinese dream In Jiang’s view, the Party under Xi is turning ‘the brilliant political imagination of thousands of years of Chinese civilisation [to] successfully fill the spiritual vacuum left by the weakening of the Communist vision’, something he blames on Xi’s predecessors. A sense of ‘national self-confidence and feeling of pride’ are the Party’s biggest asset, in his view, which would lead Xi to adopt a strong nationalist governing philosophy. This explains why Xi’s first big campaign was selling the ‘Chinese Dream’ of rejuvenation. One compelling reason for Xi’s emphasis on ideology and nationalism is the awareness that the basic post-Tiananmen compact has a shelf life. The Party is turning to nationalism as an important source of legitimacy and unity, having come to one key realisation: economic growth cannot forever remain the source of its legitimacy. Excerpted with permission from HarperCollins. The book will be published on September 30
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Tilting at windmills||In 2008, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe under the leadership of its Representative on Freedom of the Media, Miklós Haraszti, brought out ‘The Media Self-Regulation Guidebook’, which over the years has become a tool for most news ombudsmen to deal with specific complaints. Mr. Haraszti has an excellent definition for self-regulation. He wrote: “Media self-regulation is a joint endeavour by media professionals to set up voluntary editorial guidelines and abide by them in a learning process open to the public. By doing so, the independent media accept their share of responsibility for the quality of public discourse in the nation, while fully preserving their editorial autonomy in shaping it.” I have read several manuals on media regulations as well as various codes of ethics that guide journalists. This rich oeuvre of literature dealing with media regulations aimed at balancing rights and responsibilities has concrete ideas to handle and resolve complaints on issues such as breach of privacy, inaccuracy, non-protection of vulnerable persons, discrimination, fairness, balance, good taste, use of anonymous sources, invasion of privacy, plagiarism, and conflicts of interest. The role of a self-regulatory mechanism is to ensure that the news organisation adheres to its code of ethics or editorial values. Measuring bias In this context, it is evident that there is no universally accepted yardstick to measure ‘bias in media’ coverage. An ombudsman adjudicates on issues based on facts and the core values of journalism. If a news report is editorialised or packed with comments, then it is fairly easy to point out the breach. However, if there are complaints of bias against opinion articles, editorials and analytical pieces, then it becomes a conflict of two views. There seems to be no common ground to address this vexatious question of bias in our polarised reality. In earlier columns, I dealt with the idea of ‘filter bubbles’ and ‘confirmation bias’ in an age of technological disruption, yet they failed to address the question of bias in a language that was acceptable to all. For instance, S. Pushpavanam, a reader from Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu, considered the editorial “Ill-advised move” (September 16), which was on the threat of contempt proceedings against actor Suriya’s observation on NEET, a media excess. He contended that the sentence in the editorial, “No reasonable person who reads Mr. Suriya’s statement would construe it as contempt of court”, an attempt to brand all other opinions as unreasonable. He was unhappy with the newspaper’s stand on the contempt proceeding against advocate Prashant Bhushan. He drew our attention to another editorial, “Something rotten” (September 11), on actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and social prejudices. The editorial had said that sections of the media had “handed out instant verdicts in the newsroom”. He wondered how The Hindu ’s editorial on judicial contempt was different from these sections of the media which the newspaper criticised. The difference is in the distinction between news and views. In The Hindu , all news is reported without fear or favour. But the editorial is a considered opinion of the newspaper, and readers are free to disagree with it. A polarised environment The latest study by the ‘Trust, Media and Democracy’ research programme of the Gallup and Knight Foundation gives us some pointers to understand bias. It’s 2018 report found out that “while Americans valued the role of the news media as an important institution in a free society, they did not believe it was fulfilling its democratic roles well.” Its recently released 2020 study documents many issues that contribute to the idea of media bias among citizens. The vast majority (84%) of Americans believe that the media is vital for democracy. At the same time, nearly half (49%) of all Americans think the media is very biased. Most importantly, the survey pointed out that distrust of the media runs along partisan lines, where nearly 71% of Republicans have an unfavourable view of the media compared to only 22% of Democrats. Also, more Americans (69%) say they are concerned about bias in the news other people are getting than say they worry about their own news being biased (29%). I can safely say that the polarised environment is not restricted to the U.S., but has a debilitating and corrosive presence in India too. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Great power, little responsibility||The International Day of Peace (September 21) is an occasion for deep reflection about the prevalence of war, violence and insecurity in many parts of the world. In the last calendar year, eight countries — Afghanistan, Yemen, Syria, Turkey, Somalia, Iraq, Mexico and Libya — suffered at least 1,000 deaths each (mainly civilians) through militarised attacks and battles, according to the World Population Review. If one includes the Maghreb and Sahel regions of North and West Africa, over 25 countries are being ravaged by deadly wars today. To boot, 79.5 million were displaced at the end of 2019, due to armed conflicts, persecution and other reasons, according to the UN Refugee Agency. The way the present international system is structured poses enormous obstacles to peace. The countries that are escalating violence are predominantly the great powers who have military and economic might. Fuelling instability On paper, the U.S., Russia and China uphold peace and stability as the permanent members of the UN Security Council. But in practice, they fuel instability or have a finger in the pie of most ongoing wars. For example, the tragedy in Yemen, which the UN has declared as the world’s worst humanitarian disaster, is the outcome of indiscriminate attacks by the U.S.-backed coalition of Saudi Arabia and the UAE, whose geopolitical goal is to counterbalance Iran. Yet, undaunted by the moral burden, the Donald Trump administration is eagerly selling copious quantities of lethal weapons to its Gulf allies in the name of their ‘security’. War is at once a geopolitical game and big business. This holds true not only for the U.S. but also Russia. Libya’s descent into chaos is the product of the active involvement of mercenaries and weapons pumped in by Russia and the U.S.-allied Gulf Arab monarchies to push back Turkey’s influence. Like the calamity in Syria, Yemen and Libya are victims of the conduct of great powers who arm and finance regional actors to prey upon weak states for counterbalancing rivals and sustaining profits of their military industrial complexes. Not to be left behind the U.S. and Russia, China has catapulted into the ranks of top sellers of weapons. Chinese small arms enable ethnic violence and extreme human rights abuses from South Sudan and the Democratic Republic of Congo to Pakistan and Myanmar. China also aims to tighten its grip over developing countries through ‘internal security’ aid, a code for technological tools of domestic surveillance and repression, which in turn build up societal pressure and armed revolts against authoritarian regimes. Moreover, China’s own hegemonic expansionism against its neighbours and its ‘new Cold War’ with the U.S. have significantly raised risks of military clashes in Asia. This year, the UN Secretary General is campaigning for a “global ceasefire” so that everyone’s attention shifts to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. The UN as well as regional organisations like the African Union and the European Union are trying to negotiate cessation of hostilities in various war zones. The core problem But targeted micro-level diplomatic initiatives cannot ameliorate the underlying macro-level problem of great powers and their allies acting with brazen impunity. On the International Day of Peace, we should diagnose the core problem — the unjust structure which privileges great powers and permits their ghastly machinations — and challenge it. Altering the structure and nature of world politics is not child’s play. But we must strive for it. Remember that if one fire is doused in Afghanistan through a peace process, 10 more fires can be lit as long as the global ‘system’ that reproduces violence and aggression is in place. Intellectuals, social movements and responsible states should prioritise struggling for an equitable world order. Nothing less will suffice to silence the guns. Sreeram Chaulia is Dean, Jindal School of International Affairs
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Fair and unfair||It is a matter of relief that the Madras High Court has decided not to pursue the ill-conceived attempt to initiate action against film actor Suriya for contempt of court. In a detailed order, the Court has rightly noted that “it is not the job of a constitutional court to use a sledgehammer for avoidance of something which can be perceived to be not capable of even being propped up as contempt, much less debated to the level of criminal contempt”. In the course of a statement against the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for medical admissions in the country, the actor had indirectly questioned the propriety of the Supreme Court allowing NEET to be held across the country during the pandemic when the Court itself was holding virtual hearings out of fear of infection. A judge of the High Court had sought to construe the remark as an adverse comment on the judiciary in general and one questioning the devotion and integrity of judges. The observation might have been unwarranted, but it was quite clear from the beginning that it constituted no contempt, inasmuch as it did nothing more than raise the question whether Courts that went virtual in the interest of the safety of judges, lawyers, staff and litigants, could afford to risk the health of thousands of students. Fortunately, the Advocate-General, Vijay Narayan, whose opinion was sought by the Chief Justice of the High Court, Amreshwar Pratap Sahi, declined consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings. Agreeing with his opinion, a Bench headed by the Chief Justice, decided not to pursue the matter further. However, the Court’s 29-page order is not an unmixed blessing. It lays much emphasis on the idea that criticism about the judiciary should be restrained, lest the line of fair comment be crossed. There is a lengthy section on the need for prudence and restraint on exuberance, but such observations would be relevant and apposite only if made in the context of a strident attack on the judiciary. Did the actor’s statement contain such unbridled criticism? There is no effort to parse the offending sentence to see if there was any adverse comment on judges in general, or any aspersions cast on the system of virtual courts. If only the Court had seen it as a comment limited to orders of the Supreme Court, it could have dropped the issue for lack of jurisdiction, as laid down by the apex court in Vitusah Oberoi (2017). In fact, the order itself notes that no court in Tamil Nadu has dealt with the NEET issue. While the advice for restraint is, without doubt, reasonable and well-articulated, its elaborate delineation should not open up the possibility of more such demands for contempt action in the name of deterring unfair criticism. As long as there is no effort to obstruct the course of justice, criticism, whether fair or unfair, does not warrant initiation of contempt proceedings.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Cricket in action||The Indian Premier League (IPL) is seen as the glitzy high of the cricketing season, with its daily share of short bursts of thrills stretched across the summer. Since its launch in 2008, the IPL became a seasonal fix as inevitable as soaring temperatures and the reflexive craving for ice creams. The Twenty20 tournament seemingly brooked no resistance while the purists leant on the classical air that permeated Test cricket. Even in 2009 and 2014 when the Lok Sabha elections clashed with the IPL’s schedule, the Board of Control for Cricket in India solved the logistical nightmare. South Africa played host in the first instance while the United Arab Emirates (UAE) conducted the initial set of matches in 2014. But 2020 has been a difficult year for humankind with the relentless spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Since March, sport with its social-gathering moorings had to pause: the Olympics was postponed and Wimbledon cancelled. The IPL was rescheduled too from its original start-date of March 29, before a window opened up for the event to be held in the UAE. Saturday night’s inaugural contest of the IPL’s 13th edition at Abu Dhabi’s Sheikh Zayed Stadium, that pitted defending champion Mumbai Indians and last year’s runner-up Chennai Super Kings, dished out a last-over climax with the latter stunning the former. The lay-off from the game and the attendant rust was evident in the way the rivals fielded while the artificial crowd sound infused into the live telecast, reflects these fraught times of empty stadiums and bio-bubbles. Because of the constraints imposed by the virus and the cancellation of domestic cricket in India for now, the IPL at the Emirates, has turned out to be the season opener for the national players while also offering an opportunity for overseas stars to have a biff in the park. Eight teams playing 60 matches in 53 days across Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Sharjah, with a summit clash on November 10, will present its own set of challenges. The organisers have set stringent protocols even as a few tested positive in the lead-up to the championship. The players have to watch their health-parameters while helping cricket find its feet, an endeavour that England did first with remarkable efficiency by hosting the West Indies, Pakistan and Australia. It is a template worth emulating as fans starved of action wait to catch live moving images of M.S. Dhoni, Virat Kohli, Rohit Sharma, Steve Smith, Kane Williamson, AB de Villiers and other icons. Cricket in the Indian context has made a start and a lot is at stake as this IPL also offers a stage for Kohli and company to prepare for the coming tour of Australia.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The Anglo-Egyptian Treaty (From an Editorial)||The Legislative Assembly of Egypt, so Reuter informs us, has approved of the draft Treaty which has been drawn up by the Milner Mission in consultation, though not, as we now know, in complete agreement with the Nationalist Mission headed by Zaghlul Pasha. Some more details of the terms of the Treaty than were wired to us by Reuter appear in the Times received by the latest English mail. We shall here set forth the main features of the Treaty as summoned by our contemporary. They include, in the first place, the recognition of Egyptian independence by Great Britain, who guarantees Egypt’s integrity against outside aggression and will have on account of her privileged position access to Egyptian territory in case of war. Secondly, Great Britain is to maintain a garrison in the Canal zone. Thirdly, Egypt is to control her foreign policy and have the right to have her own diplomatic representatives abroad. No treatises are to be made in variance with British policy, and in countries where no Egyptian representative is appointed Britain will represent Egypt. Further, the Capitulations are to be abolished; but a veto on legislation affecting foreigners will be vested in the High Commissioner.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||President Nixon on West Asia||President Nixon is reported to have privately told some American newspaper executives that the U.S. would go to the aid of King Hussein of Jordan if other Arab powers, such as Iraq and Syria, who side with the Palestinian commandos, attempt to topple the regime in Jordan. Mr. Nixon is reported to have said that King Hussein’s survival was vital to American interests in West Asia. U.S. troop and naval movements are apparently aimed at backing up this promise. Observers here [Washington, September 20], however, continue to believe that the U.S. has no specific plans to intervene in Jordan and that the tough tone employed by Mr. Nixon is his private press briefing — and there are clear indications that the White House wanted these remarks of Mr. Nixon to be disclosed through the press — was not so much a statement of intentions, as a warning intended to deter Syria and Iraq from intervening in Jordan and tipping the balance against King Hussein, who has so far been able to cope with the commandos’s threat to his regime.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Time to go beyond COVID-19 health cover||COVID-19 has spread to more than 213 countries, infecting over 30 million people in different parts of the world. The U.S. remains the worst-hit country by the pandemic with cases soaring up to 6.8 million and fatalities at 2.05 lakh followed by India with 5.2 million cases and 85,000 people who have lost their lives. As per the World Health Organisation’s latest epidemiological update, the novel coronavirus continues to spread. The pandemic has changed the health insurance landscape in the country completely in numerous ways. People have now started to take health insurance more seriously; insurers believe that the new trends that have surfaced in the last couple of months will continue in the post-COVID-19 era as well.  Now, there’s an urgency driven by the fear of contracting the virus. Numbers from the industry tell us that most general and specialised health insurers have witnessed an increase in demand for health insurance policies by almost 40% between April and August, from a year earlier. The growth is quite enough to prove that India has successfully set a brilliant example of showcasing that having an insurance policy as a fixed part of financial planning is of utmost importance. However, what we must not forget is while COVID-19 may be the latest nail in the coffin, it is certainly not the last. The pandemic is not the only thing eroding health and livelihood. The numbers While COVID-19 continues to take centrestage, all other severe ailments and conditions have been sidelined, causing immeasurable suffering. No doubt, COVID-19 is a highly infectious disease but its mortality rate is quite low compared with other pandemics in the past, including ebola, smallpox and SARS. Till the time of writing this article — in a span of almost six months — COVID-19 has claimed about 85,000 lives in India, which has a population of almost 1.4 billion, with a mortality rate of less than 2%. Also, of the total number of health insurance claims recorded from April till August, COVID-19-related claims account for merely 11% — as per data from Policybazaar.com, which accounts for about 10% of India’s retail health insurance market. On the other hand, some major lifestyle diseases and conditions account for many more deaths per year. Each year, in India, more than 7.8 lakh people die due to different types of cancer, almost 3.7 lakh lives are lost following cardiovascular ailments, and three lakh and two lakh people die due to gastroenteritis and kidney diseases, respectively. Yet, questions around COVID-19 coverage remain among the most frequently asked, by customers in a country where health insurance penetration is a measly 4%. Now let’s compare cost of treatment for various conditions. For a COVID-19 infection, on average, the cost of treatmentwithout ventilators or other life-saving equipment is about Rs. 10,000 — Rs. 15,000 daily. That makes for Rs. 1.5—Rs. 2 lakh for 14 days in urban areas and Rs. 75,000—Rs. 1 lakh in semi-urban and rural areas. However, the cost of treatment of cancer often crosses Rs. 20 lakh, including surgery and chemo sessions. For treating kidney-related ailments, the cost is about Rs. 5—Rs. 7 lakh, while for cardiovascular ailments one has to spend about Rs. 4 — Rs. 7 lakh. Comprehensive plan Hence, we can easily conclude that COVID-19 accounts for a very small fraction of deaths in our country. Also, the cost of treatment is lower than for other ailments. Yet, consumers are giving COVID-19 a disproportionate amount of importance when buying a health insurance policy. It is observed that most consumers are buying policies specific to the treatment of COVID-19 and not other ailments. However, this approach may turn out to be costly. While COVID-19 may get over as soon as a vaccine is launched, lifestyle-related ailments and other serious conditions requiring hospitalisation are here to stay. While buying health cover, you must consider the significant mortality and treatment cost of all major illnesses. In such a scenario, insurance is no longer a luxury that can be overlooked. Health insurance, has become a necessity and must hold its ground even in a conservative and minimalistic savings and investment plan. It is important to stay financially protected against a pandemic and other ailments that may strike at any age. In situations like these, the only way to stay financially protected is by buying a comprehensive health insurance policy. If one gets hospitalised for treating COVID-19 infection, the overall health insurance plan will help cover medical expenses for this condition as well. Buying health insurance not just for yourself but for your entire family is important to make sure your hospital admission and treatment expenses are covered seamlessly.  (The author is Health Business Head, Policybazaar.com)
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Commit to a policy before buying it||With no social security scheme worth its name covering a majority of the citizens of our country, it has become imperative for everyone to opt for individual insurance schemes or policies. While doing so, many commit some common mistakes, as a result of which those policies do not help meet the intended goals. The purpose of this article is to create awareness among those evaluating an insurance policy. Some of these erroneous approaches appear silly but happen all the time. The usual missteps ‘The adviser is my brother-in-law or childhood friend or classmate. Hence, I have to take a policy otherwise he may feel bad.’ But, after taking the policy, it is you who will actually end up with bad feelings. So, initial refusal is always better than refusal at the final stage. Second: ‘The adviser is virtually after me, pestering constantly to take a policy. I need to take one and get rid off him at the earliest.’ But once you take a policy, you might have succeeded in getting rid of the adviser but not the policy itself as it is meant for a lifetime. Three: ‘I need a policy to avoid tax or avail myself of tax concessions under section 80C.’ There are a host of other products eligible for tax concession under section 80C such as PF (which is mandatory for every employee), APF etc,. Four: ‘Just because every earning individual has a policy, I too should have one.’ Just like one has a table, sofa set or a chair, should you also buy an insurance policy just so that the policy bond may be displayed in the showcase? Five: ‘For the fear of mortality.’ One wants to take a policy whenever one encounters such a situation concerning near and dear. An very small percentage of policyholders fall under this category. Taking a policy is easy and simple but to continue the same after the initial euphoria subsides is critical. That is why it is important to continue the policy till the end of the term. Because discontinuation or lapsation of a policy is a loss both to the policyholder and the insurance company alike. For the policyholder, it will be like holding a torn umbrella which does not cover him or her come rain or shine. For the insurance company, it will be like a single plant that is neither watered nor nurtured in an entire field, ultimately withering away. Above all these lies the fact that one’s commitment towards one’s family viz. parents, spouse and children, which leads to the decision in taking an insurance policy. These commitments are to be kept in mind while taking a policy. After all, an agent or a broker or an intermediary works to earn a commission on his sale. But the client needs to delve into all aspects of an insurance firm before taking a policy. Responsibilities at every stage of life are to be articulated in advance and need to be planned in a foolproof manner to absorb any unforeseen shocks or incidents. Be it life, vehicles or medical insurance, one needs to be doubly cautious and careful while buying policies. The purpose for which they are being taken should be fulfilled in the first instance. Enter young The younger the age, the lower will be the premium. As age advances unnoticed, responsibilities increase, which require more caution and planning. Term insurance for a longer term taken at a younger age, commensurate with one’s income, costs a lot less. With no social security scheme to protect us, one should also plan for one’s retirement expenses, starting from the time of joining employment. Due to its longer gestation period, this fund grows exponentially to meet one’s post-retirement expenses. ULIPS and SIPs are also to be considered at an early age because corrections in the markets can be neutralised over a longer term. Once a person gets married and has children and the need for vehicle and housing loans crop up, one should plan for different goals at different times. Mediclaim for the entire family and children’s education or marriage needs decide the type of insurance protection one needs at this stage of life.  There are several schemes offered by insurers. They are broadly traditional insurance policies that combine risk coverage and savings and where the returns at the end of the term are defined: term insurance policies (pure risk coverage with zero returns); ULIPS (which are exposed to stock market nuances and where returns are not at all defined); pension policies (longer gestation periods with defined returns that make them attractive) and health policies (which cover hospitalisation expenses in case of any illness). An insurance policy serves a purpose in the same way an estate created in one's family’s name does, if free from encumbrances. Hence, one must think twice before taking a policy, be it for a vehicle, a house, a person or his health.  (The author is Associate Member of the Insurance Institute of India)
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
21 September 2020||New York,||Wolff jumps into the lead||Matthew Wolff, a 21-year-old American making only his second Major start, fired a five-under 65 to seize a two-stroke lead after Saturday's third round of the US Open. The 2019 US college champion, who shared fourth at last month's PGA Championship, was five-under 205. World No. 36 Wolff found only two of 14 fairways but blasted from the deep grass onto 12 greens in regulation and made six birdies against a lone bogey. American Bryson DeChambeau was second on 207 after shooting 70. He opened with back-to-back bogeys and closed with a bogey after birdies at 16 and 17. South Africa's Louis Oosthuizen, the 2010 British Open champion, fired a 68 to stand third on 209. Matching the best Wolff matched Winged Foot's lowest US Open round ever, Justin Thomas' opening 65, after starting the day four adrift of leader Patrick Reed, who stumbled to a 77 with eight bogeys and a double bogey to stand on 213. Japan's Hideki Matsuyama, who made four birdies and three bogeys on his first seven holes, scrambled to a 70 to share fourth alongside Americans Xander Schauffele and Harris English on level par 210. McIlroy fancies chances Four-time Major winner Rory McIlroy was seventh on 211 after a 68, six back but liking his chances of a first Major win since the 2014 PGA.  Top scores:   205: Matthew Wolff (66, 74, 65).   207: Bryson DeChambeau (69, 68, 70).   209: Louis Oosthuizen (067, 74, 68).   210: Hideki Matsuyama (71, 69, 70), Xander Schauffele (68, 72, 70), Harris English (68, 70, 72).   211: Rory McIlroy (67, 76. 68).
21 September 2020||Dubai,||Delhi Capitals pips Kings XI in Super Over finish||Marcus Stoinis’ superb performance with bat and ball was complemented by Kagiso Rabada’s brilliant Super Over as Delhi Capitals edged out Kings XI Punjab in a thriller on Sunday. Stoinis blasted his way to a 21-ball 53, his late assault ensuring a total of 157 for eight for Capitals. As many as 57 came off the final three overs. The Australian smashed seven fours and three sixes. In reply, the Delhi side was in control for 15 overs before Mayank Agarwal’s 89 off 60 balls nearly won it for KXIP. Stoinis, with the ball this time, proved a game-changer with the Punjab side needing one off three balls. The first one was a dot ball followed by the wickets of Mayank and Chris Jordan, both falling to full tosses, as the match ended in a tie. Rabada, a Super Over specialist, removed K.L. Rahul and Nicholas Pooran off successive balls to make it an easy three-run target off one over. Rishabh Pant scored two after Mohammed Shami had bowled a wide off the second delivery. Tinge of grass Earlier, Rahul elected to bowl on a pitch that had a tinge of grass. The ball swung appreciably and pacer Shami relished the helpful track. Shami’s wicket-taking and run-choking spell seemed to have swung the contest in Kings XI’s favour before Stoinis’ outstanding hitting changed the complexion of the game towards the end of the Capitals’ innings. It was a pitch that required patience from the batsmen but Capitals began with reckless shots, with Prithvi Shaw (5) paying the price for his extravagance and Shimron Hetmyer (7) failing to check his shot. Shikhar Dhawan (0) was run out to a horrible mix-up and the scoreboard was not a pleasant sight for the Delhi side at 13 for three. However, skipper Shreyas Iyer (39) and Rishabh Pant (31) put together 73 stand for the fourth wicket before Stoinis’ knock towards the end gave Capitals the momentum. Shreyas and Pant largely relied on singles to keep the scoreboard moving. Shreyas took Gowtham to the cleaners in the 13th over, creaming off 15 runs with two well-measured straight sixes. Ashwin injured R. Ashwin sent back Karun Nair (1) and Nicholas Pooran (0) in the space of five balls. It, however, did not end well for Ashwin, whose dive off the last ball to stop a single resulted in a shoulder injury. Shreyas, however, said that Ashwin informed him that he will be ready for the next game.   Super Over   KXIP: 2, W (Rahul), W (Pooran); Bowler: Rabada  DC: 0, wide, 2 (Pant); Bowler: Shami
21 September 2020||ROME,||Schwartzman ousts Nadal||Top men’s seed Novak Djokovic advanced to the final of the Rome Masters for the 10th time on Sunday with a 7-5, 6-3 win over Casper Ruud. Djokovic was pushed in his first meeting with 34th-ranked Ruud, but knew how to tighten his game at key moments of an intense match, to the delight of the fans. For the first time on Sunday, a maximum of 1,000 people were authorised in the stands at Foro Italico. The World No. 1 Djokovic, who has won four times here, will also bid for a record 36th Masters, being currently tied on 35 with Rafael Nadal who crashed out on Saturday, falling to a 6-2, 7-5 defeat to Argentine Diego Schwartzman. Eighth-seeded Schwartzman meted out a punishing loss in Nadal’s only warm-up before his bid for a 13th French Open, and a record-equalling 20th Grand Slam in just over a week. The two-time defending champion was making his comeback after a coronavirus-enforced break having skipped the US Open ahead of Roland Garros which starts on September 27. Outplayed “It was not my night at all,” said Nadal, who had won all nine previous meetings against 28-year-old Schwartzman, but could not match his rival’s stunning game. In the women’s section, top-seeded Simona Halep beat Spaniard Garbine Muguruza 6-3, 4-6, 6-4 to advance to her third Rome final, where she will take on Kaolina Pliskova, a 6-2, 6-4 winner over Marketa Vondrousova.  The results: Men: Semifinals: Novak Djokovic bt Casper Ruud 7-5, 6-3; Quarterfinals: Diego Schwartzman bt Rafael Nadal 6-2, 7-5; Denis Shapovalov bt Grigor Dimitrov 6-2, 3-6, 6-2.   Women: Semifinals: Simona Halep bt Garbine Muguruza 6-3, 4-6, 6-4; Karolina Pliskova bt Marketa Vondrousova 6-2, 6-4; Quarte rfinals: Vondrousova bt Elina Svitolina 6-3, 6-0; Pliskova bt Elise Mertens 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 .
21 September 2020||LONDON,||Mane delivers for Liverpool||Two goals from Sadio Mane just after halftime eased champion Liverpool to a 2-0 win over 10-man Chelsea in the Premier League season’s first heavyweight clash at Stamford Bridge on Sunday. Mane headed Liverpool in front five minutes after the interval and four minutes later took advantage of a dreadful error by Chelsea keeper Kepa Arrizabalaga as the host crumbled. Earlier, Son Heung-min scored four goals, all set up by Harry Kane, as Tottenham Hotspur came from a goal down to overwhelm Southampton 5-2 and earn its first Premier League win of the season. Kane himself completed the rout while Danny Ings struck for the host in either half. Meanwhile on Saturday, Manchester United’s campaign began in faltering fashion as a double from its former player Wilfried Zaha gave Crystal Palace a 3-1 win at Old Trafford but Arsenal made it two wins from two. Controversial Andros Townsend put Palace ahead early on and Zaha scored from the spot in the 74th minute after Jordan Ayew’s original penalty had been saved by David De Gea but the Spanish keeper was adjudged to have moved off his line. The penalty was awarded after referee Martin Atkinson used the pitch-side TV monitor to harshly judge that Victor Lindelof had handled a cross inside his own box. United debutant Donny van de Beek came off the bench to pull a goal back for United but Zaha got the better of Lindelof to finish United off in the 85th minute. Arsenal laboured to a 2-1 victory over West Ham United at The Emirates but needed a late goal against the run of play by Eddie Nketiah to hand the Hammers a second straight defeat.  The results:   Premier League: Chelsea 0 lost to Liverpool 2 (Mane 50, 54); Southampton 2 (Ings 32, 90-pen) lost to Tottenham 5 (Son 45+3, 47, 64, 73, Kane 82); Newcastle 0 lost to Brighton 3 (Maupay 4-pen, 7, Connolly 83); Manchester United 1 (Van de Beek 80) lost to Crystal Palace 3 (Townsend 7, Zaha 74-pen, 85); Arsenal 2 (Lacazette 25, Nketiah 85) bt West Ham 1 (Antonio 45).   Bundesliga: Werder Bremen 1 (Selke 69) lost to Hertha Berlin 4 (Pekarik 42, Lukebakio 45+2, Cunha 63, Cordoba 90); Stuttgart 2 (Kalajdzic 71, Wamangituka 81) lost to Freiburg 3 (Petersen 8, Sallai 26, Grifo 48); Borussia Dortmund 3 (Reyna 35, Haaland 54-pen, 78) bt Borussia Moenchengladbach 0.   Serie A: Parma 0 lost to Napoli 2 (Mertens 63, Insigne 77); Fiorentina 1 (Castrovilli 78) bt Torino 0; Hellas Verona 0 Roma 0   LaLiga: Villarreal 2 (Gerard 63, Paco Alcacer 71) bt Eibar 1 (Kike 50); Getafe 1 (Mata 54) bt Osasuna 0; Celta Vigo 2 (Aspas 13, 57) bt Valencia 1 (Gomez 46) .
21 September 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Glad McCullum is in my team’||Australian pacer Pat Cummins is excited about the prospect of working with two Kiwi coaches, Brendon McCullum and Kyle Mills, in the IPL. After contributing in Australia’s ODI series win over England, Cummins — who was picked up by Kolkata Knight Riders for a whopping Rs. 15.5 crore — looked forward to the rare experience. “He (head coach McCullum) was one of the best and most-feared hitters I have come up against in my career… I am happy that he is in my team as a coach and I don’t have to bowl to him. I really admire his fire,” Cummins, who is quarantining himself in Abu Dhabi, told www.kkr.in.  “ You don’t get too many opportunities to work with totally different coaches. The opportunity to work with (bowling coach) Kyle, who has played around the world, will definitely bring to me different things that I never thought about before.” Love for T20s The 27-year-old, who is the World No.1 bowler in Tests, spoke about his love for T20s. “The thing I love about T20 cricket is (that) it’s ultra-attacking, or at the death (overs) it’s ultra-defensive. There is no middle ground. “So, in T20 cricket, if you are an all-out bowler, you get to bowl any time of the match.” Cummins, who made his debut for Australia as an 18-year-old but struggled early on in his career due to injuries, had a word of advice for young KKR speedster Kamlesh Nagarkoti, who lost two years of cricket due to injuries. “The big one that all the coaches and ex-players would advise you is a simple thing — you need to be patient. It is an easy thing to say, but as an 18-year-old missing games is actually a very hard thing to live with. “You just need to have the trust that you might miss a season or two at the start of your career but you might end up playing till the age of 36 or 37, as opposed to 31 or 32. Everything that you do during this time sets up the foundation for a long and healthy career,” said Cummins.
21 September 2020||PARIS,||Pogacar rides into the record books||Tadej Pogacar became the first Slovenian to win the Tour de France after he retained the overall leader’s yellow jersey in the 21st stage won by Sam Bennett on Sunday. The Team UAE Emirates rider, who will celebrate his 22nd birthday on Monday, is the youngest man to win the race since Henri Cornet in 1904. Pogacar, who pulled off a major upset when he claimed the yellow jersey from Primoz Roglic with a monumental performance in Saturday’s time trial, also won the white jersey for the best Under-25 rider and the polka dot jersey for the mountains classification. Roglic second Roglic ended up second, with Australian Richie Porte taking third place. Pogacar also won three stages in one of the most brilliant individual performances in recent Tour history, leaving Roglic’s dominant Jumbo-Visma team stunned. Bennett became the first Irishman since Sean Kelly in 1989 to win the green jersey for the points classification. It was an anti-climatic finale on the Champs Elysees as only 5,000 fans were allowed on the famous avenue as a precaution against the coronavirus.
21 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Experience proved crucial: Dhoni||Chennai Super Kings skipper M.S. Dhoni has said his team’s tremendous “experience” proved to be a crucial factor in its five-wicket victory over defending champions Mumbai Indians in the IPL opener. Need a good mix “The experience pays off, everyone talks about it. You get it only after you play a lot of games. 300 ODIs is a dream for anybody to play and when you put an XI on the field, you need a good mix of youngsters and experienced players,” Dhoni said. Meanwhile, CSK head coach Stephen Fleming has confirmed that the team’s star all-rounder Dwayne Bravo will miss another couple of matches owing to a niggle. MI skipper Rohit Sharma was upset that none of his batsmen could carry on the initial momentum that they gained, in the opener. “None of our batsmen carried on for us, like du Plessis and Rayudu did for CSK. I think we were 85 in the first 10 overs. Credit to the CSK bowlers. Something for us to learn,” Rohit said.
21 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Rashid primed to deliver for SRH||“You have to bowl the best ball to get rid of world-class players like Virat Kohli, A.B. de Villiers and Aaron Finch,” said Sunrisers Hyderabad leg-spinner Rashid Khan as his team gears up to take on Royal Challengers Bangalore in Dubai on Monday. “There are no excuses for bowling bad balls. You have to keep things simple and enjoy the challenges,” Rashid, who turned 22 on Sunday, said at a virtual media interaction. The challenges Rashid said the wind and dew factors would challenge slow bowlers, especially in the second half of the tournament. “Irrespective of the nature of the wickets, which are expected to become spin-friendly as the League progresses, one has to adjust, bowl a consistent line and length and attack the batsmen’s weak zones,” Rashid said. “I tried out quite a few variations during the last few months. Five different grips, using the shoulder and a quicker action should help me bowl faster and get more turn,” he said. “I never think of only being a wicket-taker. My job is also to bowl as many dot balls as possible to force the batsmen to take risks,” he said. “There will be no crowds. But, the idea of ensuring some cheering through a sound system at the ground is good, for it gives extra energy,” Rashid said. “Those who enjoy the bio-bubble the most and remain mentally fresh will be the most successful cricketers here,” he said. Playing it smart “We have quite a few batters in the middle-order who can rise to the occasion. Again, it is not all about hitting big sixes but playing smart cricket the way Faf du Plessis did against Mumbai Indians in the opener,” Rashid said. “This is a different IPL since there are no home or away games. The quicker you adjust the better you perform,” he said.
21 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala hopes for good show at Nationals||Kerala is aiming for a handful of medals in the online Open National taekwondo poomsae championship, organised by India Taekwondo, from September 28 to October 4. 39-member team Kerala will field a 39-member team in the championship and its hopes rest mainly on S. Shaji (men), P.C. Gopinath (masters), N.M. Karnika (junior girls) and Laya Fathima (cadet). Players may record (without background music) compulsory or chosen poomsae (patterns of attack and defence) and send in the video link at the time of registration. “We are fielding a relatively small team as poomsae is not very popular in Kerala. “Due to the pandemic, most of our players were short of practice and generally reluctant to participate in the meet. “We assigned coaches in each district to brief players about the competition and the compulsory poomsae to be demonstrated. “We managed to get 39 entries before the deadline. Expecting some success “There are a few medal-winners among the entrants and we are expecting some success from them,” said the Kerala Taekwondo secretary B. Aji.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen, So share title; Hari tied seventh||P. Harikrishna finished tied seventh and collected $14,000 in the St. Louis rapid and blitz online chess tournament on Saturday. So’s brilliant run Wesley So won the last three rounds, including the final one against Harikrishna, to tie with Magnus Calrsen for the title, worth $45,000 for both players.  Final standings:   1-2. Magnus Carlsen (Nor), Wesley So (USA) (24 points each); 3. Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 21), 4-5. Levon Aronian (Arm), Alexander Grischuk (Rus) (18.5).   6. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 18); 7-8. P. Harikrishna, Jeffery Xiong (USA) (15.5); 9-10. Alireza Firouzja (FIDE) and Leinier Dominguez Perez (USA) (12.5).
21 September 2020||Kolkata,||2 Bhawanipore FC players test positive||Bhawanipore FC’s preparations for the upcoming I-League qualifiers suffered a setback after two of its players were found positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Goalkeeper Akash Mondal and mid-fielder Sudipto Malakar were found positive following RT-PCR tests of all the 40 players and support staff during the camp, confirmed coach Sankarlal Chakraborty. “They did not have any symptoms. They will be in home isolation now. After four days they will be tested again,” Chakraborty said. The team has been training for about a month now after a long lay-off. Camp won’t be affected “The camp won’t be affected. Only two out of the 40 in the camp tested positive. Preparation is going great, we are doing our best for qualification. But it will be competitive, all teams are strong.” Bhawanipore FC will kick off the tournament against FC Bengaluru United at the Salt Lake Stadium on October 8 and Chakraborty was unhappy with the 12.30 p.m. start. “Everyone will be coming after a prolonged lay-off and it’s not the way to start a tournament. We have two matches at 12.30 p.m.,” he said. The tournament will bring an end to the prolonged halt of sporting events in the country since the COVID-19 pandemic in March and the AIFF is maintaining strict health protocols by creating bio-secure bubble for the players and officials. Two Kolkata teams, Bhawanipore FC and Mohammedan Sporting, along with three others — ARA FC, Garhwal FC and FC Bengaluru United — will compete against each other once in a round-robin format to determine the sole qualifying team.
21 September 2020||DUBAI,||Underachieving RCB looks for a flying start||Virat Kohli will begin his quest for an elusive IPL title when perennial under-achiever Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) takes on David Warner’s low-profile but consistent Sunrisers Hyderabad in the IPL here on Monday. Both teams possess dangerous batsmen who can single-handedly take the game away from the opposition. Finch’s presence The addition of Australian limited-overs captain Aaron Finch to the squad gives the star-studded batting line-up more firepower. Expectations are also high from young opener Devdutt Padikkal. On the other hand, Warner will once again pair up with the dangerous Jonny Bairstow. Sunrisers also has the batting prowess of Kane Williamson, Manish Pandey and Mitchell Marsh. Blind spot Sunrisers’ blind spot also lies in the lack of depth in batting. The franchise has invested in youngsters like Virat Singh, Abhishek Sharma, Priyam Garg and Abdul Samad and hopes that one of them could become the vital cog in the middle-order. Bhuvneshwar Kumar will spearhead the pace department with Sandeep Sharma, Siddarth Kaul and Basil Thampi playing secondary roles. With presence of the top T20 bowler, Afghanistan leggie Rashid Khan, and No. 1 all-rounder in the format Mohammad Nabi, Sunrisers has one of the best spin bowling attacks in the tournament.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Atma and Ahamkara||All Sruti texts focus on the ‘Parama Tatparya,’ the highest truth, Brahman, and great thinkers and philosophers have examined the Srutis in detail to arrive at this knowledge and recorded their findings and arguments in their many Prakarana granthas. Advaita Vedanta establishes the one and only transcendental Reality that is not associated with the Prakriti or creation. It asserts that this entire creation is only ‘mithya,’ unreal, having no basis of existence. Dvaita and Visishtadvaita philosophies explain the truth of Brahman in their own ways on the basis of duality between the Paramatma and the created world of beings. In the important Advaita text Naishkarmya Siddhi, the author argues to show how all the problems of samsara arise owing to lack of awareness of the true relationship between the atma and all else, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. It is the irony of life that this avidya has no closeness with the atma at any point of time, in the past, present or in the future. But since the atma exists along with this anatma, the sense of ‘I’, the ahamkara experienced by each being leans towards the body mind intellect aspects which are actually independent of the atma. This is explained by the experience of an individual during the deep sleep state which he describes on waking up. When he says “I did not experience anything,” the term Aham is the pure atma alone without any association with the ahamkara. Here the ahamkara is dissolved in the pure atma. Another example to illustrate how the ahamkara sense is seen as one with the atma though it has no connection with it at all is of the iron which appears red hot when heated. Once the heat is taken away, it reverts to its original nature. Neither the redness nor heat belongs to it.
21 September 2020||Dubai,||Buttler to miss Royals’ opener against CSK||Jos Buttler will miss Rajasthan Royals’ opening game against CSK on Tuesday as he is in the middle of his mandatory quarantine period, having arrived here with his family. “I’m unfortunately going to miss the first match for Rajasthan because I’m going to be doing my quarantine period because I’m here with my family,” he said in an Instagram live.
21 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Dhoni is a genius: Curran||Sam Curran says he was “surprised” by M.S. Dhoni’s move to promote him in the batting order against MI. “To be honest, I was very surprised that I went in. He (Dhoni) is a genius and obviously thought something. “We targeted that over (18th) and I went in with a six or out mentality,” said Curran.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 07:52 IST,||Sudoku - September 20, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 07:55 IST,||Sudoku - September 21, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
21 September 2020||Soibam Rocky Singh,||Delhi HC says no to single mother’s caste for children||In a significant verdict, the Delhi High Court has ruled that children of single mother belonging to Scheduled Caste community, whose father belongs to forward caste, cannot be accorded caste certificates unless it is established that they have suffered deprivations, indignities, humilities and handicaps faced by persons belonging to the caste community. “In an inter-caste marriage between a tribal and non-tribal, the determination of the caste of the offspring is a question of fact to be decided on the basis of the facts adduced in each case. It has to be brought out that the children have suffered from any disability or disadvantage because of the abandonment by the father,” a Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said. The court’s observation came while rejecting a plea of a single Scheduled Caste woman, who married a man from a forward caste, seeking caste certificate for her children following their divorce.  Complete seclusion The woman is a senior ranking Air Force Officer from Assam, who married her colleague in the Air Force. Two children were born from out of the wedlock. Following their divorce in 2009, the children remained with the single mother, who has been staying at her official accommodation at various Air Force Stations as per her postings. She contended that the children have never grown up with their father or interacted with the members of his community and there is no likelihood of their being considered as a part of their father’s community. Senior advocate Sanjay R. Hegde, representing the woman, argued if a father is from a Scheduled Caste community and is singly raising the children, then that alone is considered sufficient for issuance of a caste certificate. However, if the child is brought up by a single Scheduled Caste mother, who had married someone from the forward caste, then apart from her certificate, it is also required to be demonstrated that the child has faced deprivations. This, Mr. Hegde said, put the mother to a more disadvantaged position which is arbitrary, discriminatory and unsustainable in law. The High Court, however, said that the woman has “miserably failed to rebut the presumption drawn against her that the children have the caste of their father, who belongs to a forward caste”. “Apart from contending that the ex-husband of the appellant [woman] has re-married and has nominated his children from the second marriage for all the benefits and that he has not provided any alimony to the appellant, no evidence has been brought on record to demonstrate the deprivations, humilities, handicaps, faced by the appellant or her children in their life,” the court noted. Surname quandary It further pointed out that after the divorce, the children continued to keep the surname of the father, going to show that they have projected themselves to the society as belonging to a forward community. “Thanks to the appellant serving at a senior post in the Indian Air Force, her children have had the advantage of a safe, secure and sheltered environment, excellent schooling and other related opportunities,” the court observed. “On the contrary, issuance of a caste certificate to the appellant’s children would result in depriving a genuine Schedule Caste person of an opportunity to claim entitlement to the limited number of Schedule Caste seats reserved in higher education and in service, thereby causing a setback to the equality goal enshrined in the Constitution,” the court said.  In an inter-caste marriage between a tribal and non-tribal, the determination of the caste of the offspring is a question of fact to be decided on the basis of the facts adduced in each case High Court Bench
21 September 2020||CHANDIGARH/GURUGRAM,||Farmers’ protests continue in Punjab and Haryana||Stepping up their protests against the Centre’s agriculture sector Bills, farmers’ organisations blocked roads in Haryana and burned copies of the Bills in Punjab on Sunday, accusing the BJP-led government of playing into the hands of big corporates and compromising farmers’ interests. In Haryana, several roads, including national and State highways, were blocked by agitating farmers from noon till 3 p.m. Protesters also blocked roads in almost all the districts and staged sit-ins at crucial junctions. The blockades, however, were peaceful and no untoward incident was reported. Protesters shouted slogans against the BJP-led governments at the Centre and the State. ‘Support from youth’ The protests were led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni), to which as many as 17 farmer groups had extended support. Speaking to The Hindu , BKU Harayana chief Gurnam Singh Charuni said , “For the first time the youth have come out in large numbers to take part in the protest. Even the common people were part of it.” The Punjab Youth Congress kicked-off a “tractor rally” from Punjab to Delhi against the three farm sector Bills. The rally which began from Punjab’s Zirakpur was, however, stopped at the Haryana border in Ambala. Police later resorted to the use of water canons to disperse the agitating Youth Congress workers who attempted to break through the barricades. In Punjab, farmers associated with around 30 groups burnt copies of the Bills and effigies of the Prime Minister. “The BJP is playing into the hands of big corporates and has compromised farmers’ interests,” said Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, BKU (Dakaunda).
21 September 2020||Lucknow,||Families of migrant workers who died during lockdown hope for compensation||Four months after he lost his brother and sister-in-law to a tragic accident, Ram Kumar Sahu still wonders what would have happened if the couple had not been compelled to attempt that perilous 700-km journey back home to Chhattisgarh’s Behmetara. Krishna and Pramila Sahu, who had set out on a bicycle, were crushed to death by a vehicle on the outskirts of Lucknow in May. Their two children, Chandni and Nikhil, survived miraculously. “If the government had provided facilities and ration then, why would my brother try to go back?,” asked Ram, when told that the government had claimed it did not have any data on the migrants who died or lost their jobs during lockdown. “What would he do in a foreign land, when there was no work?” On Wednesday, Ram finally immersed the mortal remains of Krishna and Pramila in the Ganga in Prayagraj once he felt it was safe to travel. Like thousands of migrant workers and labourers across the country, the Sahus were stranded — without work, money and transportation — during the lockdown, when desperation forced them to return to their village where they sensed a better chance at sustenance. Added responsibility Ram and his wife Kaushalya have three kids of their own to take care of besides the additional responsibility of Chandni and Nikhil. This has forced Kaushalya from going to work at a brick kiln. Ram, a labourer himself, earns Rs. 300-400 per day, making it a struggle to feed the entire family. Since the incident, the family says that the State government has been silent on any financial support as they wait in hope for the Rs. 5 lakh compensation promised by the Chhattisgarh government. The only monetary sum received, says Ram, was through a local police inspector who deposited Rs. 1 lakh each in bank accounts opened for the two children. As she prepares Chandni to go to a coaching class in the neighbourhood despite their humble means, she wants to educate the children, Kaushalya says. “I am only sad that they lost their parents. Otherwise, we are making sure they are fed and taken care of. But when they grow up, they will think about their parents.” The lockdown against COVID-19, termed as ill-prepared in its implementation by several critics, brought additional misery on the migrant workers across the country, many of whom were forced to return home, by bus, train or even on foot in the absence of any livelihood and money. Ninety-seven people lost their lives while travelling in the Shramik Special trains alone, the government told Parliament recently. Son’s grief In Azamgarh, Kanhaiya Lal Chauhan, a science student still grieves for his father, Ram Avadh, who died on-board a special Shramik Express while trying to desperately return to their native district from Kalyan near Mumbai, where he worked as a mason. His body was de-boarded at Kanpur station in May and the family had then alleged that while they were served puri sabzi and a pouch of water each on the train, they did not get anything to eat at the Jhansi Paramedical College where they spent the night after arrival in a bus. Their last proper meal was in Guna, 190 km away. Kanhaiya is haunted by the fear of dropping out as he is unable to submit his college fees and return to Maharashtra. The support offered by his uncle, a government clerk, is insufficient. Other than the Rs. 1 lakh they received from a political party, the family got nothing. He wants the government to subsidise the tuition fees too. “What else can I ask? As if the government will provide us anything. It’s been three-four months... if they wanted to hear us, they would have called by now,” he said. Kanhaiya blames the government for imposing and extending the lockdown without informing migrants about the time-frame. “They should have told us before implementing it so that those who wanted to return home, could have. Prices of all food items had gone up and the promised ration did not arrive. So what else could we do to survive?” He asked. Death in train Rajesh Gaud’s father, who sold pan in Mumbai, also lost his life in a Shramik train allegedly due to lung disease. But his family feels it was due to the fatigue and exertion in the summer heat during to the journey. Rajesh, who is now the sole breadwinner with three kids, is earning through farming on one bigha land but is unable to return. “We should definitely get compensation. This incident happened in the train,” he said. “Had my father not travelled, maybe this would not have happened. He had told me his health was fine,” said Rajesh. For Sipahilal in Lakhimpur Kheri, the battle is more for justice. His brother Roshan was found hanging in the fields of his village Thariya Pipriya on March 31, three days after he returned home in Lakhimpur Kheri from Gurgaon where he worked in a power tower firm. His family alleged that Roshan was threatened, assaulted and wounded by policemen for allegedly escaping from the local quarantine centre, following which he hanged himself. The case is, however, yet to move forward. “No action has been taken yet. We have not got a penny from anywhere. I want action against the cops who killed him,” Sipahilal said. In Gurgaon, Roshan earned a decent salary of over Rs. 20,000 per month. His death not only robbed the family of a loved one but also pushed them back financially. Sipahilal also feels the government should compensate his family, because his brother was pushed to death by the police. “If he had died of corona, then I would not have pressed the matter as much,” he said.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI:,||COVID-19 cases in Capital come down slightly||The Capital recorded 3,812 fresh COVID-19 cases and 37 deaths in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Sunday. It also stated that 3,742 patients have recovered and 52,405 tests were conducted with a positivity rate of 7.27%. The total number of cases now stands at 2,46,711 with 4,982 deaths and 2,09,632 recoveries. There are currently 32,097 active cases in the city. The cumulative positivity rate stands at 9.66% and the fatality rate at 2.02%, the bulletin added. In response to the Delhi Health Minister’s statement that the Centre should have accepted community spread of COVID-19 here, Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta said Mr. Kejriwal is once again engaged in hiding its failures. “In a situation where the Kejriwal-led government should give assurance to the people of Delhi, there is an attempt to spread fear among Delhiites,” he said. He added that earlier as well in June, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said by July end, there would be 5 lakh COVID-19 patients in the city. ‘Spreading fear’ “This statement had spread fear and people started feeling insecure. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah had to take important steps to control the situation in Delhi,” he added.
21 September 2020||Srinagar,||‘NEP will help J&K youth realise their dreams’||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said the National Education Policy (NEP) would help Jammu and Kashmir youth “to realise their true potential and make their dreams come true.” “My dream is to see Jammu and Kashmir emerge as a centre of knowledge, enterprise, innovation and skill development. In the field of education and scholarly pursuits, the region has set unmatchable milestones. Many of the core ideas and concepts that have shaped the Indian mind over the centuries have emanated from this region,” President Kovind said in his address during a conference on the implementation of the NEP in the region. He said the most encouraging feature of the policy was that it adhered to the cultural ethos of each region. The President said Jammu and Kashmir was a reservoir of extremely intelligent, talented and innovative children.
21 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Most parents agree to send wards back to school, says education dept.||Nearly 84% of parents whose children are in government schools and 73% of those whose wards are in private schools are willing to send them to their respective schools for guidance, according to the State Education Department. Govt., pvt. schools As the government is looking to re-open schools in the State, a majority of parents have given their consent. In government schools, of the 1,36,847 parents contacted by the State education department, 1,14,643 are willing to send their wards back to schools. In private schools, 7,060 out of 9,751 parents have given their consent. Fatehabad tops the table for government schools with 91% of parents in agreement and Panchkula in the bottom with 69%. Similarly, 100% of parents, whose children are in private schools in Hisar, have given their consent, but Kurukshetra parents seem to be most wary of allowing their kids to return to school as only 33% have agreed. In Gurugram and Faridabad, only 48% and 64% of parents have given their consent for private schools. As per the guidelines set by the MHA, students of classes IX-XII may be permitted to visit their schools voluntarily from September 21 for taking guidance from their teachers with consent from parents. District Education Officer (Nuh) Anoop Singh Jakhar said 87% of parents had given their consent but the student would not be allowed without consent letters. Mr. Jakhar said the students would mostly be educated about the SoPs on the first day. Haryana Progressive Schools Conference, Gurugram, president Col. K. Pratap Singh said “quite a few” private schools here would open on Monday. “Some of the students are very keen to return to school. It will be a choice for them and a trial for us,” said Col. Singh, adding that managements would watch the situation for a fortnight. However, in his school, only 20% of parents of Class X students have given their consent. He said online classes for private schools were running well and therefore parents were less keen to send their wards to schools.
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Assembly panel issues new notice of appearance to Facebook India V-P||The Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Peace and Harmony committee on Sunday served a fresh notice to Facebook India V-P and MD — Ajit Mohan — to ensure his presence for deposing before the panel on September 23. Any defiance to the subsequent notice for appearance shall be deemed to be an act of breach of constitutionally guaranteed privileges of the committee, the panel said. Committee Chairman Raghav Chadha said Mr. Mohan was called as a witness to depose before the committee on September 15 but he did not honour the notice and turned down his appearance. Mr. Chadha added that the notice of appearance issued to Facebook is directly related to the incidents of violence/riots that occurred in the NCT of Delhi in February, 2020. The notice said the committee had deliberated upon the explanation afforded by Facebook India for defying the summons and found it to be manifestly “erroneous and palpably frivolous”. “Taking a strong note of the disobedience displayed by the Facebook India, it appeared to the committee that Facebook is deliberately trying to evade the process of law as well as showing absolute non-cooperation in enabling the committee to ascertain the genuineness of the allegation put out against it,” the notice added. Mr. Chaddha said Facebook must honour the proceedings taking place under Delhi’s Legislature in the same manner as they did for a Parliamentary Standing Committee. “Any rebuttal to this subsequent notice shall be deemed as a willful act of breach of privilege,” he added.
21 September 2020||Guwahati,||Schools to partially reopen in four NE States today||Schools are scheduled to reopen partially in four of the seven contiguous States in the Northeast — Mizoram, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Assam — from September 21. They are expected to follow the standard operating procedure issued by the Ministry of Health on September 8. The BJP is in power in three of these States on its own or in alliance; the fourth, Mizoram, is helmed by the BJP’s associate in an anti-Congress forum. The States yet to take a decision on reopening of schools are Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur and Tripura.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost in space||
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Work under LAD scheme may be hit||Development work worth up to Rs. 700 crore under the MLA Local Area Development (LAD) scheme may be hit this year as the Delhi government has suspended the fund due to financial issues arising out of COVID-19 pandemic. The Opposition BJP has demanded the AAP government to clarify its stand on MLALAD fund, claiming not even a single proposal under the scheme has been accepted since the constitution of the 7th Delhi Legislative Assembly in February. Finance Minister Manish Sisodia had earlier this month accused the Centre of betraying the States by running away from its responsibility and asking them to borrow money to compensate for their revenue shortfall.
21 September 2020||September 21 2020 00:00 IST,||All warriors in one frame||
21 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Call 10 friends and relatives to educate on dengue: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday not only urged Delhiites to inspect their homes as a part of the “10 Hafte 10 Baje 10 Minute” programme to check the spread of dengue but also to call 10 friends/relatives and spread awareness about the issue. He said: “Right now, we are dealing with the pandemicbut it is also the time when dengue cases in Delhi significantly increase. Last year, the citizens of Delhi defeated dengue due to their collective efforts and I hope that the people must be checking their houses this year as well.” The Chief Minister encouraged to pick up the phone and call 10 of their friends/relatives and advise them on the good practices of preventing dengue. “They must also advise their friends and relatives to take all measures to remain safe from COVID-19,” he added. On the third Sunday of the 10-week programme, the government said last year, a similar programme had been successful in lowering the number of dengue cases and saw the participation of RWAs, religious and cultural associations, public leaders and influencers. The efforts reduced the impact of dengue in the citywith only 2,036 cases and two deaths as against 15,867 cases and 60 deaths in 2015.
21 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Don’t sign the Bills, Badal urges President||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday urged President Ram Nath Kovind not to put his seal of approval on the agriculture sector Bills that have been passed by Parliament. “I beseech you to please stand by the beleaguered and toiling farmers, farm labours, mandi labours and Dalits in their hour of need,” Mr. Badal said. Meanwhile, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said the Congress government will take the BJP and its allies, including the Akalis, to court over the unconstitutional and anti-farmer laws of the Centre.
21 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi zoo to get more than 10 species||The Delhi zoo, which hogged the headlines due to a large number of animal deaths over the past two years, will bring in more than 10 species of wildlife, including a rhino, a tigress and crocodiles, from other States through an exchange programme, according to officials. The zoo’s director, Ramesh Pandey, said the animal mortality rate in the zoo had declined by around 45% in the last six months by implementing a series of measures. “There are 83 species of animals in the zoo at present. Work is underway to add more than 10 animal species to its population,” Mr. Pandey said.
